I ask the Minister for Primary Industry a question. Is it correct that wheat quotas as they are presently being allocated will, in the very near future, force a large number of the smaller farmers to abandon the wheat industry? Could the quotas in fact eventually bring about a situation in which approximately one third of those now in the industry will be obliged to seek other means of livelihood? Does the Minister favour such a situation on the ground that even before quotas one third qf the industry was uneconomic? Finally, if the Minister does not favour the situation which appears almost certain to develop, what action has he taken or does- he intend to take to protect the interests of the small genuine wheat farmer against speculators and professionals? 
asked the PostmasterGeneral, upon notice: 
Has the Australian Broadcasting Control Board submitted a report or recommendation regarding the establishment of a radio station to serve the districts of Wyndham and Kununurra. 
If so, what is Intended. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Civil Aviation, upon notice: 
Has the Department of Civil Aviation concluded its investigation of airports in Western Australia to determine which is the most suitable for development as an alternative to Perth, particularly for the Boeing 747. 
If so, which airport has been selected for this development. 
asked the Minister for Primary Industry, upon notice. 
Is he in a position to make a calculation of the number of wheat growers in Western Australia who will be unable to continue growing wheat as an economical crop under the quotas allocated last season. 
If so, what is the estimated number and in which areas of quota will they be affected. 
Can he give the number of wheat growers in Western Australia who will be unable to withstand next season a cut of (a) 5%, (b) 10%, (c) 15% and (d) 20% in the quota they received last season. 
If so, what is the calculated number and in what areas of quota will they be affected. 
If he is unable to make a calculation of what will occur, is he taking any steps to obtain this information. 
asked the Treasurer, upon notice: 
Is it a fact that he is opposed to any alteration of the existing boundaries of Zones A and B under the Income Tax Assessment Act. 
ls he also opposed to any increase in the allowances for each Zone. 
Is it a fact that the Government supports his attitude in this regard. 
If he is not opposed to alteration of the zone boundaries or increases in the zone allowances, does he intend to recommend any boundary alteration or increased allowances before the end of this taxation year. 
asked the Minister for Immigration, upon notice: 
What was the total cost of the Citizenship Convention for each of the past five Conventions. 
How many of the recommendations brought down at each of those five Conventions have been adopted by the Government, and what were they. 
asked the Minister for the 
Navy, upon notice: 
How many members of the Royal Australian Navy have been (a) listed as deserters and (b) charged with desertion over each of the past 5 years. 
asked the Minister for Labour and National Service upon notice: 
Has any der sion been reached regarding the creation of additional facilities in the northwest of Western Australia to assist Aborigines to find employment or apply for unemployment or sickness benefit. 
If so, what is intended and when is the intention expected to become effective. 
asked the Postmaster- 
General, upon notice. 
Has any decision been made regarding the extension of a national television service to (a) Norseman, (b) Esperance, (c) Leonora and (d) Mount Magnet. 
If so, what is the intention. 
If no decision has been made what stage have investigations reached in each area. 
asked the PostmasterGeneral, upon notice: 
What was the actual fault which delayed the commencement of transmission from the Kalgoorlie television station. 
What caused the fault and who was responsible. 
What was the total cost of correcting the fault and who bore the cost. 
asked the Postmaster- 
General, upon notice: 
Were tenders called for the contract to install (a) the east-west microwave link and (b) the national television station at Kalgoorlie. 
If so. how many tenders were received, and from whom were they received. 
What was the amount of tender in each case. 
Which tender was accepted and what were the main reasons for acceptance. 
Had the successful tenderer carried out other work of a like nature in Australia; if so, what was the work and where wasit carried out. 
asked the Postmaster- 
General, upon notice. 
Has any approximate date been determined by which a national television service will be extended to (a) Mingenew. (b) Morawa and (c) Mullewa. 
If not, what stage has been reached in planning for these extensions. 
asked the Minister for Primary Industry, upon notice: 
Is there anything which prevents the Commonwealth making a financial grant to the Government of Western Australia for the specific purpose of assisting farmers engaged in the production of cotton on the Ord River. 
If not, and as the phasing out of the cotton bounty has had a serious effect upon the industry at the Ord, has the Government given or will it now give favourable consideration to making such a grant 
If not, why not. 
asked the Minister for Primary Industry, upon notice: 
Has any survey been carried out to ascertain the number of wheat growers in each State who have substantial sources of income from other than farming activities. 
If so, how many wheat growers in Western Australia who received quotas last season of between (a) 15.000 and 25,000; (b) 25,000 and 40,000; (c) 40,000 and 50,000; (d) 50,000 and 100,000 and (e) 100,000 and 251,000 bushels had incomes from other business sources of between (i) $5,000 and $10,000; (ii) $10,000 and $20,000 and (iii) more than $20,000 per annum. 
If no such survey has been made, is there any intention of making one. 
Is the Prime Minister aware that one of the largest mines in Kalgoorlie, employing between 400 and 500 men, closed down recently? Is he also aware that another company employing approximately the same number of men has announced in today's Press that it intends to close down? Is he further aware that other mines employing between 1,500 and 2,000 men may be obliged to close down in the nol: too distant future? Does the right honourable gentleman realise that only a small number of the men displaced could be absorbed into the nickel industry, that no other large scale employment is available locally and that further mine closures will cause widespread suffering and seriously affect the district generally? Will he treat this matter as serious and urgent and immediately arrange for officers of the appropriate departments to visit Kalgoorlie to ascertain what financial or other assistance is required to ensure the survival of the gold mining industry and to preserve the livelihood of the people concerned? 
asked the PostmasterGeneral, upon notice: 
How many applications for telephone installations have been received during each of the past five years from within each of the following sub-divisions of the Commonwealth electoral division of Kalgoorlie: (a) Dundas, (b) Gascoyne, (c) Greenough, (d) Murcbison and (e) Yilgarn. 
How many of the applications in each case have been satisfied. 
When is attention likely to be given to the outstanding applications. 

 - Mr Speaker- 

asked the Minister for Health, upon notice: 
What fee was granted to chemists in 1961 for dispensing National Health Service prescriptions. 
Has the fee been increased since 1961; if so, when, and by what amount. 
Is the fee adequate today for the service provided. 
If not, does he intend to carry out a review to arrive at an adequate figure; if a review is to be carried out, when will this be undertaken. 
asked the Minister for 
National Development the following question, upon notice: 
Has the Northern Division of his Department together with the State of Western Australia completed its evaluation of the irrigation potential of the Gaseoyne River. 
If so, what was the finding. 
Was a study also made of the marketing prospects for crops which may be grown on irrigable land along the Gascoyne. 
Have the feasibility studies for a major dam on the Gascoyne River been completed; if so, what are the findings. 
asked the PostmasterGeneral, upon notice: 
When is it expected that national television will be extended to (a) Carnarvon, (b) Dampier, and (c) Port Hedland. 
The National Health Act which this Bill proposes to amend has never been satisfactory and never will be satisfactory in its existing form for several very good reasons. One reason is that it does not permit an adequate medical and hospital coverage at a reasonable rate of contribution. This Bill will do little, if anything, to overcome that situation. The shortcomings of the Act became quite apparent to interested parties very shortly after it came into operation. Yet despite that fact it has taken this Government almost 20 years to make any serious attempt to rectify those failings. It only does so now because of what happened at the last election and because of the pressure brought upon it by the Australian Labor Party and by the people in other places. Certainly the effects of the shortcomings of the Act are felt mostly by those people who are on lower incomes. It could very well be that this is the reason why this Government shows such little concern about it. However, the report of the Nimmo Committee left the Government with no alternative but to make some attempt at correction. The report has definitely proved that the criticisms and arguments levelled against the existing Act by honourable members on this side of the House over the years have been sound and have been completely justified. 
The report has also proved that the Government, by consistently rejecting Labor's proposals, has acted against the best interests of the general community over several years. The Nimmo report, upon which this Bill is based to some extent, shows quite clearly that if the Government had been properly sympathetic, properly aware and considerate of the needs of the people, particularly the family man, and had it accepted and implemented our proposals - or, better still, had the Labor Party had the opportunity of putting its proposals into practice - a very substantial proportion of our population would have been saved a lot of worry and a lot of expense. In addition a lot of major sickness could have been avoided or prevented as a result of early but necessary hospital or medical treatment which under the existing Act cannot be availed of simply because of the cost factor. Thousands of people cannot afford to pay the required contributions to a fund or, if they are in a fund, they cannot be certain that the refunds for which they are eligible will be sufficient to meet the eventual costs of any sickness they may suffer. Therefore they elect to take the gamble that any sickness will not be serious anyway. The Bill does provide a very limited cover to people in certain financial circumstances but only in regard to contributions. It still leaves them liable to quite a considerable expense and I will refer to that a little later. 
The Minister for Health  (Dr Forbes)  has always endeavoured to create the impression that the Nimmo Committee was set up simply because the Government was not satisfied with the existing National Health Act. But the facts are that the Government had no option but to arrange such an inquiry. It knew full well that the Senate Select Committee on Medical and Hospital Costs, which was appointed as a result of a motion by the Austraiian Labor Party, had authority with no restrictive terms of reference and would make a very close examination of the whole system and would report to this Parliament. It is interesting to note that the notice of motion for the appointment of a Senate select committee was first given by the Leader of the Australian Labor Party in the Senate in March 1967 and was finally agreed to on 3rd April 1968. It was not until 18th April 1968 that the Minister for Health announced the appointment of a special committee, which we found subsequently was the Nimmo Committee, to review the voluntary health insurance system in Australia. So it can readily be seen that the Government took no action until after the Australian Labor Party had moved in the Senate for this inquiry. 
To obtain a proper picture it must be recalled that the appointment of the Select Committee was opposed by the Government. The fact that the Nimmo Committee was not appointed until 18th April 1968 leaves no doubt that had the Senate rejected Labor's proposal for the Select Committee the Government would not have appointed the special committee and we would never have seen the Nimmo report; nor would we have been discussing this Bill at this time. Even so, the Government still applied a very severe restriction on the terms of reference of that special committee and, as a result, also restricted to a very large degree the recommendations which the Nimmo Committee could bring down. 
The Nimmo Committee had to remain within the framework of the existing Act in its investigations. Nevertheless, despite the restrictions which the Committee had to face its report has proved to be of great embarrassment to the Government. The Committee could find very little in the existing Act to recommend it and certainly never gave any indication that it was one which should be applauded in the way in which Government members and supporters have done for so long as being the best in the world. As a matter of fact, the Nimmo Committee by its recommendations has suggested that the Government's health scheme should be scrapped altogether 
I well remember the introduction of the national health scheme back in the early 1950s - the Earle Page scheme as it was first called - which very quickly came to be labelled as the 'doctors' benefits scheme* because, in the main, doctors were the people who received the protection. This was not protection against ill-health but was protection against bad debts. I wish to make it quite clear that I have no objection to such protection and, in fact. would like to see a provision in the National Health Act which would assure doctors of payment for the whole of the services rendered and not leave any portion of a charge to be met by a patient at all. I would like to see a system of complete coverage or protection for both sides. I will refer to that a little later as well. But, by the same token, such a scheme should ensure also that the charges made for visits are no more than reasonable and also it is very important that such charges should remain at the same level over a definite length of time. 
If we are to suffer a system whereby people are obliged to be contributors to a fund, it must be appreciated that that fund cannot operate as it should and give its members proper insurance against ill health unless the fund management is in a position to know for some time ahead what its liabilities will be in relation to doctors' charges. This applies also in relation to charges for hospitalisation. On the medical side, the Bill does attempt to sustain a definite long term charge rate but, unfortunately, there is nothing positive about it. It is all subject to the approval and the co-operation of the medical profession. The whole scheme would collapse if the doctors did not give it their complete support. The Minister for Health admitted that this was so in the statement that he made on 4th March last when he said: 
The co-operation of the medical profession in adhering to the list of most common fees submitted by the Australian Medical Association is, of course, a vital factor to the success of the new health benefits plan. 
Unfortunately, at this stage there are very strong reasons to believe that certain sections of the medical profession anyway will not give their full support to the scheme unless certain changes are made. It is hard to understand why the Government should elect to go ahead with this Bill while a doubt exists as to whether it actually will be able to operate, or whether it can be put properly into practice. 
If this Bill is passed funds will be obliged to make some necessary alterations in relation to their rules and constitutions, particularly in regard to contributions, only to find, perhaps, the whole thing collapse around their ears simply because the doctors will not co-operate. I was one of the original members of a committee which was formed on the eastern goldfields of Western Australia following the introduction of the health scheme in the 1950s. The object of that committee was to establish a fund within the terms of the Act which could operate in such a way as to give contributors and their dependants the maximum benefit which the Act permitted. 
The committee consisted of representatives of unions, friendly societies, the Chamber of Mines and others. That committee was a voluntary one. No pay or perks were attached to it. Every member of that committee worked hard and put in a lot of time at meetings and in research work to find out ways and means by which contributors could be given better protection than that which was offered simply by the Act. That committee, with many changes of course, still operates as the management committee of the fund that carries on business in Kalgoorlie today, and still operates on a voluntary and honorary capacity working in the interest of contributors to that fund. I wish to pay tribute to those people for the work they have done. 
I also wish to add that we received almost complete co-operation and assistance from the doctors, particularly in the early stages when the doctors who had been on the goldfields for many years had a proper appreciation of the value of community spirit and also of the value of a good health scheme. Those doctors were happy to work in with the fund. Eventually we arrived at a system that did work very well up until recently on a contract system basis. Unfortunately, the fund, believing that it might be a means of attracting additional doctors to the area, decided to  change  from a contract system to a fee for service scheme. I thought that was a mistake. I am pleased to see that in the Bill before us no amendment is proposed that will prevent funds from setting up a contract system if they wish to do so. I feel that where a contract system can be established it is the best form of service, particularly in relation to surgery and home consultations where a contributor or a dependant of a contributor may visit the surgery or have the doctor call at his home without any charge being made at all upon the patient. Of course, the basis of this scheme is similar to the basis of the scheme that the Australian Labor Party proposed before the last election. 
Now, J know that argument is raised against a contract service of this nature on the ground that, unless some charge over and above the fund and Commonwealth benefit is made, people will abuse the contract by visiting doctors or asking doctors to visit unnecessarily. I would agree that this could be so to some small extent but certainly it would not be widespread. Even if it were, I would suggest that the shortcomings in that regard are well and truly offset by the fact that, under this system, people will go to a doctor in the very early stage of sickness instead of waiting until the sickness reaches serious proportions. The chances of that sickness becoming serious naturally are considerably reduced by the patient attending a doctor in the early stages of the sickness. This to my mind is a very important requirement in any health scheme, particularly where children are involved. 
As I said before, the ideal scheme, as I see it anyway, is one where the patient or the person responsible for the patient is insured completely, covered completely, against any additional costs above his contributions either on a voluntary contribution rate or by way of taxation. This complete insurance is very important and most valuable in family groups, particularly in large family groups. The very least that I feel we should do is to ensure that no additional charges are involved in the field of consultation in respect of visits to a doctor in his surgery. That is, we should ensure that the scheme does cover the situation and that the benefit is sufficient to meet the entire cost. There should be no financial obstacle to a person, particularly a parent, seeking medical opinion or advice. There should be nothing to cause those people to have any doubts from the financial angle about taking little Tommy or Mary or whoever it happens to be along to the doctor at the first sign of sickness. This, I think, is not only important for the future health of the people concerned but also would act in a way that would protect the Commonwealth and these fund benefit organisations against excessive payouts for the treatment of serious illness. 
Under the amendments proposed by this Bill patients or contributors unfortunately will be obliged to pay 80c at the very least for each visit to a doctor's surgery and Si. 20 for each home visit by a doctor. The 80c charge in itself will be sufficient to cause a parent, particularly if he is in poor circumstances, to have second thoughts or to ponder whether it is really necessary to take his child to a doctor. He may decide to wait until the next day to see how the child is, but the next day may be just too late or, at the very best, the sickness may have developed into something that is serious. Even for these very simple reasons I think it should be one of the first necessities in a health scheme that visits to a doctor for diagnosis and advice should be completely free of any charge over the insured benefit. Of course, with the charges for consultation, like the additional cost for any other service, the higher the income of the person concerned, under the Government's health scheme and the amendments proposed, the greater is the ability of that person to pay. This will mean a lower eventual cost to that person. By that I mean that a person on a low income will actually pay the 80c I have referred to for a visit to a surgery but the person on the high income may pay eventually 50c, 40c or less as a result of his entitlement to taxation deductions for medical costs. The same ultimate result applies with regard to contributions to the fund. We have the ridiculous situation where a person with the greatest ability to pay can obtain the very best medical and hospital entitlement for the amount that a person who has not the ability to pay has actually to pay to receive the very lowest cover. 
However there is another side to this. We can have a perfect scheme in respect of contributions and benefits. It may be a scheme of contributions by way of taxation or it may be on a voluntary basis. It may be one of complete coverage or one of partial coverage. But no matter how perfect it is in that regard it can lose the major part of its perfection if the required services are not available - that is, if doctors are in short supply or if hospital accommodation is not sufficient or if the particular type of hospital accommodation that is required is not adequate. This sort of situation is certainly a problem today at least in most if not all of the areas outside the cities. I cannot speak with any authority about the situation  in  the cities but in country towns we are certainly faced with a shortage in both respects. We have a situation where doctors have always to be on- tap and have to work long and unreasonable hours. This, in turn, means that patients are put to considerable inconvenience in having to wait for hours in some cases to be seen by the doctor or to receive treatment. This state of affairs - long hours and long waits - has been going on for years and, indeed, seems to be becoming worse. In my book doctors should not be required to work such unreasonable hours as they do while, on the other hand, patients should not be required to sit around for hours in waiting rooms to receive attention. If people are obliged to pay an insurance premium for services those services should be readily available to them, and in a way which is convenient to them and not inconvenient as at present. The position will not be improved in any way by the amendments we have before us. As 1 see it, the position could be aggravated. 1 am fearful that the provisions in the First Schedule to the Bill under which a specialist will attract a higher payment than a genera) practitioner for exactly the same operation or service will cause a number of doctors with specialist qualifications but who are practising as general practitioners in country towns to move to the cities where their work will attract a higher payment. If this does happen it can easily mean that within a short time not only will we be critically short of doctors outside the cities but we will have more largely inexperienced doctors. This, in turn, will mean that even more people will be obliged to go to the cities on referrals to specialists. This will involve them in additional expense. I am informed on very good authority that quite a number of general practitioners do have specialist qualifications in several fields and are qualified, at least by experience and knowledge, to perform examination or surgery equally as competently as registered specialists. Indeed, I have personal knowledge of several doctors who were practising as general practitioners in country towns and who within a couple of weeks set up as specialists in Perth. 
Country GPs, if they carry out an examination or surgery of a specialist nature, will be entitled to a much lesser benefit than will the specialist who performs exactly the same service. For instance, item 223 of the First Schedule, which relates to antenatal care, confinement and postnatal care for 9 days, provides for a Commonwealth benefit of $24 to a general practitioner whereas item 224, which relates to exactly the same services, provides a Commonwealth benefit of $39 to a specialist. In other words the specialist will receive $15 more than the general practitioner. Under items 230 and 231 a general practitioner will receive $43.50 as a Commonwealth benefit and the specialist $60. or an additional $22.50 for carrying out exactly the same service. There are more than 100 cases where the same sort of differentiation appears. I know that the additional benefits to specialists are paid only where the patient has been referred to the specialist by a general practitioner or someone else. This, of course, suggests that there would be certain complications in cases requiring specialist attention or that the general practitioner was rather raw and could not carry out even normal requirements. I would have no argument in respect of those cases but I see no reason at all why a general practitioner who is qualified in all respects other than being registered as a specialist should not be paid the same rate as a specialist when he performs the services- 
Surely no-one would expect any general practitioner worth his salt to send his patients 300, 400 or even 1,000 miles to the nearest specialist if he is competent to do what is required; and if he is competent and does what is required surely he should receive the payment. What about an urgent case where it is not possible to send a patient over a long distance to a specialist and where, as a result, the general practitioner has no alternative but to do the job? Surely he should not be denied the same benefit that the specialist would attract. As I see it, this provision may be all right in the city where the general practitioner would normally send complicated cases to a specialist but it just does not work in the bush and it is quite unfair to the general practitioners in those areas. As I said earlier, if this difference in the Commonwealth benefit between the general practitioner and the specialist is retained as strictly as 1 see it in this Bill, we can expect to see a number of doctors from country areas entering the specialist field in the capital cities, and no-one could blame them for doing so. They would attract the higher remuneration for their services. It would be a further attraction for many if not all of them not to have to work the long hours which they are now obliged to work, not for the purposes of gaining income but to meet the demands on their services. Country towns cannot afford to lose the services of competent and qualified doctors. We must do all possible to retain them. The very fact that specialists are so far away and so difficult to reach, coupled with the shortage of doctors in the country, makes it necessary that those who do see fit to practise in the country are the very best and with high qualifications in the many fields of medicine. 
I hope that the Minister will ensure that such qualifications and competency are properly recognised. Surely there is no fear that unqualified doctors would try to usurp the position of specialists just for the extra money; so there would be no danger to the patients. The Bill does assist to some extent those families on very low incomes, but this aspect has been covered fairly well by other members from this side. All I want to say is that the coverage to those people on low incomes is not as valuable as it may appear to be from what the Minister says. 
Debate interrupted. 
J ask the MinisterinCharge of Aboriginal Affairs whether he is aware that the reduction of leprosy s closely linked to living standards. Ls he aware that secondary infections of leprosy, resulting from poor living conditions, have been responsible for most of the deaths caused by that disease? If the Minister is aware of these things, has he arranged for a special survey of the living conditions of Aboriginals in those areas of Australia where leprosy is known to exist or to occur? If so, what stage has the survey reached? Finally, if no such survey has been arranged or carried out will the Minister treat the matter as being urgent with a view to obtaining an early and substantial improvement in the living conditions of Aboriginals in those areas? 
asked the Minister for Trade and Industry, upon notice: 
Which companies or industries have received research grant allocations through the Australian Industrial Research and Development Grants Board since and including 1967. 
What was the amount of the grant in each case. 
What was the new product or process being developed by the company concerned in each case to attract the grant. 
asked the PostmasterGeneral, upon notice: 
Mow many applications for television repeater stations have been received from private enterprise for location in mining areas. 
For which mining areas were the applications made. 
For which areas has approval been granted. 
1 ask the PostmasterGeneral whether any consideration has been given to supplying television education programmes on tapes or by some other means to schools in remote areas where television is unlikely to extend for some considerable time. If so, is it likely that such programmes will be available in the near future? If not, why not? If there are legal difficulties, what are they and why can they not be removed? Finally, if the matter has not been considered, will the Postmaster-General give it his early attention with a view to giving children in those remote areas the opportunity to gain an improved education? 
asked the Minister for Shipping and Transport, upon notice: 
Which Department, State or Federal, was responsible for the cost of transporting guests on the Indian-Pacific passenger train on its inaugural journey from Sydney Co Perth. 
Which department was responsible for the cost of the dinner at Sydney and the buffet tea at Perth. 
What was the cost in each case. 
Would it have been preferable to expend the money on improving living and working conditions for people employed along the Trans-Australian railway or, alternatively, is he satisfied with conditions which exist at the present. 
I ask the Minister for Primary Industry whether he informed the Grain Growers Association of Queensland some time back that when wheat stocks have been reduced to a manageable and acceptable level there will be good reason to match production to market outlets. If so, is the Minister now able to give the House an approximate figure of what a manageable and acceptable level of end- of-season wheat stocks would be on an Australia-wide basis? Can he say when that level is likely to be reached? Can he give an estimate of the required annual production to meet demand after the acceptable level of stocks has been reached? 
asked the Treasurer, upon notice: 
What amount of gold (in ounces) is required annually in Australia to satisfy local demand. 
What would be the annual cost to Australia of importing these requirements. 
My question also  te.  addressed to the Treasurer. Have officers of his Department recently conducted a survey or inquiry into the problems and economics of the gold mining industry? If so, is he now able to tell the House whether it is intended to re-enact the general provisions of the Gold Mining Assistance Act which expires at the end of this month? Can he tell the House also whether there is any intention of, or whether consideration is being given to, substantially increasing the amount of assistance now provided under the Act? 
asked the Minister for Primary Industry, upon notice: 
Does the Government intend to reduce the first advance payment on wheat of the coming harvest and subsequent harvests. 
If so, what consideration was given to the financial effect which such a reduction would have on the economic viability of farmers in shires which are predominantly dependent on wheal for their income. 
asked the PostmasterGeneral, upon notice: 
Which post offices in the north and northwest of Western Australia are now fully airconditioned. 
Is it intended to air-condition other post offices; if so, which and when. 
No doubt it will surprise you,  Mr Speaker,  to learn that I intend to support the proposition before the House. I have listened with a great deal of interest to honourable members from both sides of the chamber who have put their views in this debate. The honourable member for Cunningham  (Mr Connor),  the honourable member for Newcastle  (Mr Charles Jones)  and the honourable member for Sydney  (Mr Cope)  expressed their views as to the convenience they would wish all honourable members to enjoy. 1 feel quite sure that those members who spoke early in the debate will support this proposition now that they have heard of the difficulties and misfortunes that face some of us who are not fortunate to live closer to Canberra than we do. 
J am not naive enough to believe that just because this motion is carried we will not sit the hours and days in this Parliament that the Government decides it wants the Parliament to sit. The Government will make the decision because it has the numbers, and I suggest that when we are the Government after the next election and we have the numbers the House will sit the times we want it to sit. Therefore, in that particular situation, I think that those members who have spoken as though this would not be the case are drawing red herrings across the path. 
The Minister for Social Services  (Mr Wentworth)  and others have said that there are 2 particular points concerning the work of a member. They have said that a member is elected to represent, in this Parliament, the people of his electorate. I agree with them completely. This is so, but I suggest that if a member is to represent all the people of his electorate and not just the electors themselves he has to give the people the opportunity of presenting cases to him and of discussing their problems with him to make him aware of how he is going to represent them in this House. At present with the existing sitting hours many members who represent far flung electorates which extend for many miles do not gel the opportunity of seeing their constituents nor do their constituents get the opportunity of seeing their members and presenting cases to them. This is one of the reasons why I support the motion. 
Personally I would be no more inconvenienced by the proposed sitting times than I am by the existing situation. 1 have become accustomed to getting home on Friday nights or Saturday mornings and leaving again on Sunday nights. The people of Kalgoorlie have become accustomed to seeing me on Saturdays or Sundays when the House is sitting. Perhaps if I adopted the attitude adopted by the honourable member for Newcastle, who objected to his schedule enabling him to see people on Monday being upset.. I would object to the motion because I might be wanting the people of my electorate to see me during the week when I was not in Parliament. 1 am a bit diffident about putting this because I may be accused of being somewhat selfish. But if I want to go to the far north of my electorate it takes me 2 days travel to get there and back. In other words it is impossible for me to undertake such a journey over the weekend. If I want to go to other parts of my electorate where there is no air travel available it takes me 2 days by motor car to get there and back. Honourable members will appreciate that I will find it easier to contact the people of my electorate under the proposed sitting times than I do under the existing arrangements. 
I do not know. It may be, as the honourable member for Grayndler  (Mr Daly)  said, that if I am around the place too long I will not be around here very long. Irrespective of whether that is so, I think the House should take some cognisance of the fact that the people of Australia should have an equal right, if they live in the country, to see their members, to discuss with them their problems and to present cases to them, as do people who live in city electorates or in electorates where members can get to them or they can get to the members more frequently. For that reason I support the motion. 
Question put: 
That sub-paragraph (a) of paragraph (1) of the motion moved by the Leader of the House be endorsed in principle (vide page 172). 
asked the Minister for Health, upon notice: 
What is the estimated mortality rate of full blood Aboriginal children in (a) the Northern Territory, (b) Western Australia and (c) Queensland in each of the age groups (i) birth to 1 year, (ii) 1 year to  1  years,(iii) 2 to 3 years, (iv) 3 to 4 years, (v) 4 to 5 years and (vi) 5 to 8 years. 
What are the most common causes of death in each age group in each Territory or State referred to. 
How does the mortality rate of full blood Aboriginal children compare with that of other children in Australia. 
asked the Treasurer, upon notice: 
Does he support the views expressed by Prime Minister Menzies (Hansard, 4 November 1954, page 2629) that the importance of the goldmining industry to Australia needs little emphasis and that the Government believes for a number of reasons, that would not be in the national interest for gold-mining areas to languish. 
Is it a fact that the industry faces far greater difficulties today than it did in 1954. 
If so, will he ensure that a substantial increase in financial assistance is made available to the industry in the forthcoming Budget 
My question is addressed to the Prime Minister During the Budget Speech I understood the Treasurer to express concern for low income groups and for those engaged in the rural industries. I therefore ask the Prime Minister: Is it not a fact that when increases have been made previously in indirect taxation, postal and telephone charges and on several other charges in which increases have been proposed in the Budget this year, manufacturers and in turn retailers invariably have increased the prices of the articles they make or sell? This being so, what action does the Government intend to take to protect the people referred to by the Treasurer against any unnecessary increase in either the cost of living or the cost of production? Finally, if no such action is contemplated, did I put a wrong interpretation on the Treasurer's remarks? 
1 listened with some interest to the remarks of the honourable member for Hume  (Mr 
Pettitt). I was particularly interested in the fact that, as far as I could gather, he made no reference at all to the wheat industry. If I am correct in this assumption, I draw the attention of the House to the fact that in his Budget Speech the Treasurer  (Mr Bury)  also did not make any reference to the wheat industry. It seems to me to be idle for the honourable member for Hume to talk about the great value of rural industries to this country - honourable members on this side of the House agree that they are of great values - if he does not make any mention whatsoever of the wheat industry. I rise to support the amendment which was moved by the Leader of the Opposition in the following terms:  this House condemns this deceptive and negative Budget because it fails to meet the real needs of the Australian people, especially with respect to 
standards of social service and war pensioners, 
assistance to schools, hospital and urban authorities and (c) restructuring of stricken primary industries and because it introduces and increases taxes and charges of a regressive and inequitable nature'. 
The Budget which was introduced by the Treasurer only last week caused more dismay and consternation and has drawn more hostility from the masses of the people than any other Budget which has been introduced. The general public is not yet aware of the full adverse effects of this Budget. When the people realise what the Budget means their hostility will further increase. 
There is good reason for dismay and consternation over the Budget, particularly in the case of the family man and those persons on fixed and low incomes. But these are not the only people complaining about the Budget and criticising it. Almost everybody appears shocked by some of the things which the Government has done or failed ro do in this Budget. For instance, never have recipients of social services been treated with such contempt and such callous disregard for their welfare as they have in this Budget. I cannot recall when a family man and those struggling to make ends meet were subjected to the type of confidence trick perpetrated by the Government in this Budget. Certainly, on other occasions pensioners have received an increase of only 50c a week. In fact, the Government's policy in this regard would seem to be to increase pensions annually by an average of 50c. Certainly, on other occasions other social service beneficiaries have been completely ignored. But on this occasion not only have these people been treated harshly in the matter of increases in pensions and other benefits but also have they been subjected to increased costs. 
The Budget has been referred to as a give and take Budget, but the amount which the Government is giving will prove to be insignificant compared with the amount it will take when the full effects of increases in the cost of living are felt. The people of Australia should be allowed to express a positive opinion about this Budget. The only way in which they can do this is through the ballot box. if the Prime Minister and those who support him have the courage of their convictions they should be prepared to face the people. They should be prepared to accept the challenge of my Party to hold an early election. Prior to the last election the Prime Minister told the people that if the Government was returned it would, over a period of 3 years, reduce income tax on the lower and middle income groups by about $200m. That was the beginning of the great confidence trick to which I have referred because people in the lower and middle income groups quite naturally understood the Prime Minister to mean that they would be better off and would benefit by the amount by which taxes were reduced. They failed to realise that the Prime Minister and his Liberal and Country Party colleagues had very different ideas. They failed to realise that the Government had no intention of creating a situation in which the Treasury would suffer a reduction in taxation revenue. Too late the people now realise that the Government's intention was substantially to increase revenue by the back door method - a method which this Government has used so consistently for so long. 
While the Prime Minister and his colleagues made great play during the election campaign of their intention to reduce income tax they were very careful not to mention their intention to make up for those reductions by substantially increasing indirect taxation. They carefully avoided making it known that the few cents or dollars which people on small incomes would save in income tax would be more than offset by increased charges for services, increased excise duties and increased sales tax. Since the Government was well aware that if returned to office it would impose these higher indirect taxes, I say emphatically that the people were the victims of a confidence trick and that Government supporters were less than honest with the people in deliberately creating the impression that because of certain reductions in income tax the people would bc better off. In fact many people will be worse off as a result of this Budget. The ones most adversely affected will be those least able to pay - the family man, people on fixed or low incomes and pensioners. So let the Government go to the people now. Let the people decide whether the Government was strictly honest during the last election campaign. Let the people decide whether the reductions in their income tax will compensate them for losses sustained due to increased charges imposed in this Budget. Let the people decide whether the pensioners have been shabbily treated. The only way properly to determine the issue is for the Government to go to the people. 
Government supporters seek to obtain credit from the fact that the promised income tax reductions have been granted in the first year rather than being spread over 3 years. But the Government's action in this regard does not bear examination for the simple reason that if the reduction this year had amounted to only 34% instead of 10%, or if there had been no reduction, the Treasury would have suffered because the Government would not have had the courage in those circumstances to impose the extra indirect taxes. For example, it would not have had the courage to increase charges for letters and telegrams. Of course, it could not possibly have given pensioners less than 50c. It is obvious that by granting the full income tax reductions in 1 year and imposing other charges the real beneficiary over the 3 year period will be the Treasury. If the Treasury required additional revenue in order to meet election promises, this fact must have been known to the Government when those promises were made. If so, why were the people not told? Why were they kept in the dark? Those are the questions I pose, because if the people had been aware of the real situation they might well have preferred not to see income tax reduced and not have the other charges imposed. 
Let us briefly examine the income tax proposals. Let us look at the great financial benefits which, according to Government supporters, will flow to people on small incomes. Let us measure the relief from income tax against the burden of increased indirect taxes so that we may ascertain who actually benefits - the taxpayer or the Treasury. Let us briefly examine other increased charges, such as those for telephone installations and rentals, and postal and telegram charges. We must not forget, as the Prime Minister would wish, that these increases will not be felt by the man in the street only when he uses the services or purchases an item subject to increased charges. There will be a general increase in the cost of living because manufacturers, wholesalers and retailers will ensure that they recover their increased costs by the simple process of increasing the prices of the articles they make or sell. 
Because I am very concerned about the effect of increased prices on the less fortunate in the community and on the rural sector, last week I asked the Prime Minister what action he intended to take to protect these people against unnecessary increases. He replied that the people to whom 1 referred would not suffer from increased prices unless they were heavy smokers, drank wine, or brought motor cars, furs or jewellery. Did you ever hear such rot? Such a reply by the Prime Minister is a clear indication of the Government's attitude. It is not concerned if prices rise. It is not concerned whether increased prices are justified. It is not concerned about the people who will be seriously affected by increased prices. The Prime Minister knows full well that increased taxes on petrol and diesel fuel, for instance, will lead to an increase in haulage and transport charges. This in turn will bring about an increase in the price of goods and foodstuffs wherever they are carried, whether over short distances or long distances. This, of course, will include practically everything. The people who will suffer most are those in poor circumstances, those in remote and far flung areas and those engaged in the rural industries. Yet the Prime Minister and Government supporters remain completely undisturbed over this situation. [f, on the other hand, the Prime Minister is genuine in his belief, if his examination of the effects of higher excise and sales tax and other charges, has shown that there should be no increase in the general cost of living or the cost of production, then why does he not make it quite clear? Why does he not make it quite clear to me that he will take action against anyone who does increase prices? Why does he not make it quite clear that any increase in prices will have to be justified before a commission or some other body? Surely that is not much to ask for in these circumstances. Of course the Prime Minister will not do that. The people who wish to increase their prices know that he will not do it and so they will go blithely ahead. The people who, according to the Prime Minister, will have no need to fear increases in prices will just have to suffer the consequences. 
There is another ridiculous situation which must be kept in mind regarding the reduction in income tax and that is that the reduction is on the taxable income. Nothing has been done to increase dependants' allowances and so on. Therefore a taxpayer with, for example, 3 dependants or even 10 dependants will receive no more tax relief than will a taxpayer with no dependants if they both have the same taxable income. Therefore it must also come about that the greater the number of dependants the harder the taxpayer will be hit by these additional charges that the Government has imposed by increasing indirect taxation. 
The fact is that a taxpayer, irrespective of the number of dependants, who has a taxable income of $40 per week will pay 45c less per week or $23.40 less per year than he does now. But let us look at how that $23.40 will be depleted by increases in indirect tax and the other charges imposed in this Budget. If the taxpayer has a telephone he will pay an extra $7 a year for its rental. Perhaps Government supporters can see no reason why a man in those circumstances should have a telephone. If that taxpayer smokes at the rate of 5 packets of cigarettes a week, which is pretty light, he will pay, at the estimated increase of 3c per packet, up to an extra $7.80 per year for cigarettes simply because the Government has increased the excise on tobacco. If he is married and his wife smokes also he wilt be up for a further $7.80. If he has a motor car and uses 3 gallons of petrol a week, which again is fairly light, at the reported increase of 3c per gallon he will pay out an additional $4.68 per year. 
That taxpayer, without facing up to any other increases, will find himself paying out an additional $27.28 per year, or approximately $4 more than his reduction in income tax will amount to. But he still has to meet all the other additional charges imposed on such things as stamps and telegrams, the increased cost of shaving gear such as razor blades and shaving cream for himself, and increases in the price of beauty preparations for his wife - even baby powder if his wife happens to have a baby. If he is in the unfortunate position of requiring a new motor car or a television or radio set then he can say goodbye to every part of the tax reduction he will receive over a period of 10 years or so simply because this Government has increased sales tax on those items by  2i%. 
So we find on examination of the Budget provisions that if a taxpayer expects to finish up all square he must have, at the very least, a clear income of at least $80 per week after all taxation. If he happens to have 2 or 3 dependants he will require a clear income of at least $1.00 per week if he expects to have a chance of offsetting these increased charges by the use of his tax deduction. People with large families and low incomes who now do not pay any income tax cannot gain any relief from that quarter and they will be obliged to face up to these increased charges, to the additional sales tax and excise. This is the way in which this Government shows its attitude to those on low incomes and those in poor financial circumstances. It is an absolute disgrace and Government supporters should be ashamed to be associated with it. 
There is another side to this matter because, after all. the Prime Minister did promise a reduction for those people in what he was pleased to describe at the middle income group. I will cite a few reductions he granted in this field: $500 per year for the taxpayer whose taxable income is $16,000; $418 per year for the person with a taxable income of $20,000 $244 per year for the taxpayer whose taxable income is $25,000; and $70 per year for those with a taxable income of $30,000. This means that a taxpayer with a taxable income of $307 per week will receive relief at the rate of $9.65 per week. A person whose taxable income is $384 per week has been granted relief at the rate of $8 per week. A taxpayer with a taxable income of $480 per week will receive relief of $4.70 per week. A person with a taxable income per week of $575 is to receive relief at the rate of $1.34 per week. 
Those weekly amounts of relief do not compare very well with the relief given to people who really require it. For instance, a man with a taxable income of $1,600 rather than $16,000 will receive a reduction of only $13.94 per year. His weekly all clear income will be increased by the princely amount of 27c compared with $9.65 for the man receiving $16,000. A man with a taxable income of $2,000 rather than $20,000 will receive a reduction of $21.73, or relief at the rate of 41c per week; while the man with a taxable income of $2,500 rather than $25,000 will get a reduction of approximately 62c per week or something like half the amount that the man on $30,000 will receive. 
The figures I have mentioned prove just how unfair are the whole provisions of this Budget. They show how unfair is the tax structure. They show how people who require relief - in some cases desperately so - will not only be denied it but, to make things even worse, they will be obliged to things even worse, will be obliged to meet charges never previously imposed on them. 
There is another section of the community which has been treated in a shabby and disgraceful manner. I refer to the recipients of social service payments, particularly the pensioners to whom I shall refer in a moment. Throughout the whole field of social services, no matter whether it is pensioners, child endowment, child allowance, guardians allowance, wife's allowance, maternity allowance, unemployment payments and so on. the recipients have received a rough deal over the years at the hands of this Government. But on this occasion in particular the Government has shown complete disregard and complete contempt for their welfare. 
No matter which area of social service recipients one refers to, they are facing the problems of a higher cost of living, and the increased charges imposed by this Budget will eat still further into the meagre allowances that the Government provides. 
Yet despite this obvious situation and the difficulties facing these people the Government has given exactly nothing, in most cases, to offset those additional costs. Therefore every person and every family in receipt of social services today will be worse off. They have suffered the increases in the cost of living which have occurred since the last increase in allowances and now they must suffer the future effects of this Budget. 
I want to refer again to the pensioners. The Government's treatment of these worthy citizens is absolutely disgraceful It has given them a miserable 50c per week but, as I pointed out when referring to sales tax and other charges, a large part of that 50c will be recovered by the Treasury and little will be left to the pensioner to meet these other increased charges. Pensioners will find themselves worse off as a result of this Budget. The Treasurer, during the presentation of the Budget, appeared to expect commendation and applause when he announced the 50c increase. He pointed out that as a result of that increase a single pensioner will receive $15.50 per week and a pensioner couple will receive S27.50. He seemed to think that the Government had adopted a very generous attitude and that the amounts he quoted were more than sufficient. What the Treasurer received from honourable members on this side of the House in response to his announcement were jeers, and cries of 'shame' and 'disgraceful'. Thi. was only natural because no-one would seriously and sincerely believe or accept that a pensioner or a pensioner couple could possibly live in a decent and adequate manner on the amounts I have mentioned. It would do no harm to again draw attention to the fact that the Government has given certain people in the community tax relief of $500 a year when they already have an income of $16,000. Yet at the same time it is prepared to give the pensioners only an extra $26 a year. This is what the Government calls a fair go. 
No harm will be done either by placing on record that in this morning's Press it was reported that the Government has offered to two former Governors-General pensions of $7,500 a year. I do not object to their having a pension. However, I am taking exception to the reason that is given. It is that the gentlemen concerned were not able to live in the good circumstances required for former Governors-General. The decision to increase the pensions was made by Cabinet and one of the former Governors-General is reported as saying that he is delighted by the consideration shown by Prime Minister Gorton and Government supporters. What a different consideration this is from that shown to the pensioners. The poverty stricken circumstances of thousands of pensioners drew consideration at the rate of $26 per year. But these other people received $7,500. I bet they are singing that old ode: 'Oh to be a former Governor-General when Gorton's in the chair'. As I hope to have an opportunity to express my feelings still further about the plight of the pensioners when the Social Service Bill is introduced and during the Committee stages of the Appropriation Bill I will leave this subject for the moment and move on to another aspect that the Budget did not cover. 
As honourable members are aware, not one word was said during the Budget Speech about the gold mining industry. It was completely ignored. But, of course, we did read that the Treasurer had made a Press statement on 23rd June and said it was the intention of the Government to extend the Gold Mining Industry Assistance Act for a further period of 3 years without amendment. The Treasurer also said that his Government had decided there was no reason to increase the subsidy and that in his opinion the extension of the Act in its existing form would allow gold mining activities to phase out gradually. We know that a Bill has been introduced to carry out what the Treasurer said would be done. I do not wish at this stage to say much because I know that the Prime Minister has been asked or will soon be asked to receive a deputation from Western Australia consisting of the Premier of the State or the Minister for Mines, the Leader of the Opposition of Western Australia and the  President  of the Chamber of Mines of Western Australia to place before the Prime Minister a case for an increase in subsidy. So all I say now is that the request for the deputation illustrates the importance which Western Australia puts on an increase in subsidy. I hope that the Treasurer and the Prime Minister will leave the way clear to amend the Act accordingly, subsequent to the case being presented and considered. 
I want to return briefly to the subject of taxation in order to draw attention to the fact that the Government has once again, as it has for so many years, refused to make any alteration in zone allowances or in zone boundaries despite the fact, which must be obvious to everyone, that under existing allowances and boundaries a number of taxpayers and their families in remote and far flung areas are being treated in a most unfair manner. The Government has again refused to correct the several anomalies of the zone provisions, lt has refused to do anything about the glaring anomaly whereby one taxpayer can receive the maximum concession after a bare 6 months in a zoned area while another taxpayer living in the same town or even in the same camp for a continuous period of almost 12 months does not receive any concession at all. The Government refuses to extend the concessions to those people employed on oil rigs situated in the open sea just off the north coast of Western Australia even though the people employed nearby on the mainland or on a nearby island enjoy the full privilege. People in the zoned areas are sick and tired of hearing the Treasurer say that nothing can be done until there is a general review of the whole situation. They have come to realise that there will never be another review while this Government remains in office. 
This Budget provides no increase in tax deductions for the spouse or other dependants of a taxpayer. The Budget contains nothing to increase the deduction related to education expenses even though those expenses have increased considerably. No provision is made to allow anything for expenses of travel where a taxpayer and his dependants are obliged to seek medical or hospital attention. These are some of the areas of taxation where the Government could assist the low income earner, the family man and those people resident in country or remote areas. No heed is taken of the need of these people for assistance in the form of taxation relief. This Government denies the obvious needs of the less fortunate and those battling for an existence, people who seek only the right to live decently and to ensure their children good health and a decent education. 
Just a short time ago the Minister for Education in Western Australia was reported as saying that his Government - also a Liberal government - could not afford to set up and staff a senior high school in the far north of the State. The parents and citizens in the area have expressed their intention to seek finance from outside Australia. If this is correct, and 1 believe it is, it is surely a shameful situation and must be an indictment of this Government and of the Government of Western Australia, a State which its governments are always saying is rapidly on the move and returning great wealth from iron ore and other mining activities. Yet, this State Government is not able to afford children the opportunity of a decent education. In addition the State Government refuses parents a reasonable tax deduction for the expenses they incur in sending their children to the metropolitan area or to some other place to receive education. 1 notice that my time has almost expired. I should like to refer again to the situation in relation to rural industry. As I said earlier, the Treasurer made no mention in his Budget Speech of the wheat industry. However, I suppose in this regard he was being quite consistent because we all know that the Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Anthony)  and several Government back benchers are on record as saying that it is not the concern or the responsibility of a government to solve the problems and determine what is best for rural industry. If the attitude that the Government takes is that it is not interested in rural industry and the people who are engaged in that industry, I ask: Why does not the Government take some heed of the people who are dependent, even if not directly, on rural industry? I refer to those people who are in country centres and country towns. It is obvious that under the existing situation the great cry of the Government of 'get big or get out' will only be a temporary thing. While this scheme might solve a problem in one area it will create many problems in others. If the Government continues with its policy the country towns will lose their populations or have them seriously depleted. As a result, thousands of people will be affected. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Scholes)Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
asked the PostmasterGeneral, upon notice: 
Has the Australian Broadcasting Control Board completed its inquiries and deliberations regarding the application to establish a commercial television staton in Kalgoorlie. 
If not, when is the inquiry expected to be completed and a decision announced. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Civil Aviation, upon notice: 
Have any airline companies expressed a preference for a particular airport in Western Australia as an alternative to Perth. 
If so, which airport was preferred by each company. 
When does the Minister expect a conclusion to be reached and an announcement to be made on this matter. 
My question also is directed to the Minister for Primary Industry. I refer to the credit requirements of the meat exports diversification scheme. Are meat works companies in the Kimberleys and the Northern Territory finding it difficult to establish their own credits? Is this due to a local shortage of beef suitable for export to markets other than the United States of America? Has this in turn produced a situation where meat works companies in the north are obliged to buy American export credits from meat works in the south, and has the cost of purchasing credits in the south brought about a reduction in the price paid to cattlemen for beef killed for export in the north by northern meat works? Finally, if this is so, will the Minister, in the interests of those directly concerned and also in the interests of decentralisation and northern development, use his influence or authority to grant relief from the diversification scheme to meat works in the regions to which I referred? 
asked the Minister for Primary Industry, upon notice: 
Has any consideration been given to the need to provide some protection for farmers, who are in financial difficulties because of drought or other measures outside their control, against demands being made upon them by banks, finance companies, stock dealers, machinery firms and like concerns. 
Has the desirability of introducing legislation to provide for a moratorium for the farmers received any consideration; if so, what is the intention of the Government. 
asked the Minister for Primary Industry, upon notice: 
Has the Bureau of Agricultural Economics carried out over recent months any survey of a comprehensive nature into the effects which a reduction in the first advance payment on wheat would have on the economic situation in predominantly marginal wheat growing districts. 
If so, what was the finding. 
If no recent survey has been made, will he arrange for the Bureau to commence an immediate investigation; if not, why not. 
1 want to express my pleasure at the further step which has been taken towards the upgrading of the airfield at Learmonth. 1 think I should draw the attention of the House to the fact that prior to the 1963 election we were told that this work was on the priority list and would be proceeded with. Yet it was not until June or July 1969 that any moves were made. Therefore it is good to know that the Government now intends to take these steps. I notice in the report that the classroom is to be a transportable structure and will be moved at the completion of the work. It seems to me that here was an opportunity for the Commonwealth Government to take positive steps to assist in the education of children in the north of Western Australia. The Government could very well have provided a permanent classroom. Certainly one will be required by the time the project is finished, which I understand will be about December 1972. Therefore I am very sorry that the Commonwealth Government has not taken this opportunity to provide a classroom on a permanent basis. 
I note that the classroom is to be airconditioned, and I applaud the Public Works Committee for determining that this should be so. However, I draw attention to the fact that air-conditioning is not to be provided in the houses. The only provision will be for 9-feet ceilings with fans. The people who live in those areas know that climatic conditions are pretty hard and the men working on the airstrip will experience hard conditions during the day. If they are shift workers they are at least entitled to air conditioning in their homes. Not very long ago the former Postmaster-General told me that installation of air conditioning in post offices in the north was not practical and that instead fans should be installed. Now we see that the Department of Works has agreed that air conditioning is necessary in post offices in the north. I am pleased that this step has been taken. It is a great pity that air conditioning was not recommended for the houses built for the Learmonth project. Members of the American community at Learmouth enjoy air conditioning in their houses but members of the Australian community must be satisfied with fans. In my opinion this is not good enough. I appreciate that what is done for the American community is not the responsibility of this Government. 
I note that the Western Australian Government is to provide 48 houses under an advance from the Commonwealth, which will be repayable. I would like to know whether rental is to be paid to the Western Australian Government while the houses are occupied by Air Force personnel. What interest will be charged on the money advanced for the erection of the houses and over what period of time will the loans be repaid? I note also that the average cost of the houses will be $18,750. I trust that the Government will note the cost of these houses with a view to increasing the cost limit which applies to the homes savings grant scheme. Many people in the north are prohibited from participating in the scheme because of the high cost of housing. 
I applaud the decision to build the houses at Exmouth rather than at Learmonth. The Committee has acted wisely in reaching this decision. I again ask the Minister to consider making the classroom a permanent structure rather than a temporary one. I also urge the Government not to be hasty in deciding to remove the houses when the work is completed if they could be made available to the State, even if only for a limited time, so that it might provide housing for the work force that is building up in this area. 
1 am deeply indebted to the honourable member for Griffith  (Mr Donald Cameron)  for giving me the opportunity to speak at this time. I was rather intrigued to hear from such an eligible young bachelor the concern which he expressed about child endowment and the maternity allowance. 1 wonder what part his speech played in this field. Despite the views expressed by members on this side of the House during the Budget debate, despite the criticisms levelled at the Government in relation to its attitude to social services, despite what has been reported in the Press, over the radio and over the television media, and despite the hostility expressed by the community in general the Government has remained unmoved, lt has refused to accept the opinion of the people and it has refused to alter its earlier decision in relation to social services. Now it has the impudence - it is impudence, arrogance - to ask this Parliament to support a proposition that is quite unacceptable to the vast majority of the people of Australia. 
This Bill, which only proposes an increase of 50c in pensions and grants no increase to recipients of other items of social service, is an insult not only to the people who are directly concerned but also to the intelligence and sense of fair play of the people of Australia generally. Generally speaking, Australians are very proud of their senior citizens for their accomplishments, for the part that they have played over the years and for what they have done for Australia. Australians want their senior citizens treated with the respect and dignity which they rightfully deserve. They do not and will not accept the course which the Government has adopted, namely one of poverty and need. Generally the people are mindful of the doleful circumstances in which many other recipients of social service benefits are obliged to exist. They are mindful of the fact, for instance, that child endowment, maternity allowances, child allowances, wife's allowances and certain other benefits are very important and necessary for the welfare and reasonable living standard of a large number of families. 
Being aware of this and being sympathetic to the people in poor circumstances, I am not surprised that the Budget and, in turn, this Bill should have drawn such widespread hostility. After all, what has to bc looked at and determined is not what a pensioner may earn above his or her pension; it is not what assets he may hold and still receive the pension. Those are not or should not be the determining factors for the base rate. The important thing to decide is the amount that is necessary to permit a pensioner to live adequately and with dignity on the pension alone. That is the real requirement. Hundreds of pensioners have no income and no possibility of ever obtaining any; they have no assets either. In other words, hundreds of pensioners have nothing but their pension on which to live. They are the people for whom the base rate of pension should be determined. 
Surely no responsible member of the Government and certainly no responsible member of the general community will suggest that the existing pension rates have been sufficient to meet pensioners' needs in the past 12 months; nor will this year's meagre increase, when added to the pension, be sufficient for the next 12 months. It must be quite obvious to everyone, including the Minister for Social Services  (Mr Wentworth),  that $15.50 a week for a single pensioner or $13.75 a week for each of a married couple is nowhere near sufficient to meet the normal needs of people who have nothing but the pension on which to rely. When introducing this Bill, the Minister admitted that there were pockets of poverty in Australia. We know that these pockets of poverty exist not only among the pensioner population but also among younger people, particularly those with large families who are trying to exist on small wages. Those people should have received consideration from the Government by way of increased child endowment and certain other allowances. We know also, of course, that the pensioners who have no income or assets are below the poverty line and have been for many years. 
Despite this knowledge, the Government not only refuses to increase the pension to a liveable level but also it refuses to set up an inquiry into the poverty aspect so as to obtain a clear picture of where the poverty is and of what is required to alleviate it. The Government is legislating to increase sales tax, excise, postal charges and so on. This will cause, and indeed is already causing, a substantial increase in the cost of living which will aggravate the position still further and increase the areas of poverty. Despite that, the Government has refused to make any adjustment to social service items such as wife's allowances, child allowances, child endowment and other benefits. 
The honourable member for Boothby  (Mr McLeay),  who spoke a few moments ago, said that the receipients of social service benefits would not suffer from the effects of the increases in excise, sales tax and so on.  His  remarks made it quite clear that, as far as he is concerned, recipients of social services are not entitled to own motor cars, to smoke, to drink or to use cosmetics. As far as the honourable member is concerned, apparently they are not entitled to live. I hope this is not the attitude of the Government, although if one looks at this Bill one is inclined to think it may be. 
Because of the Government's refusal to grant any increases in those several other allowances, we have the situation that a married pensioner couple will receive a maximum of $27.50 a week but where only one member is a pensioner the couple will receive only $22.50. A pensioner couple will receive an increase of $1 a week between them but where only one member is a pensioner the couple will receive an increase of only 50c a week between them. Even where the latter couple have a child to keep the pension will still be only $25 a week, or $2.50 less than the amount received by other pensioner couples. Surely if the Government honestly believes that $27.50 is adequate for a pensioner couple it should be prepared to pay the same amount at least to a couple with a child and where only one is a pensioner. It may be argued that where only the husband is a pensioner the wife can go out to work. If this is the Government's argument, it is pretty heartless, particularly in the case of a couple with a child, because surely in those circumstances the mother's place is in the home. It is almost certain that the husband is either an invalid or unemployable, otherwise he would not be prepared to sit back and allow his family to suffer because of the meagre allowances that this Government provides under the Social Services Act. 
The same situation applies to widows. The Government is prepared to make only the miserable increase of SOc in the pension of the widow and has refused to make any adjustment to the mother's allowance and the child's allowance. It is quite obvious that the increases in the cost of living which will flow from other legislation introduced by the Government to which 1 have referred will be such that the widow's plight in the future will be much worse than it is at the moment. The Minister for Social Services in an unsuccessful attempt to take the heat off the Government and justify its action in regard to this Bill accused the Labor Party of failing to increase the pension way back in December 1949. The Minister claimed that between the last pension adjustment in October 1948 and December 1949 there had been an increase in the consumer price index from 43.4 to 46.9, an increase of 3.5. The Minister attempted to create the impression that his Government was completely dismayed and in fact horrified thai the Labor Party had granted no increases as a result of those circumstances some 20 years ago. But I point out that the Labor Party, unfortunately for Australia and also for the pensioners, of course, was defeated in December 1949 and the Government that took office was of the same political colour as the present Government. Yet despite what the Minister has told us. we find that it was not until November of nV following year, 1950, that the pension was increased. So while the Minister accuse* the Labor Party of failing to take any remedial action by December 1949. we find that his Government allowed the same situation to continue for a further 12 months. 
But let us go further. From the chart which the Minister had incorporated in Hansard when he introduced this Bill we find that between July 1947 and October 1948, when a Labor government was in office, the consumer price index rose by 4.6 and Labor increased the pension by 5s a week. But between October 1948 and November 1950, at which time a Liberal government was in office, the consumer price index rose by 8.7 or nearly twice as much as between July 1947 and October 1948. However, the Liberal Government increased the pension by only 7s 6d a week. So does anyone suggest that the pensioners were any better off under a Liberal government than under a Labor government? Of course, it is quite obvious from what J have said that they were worse off. if that does not prove that the Minister was rather careless with its facts, let us pursue the matter a little further. Let us look at what happened between 1950 and 1951 under a Liberal government. The consumer price index rose by 13.1 but the pension was increased by only 10s. Under Labor's formula of 1947-48 it would have increased by approximately 13s 9d or 1.39. In other words, the pensioners were 39c a week worse off under the Liberal Government than they would have been under a Labor government. So I suggest that perhaps the Minister would be wise to forget the records of those years. Of course, we should not also forget that over the 3 years between October 1961 and 1964 the married couple pensioners received no increase at all from this Government. 
Perhaps I should point out again that between October 1964 and January 1968 the price index rose by 9.7, but married pensioners received an increase of only 75c a week, which is the same increase as they received from Labor back in 1947 when the price index increase was only 4.6. Actually, if the Government had granted the same increases which Labor granted back in 1947, the increase in pensions for married couples between October 1964 and January 1968 should have been exactly double what it was. If honourable members examine the present Government's record they will find that it has adopted a plan whereby it increases pensions by an average of 50c a year. If it is an election year for the House of Representatives the Government hands out an increase of $1 a week. If it is an election year for the Senate the Government hands out an increase of 50c a week. If there is no election at all, the Government gives nothing to pensioners. That is the pattern that has been followed. 
As a matter of fact, over the past 20 years pensions for widows have increased at a rate which is less than 50c per year. The fact is that in 1950 the pension was $5 a week for all age pensioners irrespective of whether they were single or married. We are now coming to the end of 1970, and after the addition of the 50c a week increase proposed in this Bill, a single pensioner will receive a maximum of $15.50 per week and a married pensioner couple will receive $13.75 each a week. Therefore, over the period of 20 years from 1950 to the end of 1970, during the whole of which time we have suffered a LiberalCountry Party Coalition Government, the average increase for single pensioners has been 524 c a week each year and the average for married couples has been 434c a week each year. Whenever honourable members from this side of the House criticise the Government for its miserly attitude to pensioners, we usually find that Government supporters try to avoid the issue by referring to how much a pensioner can have in assets or how much income a pensioner is allowed to earn before it affects the pension. As J said earlier, those are no reasons for depressing the base pension. 
But speaking of permissible income and assets, we should always remember that it is now 21 years since the Government Parties promised to abolish the means test. They told the people at the 1949 general elections that they would put value back into the 1 and abolish the means test. They have done neither. As a matter of fact, it was not until 4 years after they were elected to office that they increased the permissible income from what it was under Labor, in 1949 a single pensioner could have an income of $3 a week without it affecting his pension, and it was not increased until October 1953 when it went to $4 a week, and today, almost 20 years later, it has reached only $10 a week. This is what this Government apparently sees as great progress. The fact is that this Government during its 21 years in office has increased the permissible income at the average rate of 35c a week a year. The Bill which we are presently debating provides no increase whatsoever in the permissible earnings. 
When speaking to this subject during the introduction of the Bill, the Minister endeavoured to camouflage the situation by referring to the tapered means test. Of course, the tapered means test has done exactly nothing to assist the pensioner who has no assets and who is therefore obliged to rely on earnings to supplement his pension. It is rather interesting to compare the Minister's attitude today with what it was in those days when he occupied a backbench. For instance, on 20th August 1964 he said: 
. can you imagine anything so insane as to say to people who want to work: 'You cannot work or you will lose your pension"? This is madness. 
Then on 13th October 1964 he said: 
There are 2 reasons why the means test should be alleviated. The first is because it is inequitable and unfair and leads to bad social and psychological consequences ... the means test  . . . is an extravagance which the Australian economy can no longer afford. ... In the first place, the means test prevents people who would like to work- perhaps part time- from working and using their capacity. . . . lt is surely idiotic to prevent people who want to work from working. 
On 23rd September 1965 the Minister, who was still a backbencher, deplored the means test imposed on widows and said that it was of great detriment to her children as future Australians. Those were just a few of the times when the honourable gentleman expressed the view that pensioners should not have a means test imposed on earnings. When he became Minister for Social Services we quite naturally expected great things from htm. But we now find that he has either changed his ideas or found it easier or more appropriate to join the ranks of the insane and the idiotic. 
As 1 pointed out earlier, if this Government remains in office, a pensioner can look to the future and know that in 3 years he will be able to earn an extra $1 a week. 
In his second reading speech the Minister also referred to concessions granted to pensioners. He said that the Commonwealth Railways charges pensioners only half fare except at Christmas and Easter. That concession sounds good but it is not as good as the Minister would like people to believe. Having listened to the Minister one might come to the conclusion that pensioners pay only half as much as it costs other citizens to travel on the Commonwealth Railways, but this is not so. I wrote to the Secretary of the Commonwealth Railways to ascertain the true position. The ordinary single first class fare from Kalgoorlie to Sydney via Broken Hill is S72.20. The fare for a pensioner is not $36.10 as one would expect from the Minister's remarks but $59.53. The ordinary fare first class return is $135 and the pensioner fare is $112.18. Economy class single ordinary fare is $54.90. The pensioner fare is not $27.45 as implied by the Minister but $46.43 - a saving of only $8.47. Ordinary fare economy class return is $103.60 and the pensioner fare is 5588.34. 
Ordinary fare first class single Kalgoorlie to Melbourne is $62.40. The pensioner fare is $48.99. The return ordinary fare is $1 16.50 and the pensioner fare is $92.33. Economy class ordinary single fare is S43.45. The pensioner fare is $34.47, a difference of only $8.98. The return ordinary fare is $81.30. The pensioner enjoys the wonderful concession of paying $65.13. I suggest that those concessions are nowhere near half the ordinary rates. I do not know whether the Minister is aware of the true position with regard to rail fares, but if he is I suggest that he should have clarified his statement that pensioners paid only half fare. The concession of half fare does not take into account what are termed ancillary charges. As a result the pensioner pays in full for a sleeper and meals. So the benefits which the Minister would have us believe apply are not available. 1 wish to refer briefly to funeral benefits. Under this provision $40 or $20 is paid in respect of the burial costs of a pensioner, depending on whether the costs are met by another pensioner or someone who is not a pensioner. The benefit is very small compared with funeral costs today but this is not the aspect of the matter to which I refer. The legislation makes no provision for payment of a benefit in respect of the burial of a widow. This is something which should be rectified. The cost of a widow's funeral may have to be borne by her son or daughter who may be in poor circumstances or even quite young. It may be that at his death the widow's husband was an age pensioner. If his son or daughter had been responsible for his funeral costs he or she would have been entitled to claim $20 as a benefit. But if the pensioner's wife dies some time later and is still eligible only for the widow's pension and not the age pension, the same son or daughter, if responsible for the mother's funeral, receives no benefit from the Department of Social Services. I trust that the Minister will look into this matter. 
The actual amount of benefit should be at least $60 today, having regard to the change in the cost of living since the benefit was fixed at $20 when introduced in 1943. The rate has not been increased except for the case where another pensioner is responsible for the funeral. Even that rate should be at least $20 higher than it is. 1 support the amendment moved so ably by the honourable member for Oxley  (Mr Hayden).  The Government stands condemned for its attitude towards social services and for the meagre increases it has granted to pensioners, lt stands condemned for having ignored completely other recipients of social service benefits. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Giles)  adjourned. 
Sitting suspended from 6 to 8 p.m. 
Has the Prime Minister been asked to receive a deputation consisting of either the Premier or the Minister for Mines of Western Australia, the Leader of the Opposition in Western Australia and the  President  of the Chamber of Mines of Western Australia? If so, does the deputation wish to discuss with him the provision of further assistance to the gold mining industry? If such a request has been received, has the Prime Minister decided to meet the deputation? If so, has it been advised accordingly? Has a date been set for the meeting? 
I wish to address a few remarks on the estimates for the Department of Primary Industry. The House will recall that in the first week of the first sessional period of this year - on 15th March - the Labor Party submitted a matter of public importance for discussion by the House which we, and 1 feel sure the bulk of the Australian people, considered to be of very considerable importance. The subject we raised was the failure of the Government to give any positive leadership to halt the growing economic crisis in primary industry. Certainly it was a subject of some width and one which we felt could draw a very valuable and lengthy debate. Naturally, with the situation as it was at that time, we expected the Government to be keenly interested in hearing views from this side of the chamber and perhaps even hearing views from its own side. Strange to say, this was not the case. When I rose to speak as the third  speaker  on this side we witnessed a rather undignified spectacle of a Minister struggling to his feet to move that the next business be proceeded with. What he was actually doing was gagging a debate on the problems of primary industry which at that time had lasted less than SO minutes. Believe it or not, the Minister who moved to prevent any further discussion on the matter of such extreme importance to the farmers was none other than a Minister from the ranks of the Australian Country Party. I might add that during the division that followed every member of the Government, including those members of the Country Party, moved to support the gag. I mention that as one of several experiences we have had which gives some indication of the Government's attitude to the problems of primary industry. 
The problems facing the industry in March this year are still with it today. In fact in most areas they are worse than they were at that time. The Government's only idea for solving these problems seems to be the slogan of: 'Get big or get out.' That could solve an immediate problem in certain sections of the farming community but it is not the answer. In solving 1 problem many more will be created. This situation is becoming more apparent every day with regard to wheat and the allocation of quotas. Yet this Government brushes it aside with the expressed view that it is a State responsibility. As a matter of fact it seems to be disinclined to accept responsibility for any problems in rural industry. 
From what I can gather from listening to Government speakers the Government believes that farmers on small holdings are quite inefficient, when of course the oppo site is the fact in many cases. A farm unit that is economic today can become quite uneconomic in a very short space of time due to the increasing costs of production which this Government has taken no steps to overcome. It allows manufacturers to have tariff protection but it does absolutely nothing to ensure that those manufacturers put their items on the market at a reasonable price. As a result the farmers and many other people suffer. 
The only lead that the Government has given cotton farmers on the Ord River, for instance, was one along the road to bankruptcy - that is, by the deliberate phasing out of the cotton bounty very much earlier than was warranted in that area. Still worse is the fact that the Government did not bring down legislation to provide for any other assistance of equal value. When the Government introduced the phasing out legislation, as you will remember,  Mr Deputy Chairman,  we proposed an amendment which would have provided a means of protecting cotton farmers on the Ord and in certain other areas who were not then and are not now properly established. We pointed out that farmers on the Ord, for instance, were pioneers in the industry - not just pioneers in Western Australia but, more particularly and more importantly, pioneers in an area in the far north of Australia where we needed a primary industry which would open up and populate the north. 
The Government thought otherwise and refused to accept our amendment. It was prepared and is apparently still content to see the Ord River farmers, who were encouraged by this Government and the Western Australian Government to go to that area, forced out of the industry and even become bankrupt notwithstanding the fact that they not only had invested their life savings but had gone heavily into debt as well. I was dismayed to hear the Liberal member for Bradfield  (Mr Turner)  say a short time ago that he hoped that the last dam in the Ord River project would never be completed. I was even more dismayed to find that not one member on the Government side raised any objection to his remarks. 
One of the problems that is facing the rural industry today is the delay which occurs before any firm decision is taken. We have seen this in relation to the wool industry and also in relation to the effects of drought. Here we are in  1970  and the Government still has no plan for drought assistance other than drought bonds, which are far too restrictive to be of very much use. For several weeks, in fact months, we have seen headlines in the Press referring to the plight of farmers in drought stricken areas in Western Australia. They are calling for assistance from the Government to help them over their bad times. The Federal Government is placing the onus for such assistance on the State when the State is saying that it has not sufficient funds. While all this is going on of course the farmers are suffering and indeed some of them are starving. Just recently we learned that farmers in Western Australia in a drought stricken area could receive assistance up to a  $450  maximum, which had to be repaid and which would not be sufficient to pay for soup bones at a soup kitchen. And, of course, before they get any assistance they have to fill in forms which in turn have to be studied. So if they are fortunate they may receive some assistance just this side of next Christmas. 
Then we have the ridiculous situation that a wheat farmer does not know what his quota will be until he has started harvesting or until a short time before he starts harvesting. How anyone is supposed to organise his property on that basis is beyond my comprehension. In my book this Parliament must be more than interested in the quotas. We must be interested, and vitally so, in their effect upon the individuals as well as upon the industry generally. It is not sufficient simply to concern ourselves with the effect upon overall production. We cannot be satisfied simply because the quota system will bring production to the required level. 
We must go further than that. We must ensure that quotas as they are presently being allocated are not just propping the speculators,thesyndicatesandthecom- panies and by that process are allowing the individual grower and the family grower to fall by the wayside. If we let that happen - certainly it can happen, and in fact is happening now - we not only are failing in our responsibility to the small grower and the industry as a whole but also we are failing in our duty to the nation, because we must ensure the retention of at least that required level of production.  It  must be remembered that speculators, syndicates and companies will jump out of wheat production just as quickly as they jumped into it if they can see something better to turn to. They will not be interested in whether Australia has an over-supply or whether we have an under-supply. Theirs is purely a self interest and we cannot afford to allow the situation to develop where the genuine wheat grower can no longer keep going. They are the people that I say must be protected. There is a second reason. Even if the speculators and the syndicates take over the farms of those small farmers who are obliged to move out, and even if they take over the quotas of those small farmers, it will be not only the small farmer who suffers and has to leave the district. Many others in the community will suffer also and will be obliged to move. 
The Minister for Primary Industry has been reported as saying that it is not the responsibility of the Government to determine what is best for the farmers. This is correct up to a point. It is correct with regard to the rights of the individual but it is not correct with regard to the industry as a whole because any decision can have far reaching effects, good or bad, inside or outside the industry which can extend into the distant future as well as into the immediate future. Therefore it is very important that any decision taken is the right decision in relation to the whole of the industry and those dependent directly and indirectly upon it. Therefore it must surely be the responsibility of the Government, when dealing with such an important industry, to determine which section of wheat growers are working in the best interests of the industry and the community, not just in the short term, as I said just now, but more particularly in the long term. 
The Government must also accept responsibility for any detrimental effects which may flow from any decision in rela- tiontoourexportincomeoravenuesof export income. It should accept responsibility for any loss of markets. It should be the Government's responsibility to find new markets. It should be the Government's responsibility to ensure that the people who are engaged in seeking markets for wheat and other primary products are experts in each field. Australia cannot afford the luxury of taking risks in that respect. We cannot afford to lose markets or overlook markets simply because our salesmen are not equal to what is required of them. There is far too much at stake because not only the farmers but so many others can suffer. 
But it would seem that the present Government either fails to realise or refuses to be interested in the obvious fact that the failure of the wheat industry or a serious decline in the number of people engaged in the wheat industry will also have a very serious effect on the whole population and upon the whole business community in wheat growing areas. It will, like a decline in any other primary industry, have a severe detrimental effect upon many industries and business places elsewhere, not the least of which will be in the metropolitan areas. Members with city electorates would do well to remember that the primary industry areas, and more particularly the people who live in those areas, play a pretty important part in the stability of city business. If a situation develops where instead of having, say, 100 individual farmers in a district we have only 20 or 30 syndicates or companies, we can be quite certain that the little town and small business people who served the 100 farmers previously will not be around any more because the large companies do not deal with small business people in small towns but go to the city to look for city discounts. 
So it is not just sufficient to say we will ensure that a certain amount of wheat will be grown, accepted and paid for, and that to achieve this state of affairs quotas will operate. We must also ensure - this is what the Federal and State governments are not doing - that in the production of wheat and in the allocation of quotas we retain in the wheat growing areas the highest possible number of growers. The Government either to evade responsibility or because it is not particularly interested, or most likely both, apparently took no action to find out or make any recommendations on how quotas should be allocated. It took no steps to ascertain whether a reduction in the normal delivery of the small growers would pose a real problem to them or whether they were in a position to withstand it. It took no heed or was not interested in the fact that by reducing the small farmer's delivery by 2,000 bushels it would also be reducing his first advance by over $2,000 and thereby denying him $2,000 which he desperately required to meet various payments for which he was already committed not only for that year or the following year but for some time to come. 
On the other hand the Government has ensured that speculators, syndicates, companies and very large producers who do not actually require the full amount of first advance will receive it in full and on every bushel of quota wheat they produce. For instance, in Western Australia there are quotas ranging from 70,000 bushels to 250,000 bushels and I would take a lot of convincing that they require the full first advance or maximum first advance to keep them on their feet. Indeed, I would take a lot of convincing that quotas of such magnitude are necessary or should be granted when at the same time small growers are being reduced to what is obviously an uneconomic level. Despite this injustice and the obvious move towards centralisation rather than decentralisation and despite the fact that it can in the long run be detrimental to the industry as a whole, this Government is content to wave it aside as a responsibility of the industry itself and of the States. We cannot overlook the fact that the rural industry is responsible for a very substantial portion of our export income. It must be realised that without that income Australia could and indeed would find itself in a difficult, if not an impossible situation. Therefore, as the industry is of such national importance and as it means so much to the Commonwealth generally, surely it becomes the responsibility of the Government of the people to determine how best it can be utilised and how best we can obtain from it the maximum benefit and the maximum advantage over the longest period of time. 
asked the Minister for Primary Industry, upon notice: 
How many credits, necessary under the Meat Diversification Scheme to export meat to America, have been bought or sold in each State and Territory since the scheme came into operation. 
How many of those credits were bought and sold by exporters in the Kimberleys. 
asked the Minister for Primary Industry, upon notice: 
Can be say what percentage of credits under the Meat Diversification Scheme was earned from the export of (a) beef, (b) veal, (c) lamb, (d) mutton, (e) pigmeat, (f) offals (in all foregoing cases other than canned varieties) and (g) canned meats, since the scheme came into operation. 
What are the relative figures for each State and Territory. 
by leaveI join with other speakers in welcoming the announcement of the PostmasterGeneral .  (Mr Hulme).  I feel sure that the decision of the Australian Broadcasting Control Board to recommend to the Postmaster-General that commercial licences should be granted to these places has the approval of all the people in the areas concerned. I can certainly say that the people of Kalgoorlie, where I live, will approve of this decision. The Postmaster-General will recall that even well before a national station was established at Kalgoorlie the business people and mining companies there were endeavouring to have a commercial station established. I must admit that at that time I was a little diffident because if a commercial station had to close because of economics, bearing in mind that at that time there was no national station and no suggestion that there would be a national station, the people who had bought television sets at some expense and had taken out insurance and all of that sort of thing would have found that their sets were of no use. Of course, today we have a national television station at Kalgoorlie. 
I am not at all concerned that the commercial station will not be able to operate; the people of Kalgoorlie certainly have the security of the national station. The only concern the Postmaster-General expressed was in respect to population which, in turn, means economics. I have no concern about Kalgoorlie's population. I am sure that the population there will increase considerably in a few years' time. But there could be a blank period if the gold mining companies decide to cease operations in the near future. I am hopeful that we have not heard the last word from the Government about assistance to the gold mining industry. We are encouraged by the fact that the debate has not resumed on the Gold-mining Industry Assistance Bill. As far as the economics of the proposed commercial station are concerned. I am convinced that the local people of Kalgoorlie will give their full support by way of advertising and that sort of thing. Whilst I have no real personal knowledge of the situation at Mount Isa and Darwin, I would feel that the same situation would apply in these areas. With previous speakers I am pleased to support this proposition which, as I said earlier, meets with the approval of ali the people concerned. 
I rise, like the honourable member for Melbourne Ports  (Mr Crean),  to oppose these Bills. Sales tax, like every other form of indirect taxation, is a most inequitable and obnoxious method of gathering revenue. It is a flat rate tax which cannot be avoided and it imposes the heaviest burden upon that section of the community which is least able to bear it. It is a tax which can be justified only during times or conditions of emergency. Because this form of taxation is inequitable, unfair and unjust and as there is not now and has not been for a number of years any state of emergency or any condition such as we had during or just subsequent to the last war, to warrant its continuance, it should be abolished as quickly as possible. Therefore, the Government should have submitted to the Parliament for approval not Bills such as we now have before us to increase sales tax, but a Bill to remove the tax altogether on items that are necessary or are in more common use. We also need a Bill to reduce sales tax on many, if not all of those other items upon which it is presently imposed. But obviously, and unfortunately for so many people, particularly those in poor circumstances, the Government takes the opposite view. It apparently sees sales tax as the easy way of gathering revenue, irrespective of the effect on the people. Not only has the Government retained the schedules but it has indeed made the situation even worse by increasing the tax rate on quite a large number of items which are generally necessary to all people. 
If the Bills which we are now debating are approved by this Parliament - and I sincerely hope that they are 'not - it will simply mean that there will be an increase to  27i  per cent on all of those items which are at present carrying a tax of 25 per cent. To worsen the situation even more, the articles upon which the Government proposes to impose additional tax on this occasion are those which to a very large extent are in everyday use in practically every household. This in turn will mean that persons with small incomes or with large families will be hit much harder than those with large incomes or with no family at all. The pensioner will be hit much harder, for instance, than the Treasurer; the labourer will be hit much harder than the millionaire. If a pensioner and the Prime Minister enter the same shop and purchase an identical article such as a tube of shaving cream or a packet of razor blades they will both pay exactly the same amount of lax. They will both make the same contribution to revenue. If we compare the salary of the Prime Minister wilh the meagre amount the Government allows to the pensioner it is quite obvious that the burden upon the pensioner will be much heavier than the burden on the Prime Minister. With any kind of flat rate indirect taxation the pensioner and the Prime Minister make an equal, contribution in regard lo the amount they pay for an article. But they make a most unequal contribution with regard to their ability to pay. Surely this should never be an acceptable method of revenue contribution except in times of emergency. The only way to overcome this inequitable and undesirable  situation is to remove the tax from the articles of purchase altogether. When  addiitional  revenue is required the tax should be levied where it should be levied and it should be done in a direct manner. 
As I said earlier, this Government takes a completely opposite attitude. Indeed, it is aggravating the matter. What the Government is doing - this can be shown still further when we are discussing the Income Tax Bills - is reducing revenue from incomes by giving, for instance, tax relief of 428 a year to taxpayers who have a taxable, not actual, income of $378 a week. Further, the Government is giving relief of $418 a year to taxpayers whose taxable incomes are $20,000 a year. The Government is re-gathering to a large extent these amounts by imposing an additional sales tax upon items or articles which pensioners and others on small incomes cannot avoid buying. In other words, the poor will be forced to pay more so that the rich will be able to pay less, and in some cases substantially less. Having seen Bills introduced to give income tax relief to persons with quite substantial incomes - in some cases incomes up to $30,000 - surely we are entitled to a clear explanation as to why the Government should consider it necessary to increase sales tax which is a tax everybody has to pay irrespective of income. But we have not been given that explanation or information. We have been told nothing at all in that respect. 
When introducing the Bill, the Minister said  very  little. He said absolutely nothing to justify the Government's action. He gave us no figures or information to show us the need for the increases; neither did he give us an explanation as to why any additional revenue, if it were required, could not be gather by more equitable methods. The Minister was completely silent in that regard. But he did point out for some reason, for which he gave no explanation either, that the increase of 2i per cent would not apply to motor vehicles of a commercial nature and further that the present rate of 15 per cent tax which is applied to a large number of unspecified goods would remain unaltered. The Minister's reference to those items, without giving the full story, may have conveyed the impression that the Government was resisting increased sales tax wherever possible, but the fact of the matter is that only 2 years ago an additional 2J per cent was imposed on these articles. Since that time people have been paying that extra tax on such things as commercial vehicles, tyres, tubes, motor spare parts, children's toys, sporting equipment and a large number of other items that are listed in the schedules. 
I take the Minister's remarks to mean that while the Government actually favoured an increase in all sales tax it was hesitant to take that action at this moment. For the past 2 years the sales tax on practically every article of common use that comes within the tax schedules has been increased by 2i per cent. There never has been a suggestion that the Government would discontinue this method of imposing tax or would discontinue the increases. Perhaps I am not quite correct when I say that, because I see, by reading the 1948 Hansards, that  Mr Arthur  Fadden and  Mr McEwen.-  although they did not promise, certainly suggested that under a LiberalCountry Party Government sales tax would be abolished. That was at the same time as they promised to abolish the means test and to put value back into the pound. So I do not suppose we can take much notice of that. In complete contradiction of what was suggested or promised in 1948 the Government is continuing with this obnoxious method of gathering revenue. By increasing the amount of tax the Government is rapidly becoming a main offender and a main cause of the increasing cost of production and of the increasing cost of living, which in turn means that it is a main offender in lowering the living standards of those in poor circumstances and is causing an extension of and a deepening in what are termed pockets of poverty. 
Two years ago, when the sales tax on those articles to which I have just referred - tyres, tubes, etc. - was increased, the Treasurer told us that the estimated increase in revenue would be $44m. On this occasion he told us that the proposed increase will be $29m. This being so, next year the people will pay $73m more in sales tax than they paid 2 years ago. Certainly there is no suggestion of any reduction in sales tax or of any removal of the sales tax by the Government. The section of the community from which the 
Government will continue to gather a substantial amount of this tax is that in which the breadwinner is trying to provide for and raise a family on a fairly low income. This is the very group which the Prime Minister before the last election said required consideration in relation to income tax and the very section which he agreed was being treated inequitably and which he promised to assist but which, in actual fact, has received very little consideration in relation to income tax reductions. People in that section are now being called upon to carry a much heavier burden of sales tax. For instance, a person with a taxable income of $1,000 will receive the magnificent and what the Government calls a generous reduction of S5.53 in his income tax. Undoubtedly he will have it all regathered from him in sales tax. The person with a taxable income of $16,000 will receive an income tax reduction of $500 and could pay little if any more - in fact, he could pay less - sales tax than the person whose taxable income is only $1,000. Apparently this is the Government's way of correcting what it calls an unfair burden. 
If honourable members care to examine the taxation statistics for 1968-69, which are the latest available, to me anyway, they will find that out of a total of just over 5 million residents and non-resident taxpayers 4,930,000 have incomes of less than $10,000 while more than 3 million have incomes of less than $3,000. Because sales tax is a flat rate tax. and everybody has to pay the same, if everybody bought the same amount of goods - and there is no reason why they could not do so to a very large extent when we look at the majority of items upon which the increases have been imposed - people with an income of less than $10,000 a year can be expected to pay approximately $71. 5m of the total $73m to which I referred earlier. Taxpayers with incomes of $10,000 and more, up to $.100,000 and more, will pay only about $1.5m. The position is even worse than that because taxpayers whose incomes are no more than $3,000 will pay much more than half of the additional sales tax. On the 1968-69 figures half the increase will come from that section of the community where the breadwinner has an income of $2,800 or less. That group includes pensioners whether they be aged or invalid pensioners or widows. They will pay the same amount of sales tax as anybody else. 
The Treasurer has informed us that he estimates that the increases in sales tax proposed on this occasion will bring into the Treasury an additional $29m. This being so, it is rather interesting to find that the income tax relief measures which have been proposed to give substantial tax reductions to those taxpayers whose taxable incomes range from and include $10,000 up to and including $20,000 will amount to approximately $27m. This means that $2 7m of the $29m which is to be gathered from additional sales tax will offset the income tax relief which is to be given to the group to which I have just referred. The remaining $2m will be sufficient to offset the income tax relief which is to be given to the groups whose taxable incomes are between $20,000 and $3.1,000. So it would appear that the reason for imposing this additional sales tax was to permit giving income tax relief of amounts such as $500 on a taxable income of $16,000, $479 on a taxable income of $17,000 and so on - so that this relief could be given to these groups of taxpayers. If this is so, it is no wonder that the Minister was very careful to avoid telling the House why the sales tax increases are to be imposed. 
If my figures are correct - and .1 think they are - it would seem fairly obvious that if the Government had given income tax relief only to those whose taxable incomes were $10,000 or less there would have been no need to increase sales tax. By doing it this way, the people on the lower incomes would have received the full benefit of any income tax reductions; not as it is at present, with these people receiving very little if any relief at all. It seems to me that it would be a perfectly ridiculous situation if a person with a taxable income of only $500 were obliged to pay $8.81 income tax and then some immeasurable amount of sales tax when at the same time a person with a taxable income of $30,000 were given a tax relief of S70. The person with a taxable income of $500 cannot avoid paying sales tax because it is imposed on such articles as shaving necessities, hair oil, face powders, body powders, which include baby powders, many toilet preparations, wireless sets, television sets, motor cars and all articles which any man, wife and family would normally use - even toys. The Government is attacking not only in the kitchen, laundry, garage, playroom and on the playing field - no-one can escape it - but even in the nursery and in the bedroom it is attacking. The Treasurer is holding out his hungry hand. 
One of the lists of articles upon which the Government has increased sales tax to  27 i  per cent includes artificial flowers, artificial fruits, artificial leaves, artificial berries and so on but ignores wreaths. The exclusion of wreaths suggests that perhaps some thought was given to the use of flowers at funerals. But apparently the fact that many people are obliged to place artificial flowers and greenery on graves has been overlooked or considered to be of no consequence. Perhaps artificial flowers and greenery are placed on graves because fresh flowers are not available or because the cemetery is such a distance away that fresh flowers would wilt and the grave would show signs of neglect before the next visit could be paid. So what the Government is doing is placing a tax on mourners, on the people who are endeavouring to bring a touch of brightness to the last resting place of a loved one. One wonders how heartless and how grasping this Government can be. Also, of course, many people cannot obtain or afford to buy fresh flowers or greenery to place in their living rooms or dining rooms in order to brighten up their houses. These people also are obliged to buy artificial flowers. Yet, in circumstances like that, this Government is prepared to gather its revenue from those people. 
The Bills which are now before the House and those which were introduced and passed a couple of years ago are and were in direct contradiction to the recommendations of the Loder Committee which was appointed by the Government in 1964 to carry out investigations of transport costs in Northern Australia. The Committee brought down its report in September 1965. It drew very obvious, valid and important conclusions. One of the matters to which it referred was the effect of sales tax on the cost of living in the north. While the Committee mainly referred to transport - the terms of reference obliged it to do so - its comments and conclusions also related to the effects of sales tax generally, lt has become quite obvious that the work of the Committee was a great waste of public money simply because the Government has failed or refused to take heed of the Committee's recommendations. 
After all, amongst the terms of reference of the Committee was the question of the need for 'achieving significant and stable increases in the population of the area and to suggest possible means whereby the costs may be reduced'. What the Committee said in effect was that in order to achieve that end it was necessary for the Government to ease the burden of sales tax. But, of course, this Government has adopted the opposite attitude, lt has increased sales tax, thereby increasing the cost of articles in the north. This in turn would not encourage people to go there - in fact, it would discourage them. 
One of the very bad features of the existing sales tax laws and indeed of all indirect taxation laws is that people living in the higher cost areas, such as in the north - although there are many high cost areas which are not in the north - are obliged to pay much more sales tax (ban do people who live in the lower cost areas. If one cares to make a list of all the articles which an ordinary person would purchase in a year, one finds a very considerable difference in the total amount of sales tax which is paid by people living in the high cost areas and by those living in the low cost areas. 1 think 1 have shown that for several reasons sales tax in its present form is inequitable and obnoxious. It is a flat rate tax than can be avoided only by death from starvation or privation. It places a greater burden on the very poor than it does on the very rich. It places a greater burden on the large family than it does where there is no family at all. It causes the living standards of the lesser privileged to be substantially damaged. It imposes a burden on people, such as pensioners, when if justice were applied that burden should be carried by the wealthy. It causes people in some areas, that is, in the high cost areas, to make a greater contribution to revenue than do people in the lower cost areas. For those very good reasons I oppose the Bills. 
asked the Minister for Social Services, upon notice: 
May a funeral benefit of $20 be paid to a person other than a pensioner, who is responsible for the funeral costs of an age or invalid pensioner. 
Is this benefit payable for the funeral costs of a widow pensioner. 
If not, will he take immediate action to extend this benefit to include widows; ifnot, why not. 
asked the Minister for Social 
Services, upon notice: 
Is the amount of funeral benefit payable to persons, other than pensioners, responsible for the funeral costs of an age or invalid pensioner the same today as it was in 1945. 
If so, what percentage of the' average funeral cost did this benefit represent in 1945 and what percentage does it represent today. 
Does the Government intend to increase the amount of this benefit, on a percentage basis, to bring it into line with present day funeral costs. 
I address a question to the Prime Minister and refer him to Order of the Day No. 9 on the blue information sheet which refers to the resumption and completion of the second reading and third reading debates on the Gold-Mining Industry Assistance Bill. Is it correct that the Prime Minister is to meet the Minister for Mines from Western Australia, the Leader of the Opposition from Western Australia and the  President  of the Chamber of Mines of Western Australia on the 21st of this month in Canberra to hear their views and listen to their case for an increase in the gold subsidy? If so, why is the second reading debate on the Bill being continued today rather than left until after that meeting? Does it mean that the gentlemen referred to are wasting their time and money coming here to see the Prime Minister? Does it mean that nothing they can say or prove will change the Government's attitude to the gold mining industry? 
The Income Tax Bill which is now before us for discussion is the result of a rather hurried promise made by the Government just prior to the House of Representatives election last year. The promise was that if returned, the Government would bring down legislation to reduce income tax for the lower and middle income groups. More particularly and more importantly the Government promised that it would equalise the burden of taxation generally. It is now quite evident, when we examine the tax scale which the Treasurer  (Mr Bury)  proposed to the House, that at the time of making the promise to reduce income tax the Government had no idea how it would implement its promise or what effect such a measure would have. Otherwise - and I think this is more likely - the concern that the Government expressed for the low income groups was merely a smokescreen for a vote catching gimmick. 
I rise tonight to support the amendment which was moved by my colleague, the honourable member for Melbourne Ports  (Mr Crean).  I do so because we now find that where the most relief is required - that is for people on the low incomes where the tax burden has been the hardest or has had the heaviest effect - is where the least relief of a real nature has been given. The area in which the least relief is needed is in the income range from $10,000 to $30,000. lt is in this area where the greatest real relief has been granted. While Government supporters prior to the election preached relief for those on low incomes - and this is where relief should have been given - it is very disappointing to find now that although the Government can see its way clear to give relief amounting to only 82c per year to a person whose taxable income is only $500, it is prepared to accept and indeed has accepted as being in the middle income group taxpayers with taxable incomes of $30,000. Such persons would have actual incomes nearer to $33,000. The Government has given these persons income tax relief of just on $70. 
There may be an even more inequitable situation in the Government's proposal. This is where a person with a taxable income of $16,000 will receive a reduction in tax of $500.20 which is 20c more than the total taxable income of the person who is to receive a reduction of only 82c and who will still be required to pay income tax of $8.81 together with some immeasurable amount of indirect tax. It is interesting but rather disturbing to note that the amount of $500 reduction a year which will be received by taxpayers who have a taxable income of $16,000 is twenty-nine times the amount which the Government gave to pensioners this year as an increase. Looking at the proposed scale we And that the group which is made up of taxable incomes which range from $12,000 to $25,000 will receive an average reduction in tax of $450. In the group where taxable incomes range from $500 to $3,000 the average reduction will amount to only $19 each. This is the system the Treasurer has told us would bring about a more equitable distribution of the burden of income tax. This is what the Treasurer told us in his Budget Speech would be the method which the Government would adopt to give relief on an equitable basis. However, the Government will give $9 a week relief for those on high incomes, 37c a week for those on low incomes, down to 2c a week for those on extremely low incomes. So if the Government had decided before the election how it intended to implement its promise, it is little wonder that it was very careful not to spelt it out to the electors. It is no wonder that the Government avoided teling the people about its idea of equitable distribution. The fact is that the system will be even more inequitable as a result of the proposed scale than it is at present. 
In his second reading speech on this Bill the Minister for Immigration and Minister Assisting the Treasurer  (Mr Lynch)  said: 
Of greatest importance, so far as individual taxpayers are concerned, are the tax reductions - substantially in the lower and middle income ranges - proposed by the Bill. 
I have referred to some of these so called substantial reductions - that of 82c for instance. But let me examine in more detail the reductions in the lower income groups as against those with high incomes. I would also like to give the House some information on the number of taxpayers in those groups. The Government took an easy way of giving some tax relief which does nothing to correct the inequality. The Government has made a flat percentage rate reduction up to where taxable income reaches $10,000. There is a scaling down from this figure to where the income reaches $32,000. Therefore, if the tax rates between, for example, a taxpayer with a taxable income of $1,000 and a taxpayer with a taxable income of $10,000 are inequitable under the existing scale - and nobody will deny that this is so - surely by simply adopting a flat percentage rate reduction from $1,000 to $10,000 will not correct or even improve the situation. Indeed, it will aggravate it. This is what the Government is doing; it will place the man on the low income in a worse position comparatively than he is at present. 
If the Government had genuinely wished to make a more equitable distribution of the tax burden over the whole field of taxpayers it should not have stopped at the taxable income of $32,000 where the reductions phased out. The Government should have continued on from there by gradually increasing the tax up to a taxable income level of $100,000. It is not only between $1,000 and $30,000 where the tax is inequitable; this extends right to the top. Surely this has not been corrected by simply leaving a man on an income of $50,000, for example, at the same rate of tax and then reducing the man on only $1,000 by $5.33. However, I would like to return to the so called substantial reductions to which the Treasurer has referred. Let us take, for instance, a man with a wife and 2 children who is completely unskilled and therefore can accept work only of a labouring nature. That man will attract only the minimum wage. Therefore, if he is fortunate, he can expect at best to be paid only $40 a week or $2,080 a year. According to the statistics there are some If million taxpayers whose actual incomes do not exceed $2,000. Therefore the person I refer to would not be a rarity.  His  allowable deductions from his total income for a wife and 2 children plus perhaps medical and hospital contributions and such things could amount to $780. This man would finish up with a taxable income of $1,300. It is people in circumstances such as this who require relief. Yet this Government, although the Treasurer claimed that he would grant substantial reductions, will allow those people a tax relief of only $9.22 and will still require them to pay $85.79 in tax. 
To pursue the scale further, we find that if the taxable income were $1,400 the relief would be $10.66, leaving an amount of $98.91 still to pay. If the taxable income were $1,500, the reduction in tax would be only $12.30, leaving $113.57 to pay. If we go to the scales below $1,300 we find that on a taxable income of $1,200 the reduction would be only $7.79. At $1,000 the relief would be $5.33 with $54.83 still to pay. So it comes down to the position where, as I said earlier, a person with a taxable income of $500 will be granted only 82c relief. 
Certainly I could not accept amounts like 82c or $7.79 or $5.33 or even $10.66 as being substantial reductions. Of course, we must not forget that the Government has increased by 2.5 per cent the sales tax on a considerable number of items and household articles and, as a result, any small saving in income tax will be seriously depleted by the necessity to pay extra sales tax. As a matter of fact, many of those people on the bottom of the income scale will be in a much worse position than they are at the present time. 
For instance, the taxpayer who will save 82c in income tax would be better off if he continued to pay that 82c in income tax and was not obliged to pay any additional sales tax. At the other end of the scale we find that the person with a taxable income of $16,000 - and I repeat a taxable income, not an actual income; the actual income would be nearer $18,000 - will receive the maximum relief being granted, namely, $500.20. Where the taxable income is $14,000 the reduction in income tax will be $469.45, where it is $12,000 the reduction will be $438.70; and where it is $20,000 the reduction will be $418.20. So we could certainly agree that the relief to be granted in those areas of high taxable income is substantial. But at the other end of the scale, in the low income area, I would suggest that the relief could be better described as being very meagre, and it is in those areas that we really see the unequal severity of income tax. 
The Prime Minister  (Mr Gorton)  a short time ago, when speaking about the effect which the increases in sales tax could have on people, is reported as having said that a person after paying income tax has" a certain amount left which he can spend as he sees fit and that if he spends it on articles which carry sales tax, then that is his own decision. I was interested to bear the honourable member for Curtin  (Mr Garland)  echo those words, but he went even further. He suggested that the field of sales tax - the field of indirect tax - should be extended still further. Apparently this is something that the people of this country can look forward to if this Government is allowed to remain in office. That is a very generous attitude for the Prime Minister and the honourable member for Curtin to adopt. They say that a person can spend how he likes what is his own. But let us sec what some of these people will have left for themselves after paying income tax on the present scale and on the proposed scale. Let us see also what these' so called substantial income tax reductions will mean to their spending power. 
The man to whom I referred who earns $40 per week and finishes up with a taxable income of $1,300 has an amount of $38.17 a week left, after paying tax under the present scale. Do not let us forget that he has a wife and 2 children to keep. After these so called substantial reductions come into operation be will have $38.35 to spend as he sees fit, which is an extra 18c a week. If he splits that up amongst his family, including himself, each member of the family will have an extra 4c a week, which is not enough to buy anything - not even an icecream. If the taxable income were $1,500 the reductions to be granted would give each member of the family an extra 6c a week. If the taxable income were $2,000, each member of the family would receive an extra 10c a week. If the taxable income were $2,500, which would mean that the man was earning more than $60 a week, the proposed tax reductions would give each member of his family the colossal increased spending power of 16c a week or. to put it another way, the taxpayer could lash out and spend an extra 16c a week on each of his dependants. So if we take those in the very lowest income bracket and those who receive up to $60-odd a week, which takes in approximately 3i million taxpayers out of a total of 5 million taxpayers, the relief which they are to receive from the Government's proposals will not mean much with regard to their purchases, whether they carry sales tax or not. The fact is that the Government's decision to increase sales tax will gather in the amount to be granted in the proposed reductions in income tax in many cases, and as a matter of fact in some cases the amount granted by way of relief in income rax will not be sufficient to meet the increases in sales tax. 
One of the most inequitable features, as  i  see it, in the present method of arriving at the amounts of income tax to be paid by the individual is that a taxpayer with a very large income enjoys  a  much greater tax reduction for permissible deductions, such as dependants, than does a taxpayer with a middle or a small income. I could never understand why the wife and child, say, of one taxpayer should attract a much higher, or, if you look at it another way. a much lower tax reduction than does the wife and child of another taxpayer. But of course they do, and will continue to do so while the permissible deduction is from income and not from the lax itself. The same thing applies, of course, to other permissible deductions, such as deductions for medical and hospital contributions or expenses. For one taxpayer a $100 hospital account can bring an income tax reduction of $50, while for another taxpayer - one on a very low income who really requires tax relief - an account of exactly the same amount may attract a reduction in income tax of only $5. The same thing applies with regard to education allowances and to every type of permissible deduction. The taxpayers on very high incomes derive a greater benefit than do those on low incomes. The Government's proposal regarding this new tax scale will make the difference even more pronounced, as 1 will explain now. 
I take, for instance, a taxpayer who has a wife and 3 children. He is allowed a reduction in his taxable income amounting to $988 - for quick reckoning and convenience I will call it $1,000. Therefore, if that taxpayer's actual income were $3,000, his taxable income, after deducting dependents' allowances, would be $2,080. Under the present tax rates those dependants, so far as income tax is concerned, have  a  value to the taxpayer of $244.97: that is, his income ta* would be reduced by that amount. Under the proposed rating the value of those dependants so far as income tax is concerned will be reduced to Si 96.08, which is a difference or a reduction of $24.39. If that same taxpayer had an actual income of $6,000, under the existing rating his dependants would have a tax value of $404.47. but under the new system their tax value will be S363.88. which is a reduction of $40.59. If his taxable income were $10,000, under the proposed rating the tax value of his dependants will be reduced by $53.50. It may be suggested that this is a correction in relation to the difference in the tax value of dependants of high and low income earners. But if we take a man who has a taxable income of $13,000 up to and including a taxable income of $16,000. the reduction in value of his dependants is $15.37 or $15.38, which is a smaller reduction than that which applies to the taxpayer whose taxable income is only $2,000. 
Up to that stage there will be a reduction in tax value of dependents, but if the taxpayer had an actual income of $17,000. then his dependants, on a $1,000 allowable deduction, would have a value, so far as income tax was. concerned, of $619.10 under the existing scale but a value of $639.60 under the proposed scale, which is an increase in value of $20.50. That same increase continues up to a taxable income of $20,000. which is as far as I went. So under the present rating a $1,000 reduction in taxable income would give a taxpayer with an actual income of $2,000 a reduction in tax amounting to $162.98. while for a person with an actual income of $20,000 the reduction would be $619.10. But under the proposed rates the man who has an actual income of $2,000 will receive a tax reduction of $146.58, if his taxable deductions are $1,000, while, as I said earlier, the taxpayer whose actual income is $20,000 will receive a reduction of $639.60. This simply means that so far as permissible deductions are concerned, the taxpayer who has an actual income of $20,000 has improved his position over those people on low incomes. Each $1 of allowable deduction has increased in tax value for the taxpayer who has actual income of $20,000, while for those on lower incomes it has reduced in value. The whole method of allowing permissible amounts to be deducted from actual income rather than fixing an amount to be deducted from the tax itself favours those on large incomes and acts against those in the low income group. This is clearly demonstrable with regard to the $1,200 which can be claimed on a life "assurance policy. Now, the effect of that deduction is that if a man with an actual income of $3,000 took out the permissible maximum assurance of $1,200  -  it is not likely that he would because he could not afford to do so; but if he did - it would mean that, in effect, he actually pays $944 for the insurance. But if a man with an actual income of $20,000 took out that insurance, his taxation reduction would mean that, in effect, his insurance cost him only $353 or thereabouts. In other words? the man on - the high income obtains the same amount of insurance cover but at a cost which is approximately $590 less per year than what the man on the low income has to pay. I cannot see anything equitable about that state of affairs - that's for sure! I say in conclusion that if this Bill or this proposal is any indication of the attitude of the Government, it shows very little if any concern for those people on low incomes and it is quite obvious that a great deal more work is required if the Government really wishes to bring about an equitable situation. 

 Mr KEVIN CAIRNS (Lilley) (8.42- The Opposition has moved an amendment to this Bill. The words in the amendment are extremely significant. The Opposition proposes that:  the Bill be withdrawn and redrafted because whilst it reduces rates of taxation it does so in a regressive manner. 
A Budget has been passed by the House. It is a Budget which has a great deal of significance for the country in a broad way and which has a great deal of significance for a lot of individuals in the country. There are some individuals who are advantaged financially as a result of this Budget. There are some who are not. But let it be perfectly clear that the principal duty of a budget is to assure a high rate of economic growth in a country. If it does not do that within the constraints that a budget has, it is a failure. That is the first duty of a budget. Bearing all of that in mind and bearing in mind what the economic growth is, the Opposition suggests that this cornerstone of the Budget should be withdrawn and re-drafted. 
Having considered the significance of that strategy of the Opposition, we look now at the other words in the amendment. The Opposition proposes that the Bill should be withdrawn and re-drafted: 
. because whilst it reduces rates of taxation it does so in a regressive manner. 
Now, the Opposition has not understood what 'regressive' means. What does 'regressive' mean? A regressive tax is a tax which falls unequally on those with high or with low resources at their command. Some taxes are regressive because in fact they fall more heavily on those with lower income or less resources than on those with higher income or more resources. Some indirect taxes of their nature are in this way. But this is an income tax measure. This measure does not fall more heavily on those with less income than on those wilh more income. 
So, what does 'regressive' mean in the words that the Opposition has chosen? Does it mean, perhaps, that this income tax measure is regressive with respect to economic growth? The Opposition has never made that case, ft has not mentioned the word- 
asked the Postmaster-General, upon notice: 
Is it still the intention of his Department to set up a booster station or a station of some other form . to provide Southern Cross and district with a satisfactory television reception. 
If so, when is it expected that the work will be (a) commenced and (b) completed. 
asked the Postmaster-General,  upon notice: 
Is it still the intention of his Department to set up a booster or relay television station outside Mullewa in Western Australia. 
If so, when will it be completed. 
Within what radius is a satisfactory reception expected. 
The Bill which we are now debating bears the title of the Gold-Mining Industry Assistance Bill 1970. I am afraid that on this occasion it could more appropriately be referred to as the Gold-Mining Industry Death Knell Bill. I say that because it is certain that the Government s failure - or, to put it more correctly, its refusal - to increase the subsidy provided under the Act will mean that the gold mining industry will cease operations at a much earlier date than it would otherwise have done. I am extremely disappointed, very much dismayed and in fact disgusted that the Government has decided to resume the debate on this Bill before the deputation from Western Australia, consisting of the Minister for Mines from that State, the Leader of the Opposition from that State and the  President  of the Chamber of Mines from Western Australia, has had the opportunity of presenting its case to the Prime Minister  (Mr Gorton.)  for an increase in the subsidy. 1 find it impossible to understand why the Prime Minister would allow this Bill to be cleared before he hears the views of those people, who are very knowledgeable in the mining field, when the Prime Minister himself set the date for the meeting, which is to be held next week. To my mind, the Prime Minister's action and that of his Minister in proceeding with this debate at this stage is not only discourteous but is an insult to the Government of Western Australia, to  Her  Majesty's Opposition in Western Australia, to the people of Western Australia, and particularly to those people who are associated wilh the gold mining industry over the whole of Australia. The Act expired at the end of June last year. Therefore, a few more days delay in clearing the Bill would have had no adverse effect upon either the industry or the Treasury. "This is a very sad day for the gold mining industry. It is a very sad day, perhaps even a disastrous day, for the people on the gold fields. It is certainly a very sad day for me to find that the Government of this country is not prepared to grant the smalt increase in subsidy required to keep the gold mining industry in operation for just a few more years. lt is very sad to see this great industry, which has meant so much to Australia, and particularly to Western Australia, when times were bad now cast aside with such contemptuous disregard. I say to members of the Australian Country Party in this place that they would do well to recall what the industry meant to so many people in the farming areas during the depression years and to bear in mind what it can mean in the future - in the not loo distant future - if we have regard for the state of the rural industry at the moment. If members of the Country Party wish to ensure the avenues of employment for the people they pretend to represent, they should be joining me in my attempts to have this subsidy increased. But it would seem that all I can hope for now is that the Prime Minister and any of his Ministers who meet the deputation from Western Australia will do so with open minds and be prepared to be convinced that additional assistance is warranted and is necessary. I for one am quite certain that the case that will be presented to them will prove this tobe so. 
The cost to the Treasury of increasing the subsidy by $4 per oz, the amount which the industry asked for, would have been negligible with regard to the total Budget, particularly when account is taken of the returns to the Treasury by way of direct and indirect taxation from the people employed in and dependent upon the industry either wholly or partially in one form or another. An increase of $4 per oz would have ensured the continuation of the industry's activities at its present level of production for at least a further 5 or 6 years, by which time we could expect the nickel industry to be substantially established and in a position to absorb the retrenched labour from the gold mining industry. On the 1969-70 gold return for Australia of approximately 600,000 oz the increase of $4 would mean only an additional $2.4m per annum. 
At the moment the average number directly employed in the industry in Western Australia alone is 3,500. If we take $2,500 as an average taxable income for these people, which I suggest could be on the low rather than the high side, we find that purely from within the industry and from income tax alone the Treasury would recover a little more than Sim. On top of that, of course, is the income tax of people indirectly dependent upon the industry and also the quite considerable amounts gathered by the Treasury from indirect taxes such as excise and sales tax. Therefore, much of the cost of the additional subsidy would be recovered by the Treasury. Someone may suggest that the Treasury will still collect those amounts of tax irrespective of whether the gold subsidy is increased or not. But this is not necessarily so, for the very simple reason that if the industry ceases its operation in the near rather than distant future a very substantial number of those indirectly and directly engaged in the industry will neither earn nor spend to the same extent as they otherwise would, mainly because they cannot and will not be absorbed into any local industries. On 14th April this year I asked the Prime Minister a question relating to a further gold subsidy. In his reply he told me I should not expect the gold mines to run at a loss and I should not expect the public to finance the running of the gold mines at a loss. That reply not only discloses his lack of knowledge of the industry but also shows a complete lack of consistency. In the first place, I did not suggest that mines should run at a loss. In fact, it was the opposite which I was endeavouring to achieve. Actually it is the Prime Minister and his Government who expect the mines to keep running at a loss because they have said that the assistance now being provided is sufficient for the gold mining activity to phase out gradually without disruption of the population or the economy of the area. In other words, these mines are expected to carry on substantially for some 5 or 6 years when obviously over the major part of that time they could only run at a loss. 
Secondly, in asking the Government to provide mote assistance I was not asking for something that is not already being given to a number of other industries in Australia, industries and companies which do not require any assistance at all and which are running at a considerable profit. If the Prime Minister in his reply to me was trying to create the impression that the only objection to further assistance for gold mining was that it would in effect be a public contribution then, of course, he cannot expect this argument to stand up to examination when we remember hand-outs given to wealthy companies on some pretext or other by way of relief from or rebates of taxation. There are quite a number of companies in that position and very wealthy companies at that. We have not heard any expression of dismay or disapproval from the Prime Minister that the public are being touched to make contributions to those companies. 
For instance, grants are made to companies under the heading of Industrial 
Research and Development Grants. Some of the companies which participated last year were Broken Hill Pty Co. Ltd which benefited to the extent of $180,500, British Motor Corporation $174,500, Australian Iron and Steel $134,000, General Motors Holden's Pty Ltd $482,000- and so it goes on. More recently we saw a Press statement of the Treasurer  (Mr Bury)  in which he said that almost $150m had been allowed to various firms over the past 10 years as rebates of payroll tax by way of an export incentive. In the 1969-70 financial year alone an amount of just on $54m was rebated. Those grants and rebates are just as much a contribution by the general public as would be some further assistance to the gold mining industry. As the gold mining industry has received assistance totalling only $28m spread over 16 years we can see by the figures I have just quoted that it is less than the amount granted to other enterprises by way of payroll tax rebates during last year alone. So it is quite idle and contradictory for the Prime Minister to try to create the impression, if that is his idea, that he is concerned about delving into the pockets of the general public. 
Many people look at gold simply in  relation to its value as currency and overlook the very important fact that it is also in very strong demand for industrial purposes, and that this demand is growing stronger. The amount of gold used for industrial purposes runs into tons. 1 noticed in an article a couple of months ago that total fabrications of gold on a world basis amounted to 1,296 tons up to 1968 compared with an output of 1.280 tons. Those figures were obtained as a result of a very comprehensive survey of the gold markets of the world carried out by Consolidated Goldfields. The survey showed that the bulk of gold fabricated - about 905 tons - is made into jewellery, but other industries such as electronics and dentistry also absorb a very considerable amount - something like 84.5 tons for electronics and 93 tons for dentistry. About 75 tons was made into coins and at least 41 tons was used for miscellaneous purposes. The article also points out that gold used for industrial purposes is very largely absorbed into the advanced countries of the world and that it will naturally follow that as the underdeveloped countries advance the demand for gold in those countries will substantially increase. 
Whilst we could - not say definitely that the gold used for industrial purposes was lost, we can fairly confidently say that it is unlikely to come back on to the market. For instance, jewellery is likely to be returned to the market only if its owner falls on bad times and has to sell it to survive. Otherwise it is held and eventually passed down through the generations. Therefore, as populations increase and countries advance and go from old ways to new methods, such as into electronics, the demand for gold for industrial purposes will surely increase, and as production in gold producing countries falls off so will demand exceed supply. This in turn will cause an increase in price on the free market, if not in the official price. 
Of course, I am not alone in my belief that the price of gold must rise. Neither am I an economist. So it could be that my ideas may not be completely acceptable to some economists. But let me point out that several economists do hold the same views as I do and it is rather important to remember that most of them are of the opinion that the price will rise in the early 70s. In a speech T made in this House in November 1968 I quoted certain economists and world banking officials who had quite definite ideas on the future gold price and who said quite deliberately that an. increase would shortly occur. They were of the opinion that the increase would take place during the early 1970s. Amongst those I referred to was M.. Pierre Chamorel, a leading Swiss banker and a partner in the Geneva banking  concern  Lombard Odier et C1E. I also referred to  Mr M.  Brooke, merchant banker of Guinness Mahon and Company of London,  Mr D.  Ashinger, an economic advisor to the Swiss banking corporation and a previous adviser to the International Monetary Fund,  Mr R.  F. Harrod, one of Britain's leading economists and others. They all forecast a rise in the price of gold in the early 70s. More recently  Mr D.  O. Lloyd-Jacob of Consolidated Goldfields, following a world survey of gold markets, said: 
If we don't see prices in real terms of around $45 in 1973 and around $50 by 1975 I personally will be very much surprised. 
Surely honourable members would not suggest that the people I have just mentioned are not properly qualified or capable of arriving at a well balanced and considered opinion on this matter. Certainly I would think they are very much more qualified and have had more time and greater opportunity to study this question than any member of this Parliament. I would think they have had a greater opportunity and have been better positioned to make a decision in this respect than either the Treasurer or the Prime Minister. So I would at least hope that their views will be treated by this Government with the respect that they deserve. 
The point I make is that if their reasoning or forecast of a rise in the gold price during the early 1970s is correct, we can expect the rise to occur no later than 1975, that is, some time during the next 4 years. But if it happens nearer to 1975 than to 1970 we can be faced with a situation - this would be the tragedy of the Government's failure to increase the subsidy now - in which in Western Australia anyway we will not have one gold mine in operation when the price increases. Each of the gold mines now in production will be closed down simply because of insufficient assistance being provided during the early part of this decade. We will have a gold price increase, but no industry. We will be in the ridiculous situation that, by refusing an increase in subsidy at this time when a price rise could, according to the authorities I have quoted, be just around the corner, we will allow the industry to fall into a state of collapse and to reach that stage or situation which the GoldMining Industry Assistance Act was first framed to avoid. For 16 years the assistance provided under the Act has been just sufficient to prevent a collapse. Now, when a price increase in the near future has become more probable, and in fact has become almost certain, that little bit of extra assistance which is so vitally necessary is denied. 
One argument that has been raised over a number of years as a reason why the official price of gold should not be increased is that Russia would be quick to take advantage of any such increase by unloading a substantial quantity of her gold holdings on the world market 
Another argument has been that the market would become saturated as the result of gold hoardings of other countries being dumped on the market. I know that this was a worry, but I do not think it need be of the same concern today. It has now become known that Russia has increased the internal price of gold to something like $US68 per oz to eliminate at least part of the subsidies previously paid within the Soviet mining industry. It is also estimated that, whereas previously gold jewellery was in negligible quantities in Russia, it has now reached such large proportions that the total potential demand for gold for jewellery is about 160 tons a year, with a further 30 tons required for other non-monetary purposes. The total of 190 tons is estimated to be very close to the current gold output of the Soviet Union. Therefore, it would seem unlikely that she would be interested in selling gold bullion outside, unless the price was to at least double. 
The unloading of hoarded gold is most unlikely to occur because the reason for hoarding is the knowledge that its value will not fall off, and if the price increases it is more likely that hoarders will purchase even more gold, as it is a security against a devaluation of the local currency. That being so, and as it is an opinion expressed after a very comprehensive survey, I suggest that the old bogy of Russian exploitation and market saturation has been largely destroyed. As the Government is prepared to allow the gold mining industry to cease its production in the rather near future, and in the knowledge that once mines are closed down it is next to impossible to reopen them - of course, I am speaking of the larger mines and not of the little prospecting shows - I suggest that it is now pertinent to ask: How long will it be before Australia will be obliged to import gold; how much will it need to import each year and what will be the cost each year? 
In reply to a question that I asked the Treasurer earlier this vear on this situation, he told me: 
The net industrial consumption of gold in Australia in 1969, including gold sold for fabrication in Australia before subsequent export was 435,482 fine oz. 
He then went on to say: 
Figures are not available of the amount used  in  Australia. 
Surely that must mean that the amount could be quite substantial and that it could cost a very substantial amount to import. It seems rather strange and irresponsible for a government to fail to find out what its import commitments are likely to be, when that same government's attitude is to close down the gold mines in Australia. 
However, the free market price of gold in London is approximately SUS35 per oz. Therefore, it would appear from the information I am able to gain in relation to our industrial needs that thi amount we will require will cost more - and much more - than what is being provided by way of assistance to the gold mining industry. This cost of imported gold for industrial needs, of course, will increase with any increase in the price of gold. In those circumstances it seems very peculiar, as I have just stated, that the Government is not even interested in finding out what its requirement will be. The Government has not even seen fit to allow the industry to retain the whole of any gold premium, whatever it happens to be - it is small at the moment, but it will certainly improve - without any offsetting reduction of the subsidy. A couple of years ago the Government amended the Act to allow 25 per cent of the premium to be disregarded. On this occasion it is not even prepared to extend that provision. 
I also point out that in some informed financial circles it is claimed - it would appear, with some authority - that by the Government keeping the gold subsidy at such a low level over the past 15 years gold production in this country has been Jost to the tune of some $70m; that by limiting the subsidy to $27m over that period of time, the Government has caused a loss of $70m which otherwise could have been recovered. To me, as a practical miner and one who had 17 years experience in mining, it would appear that that could bc quite correct. Keeping the subsidy at such a low level has meant that the gold mining companies have been obliged to mine only their higher grade ore because by doing so they are able to keep their cost of production per fine oz down to the lowest possible level. As a result of this, of course, they have not been able to produce as many ounces of gold as they otherwise would have produced. 
The suggestion - it is no more than a suggestion - that the nickel industry will absorb the work force of the gold mines as quickly as need be will not stand up to investigation either. Reading the Ministers speech, one might be led to conclude th:it nickel mines are operating at full blast. But, of course, unfortunately, that is nol the case. There is also the suggestion that business people have no cause for concern for the very same reason. But that is not in accordance with the fact either. If we care to examine what occurs in a mining field, we will find that from the time a company actually decides to start mining in earnest it is some 5 years before any work force of a substantial number is established or required. If we look at the prospects of some of these mine leases - J am talking about the nickel leases which are spoken of as potential producers - we will find that many of them may never get off the ground at all and, if they do, they will not be large employers of labour, except in some instances. 
If it is the genuine wish of the Government to ensure, as the Minister said in his speech, that there will be no disruption of the population or the economy of the area - I hope that in speaking of the economy of the area he is speaking of the financial circumstances of the people &lt;n general and not those of the companies alone - the Government should take another look at the Gold-Mining Industry Assistance Act with a view to amending it along the lines for which the industry has asked. We can be quite certain that unless the continuation of the gold mining industry at its present level is ensured for at least 5 years there will be disruption - and serious disruption. 
In conclusion I point out - again I ask members of the Country Party to take notice - that the gold mining industry has produced gold worth more than $6,000m. If given a helping hand to enable it to continue over the next 5 years, its future production could well exceed what it has already produced. Also, the population of Australia today would have been, so it is estimated, some 2 million less than it is if the gold rush of the early years had not occurred. Much of the capital that was necessary for the development of Australia as a very young country came from gold and the effects of the discovery and exploitation of gold. Railways that were built to serve the gold fields were the means by which millions of acres of good arable land was developed and settled, lt is only because of the gold mining industry and the activities flowing from it that we now have iron ore fields. Also, it is from the activities within the gold mining industry that we have the nickel industry coming into operation. As 1 said earlier, the gold mining industry was a saviour, at least in Western Australia, during the depression years, it is an industry that has played a very important and valuable part for Australia in the past. It will do so again in the future if given the opportunity. Therefore I once again ask the Government to review its decision as reflected in this Bill with regard to the industry and the people concerned, and arrange for an immediate increase to the industry in the assistance, which is both necessary and warranted. I support the Bill because it does extend the present subsidy for a further 3 years, but I deplore the attitude of the Government in not increasing the subsidy. 
asked the Minister for Shipping and Transport, upon notice: 
What is the normal (a) first class and (b) second class rail fare, both single and return, on the Commonwealth Railway from (i) Kalgoorlie to Sydney via Broken Hill and (ii) Kalgoorlie to Melbourne. 
What is the charge on those journeys for (a) breakfast, (b) lunch, (c) dinner and (d) sleeping accommodation. 
1 second the amendment. Although the amount of money proposed to be distributed amongst the States this year under the States Grants (Aboriginal Advancement) Bill 1970 has been increased slightly beyond that of last year and the year before, it is quite evident that the legislation falls far short of what is actually required if we wish to achieve over a reasonable period of time what should be our eventual target. The purpose of the legislation, according to what the Minister-in-Charge of Aboriginal Affairs  (Mr Wentworth)  said in 1968, was to make available better housing, education and health facilities for Aboriginals immediately. The words 'better' and 'immediately', as they were used by the Minister, suggest that the purpose of the States Grants (Aboriginal Advancement) Act and the intention of the Government could be satisfied providing some improvements, no matter how insignificant, were carried out quickly so that public criticism would be satisfied - even though Aboriginal needs are neglected. 
Naturally, I sincerely hope that this was not the extent of the Government's interest or intentions because, as I see it, our end target must be the elevation of the living standards, educational standards, employment standards, social standards and so on of the Aboriginal community to those which the people of Australia generally enjoy. There must be grave doubts that the Government has that objective in view because surely if it had it would be displaying a much more active interest by providing a great deal more money and also giving a great deal more attention to how the money is allocated. Further still, we would not find, as we have found for the last couple of years, that a substantial amount of the money provided for Aboriginal welfare remains unspent. For instance, the Treasurer  (Mr Bury)  informed us in his Budget Speech earlier this year that the best part of Sim remained in the Aboriginal Advancement Trust Fund. It is certainly a remarkable situation that money allocated to Aboriginal welfare should remain unspent when so much is required to achieve the purpose for which the money was appropriated. It can only mean that the matter is not receiving the attention it warrants, that it is not being treated with the urgency it deserves, or otherwise that the Government is not nearly as keen to assist Aboriginals as it would like us to believe. 
I draw attention, as did the honourable member for Brisbane  (Mr Cross),  to that part of the Minister's speech in which he was critical of people for their failure to raise money for the purpose of building homes for aged Aboriginals. I take the point that surely it would be a more positive and humane approach if the Government itself were to provide sufficient money to build some homes for aged Aboriginals, for the very simple reason that the people who are suffering from the lack of such homes are not the people whom the Minister was so pleased to criticise, but the Aboriginals themselves. I cannot see how the target to which I have referred - if that is to be our target - can be achieved unless the Commonwealth Government either takes over the whole field of assistance, both financial and physical, or, if the physical side is to be left to the States, sets out very clearly and positively the amount of money which will be definitely made available to the States each year to carry out a long term project. 
I fail to see how any State government can properly formulate and carry out any worthwhile programme of Aboriginal advancement unless it can be quite certain that it will receive a Commonwealth grant each year and also know what the extent of the grant will be. At present the States have no such guarantee, and indeed they have no idea whether they will receive any moneys at all next year. I also suggest that we will be hindered and delayed in reaching our target if the method of distribution to the States is continued. In 1968 the Minister told us that distribuiton was measured on the Aboriginal population of each State. 1 suggest that we would reach our objective more quickly and positively if we measured the distribution of moneys against the. requirements of Aboriginals in each State. For instance, in Victoria last year only 1 per cent of the total amount available was used for health purposes and 1 per cent for employment purposes. So it would seem obvious that in that State, in those two fields, the needs of Aboriginals are minor. But such would not be the case in other States. For instance, Queensland spent 19 per cent of its allocation for health purposes. So in those circumstances it seems to me that population is not the proper measuring stick. 1 do not know whether the proposed allocations of the grants into the different fields of housing, education, etc, as set out in the table which was incorporated in Hansard by the Minister, were proposed by the Commonwealth Government or the State governments or somebody else. Unfortunately, the Minister did not bother to tell us. But irrespective of who was responsible or where they came from, I am sorry to see such small amounts set aside for health purposes. I notice, for instance, that only 6 per cent, in round figures, is allocated to hearth in Western Australia. It seems to me that the subject of health has been placed on a low rung of the ladder when it should be placed on the top rung. 1 want to take some time to explain why I see it that way. In the first instance, if we expect to reach the objective that I mentioned earlier, we have to realise that there are several different sections of Aboriginals. There are full blood Aboriginals and there are those who are less than full blood. There are those who live in the cities or suburbs and those who live in the country. Then there is the other section of Aboriginals who are commonly referred to as bush natives. There is a great difference between these various Aboriginals. Then, of course, there are those Aboriginals who need no further help because due to their own efforts and persistence they are now in all respects, other than colour, exactly the same as any ordinary white person. But at the other extreme there are those Aboriginals who are living in the most primitive manner and in the most primitive conditions. 
Each of these sections, which require the expenditure of welfare moneys on them in some way or another, will have to be dealt with differently. Some sections will react quickly, some will react slowly, some will hardly react and some will not react at all. Therefore, we have to recognise that it is a long term project which will require a lot of finance to get it under way in the first place and then to keep it moving at a reasonably fast pace. Because it is a long term project and because of its perplexities and complications, we will have to determine the priorities in. order to achieve real positive results - not just quick or isolated results which I believe will come anyhow in the normal course of events, but results which will bring the greatest benefit or the greatest advantage to the advancement of the younger Aboriginal community generally. I say this because. T. believe that it is from the younger generation and the coming generation that we will gain some positive advancement. We will certainly gain very little advancement from the current adult population. 
I am of the opinion that the field of health requires the most substantial and concentrated effort to achieve positive results in the future. Of course health includes hygiene. While health and hygiene to my mind are first in importance, I appreciate that this does not necessarily mean that they should receive the greatest amount of money. Ner does it mean that they should be treated in isolation and to the exclusion of other important matters such as housing, employment and education. But it does mean that the health programme should never be watered down or stopped due to lack of funds. 
I was dismayed to find that the Government proposes that only $697,000 will be provided for health matters for the whole of the States, more than half of which will go to Queensland. So the rest of the Stales will receive only $343,000 between them for such important work. I am most disturbed to see that for Western Australia, where there are serious health problems amongst the Aboriginals, particularly in the north to which I will refer later, only $105,000 has been allocated. This is a slightly lower percentage of the total amount than was allocated last year. If I am correct in saying that the greatest progress will come from the young people, we must do all that is possible to ensure their healthy entry into the world and their healthy state from then onwards. At present far too many Aboriginals are dying at a very early age and so there is a tremendous amount of work to be carried out in the field of medical and hospital attention. The Australian Inland Mission and other missions are doing a tremendous job in this field, but their resources are not sufficient to do what is required. A substantial amount of money will have to be provided over several years if we are to reach the target we should be endeavouring to reach. 
From the information I have gained from the Minister for Health  (Dr Forbes)  it appears that in the Northern Territory the mortality rate of Aboriginal infants is approximately 75 per 1,000 live births in the north and as high as 112 per 1,000 in the south. In Queensland the mortality rate is calculated to be more than 100 per 1,000 in some areas and in Western Australia it is estimated that some 20 per cent of infant deaths can be attributed to the Aboriginal population. We are well aware that there are many deaths in many areas, in Western Australia at least, of which we have no knowledge. The main causes of death are listed as prematurity, gastroenteritis, chest infections, malnutrition and dehydration, all of which I understand are readily curable if caught in time and given correct treatment. I recently read an article in the Australian Medical Journal which said that certain Surveys and research carried out had suggested that Aboriginal infants do not have the same degree of immunity, including inherited immunity, to foreign types of infection with which white infants are blessed. The report went on to say that a study of 2,250 children on 6 Aboriginal settlements showed growth retardation affecting up to 50 per cent of children aged between 6 months and 3 years. Severe retardation occurred in 16 per cent of this age group and was accompanied by anaemia and infection. From 30 per cent to 60 per cent of children with growth retardation had chronic respiratory or ear infections. I note that the figure given for the mortality rate is a little higher than that given to me by the Minister for Health' and the comment is made that it is very high' by world standards. 
I have quoted those figures simply because they make it quite obvious that if we want to cut down the morality rate and give those children who do live but suffer retardation and infections a chance to make reasonable advancements there must be a tremendous amount of work done in that field. It is obvious that there is much to be done so that the children may be born with a good chance of living. Therefore, pre-natal as well as post-natal care must be given, living conditions generally must be improved and nutritious foods must be readily available. It is not an easy problem to deal with and it is certainly one that can never be dealt with on a hit and miss approach which would result from insufficient finance to continue research and treatment and build-up of staff. This can happen unless we have some long term project of finance for the States or until the Commonwealth takes over the responsibility. 
The majority of the main causes of the illnesses I have referred to are preventable or curable but there is one disease in the north which  is  not easily dealt with and that is the dreaded disease of leprosy. From information I have gathered on this matter I understand that poor living conditions act against any efforts to eradicate it. In my opinion it is the duty of the Commonwealth Government to take a much more positive and active part towards putting competent doctors with a special knowledge of leprosy in the areas concerned and also to ensure that the conditions under which the Aboriginals are living are raised not just to a reasonable standard but to a standard at which no adverse effect will operate against the efforts of doctors and others to eradicate the disease. I know that moneys other than from the Aborinal Advancement Fund go into this field but it is quite obvious that nowhere near enough is being done and that much more money is required. According to figures available from the Departments of Health and Native Welfare  in  Western Australia, about 13 per cent of the- fullblood Aboriginals in the Kimberleys now have or have had leprosy and, according to  Dr Davidson  of the Health Commission, it is never claimed that they are cured. He is reported as saying: 
We say they are free from bacteria or free from infection. This might be after 2 years at the leprosarium or 4 years or it might be never. 
So we can say there are now approximately 700 full-blood Aboriginals in the Kimberley area of Australia alone who either now have or have had leprosy and are subject to reinfection or recurrence. 
There is another point I wish to bring forward which shows that in substantially improving the living conditions of the Aboriginal it is not only in the field of housing and hygiene. where positive action must be taken. It is also important to ensure that the children in particular receive adequate food and a balanced diet which will provide them with the necessary vitamins substantially to improve their health, their physical condition and their resistance to infection. I suggest that what  Mr Davidson  has said makes this very clear. He is reported as saying: 
Aboriginals, especially children, are far more susceptible to leprosy than white races; we expect to find the disease amongst the children. 
Now he does not suggest that the children are born with the disease; he simply says they are more susceptible, which surely means that they contract it through contact with another person, such as the mother. Due to their poor living conditions their resistance would be low but more particularly, once having contracted leprosy, their resistance to secondary infection would be lower still. This is where the danger of succumbing lies, lt is claimed that leprosy itself is rarely fatal but that deaths are usually due to other infections which overwhelm the patient in his weakened condition. Leprosy usually attacks the extremities of the body - the fingers, the feet - and even though the patient reaches the stage where he loses fingers and toes this will not normally cause death. Death occurs from secondary conditions such as tuberculosis, intestinal infection and kidney disease. 
So it must be obvious that unless the physical condition of the children is very substantially improved they will remain not only susceptible to leprosy but very susceptible to many other serious diseases and therefore could never reach the stage which we believe they should have the opportunity to. reach. It is also obvious that if we want to eradicate leprosy in Australia it is not just sufficient to treat those who have it or have had it or seek put those who may have it and transfer them to institutions. It is absolutely neces sary that we do everything we possibly can to prevent it being contracted and to prevent secondary infection occurring. This means a very substantial improvement both in general health and general living conditions must be obtained. This will not be gained unless the Government is prepared to make sufficient funds available over a number of years. 
Naturally, therefore, I see living conditions, which includes housing, as the second most important feature. Speaking of housing, I point out that it is estimated that at least $10m is required in Western Australia for the purpose of providing needed housing. So the $1m odd that the Government is to provide under the Bill we are now debating will not go very far and will not make any real impact over many years as the population increases. Unfortunately it seems that the money that is available is being spent where it will attract most public attention. 1 was disgusted to learn from the figures given by the Minister that in Western Australia, apart from 4 in Port Hedland, not one house for Aboriginals was built last year from Commonwealth grants north of Geraldton and not one was built east of Merredin. This is one of the things that makes one wonder whether public opinion or political potential is more of a determining factor in where the money should be spent than the need to satisfy the needs of the Aboriginals. 
Next on my list of importance is employment. I place employment one step ahead of education simply because, unless you ensure . that sufficient avenues of employment are readily available by the time education is completed not only will the value of the education be largely lost but also - and this is very important to guard against - we will almost certainly find that the person having been educated, and who quite naturally and justifiably is expecting to be absorbed into employment, will, if employment is not available, become frustrated and bitter. This will spread right through the Aboriginal community and will have a very serious and adverse effect on future efforts. If the younger children see others leave school and still find no work or at best only the same sort of work and at the same wage as those who have no education, they will naturally see no value in education and lose interest. So the subject of employment is a very important one and does require the expenditure of a substantial amount of finance if we are to achieve any worthwhile results. I was surprised and dismayed to find that last year no part of the grant made to Western Australia was spent to provide employment. An amount of $255,000 was set aside for a training centre in Port Hedland but this was transferred to housing and apparently for housing other than in the north and north west, which is rather disturbing and requires some explanation. In conclusion I suggest that what I have said supports my contention that much more money is required, that much more should be spent on health, that distribution of funds should be on the basis of the requirements of the Aboriginals rather than population and that the Bill before us is quite inadequate, I support the amendment. 
 Mr Acting Speaker- 
asked the Minister for 
Repatriation, upon notice: 
What means test is imposed upon applicants for education awards under the Services Trust Funds Act. 
Are adjustments to the means test automatic; if so, on what basis. 
When was the last adjustment made. 
I  present the following petition: 
To the Honourable the  Speaker  and members of the House of Representatives in Parliament, assembled, the petition of the undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully showeth: 
That there is a crisis in Aboriginal welfare in the South West Land Division of Western Aus-, tralia resulting from a population explosion, poor housing and hygiene and unemployment and unemployability. 
That there is a need to phase out native reserves in the South West Land Division of Western Australia over the next 3 years. 
That town housing must be provided for all Aboriginal families where the bread winner has permanent employment or an age or invalid pension entitlement. 
That such housing must be supported by tha appointment of permanent 'home-maker' assistance in the ratio of one home-maker to every eight houses or part thereof. 
That incentives of housing, 'home-maker' services and training facilities must be created in centres of potential employment for those who are currently unemployed or unemployable. 
That insufficient State or Federal assistance has been made available to meet these requirements. 
That adequate finance to meet these requirements can only be provided by the Commonwealth Government. 
Your petitioners most humbly pray that the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled will give earnest consideration to this most vital matter. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Civil Aviation, upon notice: 
Did Trans-Australia Airlines flight 592 fly direct to Perth from Sydney on Friday 21st and Friday 28th August, 1970: if not, why not. 
Did Ansett Airlines flight 220 fly direct to Perth from Sydney on Friday 21st and Friday 28th August, 1970: if not, why not. 
If the direct flights did not take place, to which airports were they diverted, and how late were they in arriving at Perth. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Civil Aviation, upon notice: 
Did Trans-Australia Airlines flight 516 fly direct to Perth from Melbourne on Friday 21st and Friday 28th August, 1970: If not, why not. 
Did Ansett Airlines flight 222 fly direct te 
Perth from Melbourne on Friday 21st and Friday 28th August, 1970: If not, why not. 
If the direct Sights did not take place, how late were they in arriving at Perth. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Civil Aviation, upon notice: 
At what time was it first known that TransAustralia Airlines Flight 516 -from Melbourne to Perth on Friday, 21st August 1970, would be delayed out of Melbourne. 
Was it known before Flight 508 left for Adelaide that Flight 516 would be delayed. If so, was an attempt made to transfer passengers from Flight 516 to Flight 598 to give them  an  opportunity of boarding Flight 552 at Adelaide. 
If passengers were transferred to Flight 508, how many were transferred. 
If no passengers were transferred, why not. 
asked the Minister representing  the  Minister for Civil Aviation, upon notice: 
Was Trans-Australia Airlines flight 516 delayed in Adelaide on the night of Friday, 28th August 1970; if so, for how long. 
Were any passengers on flight 516 transferred to flight 522. 
If so, how many were transferred. 
If no passengers were transferred, why not. 
Was flight 522 fully booked at the time it was first established that the aircraft scheduled for flight 516 was unserviceable. 
If not at what time were bookings completed for flight 522. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Civil Aviation, upon notice: 
Was Trans-Australia Airlines flight 516 delayed in Melbourne for some considerable time on the night of Friday 21st August, 1970. 
If so, was the particular aircraft scheduled to make this flight grounded for the whole of the time the flight was delayed: If not, was it in service flying passengers elsewhere. 
If this aircraft was in service elsewhere, between which airports were passengers being flown and what priority did these passengers have over those who were flying to Perth. 
asked the Minister-in-Charge of Aboriginal Affairs, upon notice: 
Does he accept as part  of  his responsibility the eradication of leprosy from amongst the Aboriginal people of Australia. 
If so, is he satisfied that the Western Australian Government is doing all it should towards that end. 
If he is not satisfied, what action has he taken or does he intend to take to bring about a satisfactory and positive method of treatment and control in that Slate. 
Has the Treasurer or his Department, singe 5th January last, been requested by the Prime Minister or his Department to give, further consideration to the problems of the gold mining industry with a view to determining whether those problems as well as those of the people dependent upon the industry warrant a further increase in the gold subsidy under the Gold Mining Industry Assistance Aci? If so. can the Treasurer say whether the investigation has been set in motion, what form it is taking and whether any decision has been reached? 
asked the Minister repre  senting the Minister for Civil Aviation, upon notice: 
On how many occasions during (a) June, (b) July and (c) August were Trans-Australia Airlines Flights 514 and 522 late in arriving at Perth. 
On those occasions on which these flights did not arrive on time, what were the reasons for their delay and how many minutes were they late. 
asked the Minister repre  senting' the Minister for Civil Aviation, upon notice: . 
On how many occasions during (a) June, (b) July, (c) August were Ansett flights 210 and 222 late arriving at Perth. 
On those occasions on which these flights did not arrive on time, what were the reasons for their delay and how many minutes were they late. 
The House must agree that this is a very important and necessary debate. I was rather distressed to find when the House was asked whether it would allow this debate to take place that not one honourable member on the Government side rose to support the proposition. Not one member of the Australian Country Party, the party which pretends to be the watchdog of rural industry but which, of course, is only the pawn of the manufacturers, rose to support the motion for this discussion. One can only conclude that they see no good reason why (he wool growers should be told anything of the activity or inactivity of the Australian Wool Commission, lt seems also that they see no good reason why the taxpayers should be told how their money is being used. I was also very distressed to learn from the remarks of the Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Sinclair)  that this Government, under no circumstances apparently, will accept any responsibility for the marketing of wool or any other rural product, lt is prepared to leave it to any other instrumentality irrespective of what the effect may be. disastrous or otherwise, on the industry concerned. 
The Australian Wool Commission Bill was introduced in this House on 27th October last year and we were told on that occasion by Government speakers that it was the answer to all the problems of the wool industry and that growers could look forward to a very rosy future. Shortly after the Commission was set up a Senate election was held. Just prior to that election we noticed that there was a slight firming in wool prices. We had the spectacle of supporters of the Government running around the countryside telling the people what the Wool Commission had achieved. The people were told what the Commission hud sold and that there were great things for the future. Of course, it is well known now that the price of wool did not continue to firm after the Senate elections. A number of people are suspicious as to why this should be. They have become even more suspicious since they have found that this Government is not prepared to make a report to Parliament on the activities of the Commission. 
Wool growers are not the only people who are concerned about this situation. They are not the only ones concerned about what: the Commission is doing, will be doing or is expected to do. There is also that great body of Australian people - the taxpayers - who want to know what the expenditure of their money is achieving. As recently as the end of January this year the  Chairman  of the Australian Wool Board said that the Government had given an assurance that no limit would be placed on the amount or value of wool which can be bought or stocked by the Commission. In introducing the Bill to set up the Commission the Minister said that it hud been estimated that the Commission would require about SI 15m by way of working capital in a full year and about SI 8.7m to meet annual operating costs. T suppose that those amounts were arrived at on the assumption that there would be some sale of stocks every now and then. However, if sales do not take place we can expect that the amounts referred to by the Minister will advance very considerably. If the extent of purchases indicates that this will happen surely this Parliament is entitled to know what the situation will be. 
The Australian Labor Party, with some criticisms, supported the Bill when it was introduced last year. We gave it our entire support but offered some suggestions and some criticisms. In view of this surely we are also entitled to be told from time to time just what is actually happening in relation lo the activities of the Commission so that we can give the matter some consideration and proceed along lines that we think would be best for wool growers and for Australia. It is quite clear, of course, that the Commission is not having the effect that supporters of the Government hoped it would have and that we all hoped it would have. If it were having this success there would be no lack of statements from the Government telling us what the Commission was achieving and telling the wool growers how lucky they were to have such a government in office. So here again we find a situation that is pretty hard to follow. Of course, it may be claimed that information given to this House about the activities of the Commission could tip the hand of the buyers as to what the thoughts of the Commission may be. This is a lot of nonsense because surely no-one would suggest that the wool buyers do not know what is going on; surely no-one would suggest that they are not aware of moves that will or may be made. Therefore, this can be no excuse for the Government's failure to report. 
Unfortunately, the fact of the matter is that the wool growing industry has lost confidence in the situation. 1 am informed that in one district in my electorate every sheep station is up for sale and very few offers of purchase are coming forward. The offers that are being made are such as could not possibly be accepted. If this situation is to extend further to other parts of Australia - and undoubtedly it will unless something positive is done about the price of wool - not only will it have an adverse effect on wool growers but also it will have a very, very serious effect upon Australia itself. The wool industry still provides some 20 per cent of our export income. The industry also provides - and this is very important - the wherewithal for inland centres and communities to exist. These centres can exist only as long as the wool growing industry continues to exist. This is certainly something that should be kept in mind. Therefore, if it is at all physically and financially possible to save the wool industry and to place it on a firm footing we must do just this. If the present organisations are not able to ensure the future of the wool industry we will have to find ways and means by which this can be done. However if we are not told what the Commission is doing, what are its suc cesses, or its failures or how it is going along, how can we decide whether something else should be done? 
Mention has been made about what the price of wool will be in 10 years time. The question was raised as to what would happen in a decade from now and whether there would be a price of 40c per lb for wool. The honourable member for Riverina  (Mr Grassby)  put the other side to the House when he said that this would not occur. But even if this does occur and the price is 40c in 10 years, unless something is done about the cost of production that will be no better in the overall situation than a price of 25c today. Therefore, to say that the price for wool will be 40c in 10 years time does not mean a thing. The Government has done nothing to try to check the ever increasing cost of production. This is another field in which it has failed. The Government gives tariff protection to manufacturers of items for the rural industry but does absolutely nothing to ensure that they make their articles available to industry at what could be termed a reasonable price. This is one of the things that is going on. It does not matter what the price of wool, the price of wheat or the price of any other rural product happens to be. Unless something is done to check the ever increasing cost of production people in these industries cannot continue. This is certainly one of the situations in which we find ourselves today. 
I support fully the contention of the honourable member for Dawson that the Government has failed in its duty and responsibility to this Parliament, to the wool growers and everyone else who is associated with the industry, and to the people of Australia by not giving to this Parliament some report, some information or some advice, not only about what are or are not the activities of the Commission, but also about the economics of the industry generally. 
Is the Prime Minister aware that in January last I presented to his predecessor a petition from some 9,000 residents of the Western Australian goldfields asking for an increase in the gold subsidy? Has the Prime Minister's' attention been directed to a recent newspaper article wherein it is estimated that an early closure of the gold mines will mean that at least 1,000 of those presently employed will remain unemployed even after the labour requirements of other mining projects have been satisfied? Has he seen a subsequent article in which the manager of one of the larger mines gave notice of early closure in the event of failure to obtain an increase in the gold subsidy? Finally, as the situation obviously has serious implications and as the Treasury has failed to appreciate the seriousness of the position, will the Prime Minister give the matter urgent and serious personal attention? 
 I was rather disturbed to hear the honourable member for the Northern Territory  (Mr Calder)  reject the Opposition's amendment. This simply means that in his opinion pensioners in the Northern Territory are now receiving an adequate amount and the pension should not be increased. Apparently he thinks that the recipients of other social services are in a similar position. Whilst I am disturbed about this. I am sure that the electors in the Northern Territory will be not only interested in but also quite disgusted at his attitude. It is obvious from the manner in which the Minister for Social Services  (Mr Wentworth)  spoke on Tuesday evening when he introduced this Bill that the real policy of his Government is not to elevate pensions to a reasonable level compared with the cost of living but to reduce wages to rock bottom level and reduce the standard of living to the deplorable conditions under which workers suffered several years ago. The Minister carefully deviated from the contents of the Bill and directed his remarks to attacking the workers and their trade unions for their activities in trying to gain wage justice and improved working conditions. We realise that it was quite impossible for the Minister to justify his Government's miserable attitude to social services, but that was no excuse for his bitter attack upon the very people who undoubtedly will be pensioners in the not too distant future. 
The Minister apparently overlooks or ignores the fact that the large majority of pensioners were themselves workers and were victims of the system of low wages and high prices which this Government practises. The Minister also apparently overlooks the fact that pensioners generally are a fair minded section of the community whose minds go back to the depression days and to the complete lack of consider ation that was extended to workers and their families during that time. Pensioners do not ask merely for justice for themselves; they ask also for justice for the other underprivileged persons in the community. I am sure that the attack which the Minister made on Tuesday against the workers and their families will bring him no thanks and no congratulations from the senior citizens of his country. 
The Liberal and Country Party Government, by the Bill which we are presently debating, continues as in the past deliberately to ignore the needs, plight and suffering of that section of the community which is entirely or largely dependent upon social services for an existence. The increase of 50c for those pensioners who are now receiving the maximum rate is miserable in the extreme. The fact that certain other social service recipients who have not received any increase in allowances or benefits for some considerable time in the past and who are not to receive any increase now is downright shameful. The Minister admitted, grudgingly perhaps but admitted nevertheless, that the Government had decided that an increase in pensions was warranted to meet the increase in the price of consumer goods. But despite that admission the Government deliberately denies any increase in payments to dependants of pensioners. This denial by the Government means only that the pensioner and his dependants will suffer a lower standard of living, even after the proposed 50c increase applies, than the standard of living immediately following the increase, miserable as mat was also, last year. 
The cost of providing for dependants has increased as a result of the increase in the cost of consumer goods but the Government deliberately has refused to make any adjustments to dependants' allowances and therefore has deliberately reduced the living standards of the' people concerned. For instance, let us consider the position of the age or invalid pensioner whose wife does not qualify for the pension itself but who, because of her husband's incapacity, receives a wife's allowance currently of$7 a week. That allowance will not be increased now, nor was it increased on the last occasion. In fact, it has not been increased since 10th October 1968. It has been increased only once since 1963. It must be remembered that the pensioner in such circumstances receives only the same rate of pension as a single pensioner who has no dependants. So, in actual fact the wife of the pensioner in the circumstances to which I am referring is expected by the Government to live on the princely sum of $7 a week, which is the same as she received 3 years ago. 
In his second reading speech the Minister, as he invariably does, went back some 20 years to compare age and invalid pension rates of those times with today's rates. He claims that there have been substantial improvements but of course, this is not the case. Where there have been improvements, they have been very minor. In many cases there has been no improvement at all. I do not think for one moment that any responsible person would suggest that the rates of pension in 1949, to which the honourable member for Perth  (Mr Berinson)  referred, were anywhere near adequate. Incidentally, when the Minister refers to the situation 20 years ago he never tells the House what happened to the promise his Party made in 1949 to the people thai it would abolish the means test. He does not tell the House that it was on that promise and several other promises that his Parly was elected. It never intended to honour those promises and they have never been honoured. 
Members of the Government Parties apparently are of the opinion that the pension payments of 20 years ago were close to being adequate to meet the needs of pensioners thenI say that because the argument used by the Minister and other Government supporters is that to their way of thinking the minor improvements that have been made have placed pensioners in a fairly favourable situation. Of course pensions 20 years ago were not adequate. If Government supporters want to compare pensions of 20 years ago with today's pensions they should compare such things as the wife's allowance of 1951 with what it is today. Because of the present allowance I would suggest that members opposite might regard the rate paid as a wife's allowance in 1951 as far too high. At the end of 1951 the wife's allowance was S3 a week, while the rate of pension was $6 a week. In other words, the rate of wife's allowance was exactly half the rate of pension. 
After the increase of 50c a week provided for in this Bill comes into operation, the standard pension rate will be $16 a week; but the wife's allowance will remain at $7 a week, whereas to retain its proper value in relation to the pension it should be increased to$8 a week. In fact, in 1 969 it should have been raised to $7.50, using the argument of members of the Government parties, and last year it should have been raised to$7.75. So, in comparison with the position 20 years ago. to which the Minister and other members of the Government parties are so fond of referring, this Government has deliberately denied the wives of certain pensioners moneys to which they definitely were entitled. Not only has it deliberately denied them moneys on other occasions but it has continued to do so on this occasion. 
We find a similar position with respect to the eldest or only child of a pensioner. In 1951 the allowance was$1. 1 5 a week. Ten years later in October 1961, it was increased by 35c a week to $1.50, representing an average increase of 31 a year - a magnificent record for this Liberal-Country Party Government. Today almost 10 years later again, it is only $2.50, and no intention to grant any increase is indicated in the Bill now before us. Here again if the Government and the Minister are dinkum in their claim of improving social services above the 1949 situation, they should immediately increase the child allowance by at least$1 a week. In the field of child endowment the situation is absolutely deplorable. Today the amount for the eldest or only child is still 50c a week, which is exactly the same as it was in 1956. In the field of maternity allowance, there has been no increase at all over the 20 years of Liberal-Country Party government. 
So, it is rather ridiculous and quite dishonest, I suggest, for the Minister and other members of the Government parties to claim substantial improvements in social services over the past 20 years when in fact, as I said before, any improvements have been very slight indeed and many of the items have completely lost their value. I do not know one area of social services in respect of which it could honestlyand properly be said that the recipients are receiving a fair deal or adequate assistance. Quite obviously, the Government would administer even worse treatment except  for  the fact that to do so would be political suicide. The Government does not measure pensions and other social service payments against the needs of the people concerned: it measures them against what the political impact or the political effect will be. I am quite certain that it was only the fact that the Government was well and truly on the decline in its political standing, as a result to some extent of its shabby treatment of the pensioners last year, that made it come out with the present 50c increase and announce it during the debate on the motion of censure that the Australian Labor Party had launched against it. 
The Government is completely consistent in its treatment of those people who are dependent or largely dependent on social services. It is completely consistent in that it is always unfair and it always treats them contemptuously as compared with its treatment of other sections of the community. For instance, as was properly pointed out in the pensioners little budget document, last year the Government gave tax cuts of $10 a week to certain people on very high incomes, but at the same time it gave pensioners an increase of only 50c a week and gave most other social services recipients nothing whatsoever. Therefore, it could fairly be said that many people who did not require any financial assistance at all received it - and quite substantially - at the expense of those people who did need some help. 
Our amendment to the motion for the second reading of this Bill, which was moved and spoken to so ably by the honourable member for Oxley  (Mr Hayden),  sets out some of the requirements that we see as being very necessary if we are properly to correct the shortcomings of the present social services system. Let me take the first point. We say that the increases proposed in the Bill are inadequate. Surely no-one can honestly disagree with that. Surely no-one would suggest that the miserable increase of 50c in age, invalid and widow pensions is sufficient. But the way members of the Government parties have spoken raises some doubt. So the only way it can be proved is by the vote. Those who vote against our proposition will be making it perfectly clear that, as far as they are concerned, the increase of 50c given to the pensioners on this occasion is as much as they deserve. 
Our second proposition is that social service payments generally are inadequate. The term 'social service payments' includes, as well as pensions, such things as wife's allowance, child and guardian allowances, child endowment, maternity allowance, funeral benefit and unemployment and sickness benefit. We say that the existing payments in all of those areas are less than they should be. Again the result of the vote will show what honourable members generally consider in regard to the situation. Anyone who votes against our proposition will be making it clear that in his mind the amounts being received by social services recipients are quite sufficient. 
Our third point is that steps should be taken immediately to eliminate poverty. Surely we can expect the whole of the Parliament to support that proposition. Surely no-one would want the poverty conditions that exist in some areas to continue. But, again, the tone of the contributions to the debate from the Government side causes us some concern, and we will await with interest the outcome of the vote before being sure whether members of the Government parties really want to eliminate the poverty and suffering that occur in some areas of the community. 
I come now to our fourth proposition, which is for a national superannuation scheme and the elimination of the means test. Surely members of the Government parties, and particularly the Minister for Social Services, will support that item. After all, it was way back in 1949, as 1 just said, that the Government parties, under the leadership of  Mr Menzies,  as he then was, told the people that, if elected, they would take steps immediately to abolish the means test. Of course, nothing or very little has happened up to date. Here is an opportunity for members of the Government parties to support our proposition and to show that they are dinkum on this matter. 
The Minister must vote for it unless he is only a sham fighter because, as those of us who have been around this place for some time remember very well, when he was a backbencher he used to be on his feet every second night speaking in adjournment debates and advocating the abolition of the means test. We also remember that he used to advocate better social service payments and a better deal for the Aboriginals. But since he became a Minister he has failed to take much action in that regard. So perhaps we should not count on him too much in this regard either. 
I come now to our fifth proposition, namely, that pension payments should be a proportion of average weekly earnings. Surely that would be a very fair way of adjusting pensions. What could be fairer than that? Once we arrive at what the proper proportion should be, it is a simple matter to make the necessary adjustments. We would get away from the undesirable method, to which the honourable member for Perth also referred, under which pensioners have to rely on elections or a decline in the slocks of the government to obtain any increase in pensions. I disagree completely with the Minister's claim that the value of the pension has increased over the past 20 years. 1 say that it has well and truly deteriorated. 
According to an answer given to a question placed on the notice paper by the honourable member for Oxley, a single age pensioner in 1949, under a Labor government, received 24 per cent of the then average weekly earnings. I do not suggest that 24 per cent is the correct proportion. I do not know whether it is or whether it is not. I would think that it is not sufficient. But the point I am making is that in 1949 it was 24 per cent. In 1950, when the Menzies Government made its first alteration to pensions, they were reduced to 21.9 per cent of the then average weekly earnings. In 1951 the Menzies Government made a further reduction to 21.8 per cent. Since then there has been a gradual decline until at this point of time - including the proposed 50c increase - the proportion has dropped to 18.4 per cent of average weekly earnings, representing a reduction of 5.6 per cent. 
So, J am afraid that how the Minister can arrive at a conclusion that the pension has more effective value today than it had back in 1949 under a Labor government escapes me. But, irrespective of that, the figures I have just given prove a definite decline in value in relation to average weekly earnings, which in turn can mean only that the pensioners' standard of living, as measured against average weekly earnings, has deteriorated seriously, whereas under our proposition it would be maintained. 
The sixth and last proposition in the Opposition's amendment is that the subject of social services should be referred to a select committee of this House. The need and urgency for that measure to be adopted can quite clearly be seen in the hopeless mess and the many anomalies of the Social Services Act as it stands at present. I instance the case of those married couples where only the husband is of pensionable age and where, as a result, his wife receives no pension at all. Many such couples must be facing very serious problems. Something must be done to ensure that the plight of those people is at least largely overcome. The way in which it can and should be overcome is to put those women on a pension also when their husbands become eligible to receive a pension. Surely that would not be beyond the resources of our economy. The numbers would be minimal and the cost would be negligible. I do not see how any select committee established to investigate such a matter could fail to make a recommendation along those lines. 
Another injustice in the Social Services Act is the lack of the right of appeal in the case of an applicant for an invalid pension who is rejected on the say-so of one doctor who goes completely by the book in relation to the 85 per cent incapacity provision. That doctor may never have seen the applicant before. On the day when the doctor does see him, the applicant may be feeling a little better than he normally does. As a result, the doctor may refuse to make a recommendation. Such an applicant surely should have the right of appeal to a board of doctors, one of whom, if the applicant so chooses, should be of his own choice. No applicant should be refused a pension on the say-so of one doctor, lt is only common justice to allow an appeal in those circumstances. I feel that a select committee would favour such a proposal. 
Numerous areas of the Social Services Act require careful examination and correction. A select committee could make a very thorough examination of the problems from all angles. Therefore, no reason could exist why this Parliament should not support our sixth proposition for the appointment of this select committee. As a matter of fact, there is no reason at all why this Parliament should not support every one of the recommendations in the Opposition's amendment. All the items that we have placed before the House in our amendment show that in our opinion these sorts of things should be done. We do not oppose the second reading of this Bill. We do not want to deny the pensioners this miserable increase of 50c a week that the Government has given them, but we do say that the proposals in our amendment should be agreed to. 
I ask the Minister representing the Minister for Health whether it is correct that staff reductions have recently been ordered and carried out at the Commonwealth Health Laboratories? Is it correct that some remaining staff have suffered a reduction in salary as a result of their downgrading? Is it also correct that staff reductions at the Kalgoorlie Laboratory have made it necessary for blood samples to be sent to Perth for analysis? If so, could this cause serious delay in determining a complaint or disease? Is it correct that reductions in staff ordered at Darwin are having serious effects there? Finally, are the staff and salary reductions the result of the Government's anti-inflation campaign and, if so, why has it been found necessary to interfere with and disrupt the smooth running of such important health centres? 
My question is addressed to the Postmaster-General. I refer to the decision of Perth television stations, including the Australian Broadcasting Commission, not to cover League football in Western Australia this season. Can the Postmaster-General tell the House why the ABC joined with commercial stations on this matter which will, as a result of their decision, deny thousands of country people and many more city people the opportunity of watching League football in progress? Has the PostmasterGeneral taken any steps to use his influence or authority to change the decision of the ABC, and if he has not done so will he do so? If he will not do so, will he tell us why? 
I think it is a shameful situation to see an honourable member, who I understand is a leading member in the Christian fellowship, coming into this House and bitterly criticising the Chruch. I think it is a terrible thing that a man who has apparently been the guest of the South African Government should speak as he did. Seeing that I am possibly getting under the skin of some honourable members opposite I will proceed with the matter I intend to raise. Once again I raise the urgent need, and it becomes more urgent every day, to provide some further assistance to the gold mining industry. An increase in assistance is so vitally important to ensure the continuation of the industry at no less than its present level of production and employment for at least the next 5 or 6 years. 
It could well be that honourable members opposite might feel that the Government has given its decision and that by raising this question once again tonight I am simply flogging a dead horse. Certainly the attitude of the Government under the previous Prime Minister and under the previous Treasurer gave us no cause for optimism, but we are now hopeful that a more responsible, a more realistic and a more sympathetic view will be taken of the situation as a result of the changes in the portfolios to which I have referred. We - when I say 'we' I mean those of us who are resident on the goldfields - are strengthened in our hope as a result of a letter that I received from the present Prime Minister  (Mr McMahon)  on 30th of last month in which he said that he would pay close attention to the situation. Previously all we had received were blunt refusals and no suggestion that any further consideration would be given to extra assistance for this industry. 
So we are hopeful tha the new Prime Minister will quickly realise that the requests for further assistance are quite genuine, and we are confident that if he does make an inquiry into the situation he will quickly realise that there are problems facing the community which can be overcome only by the continuation of the gold mining industry activities. We hope that he will act quickly to ensure that the problems will largely be disposed of by increasing the assistance, at the latest, in the next Budget. We also realise that the new Treasurer  (Mr Snedden)  is an ex-Western Australian, and that gives us an added reason for optimism, not because we suggest that he would favour Western Australia or differentiate between Western Australia and other States but because we know that he has some personal knowledge of the gold mining industry, its problems and its communities, and further because we know that he has a realisation of the effects on the community when, due to the closure of the mine, the residents have no alternative but to leave the district. 
We realise also, of course, that other members of Cabinet have a voice in the discussions and in the decisions on this question. In addition we would expect that all other members of the Government, both members of the Liberal Party and of the Country Party, in this House and in the Senate, front bench and back bench alike, are in a position where they can use their voice and influence to bring about the further assistance which is so desperately required. We want them to have the knowledge of the actual situation, and we invite them to come to the gold fields if they feel so inclined to see the situation for themselves. The grim fact is that a continued refusal of further help will have very serious consequences, and this is becoming clearer as each day passes. It will have a serious effect upon the livelihood of many people, both young and old and including those in business, not only in Kalgoorlie but also, and perhaps more significantly so, in the towns of Mount Magnet and Norseman, to which I shall refer later. It is for those reasons and because this is the final session of Parliament before consideration is given to the contents of the next Budget that I again raise this question this evening. 
What was the position on 23rd June last year? The Treasurer of the day,  Mr Bury,  by way of a Press statement said that the Government felt that continued financial assistance at the existing rate was justified for a further 3 years in order to allow gold mining to phase out gradually without disruption to the population or economy of the area. Never before to my knowledge have we heard the suggestion that the gold mining industry should be closed down, and I want to place on record my complete opposition to any such proposal. In doing so I ask the Government, and particularly members of the Country Party, where they really stand with regard to decentralisation. Where is this wish to establish industry and to extend population into the outer areas of Australia? Where do they stand on that question when they recommend, for the sake of a couple of million dollars, the closure of an industry already established in the country and one which is the means of providing employment and livelihood for a substantial population and will continue to do so for a considerable number of years to come? Surely an additional $2m, or something like 15c per head of population each year, is not such as to require a national government to close down such an important and decentralised industry. If it is, let us forget all this talk about decentralisation, because if we honestly want decentralisation we have to spend money in some direction or another, and certainly much more than $2m will be required if we want to set up a population of some 25,000 in some other area. 
Unfortunately some people - and this would appear to include some members of Cabinet and apparently a large majority of Government supporters - are under the erroneous impression that the discovery of nickel in Western Australia has solved all the problems surrounding a declining gold mining industry. Quite definitely, however, it is a wrong impression; it is a false conclusion. At this point of time, while we cannot be certain that nickel mining will ever be able to replace gold mining as far as employment and population are con cerned, we can say that certainly it will not do so for several years to come. No doubt this false impression was created from the activity in and around the main centres resulting from the early rush to peg leases as possible nickel areas or perhaps in some cases, as recent events suggest, the desire to place on the stock exchange something that was only supposed to be a good nickel prospect. 
As a result of that early rush we saw large numbers of small aircraft on the several aerodromes; we saw a considerable number of Land-Rovers and such running about; and we saw the entry, but not on a permanent basis, of geologists, surveyors, peggers and ordinary bush workers and so on, and also of course there were associated building works. That activity has now largly ceased, and it is quite common to hear people say that Kalgoorlie has quietened down considerably. Then there is another aspect to be considered. Even at this moment, and despite the fact that only a couple of companies are substantial producers of nickel, there is a fear that the nickel market, the demand for nickel, may not be as strong as was first thought. It was only in his last quarterly report that the  Chairman  of Western Mining Corporation pointed out that supply had overtaken demand, and he was happy that his company had elected to sell in the controlled market rather than take a chance on free trade. Therefore there could be grave doubt in the minds of some new company officials that the demand for nickel on the short term basis is such as to warrant the very substantial capital outlay that is required to open up and establish nickel mines unless the grade of ore is exceptionally good. 
Then, of course, there is another factor. Even if the market were unlimited, even if the grade of ore had no significance and even if it were financially possible to open up and operate all prospects, it would still be physically impossible to open up a mine to a reasonable working and production capacity in less than 5 years. Some people seem inclined to fall into the trap of accepting Kambalda as a guide for nickel exploration and the establishment of population. But here again they are taking a false picture. The fact is that Kambalda is a Western Mining Corporation project situated just a short distance from Kalgoorlie. 
When Western Mining decided to open up at Kambalda it was already firmly established in gold mining activities in both Kalgoorlie and Norseman. As a result it had all the resources of those activities ready at its disposal to use at Kambalda. Therefore its task was comparatively simple compared with what it would have been otherwise. 
I venture to suggest, and J am quite certain that any person who is knowledgeable in the mining field would agree, that had Kambalda been a venture by some new company its progress would have been very much slower and that at this time even the production side would have been hardly off the ground. The same situation as that at Kambalda applies at Scotia, the second nickel producer, where Great Boulder Gold Mines moved in with its equipment and know-how and closed down its gold mining activities in the process. It is completely idle and illogical to compare the progress made by companies already established in the area with that which can be expected from new companies making an initial effort. Yet, this apparently is just what some people, and people in responsible positions at that, are actually doing. 
The stark, grim fact remains that, notwithstanding what the Government has apparently accepted as being correct, and no matter what its advisers have told it, the gold fields community will face very serious problems with regard to both employment and economy if gold mining activities are allowed to decline over the next 5 or 6 years below that they are today. The Minister assisting the previous Treasurer accused me during a debate on this subject last year of being emotional and divorced from economic realities. I am not emotional on this matter. In fact I am being quite factual and completely logical. I am looking at and putting forward the situation as it actually is. But unlike the Minister I happen to know what I am talking about. Earlier I said that I would refer further to Mount Magnet and Norseman, the only 2 centres outside Kalgoorlie at which gold of any quantity is being produced and where the activities of gold mining support a substantial population, which in turn will be seriously affected and in fact will practically disappear if the mines close down. Each place is dependent on one mine - the Hill 50 at Mount Mag net and the Central Norseman at Norseman. If the mines cease operations there is absolutely no chance of alternative employment. There is nothing outside the gold mines. At neither place have any worthwhile deposits of nickel been located. Even if there had been it would be a very long time before labour in any numbers would be required. 
It can safely be said that if the gold mines at Mount Magnet and Norseman close down practically every person in those towns - not only the mine workers but the shop assistants, the business men and everyone else - will have to move. Where they will move to is of course a problem they face. Whether the Government will compensate them for the loss of their houses or business places is another question that the Government will have to face up to if it continues with the decision to close down the mines. I shall now refer to some estimates that have been compiled from the census of 1966 and very recent local authority statistics which show how employment and population in the Kalgoorlie area alone will be affected if the gold mines close down in the near future. These figures show that it is in the period as from now until at least 1979 that the danger lies. I would ask supporters of the Government to study these figures and at the same time bear in mind what could properly be referred to as their Govern.cent's promise that in phasing out the gold mining industry it would ensure that there was no disruption in either the population or the economy. The 1970 figures show that at that time some 1,550 persons were employed in the gold mining industry with a total population of the area of 23,600. By the end of this year the number employed on the gold mines is expected to be approximately 1,000 and the total population 20,500. 
The additional fall in population beyond the reduction in mine employees would be brought about by the movement of some of the employees themselves and their families, together with the expected fall off in the numbers employed in the nickel exploration field which is gradually diminishing and also in the transport and building construction fields associated with the nickel exploration. On the other hand there would be a slight increase due to actual nickel mining. By the end of 1972 the number employed in gold mining is estimated to be as low as  2S0  and the total population will be only  17,500,  which would represent a reduction of  6,000  as against the population of  1970.  This may seem an extremely high figure but the estimates are based on the ratio of population to employed persons as shown by the census of  1966.  That ratio was slightly better than  2i  in the population to each  1  employed. In  1966  there were  3,000  persons in the gold mining industry and the population was  21,910.  At that time employees in other industries such as public utilities, building and construction and so on numbered  5,550.  In  1970,  as I pointed out, the number in gold mining had fallen by approximately  1,500  but employees in the nickel industry had risen to  450  from nil. Exploration numbers had risen from  300  to  1,300  and building and construction from  1,000  to  1,400,  with slight increases elsewhere which made up the population to the figure  1  quoted. 
By the end of  1973  gold mining will be out completely or almost completely and the population, it is estimated, will be down to just over  1,600.  It is further estimated that at that time when the population is at its lowest point there will have been as against  1970  a fall of some  500  in the number employed in commerce. This would result from the reduction of mine employees since  1970  of  1,500  or so. Also there would be a reduction of approximately  100  in the number employed in transport while in building and construction the reduction would be approximately  700.  The total overall reduction is estimated to be  3,000.  As from the end of  1973  the employment numbers and the population will gradually increase due to nickel muling. There will be a gradual build up in commerce, transport and so on as a result of the nickel mining expansion. But it will not be until  1979  that nickel mining is expected to employ the same number as were employed in gold mining last year. In turn, it will not be until  1979  that the population will again hit the  23,000  mark. For instance, the population will not reach  20,000  until  1977  or  22,000  until  1978.  Those figures show the period of time during which there could be much suffering and certainly a serious disruption in population and economy. I suggest it would be  a  situation which we should do everything to avoid. Such a situation can be avoided if we can keep the gold mining industry at its present level of employment during the next  6  years. 
Therefore I feel completely justified in raising the matter once again. I ask the Prime Minister, the Treasurer and the Government as a whole immediately to set in motion another survey of the situation. If this is done the Government will find a marked difference from the situation  12  or  18  months ago. I ask also that the Government reconsider its previous decision that the industry should be phased out of existence over the next couple of years. Quite naturally I want to see the gold mining industry continue in Australia. I firmly believe that in the not too distant future it will come back into its own again. I believe that providing the industry is kept properly alive for just a few more years it will not be so long before it will flourish and require no more assistance whatsoever and will once again become a very considerable and valuable export income earner. As I have said in earlier debates, there are many people more qualified than we are who are of the same opinion. 
In October of last year I quoted several world recognised economists on this subject. I pointed out that as a result of a recent survey, a  Mr Lloyd  Jacob had said that he and others associated with the survey would be surprised if the price of gold did not rise to around  $45  per ounce in  1973  and  $50  by  1975.  It was interesting and rather important to note in the Press of only last Sunday a report that  Mr Lloyd  Jacob together with  Mr Peter  Fells, another qualified gold economist, have claimed that the international price for gold could reach  SUS80  an ounce within  9  years. What a silly situation Australia will be in if at that time all our gold mining industries have been closed down and this amount of export income is lost to us. 
One is entitled to ask and to know whether the Australian Government, before it decided that the industry in Australia should be phased out, had made any extensive inquiries or surveys to find out whether people such as Lloyd Jacob, Peter Fells,  Dr Aschinger, Mr Brooke  and others were correct in their assessment of the future of gold. Surely we are not expecting too much in asking that such an inquiry should be carried out when the survival of such an important and decentralised industry is at stake. Such an inquiry could establish whether there is, in fact, a good chance of the industry standing on its own feet within the next few years. 
asked the Postmaster-Gen eral upon notice: 
How many applications for telephone installations in Western Australia remain outstanding where the applicant is within a 15-mile radius of (a) an existing exchange and (b) a proposed exchange. 
How many of these applicants have remained unsatisfied for (a) more than 12 months, (b) less than 12 but more than 6 months, and (c) less than 6 months, 
What are the main causes of delay in installation. 
Is shortage of equipment one of the causes; if so, what is the reason for the shortage and when is it expected to be overcome. 
Is shortage of manpower a major cause; if so, is there any reason why that cause should not be rectified. 
asked the Postmaster General, upon notice: 
How many applications for telephone installations have been received during the past 9 months in (a) Western Australia, (b) Victoria, (c) New South Wales, (d) Queensland and (e) South Australia from applicants residing within a radius of 15 miles of (i) an existing exchange and (ii) a proposed exchange. ' - 
How many of these applications have been satisfied in each State. 
asked the PostmasterGeneral, upon notice:  _ (1) What stage has been reached in the extension of a national television service to Esperance in Western Australia. 
Can he state the approximate date for the commencement of transmission; if not, could it be as late as 1973-74. 
Has finance been allocated for the necessary equipment and other costs of supplying television facilities to Esperance; if not, when is it expected that finance will be allocated. 
There is an old saying about doing too little to late. There is another saying about the curate's egg being good in parts. The States Grants (Rural Reconstruction) Bill is an excellent illustration of both those sayings. The amount of finance to be provided under this Bill will quite definitely be insufficient to play any significant part in solving the problems presently besetting rural industry, and because of its insufficiency and the time it will take to determine an applicant's eligibility, and if he is eligible his amount of entitlement, it will undoubtedly be too late to save many would-be applicants from disaster. 
Many farmers and other rural residents have already been forced to leave the rural areas, as I will point out in a moment, and this scheme will do little, if anything, to save many others from following the same course. The Government should immediately declare a moratorium, and allow it to remain in force at least until the Government's reconstruction scheme is complete in all its operations, in order to protect all farmers against any foreclosures or other enforcements which could force them off their properties. That would allow a space of time during which a much closer look could be taken of the situation and more realistic action could be taken to overcome many problems. A large number of farmers would be protected during that time. Far from being like the curate's egg, this Bill has very few good parts, as can be seen from a reading of the Schedule. 
The Bill provides for a total amount of $100m, spread over 4 years, to be made available. That amount is broken up as follows: A sum of $32m for New South Wales, $22,070,000 for Victoria, $16m for Queensland, $14,630,000 for Western Australia, $12m for South Australia and $3,300,000 for Tasmania. The first thing to bear in mind is that only $25m will be provided as a grant, the other $75m will be provided as a loan, and the interest rate of 6 per cent which is to be imposed will ensure that the Commonwealth will recoup not only the $75m but also the $25m plus some unknown amount which will depend upon the spread of years over which repayment will be made. So by no stretch of the imagination could the Commonwealth be described as being Father 
Christmas. It would be more appropriate to refer to the Commonwealth as  Mr Scrooge. 
The second thing to bear in mind is that the States will have to determine who shall or shall not receive assistance and also what the amount of the assistance will be in each case. So in that respect the Commonwealth accepts no responsibility at all. It will be in the happy position of avoiding any criticism or odour that is raised in that regard. It must also be remembered that the object of the Bill is to ensure that onehalf of the amount received by the States shall be applied to what is termed in the Schedule as farm build-up, and to be eligible for any assistance with regard to farm build-up there must be a seller and a buyer of property. This means that one-half of the $100m will be used to assist some farmers or pastoralists to increase the size of their properties while at least an equal number of farmers will be obliged to give up their properties. 
In fact, the number of farmers who will be obliged to move out could be considerably more than the number who enlarge their properties, because under the terms and conditions of farm build-up, one owner, providing his original property or a purchased property under this scheme is within reasonable distance of another property which he wishes to purchase, can, if other requirements are met, acquire that other property with the help of assistance from this scheme. So despite what the Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Sinclair)  has said to the contrary, I would suggest that this could and in fact will be a significant step towards implementing the Government's policy of get big or get out. 
The scheme also has a rehabilitation section. Under that section assistance to a maximum amount of only $1,000 can be made available on loan under certain conditions to a farmer who is obliged to leave his property. This section falls short in at least two respects. Firstly, the amount of $1,000 is a ridiculously low amount and would be unlikely to rehabilitate anyone. Secondly, unless the property which the farmer leaves is purchased under the conditions of the farm build-up section of the scheme, he cannot qualify for assistance. So if a person cannot sell his property to an adjoining property owner, or if a bank forecloses on him, or if the local authority purchases the property, he would not be eligible to receive any rehabilitation assistance. Therefore, the scheme is not properly based on actual needs, and many very deserving cases could miss out on receiving assistance while less deserving cases could be successful in their applications. 
Many of those who could be ineligible to receive any assistance under the rehabilitation section of the scheme will be men such as new land farmers who, just a few years ago, were encouraged by people holding responsible positions to open up new country or to take up farming properties in areas recently thrown open for selection. The Western Australian LiberalCountry Party Government was one which gave such encouragement and threw the land open. There are also honourable members in this House who, by speeches which they made just a few years ago, must have undoubtedly caused people to think that wheat farming, at least, was secure. I refer particularly to the honourable member for Mallee  (Mr Turnbull)  and the honourable member for Canning  (Mr Hallett).  I want to quote a couple of things that they said. I am sorry that they are not in the House at the moment. Perhaps this is not surprising because I note that on the Government side 2 Liberal members will speak before a Country Party member enters the debate. So it would appear that, perhaps, they are . not greatly interested in this matter. However, on 13th May 1965 - only 6 years ago - the honourable member for Mallee said: 1 believe that the present sale conditions have put a stop, if not definitely then for a long time, to a restriction of acreages of wheat, which we had at one time. 1 do not wish to go into this, but when wheat can be grown it should be grown because there is no doubt that a drought may happen at any time and at present at least the country with wheat can sell it. 
On 23rd October 1968 - less than 3 years ago - the honourable member for Canning said: 
When I look at the world's production of wheat, as I have, and look at Australia's production, with our marketing system I do not think that we should have great difficulty in selling our wheat. For years people have been saying that we are growing too much wheat. As I see it, the time to start worrying is when we have not enough wheat. This is the time when most countries really get a headache. 
I do not refer to those speeches in order to be critical of the honourable members con cerned: I refer to them for other important reasons. The first is to show how quickly the situation can change because, unlike what the honourable member said in 1965 and 1968, Australia today cannot even sell the wheat she produces under a system of delivery restriction, let alone what she would produce if those restrictions were lifted. The second reason is that we must accept that what the honourable members for Mallee and Canning said represented the actual thinking and attitude of the Country Party as a whole. This being so, we can safely assume that all members of the Country s Party were expressing those same views all around Australia. As a result of that, coupled with actions such as the throwing open of large areas of land by the Liberal-Country Party Government of Western Australia, many men such as share farmers, farm employees and others were encouraged to branch out on their own, and that is actually what happened. Despite the fact that such encouragement was given, despite the fact that this Government and State Liberal governments were largely responsible for so many people getting into difficulties, those are the very people who could not obtain a reasonable wheat quota and who now are to be denied any worthwhile assistance under this scheme. 
Those people, who in many cases are newcomers to the industry, set themselves out with the idea of producing 10,000 or 12,000 bushels of wheat each year and went into debt purchasing machinery and so on to do just that. Then they found they had a wheat quota of only 1,500 bushels. This was the main cause why they found themselves in trouble. The number of rural holdings in Australia in 1968-69 stood at 254,270. While I am not suggesting that they all require assistance, the Minister did tell us that 40 per cent or more of the wool growers of Australia had net farm incomes of less than $2,000 a year to cover servicing of debt and living expenses. Unless one had very substantial assets or unlimited borrowing arrangements one could not last for very long on that type of income. The Minister also told us that there are some 89,000 wool growers running flocks of 200 sheep or more. While there may be only 40 per cent of them with net incomes of $2,000 or less a year, I would be very surprised if there are not a great number more, both wool growers and others in the rural industry, who are in very severe financial difficulties. I would imagine that at least 20 per cent of those engaged as owners of properties in rural industry today are in financial straits with very little possibility of escaping those difficulties without substantial outside assistance. Not all of those in difficulties are in that position simply as a result of not being able to sell what they produce or because of a slump in price. Many of them are in difficulties because of the combination of those things and also because of the cost of production which this Government has done nothing to halt, and which has risen above what is an economic figure compared with the price that they can receive for the goods that they produced. 
If we add to the wool growers in difficulties those other farmers growing something other than wool and who are also in financial trouble, we can expect to find a number totalling, I would suggest, at least 50,000. If we take just the wool growers alone, it would appear from the figures given by the Minister that there will be 36,000 persons requiring assistance in that section of the industry, some requiring very substantial amounts and others less substantial mounts. The important thing is the number who can expect assistance of a sufficient amount from this scheme. As I said earlier, $50m are earmarked for farm build up, that is, for the sale and purchase of property. If the assistance granted is, say, $10,000 per property - it could hardly be less - it will mean that not more than 10,000 wool growers or others will be involved; 5000 buyers and 5000 sellers, or perhaps 2500 buyers and 7500 sellers. One does not know, of course, what the ratio will be. However, if 10,000 is the total number involved it will mean that after half of the $100m is exhausted there will still be at least 26,000 wool growers in difficulties. This is, of course, if the selling and purchasing is amongst wool growers only. 
The rehabilitation scheme will require only a very minor amount because the maximum amount per applicant will be $1000. Therefore, the most that will be expended under this section will be from, say, $500,000 up to $750,000. To make it easier to calculate, let us say that we still have $50m available for assistance in the debt reconstruction area. The Minister told us: 
. to obtain debt reconstruction assistance an applicant must be unable to obtain finance to carry on and thus be in danger of losing his property or other assets if he is not provided with assistance. 
I would suggest that a wool grower or any other type of farmer in circumstances such as those stated by the Minister would require a very substantial amount of assistance, and in the first year at that, to have any chance of . getting back on his feet. Certainly, nothing less than $5000 would be sufficient. If he needed only, say, $2000 he surely would not come into that category. Therefore, if we use $5000 as the minimum figure in each case, it would mean that not more than 10,000 applicants could be accommodated under the debt reconstruction section. This, in turn, will mean that when the total $100m is exhausted there will still be 16,000 wool growers desperately in need of assistance. To that number we would need to add those other 14,000 in other sections of the rural industry to which I referred earlier, giving us a total of 30,000 farmers unassisted and who. unless assistance is provided, will be obliged to move out. That number would be a minimum. It could remain that low only if the rural situation in relation to markets, price and cost of production does not worsen. If it does worsen, the number will increase considerably. 
Therefore, the amount of money being provided by way of this scheme at the very best will be sufficient to assist in a reasonably adequate manner only some 55 per cent of the wool growers which the Minister told us were in real trouble, or on the other hand, approximately 40 per cent of all farmers, wool growers and others who are also in serious difficulties. Certainly, a greater number could be helped if the average amount of assistance were reduced considerably. But it cannot be disputed that where assistance is given it must be of a sufficient amount as will permit the borrower getting back on his feet. To do otherwise could mean only that in the long run the money would all be wasted simply because the borrower would rapidly be back in the position that he is in today. Also, of course, unless the farmer or pastoralist can see some value in the amount he can borrow he will not saddle himself with a further debt on which he has to pay at least6 per cent or at least 4 per cent as the case may be. Therefore, if the $100m is sufficient only to meet the requirements of some 40 per cent of those in dire need of assistance, it is obvious that not less than $250m, and very likely much more, would be required if the job is to be done properly. 
If, because insufficient assistance is available, 30,000 farmers are obliged to leave the industry, it is not only those persons we are concerned about; we must be concerned also about many more who will be involved. For instance, there will be also the families of those farmers. There will be some - not a great number perhaps - farm employees and their families. There will be some businessmen, such as shop keepers and their families and employees of those business people and their families. So, in all, there could well be another 75.000 persons in addition to the 30,000 farmers adversely affected and have to leave the rural industry. 
Between March 1965 and March 1969 the number of persons referred to in the statistics as being permanently resident on rural holdings - events prove, of course, that they are not - had been reduced by just on 33,000. The reduction in total population in rural areas was considerably more. The reduction by now, 2 years later, will be much greater still because it has been during the last 2 years that the real pinch has been felt. Surely the possibility and, in fact, the almost certainty that a further 100,000 or so will be forced away from rural areas and into the cities, even after this scheme is in operation, is more than serious and would indeed be a complete catastrophe. Therefore, in turn it becomes obvious that this Bill and the scheme it proposes are inadequate with regard to both the amount of assistance and the eligibility to claim. Our great problem with regard to wheat is to find markets which will absorb large quantities of wheat and which will permit wheat growers to produce an amount which will give them a good living and, at the same time, allow them to clear their debts. That is our great problem. If we could do that, the wheat growers would need no other assistance. Therefore, it is not only logical but indeed imperative that we pursue mar kets wherever they may be. The Government by failing to do this, by allowing politics to raise obstacles and barriers to trade, is not only doing the wheat growers a great disservice but is also placing a further unnecessary burden on other taxpayers as' well. 
I want to read to the House a communication which I have received from a branch of 'The Farmers' Union of Western Australia (Inc.)'. The communication read: 
At a recent meeting of the above branch of the Farmers' Union the following motion was carried unanimously; 
This Branch urges the Federal Government to show full political recognition of Mainland China. 
The members of that branch realise, of course, that recognition of mainland China could play a significant part in solving the wheat problem, and I would hope that other branches with the same views would make them known to the Government as soon as possible. I was rather disturbed, from carefully reading the Minister's speech, to find that he made no reference at all to the plight of the wheat farmers. He had a deal to say about wool growers, and certainly I would agree with him, as my remarks would show, that many of them - in fact, the majority - are in real trouble and need help. But I feel it was rather neglectful of the Minister that he did not do the right thing by the wheat growers when he completely neglected them in his speech. 
In only one part of the Bill do I see a reference to wheat. I suggest that his concluding remarks emphasising the need for assistance would not cause wheat growers to feel that he had any great concern for them. Once again the Government has introduced a patch-up scheme that will do little to solve the rural problem. It can and will bring about a situation where the farmers will have no alternative but to get big or get out. 
asked the Minister repre senting the Minister for Civil Aviation, upon notice: 
Has consideration been given to changing the site of the Ralgoolie aerodrome. 
If so, why is the aerodrome being moved. 
How far from the existing site is the new site expected to be. 
When will the move be made. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Civil Aviation, upon notice: 
Is it intended that- the passenger terminal at Kalgoorlie Airport will be extended and  improved. 
If so, when is it expected that the work will be: 
commenced; 
completed. 
What will, be the extent of the improve meats. 
asked the Minister repre senting the Minister for Civil Aviation, upon notice: 
Is it  a  fact that existing parking facilities at the Kalgoorlie Airport are inadequate and that, in addition,  a  danger exists with regard to the movement of motor vehicles and small children. 
If  so,  will the Minister,  as  a matter  of  urgency, arrange for the provision of  a  larger parking area and  a  clear walkway for pedestrians. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Health, upon notice: 
Is it a fact that hospital and medical benefit funds are inconvenienced to some extent because some doctors fail to present fund cheques to their banks for clearance in order to reduce their taxation. 
If so, is this practice significant when considering the need for an increase in doctors' fees? 
Will the Minister have the practice examined before the Government approves the proposed increases? 
My question is addressed to the Prime Minister. Does the Government support the views expressed last Thursday by the  Deputy  Prime Minister that further employment opportunities must be made available in country areas to stop the drift to the city? If so, is the Prime Minister aware that an increase of a mere $3. 5m in the gold subsidy would halt the present drift of gold fields residents to the city and would also, which is surely very important, provide employment opportunities for displaced farmers, farm workers and others in Western Australia who otherwise would have no alternative but to move to the metropolitan area? Did Cabinet consider that aspect when it rejected the application for an increase in the gold subsidy? If so, how does the Prime Minister justify that rejection, if his Government genuinely supports decentralisation? 
This first Budget of the new Treasurer  (Mr Snedden)  will be nothing less than brutal in its end results upon the low and middle income families of this country. It deliberately places the greatest burden upon the very people who are least able to bear it. It has certainly brought a general feeling of despondency, distrust and disgust and has made quite clear the real attitude of this Goverment to the less fortunate of our community. With regard to inflationary trends it is obvious that the Government intends to ignore rising costs and prices, and indeed by increasing charges on petrol, postage stamps, telephone calls and so on will aggravate the situation. On the other hand it is obvious that the Government intends to make its target the pockets of the wage and salary earners. It is clear that in the Government's view these people are too well paid and are becoming far too independent. The end result of this Budget will be widespread and substantia] unemployment and that situation will not be an accidental result of the Budget but will in fact be the result of deliberate planning on the part of the Government. This Government has consistently deplored what it refers to as over full employment, and in its view over full employment still exists even though there are several thousand people looking for work and unable to find it. 
The real fact is that this Government deplores the situation where people can reject offers of employment which do not measure up to their requirements. The Government actually delights in a situation where there is strong competition amongst job seekers to obtain work, but it hates to see a situation where the employers are obliged by way of better wages and conditions to compete with each other in their attempts to procure labour for their requirements. While the Government pretends to support the arbitration system it does in fact hate to see workers properly organised, unified and properly represented by competent advocates and it does everything it can do and goes as far as it can go to smear, besmirch, belittle and destroy the very people who, by their efforts as union officials, are endeavouring amicably to settie disputes by ensuring that both the employees and the employers receive a fair hearing and a fair result. 
Whilst many employers, perhaps most employers, are happy to discuss and settle their problems and disputes at conferences around their office tables with union representatives, this does not suit the Employers Federation which, a. few years ago, waved a very big stick indeed in no uncertain manner and practically dictated to the employers what they should or should not do. That organisation has lost considerable ground over recent years. It has lost a lot of its influence. It now represents only a very minor section, in number, of employers. The progress which the unions are making is really worrying the Employers Federation. It is worried about the growing respect which the unions and individual employers have for each other. It is very worried about the fact that wage settlements which the Federation strongly opposes are being made outside the industrial tribunals, thus setting precedents for use successfully in arguments against the Federation, in cases involving the very large companies which still allow the Federation to handle their affairs. The Government is also very worried in this respect. 
This Budget is a deliberate attempt to bring about a pool of unemployment and to incite competition among job seekers, such as occurred in the 1930s, just for the purpose of trying to weaken the activities and the support of the unions in their attempts to obtain and retain proper conditions and wage justice for their members. During his Budget Speech the Treasurer continually referred to inflation and on each occasion he did so he placed the whole of the blame on the people who sought and were granted increased wages. The Treasurer has made it clear that the Government intends to use every means at its disposal to prevent any further wage increases being obtained either through normal court channels or union-employer negotiations. In his concluding remarks the Treasurer told us that, in the view of the Government, wage increases following industrial disputes were substantially greater than they should be. That remark can only be accepted to mean 2 things. Firstly, it is strong Government criticism of the members of the Commonwealth Conciliation^ and Arbitration Commission and the employers' who were convinced of the justice of the union claims and gave them proper recognition. The Government says that they were over generous and it has condemned them on the decisions they have made. Secondly, it means that as far as the Government is concerned the workers, including the white collar workers, are already receiving much more than they should be receiving and therefore, irrespective of the validity of any future claims, both the courts and the employers should reject the claims completely. The unrest among workers and the strikes which normally and quite properly would follow such a refusal will, the Government hopes, be countered by the effects of the unemployment pool. 
As we all know, the function of the Arbitration Commission is for its members to hear argument from both parties to a dispute and then, after consideration of it, often lasting weeks or even months, to bring down a decision. It is the delays in getting into the courts and obtaining decisions which often cause unrest. But whatever the final decision happens to be, the Arbitration Commission has always been very careful not to over judge, over weigh or over acknowledge wage claims. The Treasurer has told us that the Government is considering methods of strengthening the arbitration system and, in particular, of bringing more to the forefront the economic consequences of decisions taken by that system. Those remarks suggest that the courts are at present either ignoring or do not take into proper consideration the economic consequences of wage increases. Let us look at what  Sir Richard  Kirby, the  President  of the Commonwealth Conciliation and Arbitration Commission, had to say about that particular aspect in a Federal Law Review' of last year. He said: 
On the question of economic policy, the then Chief Justice of the High Court  Sir Owen  Dixon, in 1953 used words of such clarity and wisdom that they would have put the Commission's role beyond question 1 would have thought. However although al) newcomers find them early and quote them often they have not resolved the confusion. I myself quote  Sir Owen  again in the hope that among readers of this review at any rate tha repetition of his wise words will have the effect they deserve.  Sir Owen's  oft quoted words are: 
While an arbitral tribunal deriving its authority under an exercise of the legislative power given by section 51 must confine itself to conciliation and arbitration for the settlement of industrial disputes including what is incidental thereto and cannot have in its hand the general control or direction of industrial social or economic policies, it would be absurd to suppose that it was to proceed blindly in its work of industrial arbitration and ignore the industrial social and economic consequences of what it was invited to do or of what, subject to the power of variation, it had actually done. 
Surely those words make it perfectly clear that the arbitration tribunals do closely consider the economic effects of their decisions. Surely also they make it clear that the courts, in making a decision, are quite satisfied that, irrespective of economic consequences, they could not if justice is to be done grant a lesser increase in wages than they believe to be warranted. But apparently that is not sufficient for this Government. Apparently it wants more strictly to impose its views on the courts, particularly on the Commission. 
The Government has used all kinds of snide tactics in its attempts to keep wages depressed. Just prior to court decisions it has issued ministerial statements to try to influence a tribunal's thinking. It has arranged to address employer organisations knowing full well that its remarks will get back to the tribunals through the Press, radio and television. The Government has gone so far as to intervene by use of counsel in cases actually before the Commission. The Government continually uses this Parliament and the Press to try and influence the thinking of the general public. Because its various tactics have not been sufficiently successful, the Government now intends to amend the law so as to force the Arbitration Commission to follow the Government's line whether they like it or not. The Treasurer has made it abundantly clear that he and his Government will subscribe to the arbitration system only if that system accepts directions from the Liberal-Country Party Government and is prepared to ignore completely any argument, no matter how valid, on industry's ability to pay. 
At this point I wish to quote from an address given by  Mr G.  Polites on 14th April last year.  Mr Polites  is - he was then, at any rate - the Executive Director of the Australian Council of Employers Federations.  His  remarks may be very interesting in some respects but they are nevertheless very frightening. All workers, whether they work in moleskins, overalls, dungarees, shorts or suits will want to take heed of what this gentleman has said and think about what their situation will be if the views that this particular person has expressed are put into practice by the Government.  Mr Polites  said: 
Management, whether it be Socialist or private, must realise that whatever it does for employees, no matter how well it develops its business or how much it is prepared to share the improvement in productivity, there will be a constant Clamour by labour for a greater share. 
One can see how bitter he is in that regard. He went on to say: 
I believe this demand will never be satisfied, or avoided, whatever economic system is put into operation, unless you cast aside the democratic processes and impose a dictatorship of some form or another. 
Those are the views of the top man in the Employers Federations. This is the body which speaks on behalf of several large and wealthy companies, ft is a body which brings considerable pressure to bear on the Australian Government and subscribes very substantially to the Liberal Party's funds. It would be foolish to suggest that there is any other meaning in  Mr Polites'  remarks than that he, his Australian Council of Employer Federations and the people whom they represent, are in fact demanding of the Government that if any democracy exists in this country it should be replaced by complete dictatorship, in the hands of the Liberal Party and the Australian Council of Employer Federations in order to halt the progress which unions are making in obtaining a fairer share of profits from increased production brought about by the efforts of their members. 
If one carefully reads an analysis of what the Treasurer has said in his Budget Speech it becomes clear that the Government intends to pursue the same line and the same proposition as put forward by  Mr Polites.  The Treasurer is advocating that the Government should be so placed as to be able to dictate to the Commonwealth Conciliation and Arbitration Commission and the employers regarding terms of settlements. The Treasurer has chosen his words very carefully but there can be no doubt that the Government intends to use every possible avenue to make an onslaught on wages. The fact is that the Government intends to make it as difficult as it can for the Arbitration Commission to grant wage increases. It will bring pressure to bear on employers to prevent any over-award increases being granted and then to relieve pressure from the other side, the Government is ensuring, as a result of the effects from this Budget, that it will have in its hands the formidable weapon of unemployment. 
But what about the other side of the picture? What is the Government going to do about profits and the ever-increasing costs of living which are making it necessary for wage earners to be continually seeking and for courts to grant increases in pay packets? Just listen to the strong words of the Treasurer on this point. He said- 
I need hardly add that the Government will do all it can by persuasion and example to encourage those in the private sector who make decisions affecting wages and other costs, profits and ultimately prices to have at all times in the forefront of their consideration the broad national interest. 
How weak and hypocritical can the Government become, and who does it think it is fooling? Tt is a well known fact that even when wages are completely frozen it does not bring any voluntary attempts from those within the private sector to contain either prices or profits; they continue to increase as before. This was proved 20 years ago when the workers of this country were not only obliged to accept and settle for a wage which, even when it was fixed, was below what the existing cost of living warranted, but were also forced to carry several price increases which occurred during the -une when the basic wage was frozen. The proof of the effect of those price increases was seen in the fact that when the. freeze was lifted the court immediately granted a 1. increase in the basic wage to offset, to some extent, the increase in the cost of living which had taken place during the freeze. 
The same thing would happen now. It is idle to talk about voluntary, attempts to contain or reduce profits and prices; they will continue to rise and to increase the cost of living and the cost of production, such as is hitting the rural industry at this time. Until such time as the governments of this country, including the Federal Government, take positive steps to place restrictions on unscrupulous manufacturers, unscrupulous retailers and unscrupulous land agents, landlords and the like, this state of affairs will continue. If these restrictions are not imposed and if prices and profits continue to increase as they will, then despite what this Government and the Australian Council of Employer Federations want to enforce, the workers of this country are justly entitled to seek and be granted increases in their pay packets, and any attempts to deny them that justice must be strongly opposed. The threats to the rights of the working people, which are contained in this Budget, must be challenged and defeated. 
Before the 1969 general election the Government promised the people that if it were re-elected it would substantially reduce taxation over a period of 3 years. The former Prime Minister, to some degree, honoured that promise, but unfortunately he did not grant reductions in the areas where they were actually needed. But the present Prime Minister  (Mr McMahon)  has hot only ignored the promise of 1969, but in fact has dishonoured it, and now in 1971 we find that contrary to the promise of 1969, an across the board increase of i per cent is to be imposed. Not only has the Government increased income tax; it has also imposed severe and quite unwarranted increases in indirect taxation, not only upon luxury items which only the wealthy are likely to purchase, but upon what are virtually the everyday requirements of the general community. All will pay the same increase - the pensioner and the Prime Minister, and the battling farmer and the wealthy graziers who sit in this place as. Ministers, and because of this the poor will be hit a great deal harder than the rich. 
Then there are the increases in postal charges and radio and television licence fees and the additional 50c which is to be paid on every prescription from a chemist. It is no wonder that people now refer to the Treasurer as Billy the Bandit. The paltry increases in social services and repatriation, which will be quickly absorbed by rising prices, are again a disgrace. The same comment applies to the Government's approach to and lack of positive leadership in providing assistance to overcome the problems of the rural industry. The Government's decision in relation to tax deductions and education expenses will do practically nothing to help those who really need relief. I hope that when the Bills dealing with these questions are being debated in this place I will have an opportunity to place my views on those subjects more properly before the House. 
In conclusion, I refer to the reply given to me yesterday by the Prime Minister. He told me that he would discuss with his colleagues the application for additional assistance to the gold mining industry. I appreciate the Prime Minister's decision to do this, but I must take this opportunity to ask him to treat the matter as one of urgency because the situation on the gold fields of Western Australia grows more serious each week. If a favourable decision is not made public quickly by the Government, gold mining activities will reach a stage at which it will be practically impossible to revitalise them. This would be a tragedy. It would cause much disruption and suffering. It would hit very hard a large percentage of people who own their own homes and are getting on in years and those who, at the other end of the scale, have young children at school. So I sincerely ask the Prime Minister to treat this matter as one of urgency and to arrive at a favourable conclusion. I support the Opposition's amendment. 
1 support the system of days of sitting under which we are working at the present time, that is, sitting for 2 weeks and having one week off. But I am a very sensitive and kind-hearted sort of a fellow. I feel very deeply for those members who come from Sydney and Melbourne. They must be suffering great inconvenience and experiencing great difficulties. When one looks at the situation one finds that they are very unfortunate if they are not back home an hour after the Parliament adjourns. This must be terrible. The mere fact that I leave Canberra tonight and cannot get home until tomorrow morning should not worry me when I see the inconvenience which is caused to these other members. We hear the plea from these members and we have to take notice of what they say. 
Under the present system of sitting days, these members cannot spend all day Monday and all day Friday in their offices. This is terrible. Under the system which they want adopted I will not be able to spend a Friday or a Monday in my office for 3 weeks. But here again, I should not let this influence the way in which I will vote on this question. Also, I feel very sorry for those members who have huge electorates of approximately 4 or 5 square miles. I have to look at the inconvenience that this causes them. My electorate is only 900,000 square miles, which is nine-tenths of the total area of Western Australia. It is very easy for me to get from one point to another point 1,500 miles away. Why should I worry about that? Just because the present system suits me, 1 should not worry if it is changed. I am touched by the generosity and mateship which exists in this place in relation to the question of sitting days. 
Let us consider the report of the Standing Orders Committee. It says that experience has shown that the present sitting pattern does not provide as efficient or convenient an arrangement as was expected. Where was the experience gained? As the Minister for Social Services  (Mr Wentworth)  said, the present proposal was tried for one weekend. Actually, I never experienced it at all because that weekend I was in New Zealand attending to parliamentary duties. So I certainly have not had any experience of what the Standing Orders Committee is talking about. What is meant by the present sitting pattern not proving to be efficient? How can anybody say whether or not it has proved to be efficient if it has not been tried? Surely that is something which must be considered. Then it is suggested that the proposed sitting arrangements will be more convenient - convenient to whom? Let us be told that. Then the Standing Orders Committee said that a majority of members favour a return to the previous pattern of sittings. The members of the Committee did not ask me for my opinion and I do not know whether they asked anybody else. This is the Committee's proposition. I say it is a lot of rubbish, and that it is only in this place that we will ascertain what the true feelings of members are. I do not intend to delay the House because, as I say, I feel terribly for these members. This is something that you cannot continue to talk about for long or you will break down. 
I want to say something about the amendment which, if carried, would make the position more convenient for the members from Melbourne and Sydney who are suffering so many hardships. It is proposed in the amendment that on each Thursday this House should sit from 10 a.m. to 6 p.m. That is very good. It would allow those members from Melbourne and Sydney to get home on Thursday night. I would be lucky if I got home on Friday night, for the simple reason that if I left Canberra at 6 o'clock on Thursday night when the House adjourned I would be able to get a plane to Melbourne, but I would not get any further. So I would have to stay in Melbourne. 
A number of other members would be similarly affected. Some members of the Australian Country Party who represent Victorian electorates would be in the same position, as would some members from New South Wales. Also, the members who represent electorates in 
Queensland north of Brisbane would certainly be in a similar position. As the honourable member for Wilmot  (Mr Duthie)  said, Tasmanian members also would be in a similar position. But still, we should not let that worry us; the members from Melbourne and Sydney want it this way, so I suppose that we have to have a look at it. The proposed sitting pattern should be thrown out, and if honourable members are fair dinkum and have the courage of their convictions they will throw it out, and we will continue with the present arrangement for which they voted just a few months ago, because as yet it has never been tried. 
asked the Minister for Social 
Services upon notice: 
Is it the view of the Government that pensioners resident in the north of Australia should receive no higher base pension than those resident in the south and that any additional payment to offset the higher cost of living in the north should be provided by the State Government concerned. 
Does the Commonwealth pay any additional amount or provide any additional benefits to the pensioners resident in the Northern Territory. 
If so, what is that payment or benefit and how is it applied. 
If no such additional payment or benefit is made, will he make immediate recommendations to the Government along these lines; if not, why not. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Civil Aviation, upon notice: 
What was the total subsidy paid to airline companies in Western Australia during each of the past 3 years. 
Which companies received the subsidy and what was the amount in each case. 
Which airline companies in Western Australia currently qualify for subsidy. 
asked the Minister for the Environment, Aborigines and the Arts, upon notice: 
When will the Department of Health and the Office of Aboriginal Affairs commence the 
Australia-wide study into the health problems of Aborigines. 
How many persons will be engaged in the study and what qualifications will be required in each case. 
Will' the study be carried out on a full-time basis. 
Has an estimate been made of the length of time required for completion of the study; if so, when will it be completed. 
When may positive results be expected to flow from the study. 
The Social Services Act 1947-1970 which the Bill before the House proposes to amend covers a number of items ranging from birth to death - from maternity allowances to funeral benefits. The Government proposes very small increases in just a few of the benefits but completely ignores the remainder, many of which should have been increased considerably quite a long time ago. A very substantial number of recipients, including the best part of 200,000' pensioners, will receive exactly nothing from the proposed amendments and, as a result of Government action in other areas, they will now be much worse off. Even where increases are given, such as in endowment for families of 3 or more children, a very large part, if not all, of that increase will be regathered by the Treasury through increased charges imposed by the Government upon several articles which the majority of families find necessary to purchase. I refer to the additional excise placed on tobacco, cigarettes and petrol and to the increased charges placed on postage stamps, telephone calls and rentals, television and radio licences, chemists prescriptions and so on, all of which place, a far greater burden on the poor than upon the rich. The very people for whom the Government pretends concern, the largs families, will be hit the hardest. 
The Government apparently considers it should be applauded for what the Minister for Social Services  (Mr Wentworth)  describes as social service payments at a record level. The Government wants people to believe that because social service payments are now higher than they have been before the people receiving those benefits are better off than they have ever been. Nothing could be further from the truth. Of course, the fact is that the cost of living has also reached a record high and pensioners and other recipients of social services are no better off and in most cases are much worse off in terms of the value of benefits they receive than they were several years ago. This was made very clear by the pensioners in the resolution of the Australian Commonwealth Pensioners Federation Conference in May of this year. The honourable member for Grayndler  (Mr Daly)  referred to that in his speech. I want to make it clear that the pensioners' views have not changed as a result of the proposals now before us and I quote from the letter sent to the Prime Minister  (Mr McMahon)  by the Federation on 27th August of this year. It said: 
Dear  Sir, 
On behalf of the Australian Commonwealth Pensioners' Federation this Federation condemns the failure of your Government in the 1971-72 Budget to pay due regard to humane and social values ... 
It continues:  . . pensioners will become the defenceless victims of the very budgetary measures proposed by your Government - increased telephone charges, postal charges and 2 cents a gallon on petrol will add to inflation and rising prices and largely nullify the Budget pension increases. The Government giving with one hand and taking back with the other by the method of indirect taxation. 
. the increases are unsatisfactory because the standard of living of pensioners has not been raised one iota. 
Further on it continues: 
It is clear from the provisions of the 1971-72 Budget that your Government is continuing the policy of patching up the outmoded social services structure of our country and indeed creates further inequalities and injustices within the present structure by denying a pension increase to a large number of pensioners. 
This Federation calls for an immediate examination of the whole Australian Social Service structure and the appointment of a Committee to carry out a full scale public inquiry into providing a more humane and equitable pensions system. 
Those remarks certainly do not show any signs of enthusiasm for the Government's policy. As you would know yourself,  Mr 
Deputy Speaker, the pensioners in Western Australia have also called for the setting up of a committee of inquiry. This can be seen from an article in yesterday's edition of the 'West Australian". The article said: 
Pensioners in Western Australia called for the Commonwealth Government to appoint a Senate committee of inquiry to look at anomalies in the Social Service Act causing distress to pensioners. 
They also want the committee to assess what proportion  of the average wage a pensioner should receive. 
So it is quite obvious that if we want to see justice done to social service recipients it is necessary to arrive at proper amounts and proper guidelines for the future. What belter way of achieving this is there than by setting up a committee of inquiry? The Government had the opportunity to do this today in this House by supporting the proposal of the honourable member for Oxley  (Mr Hayden).  Instead it completely rejected and ignored the requests of the pensioners. 
If we look at what has happened in the field of social services over the last few years it becomes quite obvious that the present Government during its 20-odd years in power has never made or attempted to make any detailed or close study of what is actually required to improve or even retain the purchasing power of the benefits or allowances in the Act. It is clear that the Government has no plan, system or pattern in what it does. It adopts a simple hit or miss attitude and it would be a safe bet that there is not one honourable member on the Government side who could tell us how the Government arrived at the increases of $1.25 and $1 in some pensions or the increase of $1 in the wife's allowance. I was rather interested to compare those increases with the Government's decision to double the charge for prescriptions under the pharmaceutical benefits scheme. The Treasurer  (Mr Snedden)  gave this explanation: 
The charge payable by patients has been SO cents since the charge was adopted in 1960.  A charge of SO cents appropriate eleven years ago, cannot be regarded as appropriate today. Accordingly, the Government proposes to introduce legislation to increase the charge to one dollar. 
That doubles the charge of 1960. Had the Government decided to follow the same line of thinking with regard to pensioners it would have increased age and invalid pensions for both single and married couples to  $20  a week and the pensions for B and C class widows to $17.50 a week. But apparently it uses a very different yardstick when measuring items of revenue than it uses on items of expenditure. The fact is that the cost of living has been steadily increasing ever since this Government took office and the value of the 1 and subsequently the value of the $1 has been steadily decreasing. No-one can deny that. Surely we are entitled to assume that each item of benefit now in the Social Services Act was inserted with the idea and for the purpose of assisting financially the persons concerned. If this is correct then surely it is simple logic that if the assistance is to be retained at only its original level of purchasing value there must be an increase in the amount of that assistance or benefit of each item at least once each year, measured against the overall standard of living. But this does not happen under the haphazard methods adopted by the Government. Tt obviously has no concern for the value of a benefit or its real purpose. 
The situation under this Government is one in which an increase in benefits is made sometimes once a year, sometimes once every 2 years, sometimes once in 3 years or 10 years, and in some cases never. For instance, with regard to married couple age and invalid pensioners, and widow pensioners, from 5th October 1961 up to 1st October 1964 there was no increase in the amount of pension, and similarly between 1st October 1964 and 13th October 1966. From 5th October 1961 until 13th October 1966 only one increase was given, and that was only 50c. Yet during the 3 years and the 2 years in which there had been no increase in pension there had been, on the other side of the ledger, a substantial increase in the cost of living. Therefore the pensioner couples obviously suffered a reduction in their living standard during the years referred to, and they have never caught up. 
Other items in the Social Services Act such as the wife's allowance and allowances for the first child of pensioners have gone as long as 9 years without any increase, with a total increase of only $2.35 over  a  period of 20 years, or an average of 12c a year. As for child endowment for the first child and the second child, the maternity allowance and the funeral benefit, it is anybody's guess as to how many years will elapse before we see any alteration in those items. Child endowment for the first child has not increased during the past 21 years. The maternity allowance and the S20 funeral benefit have not changed during the past 26 years. Even the funeral benefit paid to the surviving partner of a pensioner couple who is responsible for the burial of his or her partner has not altered over the past 6 years even though funeral costs have increased considerably. 
Supplementary assistance has not increased either during that same period of 6 years despite the increase in rents. The guardian's allowance remains the same as it was 6 years ago. Quite obviously the Government is in no way concerned about the diminishing value of the several benefits. No doubt this is why it has never bothered to determine a proper formula or base rate and why it is not interested in setting up a committee of inquiry. As I said, even if we wanted only to ensure the retention of the original purchasing power of pensions and allowances it would certainly be necessary to have regular reviews. But even if that proposal is accepted, it is not sufficient in itself, because, to my knowledge anyway, there has never been since this Government took office a proper inquiry or study to determine what the purchasing power should be. This being the case, it is quite wrong and indeed irresponsible simply to measure today's payments or the proposed payments against those of, say, 1949, as the Minister did, and say that they compare quite favourably. 
The plain fact is that the payments were not sufficient in 1940 under this Government. They were not sufficient in 1950 under this Government. They were not sufficient in 1960, and they are certainly nowhere near sufficient today. Experience over the past 30 years has made it abundantly clear that pensioners and others will not receive their proper entitlements until such time as a full inquiry is carried out to ascertain where benefits are required and what the commencing amounts should be. Actually, this Government has no intention of making regular and proper adjustments to the several social service items, whether in relation to cost of living, purchasing power, average male weekly earnings or anything else. The Minister made this quite clear when he said: 
In recent years, each Budget has laid special emphasis upon one aspect, in accordance with an overall plan. This Budget, as 1 have said, is especially oriented towards the needs of dependent children. 
This obviously means, if we look at past performances, that pensioners can forget about any further increases in child allowance for at least the next 3 years, or even perhaps for the next 7 years. Mothers can forget about any further increase in child endowment for at least 5 years, and perhaps 8 years. They can forget altogether, about the possibility of any increase for the first and second child. I say this because the Minister referred to an overall plan and because the last increase for the first child of a pensioner was in 1968, and before that in 1961. For the second, and other children the last increase was in 1969, and there was a period between 1963 and 1968 when there were no increases given at all. 
With regard to child endowment the increase now proposed for the third child is the first since 1964 and, for the fourth child, since 1967. As the increase in child endowment this time applies only in cases where there are more than 2 children in a family and as the amount is only 50c, at a time when the Government places emphasis on children's needs, it must be pretty obvious that any increase daring the next 4 years or so will be very small indeed, if there is any increase at all. Certainly there can be no thought about yearly adjustments. The Minister also said in his second reading speech: 
The standard of the Australian community as a whole has risen and pension recipients should share in that rise. 
That is quite an interesting comment which suggests that in the Government's view the general community standard has increased very considerably. If that is the Government's claim then, considering the very meagre increase in pensions - for instance, an increase of $8.25 in the rate for a married couple over a period of 15 years and an increase of $4.50 over the same period in the wife's allowance - it would be even more interesting to know how the Government arrived at what the Minister described as the pensioners' share. I would be interested to know on what basis the Government drew the comparison between standards today and those of, say, 1949 or 1950, because it is quite ridiculous to suggest that today a pensioner trying to exist on the pension alone is any better off than he was in similar circumstances several years ago. As a matter of fact, if we use the average male weekly earning rate as a basis of comparison - to my mind it is a fair comparison if we are going to talk about community standards - then pensioners trying to live on the pension today are substantially worse off than they were in the early 1940s. Some people may be surprised to learn that there are more than 600,000 people in that category. 
In 1946 the pensioners received 25.5 per cent of the average male weekly earnings. In the very first year of this Government's office that dropped to 21.9 per cent. Even after the increase proposed in this Bill the rate for the single pensioner will be down to about 19 per cent and that for the married couples will be even lower. So, as I said just now, it would be very interesting indeed to learn what measurement the Government used in relation to what it calls giving the pensioners a share of the rise in community standards. Government members when they are speaking on pension matters invariably use the maximum permissible income and property limits to try to justify their argument about pensioners receiving a fair deal. One very seldom hears them raise the case of the pensioner who is desperately trying to survive on the pension itself. Surely he is the very person who should be considered when the base rate is set. One should look at the person in the very worst circumstances when setting the base rate for pensions. The base rate, or the minimum rate, should be an amount which is sufficient to allow a single pensioner or a married couple, as the case may be, with no income or property to live in a normally dignified and independent manner similar to that of any ordinary Australian citizen. 
This is certainly not the case today and never has been the case as long as I can remember. The pensioners in those particular circumstances have always been forced to go without meals, to go without sufficient clothing and to go without blankets so that they could continue simply to exist. The same situation applies today, yet the Government evidently sees no cause for concern. The Government has also continued with its unjust and brutal treatment of married couples where only one is a pensioner. Those 2 people are expected to live on $5.25 less a week than a married couple who are both pensioners, even though the circumstances may be exactly the same. Here again the Government uses the old argument of what the wife may earn, to justify its disgraceful attitude towards those people. The Government's lack of concern for the plight of such couples is made clear by the fact that over a period of 19 years the wife's allowance has been increased only 4 times at an average increase of 24c a year. Then if we look at the Government's poor record in relation to short term unemployment and sickness benefits we find that in 1962 the benefits were $8.25 a week and were not increased until 1969. The amount paid in 1969 remains the same today with no proposal to increase it. At the present moment it is the magnificent amount of $10 a week. The Minister would spend more than that on a decent steak dinner. The benefit has increased by only $5 over a period of 21 years or approximately 24c a year. 
This is a completely disgraceful situation and certainly one where a committee of inquiry would recommend a substantial increase. Indeed, this would occur over the whole range of social services and no doubt the Government sees that the overall recommendations of such a committee would highlight the starvation attitude of the Government and that would be another reason why it would not want to set up such a committee. No matter how one looks at the pensions and other social service benefits it is obvious that the amounts provided in each case are quite inadequate to meet their original purpose. It is obvious that the majority of pensioners do not receive sufficient to permit them to live as normal Australian citizens. It is clear that parents with large families are not being assisted to the extent that they should be and that in turn the whole family is suffering in the areas of health and education. It is evident that there are significant areas of real poverty which are not diminishing and it is clear that these situations will not improve and will more likely deteriorate unless a full inquiry is held into all aspects of social services. I am pleased to support the amendment. 
Sitting suspended from  5.57  to  8  p.m. (Quorum formed) 
I address a question to the Minister representing the Minister for Civil Aviation. Has any decision been reached regarding the justifiable application of Trans-Australia Airlines to operate between Perth and Darwin? If so, when will the decision be made public? If no decision has yet been reached, when may we expect that it will be reached? 
asked the Postmaster-General, upon notice: 
Is it a fact that the proposed television station to serve the town of Esperance in Western Australia is unlikely to commence operations before early 1974. 
If so, is a major part of the delay due to the period of time (approximately 2 years) between placing the orders and the receipt of equipment obtained from overseas manufacturers. 
Has the equipment required for the Esperance Station been ordered; if so, when. 
If the order has not been lodged, what is the reason for the delay. 
Are there any other major delays affecting installation other than that relating to overseas equipment; if so, what are they. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Civil Aviation, upon notice: 
Is it a fact that a MacRobertson Miller Airlines Fokker F28 aircraft on a flight from Port Hedland to Derby on Saturday 31st July or thereabouts, was unable, due to fog, to land at either Broome or Derby and eventually landed at Fitzroy Crossing. 
If so, would this be a normal alternative under such conditions; if not, why was the aircraft flown, to Fitzroy . Crossing on the occasion in question. 
What amount of fuel was the aircraft carrying .when it first arrived over Derby; was it sufficient to satisfy, fuel requirements for a continuation of the flight to Wyndham or Kununurra. 
Were either Wyndham or Kununurra or both open for traffic. 
For what period of time did the aircraft remain within the Derby area before the decision was taken to fly to Fitzroy Crossing. 
What amount of fuel was the aircraft carrying when it: 
left Derby for Fitzroy Crossing; and (b) landed at Fitzroy Crossing. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Civil -Aviation, upon notice:  (1). Is Fitzroy Crossing in Western Australia a normal alternative to Derby, for Fokker Friendship and Fellowship aircraft when both Derby and Broome are fogbound. 
If hot, which aerodrome is -the normal alternative. 
Does Fitzroy Crossing have: (a) the normal and necessary facilities for night landing and take-off; and  tb) - an all weather airstrip. 
asked the PostmasterGeneral, upon notice: 
At which centres in the subdivisions of (a) Dundas, (b) Greenough, (c) Merredin, (d) Pilbara and (e) Yilgarn in the Electoral Division of Kalgoorlie is it intended to install an automatic telephone exchange in (i) 1971-72. (ii) 1972-73 and (iii) 1973-74. 
asked the PostmasterGeneral, upon notice: 
Is payment to the person in charge of an unofficial post office based on traffic of mail and telephone operating hours. 
If so, when during each of the last 5 years were the rates adjusted, and what was the percentage increase on each occasion. 
Can be say when the next adjustment will be made. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Civil Aviation, upon notice: 
How many (a) pilots, (b) hostesses, (c) engineers and (d) ground staff (other than engineers) were employed by MacRobertson Miller Airlines during each of the past four years. 
How many personnel in each of these groups are employed at present. 
The Bill which we are debating at the moment proposes to amend the Railway Agreement (Western Australia) Act of 1961. As the honourable member for Newcastle  (Mr Charles Jones)  pointed out, the Act came about by agreement between the Commonwealth and the Western Australian State government of the day. It set out the terms and conditions by which the Commonwealth would provide a certain amount of financial assistance to Western Australia for the construction of a standard gauge line between Kalgoorlie and Kwinana. The purpose of the amendment is to remove the time limit originally imposed in relation to the expenditure incurred by Western Australia on the project and also to relate the provision of 85 per cent of the cost by the Commonwealth to the current estimates. As a result of the proposal to remove the time limit being agreed to the recent expenditure that has been incurred since 14th June 1970 and future expenditure will be accepted by the Commonwealth as a legitimate charge against the standard gauge project. 
The rejection of the amendment, however, would mean that any expenditure incurred by Western Australia on the project since 14th June last year and from now on would not be accepted by the Commonwealth, because the Act in its existing form lays down very specific limits in that regard. To allow that situation to continue would be quite unfair and quite unreasonable because, as the. Minister pointed out, it has been necessary for certain design and expansion work on the project to be carried out which could not in many respects have been envisaged in the initial stages. In addition to being unable to complete the project on the date originally planned, there is also the matter of the increased cost beyond the original estimate. So it is only proper that the terms of the agreement in relation to the 85 per cent provision should be extended into the  additional  charges. Therefore, under all the circumstances, which were  in  most respects either unforeseen  in  the first place or unavoidable as  time  went on, the proposal to extend the date of acceptance of charges and the extension of the 85 per cent proviso  is  no more than fair and reasonable and deserves the support of this House. 
In the long run the money will  all  be returned to the Commonwealth because of the original agreement that was made between the Commonwealth and the Liberal-Country Party government in Western Australia in 1961 which placed upon the taxpayers of Western Australia the unjustified burden of repaying every cent which the Commonwealth provides. This  will  come about - the honourable member for Newcastle mentioned this - because of the interest which has to be paid on the loan money. That interest will be at least equal to and most likely substantially in excess of the grant which the Commonwealth made. In effect, the Western Australian taxpayers  will  eventually repay the total loan plus the grant, plus the State's original commitment and so will finish up paying for the whole project even though the project itself for a standard gauge railway will be of considerable benefit to Australia generally. 
That cost upon the Western Australian taxpayer has increased very considerably since the agreement was first drawn up. The original estimate of the cost in 1961 for the entire project, including the line and associated works such as carriage sheds, passenger terminals and rolling stock, was $82,400,000. In February 1965 the estimate was revised to $110m. I note now in the Minister's second reading speech that the current estimate is $125m, or an increase over the 10 years of something like $40,500,000. Even  in  1961 the estimate then of $82m-odd was being measured critically against the estimate made in 1945 by  Sir Harold  Clapp of $16,500,000 for a standard gauge line between Kalgoorlie and Fremantle. In 1961 the estimate was 5 times greater than  in  1945 and the current estimate is 7 times the amount in 1945. The amount then, of course, was for a distance of only 419 miles as against the 528 miles for the present project But even so, it will be found that including associated works and rolling stock the cost per mile of construction today is something like $236,700 per mile as against some $39,300 per mile in 1945 - a rather significant difference. No doubt the various associated works suggested in 1945 will be nowhere . near as extensive as they are today and the same thing would apply in relation to the rolling stock. But even so, simply looking at the construction cost of the line itself, it will be found that today's estimate is several times that of 1945. 
I have drawn the comparison of costs today with those in 1945 for 2 very good reasons: Firstly, had Labor been reelected in 1949, it would have gone ahead immediately with the standardisation as a Commonwealth responsibility, as a cost not to the State but to the Commonwealth, because of its defence value. It could have been expected to be completed by the latter part of the 1950s, and as a result would have been providing additional revenue both to the Commonwealth and to the States over the past 20 years. The difference between Labor's attitude and that of the present Government was that it took the present Government 13 years eventually to get round to doing the job, and by that time the cost had increased very substantially  -  I have just referred to the figures - so the Government got around that point by ensuring that the taxpayers of just one State would carry the burden. Actually, of course, it is extremely doubtful whether the project would have been commenced yet if Broken Hill Pty Co. Ltd had not applied some pressure regarding its requirements in relation to the transport of iron ore from Koolyanobbing to the coast, and .this is made evident from what  Mr Menzies  as Prime Minister said in 1961 when he introduced the Bill to amend the Act which we are now considering.  Mr Menzies  said: 
We- 
That is his Government -   . . subsequently embarked on a close examination of this railway project in consultation with both the Government of Western Australia and Broken Hill Pty Co. Ltd. We satisfied ourselves that construction of the railway had a vital place in that company's plans for a major expansion of the steel industry. 
So it was quite clear that BHP made the decision or at least made the request and the Government quickly jumped to attention. That was the only reason which caused the Government to see that the standard gauge line was necessary. The second reason for drawing attention to the difference between costs in 1945 and costs in 1971 is to show how delays, and quite often unnecessary delays, can mean a very much greater eventual cost which in turn places a heavier than necessary burden on those who foot the bill - the taxpayers - for railway construction. In addition the delays, particularly long delays, mean that revenue from the project concerned is unavailable to the interested authority. 
I would like to point out that right at this moment delays are being allowed to occur and are in fact being enforced with regard to certain other necessary railway projects in Western Australia which actually should be proceeding right now. I refer to the fact that at the present time the Government of Western Australia is seeking financial assistance from the Commonwealth to construct a standard gauge line between Kalgoorlie and Esperance via Kambalda. I want to draw the attention of the House to the similarity of that project to the standard gauge line with which the Bill now before the House is concerned. The standard gauge line between Kalgoorlie and Kwinana proceeds via Koolyanobbing for the purpose of providing for BHP a more convenient and less costly transport of iron ore to the coast. The line from Kalgoorlie to Esperance would go via Kambalda for the purpose of more convenient and less costly transport of nickel concentrates of Western Mining Corporation to the port of Esperance. 
One difference between the 2 projects is that the extra miles of construction were many more with regard to the line via Koolyanobbing than would be the case with the Kalgoolie-Esperance line. As a matter of fact the extra distance to include Kambalda would be minimal so far as that line is concerned. The KalgoorlieEsperance standard gauge line is a project which should receive immediate Commonwealth financial backing, not just because of its local importance but because of its value to Australia generally. Let me point out to the House that extensions such as this were envisaged in the schedule to the 1961 agreement which is now before the House and which I now quote: 
And whereas in order to assist in the defence and the development cf the Commonwealth of Australia to facilitate interstate trade and commerce and to secure maximum efficiency and economy in railway operations, it is desirable that there should be a standard gauge railway between Kalgoorlie and Perth and other places in the State of Western Australia. 
It cannot be denied that a standard gauge line between Kalgoorlie and Esperance which links with such a line to Perth and the eastern States would be in keeping with that particular part of the 1961 agreement in all respects. Defence and development, interstate trade, maximum efficiency and economy would all be met. I would like also to point out that the late  Sir Harold  Clapp, as Director-General of Land Transport, when he made his report in 1945 on the standardisation of the Kalgoorlie-Perth line referred to the advantages which could and would be gained from linking that proposed line with ports. As everyone knows, Esperance is a port, and a very good one, with facilities capable of handling all the goods, substantial as they would be, which would be transported on the standard gauge line.  Sir Harold  Clapp also said: 
The construction of this independent line in Western Australia is the simplest way to provide the inter-capital gauge link, pending the conversion at a later date of the entire West Australian system. 
So in both cases, the 1945 report and the 1961 agreement, the linking of the KalgoorlieFremantle line with other State lines on a standard gauge basis was contemplated as a gradual overall standard system. It may be interesting to note that  Sir Harold  Clapp estimated that to convert the entire system in Western Australia on 1945 values would cost in today's money a little more than $95m. If we look at the recent estimate for the line between Kalgoorlie and Kwinana we can put the cost today of converting the entire system at about $875m, using  Sir Harold  Clapp'. figures as a comparison. What this does, of course, is highlight the fact that the longer the delay in constructing such lines the greater will be the cost eventually, but more particularly it makes it very evident that where, by constructing standard gauge lines there will be considerable advantage immediately and in the future, those lines which it is physically and financially possible to construct should be proceeded with immediately. Because of the ever increasing costs, and as the construction of the Kalgoorlie-Esperance line is in fact in keeping with the intention of the 1961 standard gauge agreement, it is difficult to understand the Federal Government's reluctance and, apparently at this date anyway, its refusal to agree to extend to the State Government of Western Australia the financial assistance it is seeking. 
It must be realised that a standard gauge line between Kalgoorlie and Esperance would be the means whereby much larger loads of nickel concentrates than at present could be transported from Kambalda immediately upon completion of the project. In addition concentrates from other nickel mines, such as International Nickel, Anaconda and so on would also be transported in large quantities when those mines reached production stage. The line would also serve the salt company at Widgiemooltha which transports the salt to Esperance for export - another very significant industry. 
In addition to its benefit in the mining field the line would be of considerable assistance to the farming industry in the area beyond Norseman in relation to the freighting of stock to or from the eastern States or Perth markets. At the present time stock and other freight either has to be transhipped at Kalgoorlie or, if going to Perth, has to be sent by road. Nickel concentrates from Kambalda or the refined article from the refineries some 9 to 10 miles south of Kalgoorlie could be transported direct to either Fremantle or Esperance as desired instead of, as would happen under today's system, requiring the process of road haulage into Kalgoorlie. It must a'so be remembered that the 1961 standard gauge agreement, which the Bill we are now discussing proposes to amend, would have been the means of providing some of the rolling stock such as passenger coaches and ordinary goods cars and trucks which could be used on the Esperance line. So in that respect those cars and other vehicles would be serving a dual purpose. 
The fact is that a standard gauge line between Kalgoorlie and Esperance would be of general benefit not only to the Western Mining Company and the State of Western Australia but also to the rest of Australia. It must be built eventually and it would be false economy to delay its construction any more. Actually the Western Australian Government is seeking only partial financial assistance towards the construction of the line and in this respect, to my mind anyway, it is being more tha: reasonable. When we remember that the standardisation between Kalgoorlie and Fremantle is, as is pointed out in the Schedule to the Agreement, desirable from both the defence aspect and the genera! development and economy of Australia we cannot cease to be amazed that a major part of the cost was not provided from the defence vote and at least the bulk of the remainder by the Department of National Development and the Treasury without any or very little charge to Western Australia. Therefore, as Western Australian taxpayers were committed by the Liberal-Country Party Government of that State in 1961 to paying in fact the whole of the cost of the Fremantle-Kalgoorlie project it would be no more than reasonable for the Commonwealth to pay the total cost of the KalgoorlieEsperance link. 
I would also like to point out that in just a few years time, perhaps only 5 or 6, a standard gauge line may well be required starting at Kalgoorlie and extending into the nickel areas in the north and north-east so that concentrates, etc., from those areas can also be transported direct to either Esperance or Fremantle as required. Surely the extension of the system as I have indicated will increase the value of the existing standard gauge both from Kalgoorlie to Fremantle and also from Kalgoorlie to the Eastern States. I appreciate that we cannot pick the finance required off trees but it must be realised that it will need to be provided only over a spread of years, and here again is a further good reason why the Esperance line should be proceeded with immediately. 
Unfortunately it is apparently the policy of the Federal and State Liberal and Country Party Governments that mining companies should build their own lines to transport their products to the ports or elsewhere. This in turn means, of course, that the lines belong to the companies for ever more and the State Government or the Commonwealth Government, as the case may be, receives no revenue whatsoever from their use. This is the situation with regard to the railways serving the iron ore projects in the north of Western Australia. The lines were built by the companies concerned and the engines and rail cars belong to the company. Even if the mines continue for another 100 years Western Australia will receive not one cent in freight charges. 
This to me is a false method of economy: Save a few million dollars in the first instance and lose several million dollars over a period. It is quite obvious when we look at the pay load which the locomotives haul on those iron ore lines that the whole rail project will pay for itself in a reasonably short space of time. I understand that the Western Mining Company has offered to finance the building of the standard gauge line between Kalgoorlie and Esperance to which I just referred, but it wants the money paid back at about 7 per cent interest and they also want freight concessions on the ore and concentrates they send over the line. This would also, in my opinion, be a 'false economy proposition as far as the Western Australian Government is concerned, but unfortunately it is not in a position to find the necessary finance itself and must rely on the Commonwealth to come to its assistance. I conclude by pointing out that the proposal by Western Australia is actually a cheap method for the Commonwealth and should be grasped very quickly unless, of course, the Commonwealth intends, as if. should, to foot the whole bill itself. 
Sitting suspended from 6 to 8 p.m. 
I address a question to the Minister for Labour and National Service. Is it correct that under the proposed rural reconstruction employment training scheme a farm worker cannot qualify unless immediately prior to dismissal he was employed by a farmer who is himself eligible for assistance? If so, will the Minister say why a farm worker's eligibility should be tied to that of his employer, particularly if the worker is dismissed purely because the farmer decides to run the property without help? Is it also correct that irrespective of experience with other farmers, a farm worker to qualify must have at least 12 months continuous service with the employer who actually dismisses him? Does the son of a farmer require only 6 months service to qualify? Will the Minister say why there should be such differentation, and will he also tell us why domestics are excluded entirely? 
asked the Postmaster 
General, upon notice: 
At which centres in the sub-divisions of (a) Dundas, (b) Gascoyne, (c) Greenough, (d) Kimberley, (e) Leonora, (f) Merredin, (g) Murchison, (h) Pilbara and (i) Yilgarn in the Electoral Division of Kalgoorlie are unofficial post offices established. 
Which of these offices have (a) a manual telephone exchange and (b) an automatic exchange. 
During what hours is each exchange open. 
asked the PostmasterGeneral, upon notice: 
Is it a fact that his 'Department is restricted in the installation of public telephone boxes and private telephones at Kambalda in Western Australia due to the exchange and certain other equipment being owned by the Western Mining Company. 
If so, is the general community of Kambalda being denied facilities which should otherwise be available. 
Does his Department intend to purchase the exchange and other equipment so that the town of Kambalda can be properly served with normal telephone facilities; if so, when. 
If there is no intention to purchase at present, will he take urgent action on the matter. 
I present the following petition: 
To the Honourable the  Speaker  and Members of the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled: The petition of the undersigned citizens of the Commonwealth respectfully sheweth: 
That the immediate prospect in East Bengal is of mass starvation on a scale unprecedented in modern times. 
That only quick settlement of the Bangla DeshPakistan conflict will make it possible to avert the death of many millions. 
We therefore urge the Honourable Members to: 
Raise to $1Om Australian aid to refugees now in India from East Pakistan. 
Support all efforts to guarantee the fully autonomous development of the people of Bangla Desh. And your petitioners, as in duty bound, will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
We are debating the estimates for the Department of the Treasury, and in the short time of 10 minutes at my disposal I want to deal with 3 subjects. Firstly, I want to refer to the estimated expenditure for this year on providing assistance for the gold mining industry, lt is a very substantial and unwarranted reduction on the actual expenditure of last year and an even more substantial reduction on expenditure in 1967 and 1968. Last year the expenditure amounted to approximately $2. 9m, but the estimate for this year is the unrealistic figure of only $1.9m, a reduction of almost Sim. Of course, this simply shows that the Treasury is completely aware of the decline which must take place in the industry under the present rate of assistance. That Sim represents a reduction of 125,000 ounces of gold and a loss of well over $4m in export return and value to the industry. It is a clear indication of just how serious the decline will be in all respects. It is a decline which could be prevented if the Government were prepared to grant just that little bit of extra help which would not only bring about an increase in production but also, much more importantly, would mean that many more men would be employed and many more families would be retained in or attracted to the areas concerned. 
It is a normal procedure in estimates debates for the Minister in charge of the particular department or his representative to answer any queries, suggestions or criticisms offered by honourable members during the course of the debate. For that reason I raise the subject of assistance to the gold mining industry in  the  hope that the Minister will give me soma definite answers and information. I remind him that several weeks ago the Prime Minister  (Mr McMahon)  assured us that he would give the matter further consideration. To this day we have heard nothing further from him. Because of its value  m  the employment field, the Minister for Labour and National Service  (Mr Lynch)  should also be very vitally interested in ensuring the continuation of the industry. In that regard I would like to point out that the deterioration now being experienced in the world market for aluminium has brought a report from Alcoa of Australia Ltd showing that between now and July of next year that company will be retrenching at least 1,500 men from its projects in West: ern Australia alone. 
In addition, the  President  of the Chamber of Mines of Western Australia has made it very clear that we must expect a lull in nickel sales during at least the next 3 or 4 years. This also may cause a situation in which there will be no demand for additional workers in that industry. Further, during the 18 months up to March approximately 4,000 farmers, share farmers and farm workers were obliged to move away from their normal source of living and seek employment elsewhere. Unfortunately, that move will continue. We must also consider the forecast regarding Japan's intention to reduce her steel output. If this comes about it will undoubtedly have an adverse effect on future demands for a work force in the new areas of iron ore development in the north. Those several reports and the general concern of the unions, I suggest, must make it clear that a very serious situation may shortly develop. That situation will be very much worse if the existing gold mines close down, as they certainly will do if the estimated assistance of Si. 9m is not increased very substantially. 
Surely the threat, indeed the certainty, of large scale unemployment calls for. positive action by the Treasury to provide reasonable finance to open up new avenues or to extend existing avenues of employment, as would be the case in relation to the gold mining industry. Surely the Government must now realise the error of its claim previously that plenty of alternative employment would be available to the mine workers if the mines did close. It is important to realise that for the year ended 30th June 1968 the amount of assistance to the industry was S4.3m. In 1967 it was $3.3m. So it can readily be seen that the request for a 50 per cent increase in subsidy to save the remnants of the mines in the circumstances that we can see for the future is not unreasonable. After all, it is unlikely to raise the total amount above the 1967 figure and certainly not above the amount for 1968. I  suggest that  it would be substantially less than what we would have to pay out to import gold for industrial purposes alone. 
I think we should compare the amount with what will have to be paid out in relation to the rural reconstruction employment training scheme. It must be clear to all those people who are not deliberately blind that a serious situation is developing with regard to retrenchments and dismissals from industry generally. It must be clear that other avenues of employment are going to be difficult to find. It must be clear that the retention of the gold mining activities, by granting further Treasury assistance, could go a long way towards solving this particular problem as it did in the early 1930s. There is little more I can add in the limited time of this debate to make the picture any more clear. I simply satisfy myself by asking the Government to take a common sense, more practical and responsible view. I ask the Minister to advise the Committee of his Government's intention in that regard. 
The other 2 matters 1 wish to deal with are zone allowances under the Income Tax Act, and sales tax. Both of these matters are of considerable interest and concern to a large number of people in the northern areas of Australia. Of course, when seeking improvements to the zone allowance provisions one must bear in mind that when the Labor Party introduced them in the first place, in 1945, the then Leader of the Liberal-Country Party coalition,  Mr Menzies,  and his  Deputy, Mr Holt,  strenuously opposed the provisions. Unfortunately, experiences during more recent years indicate that the present Government takes the same view. Certainly the zone allowance provisions of the Act fall far short in several respects of what is actually required. While the present Government cannot be blamed for the initial legislation, it- can be blamed for not correcting several of the shortcomings in the Act during the 20-odd years in which it has been in office. After all, there are a few anomalies which could be corrected very easily if the Government had a mind to do so. 
At its recent conference in Launceston the Australian Labor Party reaffirmed its decision that, upon becoming the Government, the existing anomalies in relation to zone allowances would be eliminated speedily. One anomaly which requires attention is that which prevents a taxpayer with almost 12 months continuous residence in a tax zone from obtaining any concession while at the same time the taxpayer living next door to him can get the full benefit even though he has been there only 6 months. We have continually asked the Government to correct that anomaly but it has always refused to do so on the ground that it raises other problems. Let me refer to the situation in which a taxpayer on an offshore island or on the mainland nearby can obtain a full concession while another taxpayer working on an offshore oil rig between the mainland and the offshore island cannot qualify. That is a really stupid situation that could be corrected simply by adding about 3 words to the particular section of the Act. 
The argument raised in relation to sales tax, and quite properly raised, by people residing long distances from metropolitan areas is that sales tax is applied on the wholesale price of the article whether the price be at Port Hedland, Perth, Wyndham or anywhere else. In other words, sales tax is also paid by the final purchaser on whatever it costs the wholesaler to freight the article to the place of sale. Here again I would like to point out that the Labor Party, if it were the Government, would take the necessary action to amend the existing sales tax regulations to remove the inclusion of freight from capital cities to country centres as part of the landed cost of any item. There are other things I wished to say, but as my time is almost concluded I would like to take the opportunity of extending my thanks to the Deputy Commissioner of Taxation and his staff in Perth for the courtesy that they have always extended to me and for their prompt attention to matters I have raised with them. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Mr Hallett)  - Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
One section of the estimates we are debating relates to the Department of Primary Industry which is involved in the decisions and also the policy of the Government in relation to agricultural prospects and aspects. Prospects for a large number of people in rural areas, who are both directly and indirectly concerned, are certainly very grim at the present time, and very little chance of improvement can be seen under the dilly-dallying, hit or miss methods adopted by the Government. The fact that the Government has introduced the rural reconstruction employment training scheme is proof in itself that the Government does not expect to solve many of the problems facing rural industry and that it expects that many farmers and other people will be obliged to move away from their normal means of obtaining a livelihood. 
The seriousness of the situation in Western Australia is obvious from the fact that, according to the statistics, to March of this year some 4,000 farmers, share farmers and farm workers were obliged to seek some other form of livelihood. Of course, since March many more have been obliged to look elsewhere for employment. Unfortunately this movement cannot help but continue unless something positive is done by the Government. Very few farmers have received any worthwhile assistance under the proposals that the Government has introduced, and indeed in a number of instances the assistance has gone more to people who are in better circumstances than to those who are desperately in need of ii. Also, those who are in desperate need are finding it difficult to qualify for assistance, or if they do qualify, the amount they receive is nowhere near sufficient. It appears that this is largely due to  the Government's failure properly to examine or evaluate the probable effects of its proposals before it introduced them. 
In at least one section of rural industry the Government, by its own deliberative action, has caused quite serious financial problems which would have been avoided had the Government adopted a more responsible and reasonable attitude. I refer to what has happened to cotton growers on the Ord River. In March 1969 the then Minister for Primary Industry - the present Minister for Trade and Industry  (Mr Anthony),  who is at the table - introduced into this place a Bill which was designed to phase out the cotton bounty over a period of 3 years. The time has arrived when no more bounty will be paid unless something is done to reintroduce it. The Minister's announcement, prior to the introduction of the Bill into the House, caused consternation amongst not only the growers themselves but also many other people who were concerned in various ways. The growers most seriously affected by the decision are those on the Ord River who are actually the pioneers of the cotton industry in the northern areas of Australia. They are the people who, in the initial stages of the project, had been led to believe by both the Federal Government and the then 
Liberal-Country Party Government in Western Australia that their efforts and willingness to establish a cotton growing industry would always be recognised as a very valuable contribution to the development of the north. 
Those farmers were encouraged to go into this area and to invest their money in farms on which in the initial stages they were obliged to grow cotton, whether they considered it to be the best crop or not. While there was nothing by way of a written or verbal agreement relating to future financial assistance, I suggest it was accepted generally that these farmers would be protected as far as possible. But this Government adopted the reverse attitude and removed the protection which the farmers enjoyed. When the Bill to phase out the bounty was introduced into the Parliament the Australian Labor Party proposed an amendment which included the following 2 provisions: That an immediate review of the economic position of the raw cotton industry be made with the object of providing adequate financial assistance to those areas which were still in need of the bounty and which had not had time to become established viable economic units, such as the Ord River and the Queensland Irrigation areas, and that 'special payments to assist the developing areas to become established viable economic units be implemented within section 96 of the Constitution'. The Government rejected our amendment when every Government supporter - Country Party and Liberal Party members alike - voted against it. 
During the debate a member of the Country Party said that I was being quite unreasonable in proposing that the bounty should be raised to such an extent that it would make cotton growing on the Ord an economic proposition. I freely admit that it was my intention to allow the Ord farmers to operate on an economic basis - and surely they are still entitled to do so. The then Minister for Primary Industry said that cotton growers in Australia, other than those on the Namoi, lacked efficiency, which was a very unfair statement, particularly considering the situation on the Ord River. However, that was said in 1969 and I do not want to pursue it further. My reason for raising the whole subject today is because of the difficulties which growers will face because of the complete loss of the bounty from now on, and also because it is now claimed that a new type of cotton is being tested at the Ord and that as a result of the testing growers, in 3 to 5 years, could produce cotton on a profitable basis without receiving any bounty or any other kind of assistance. It is reported that trials so far carried out at the Kimberley Research Station have proved that cotton hybrids yield up to 22 per cent more than the commercial crops of more recent plantings have yielded. The report claims that trials using African and American plants are considered to be perhaps the most important development yet to take place with cotton in the Ord area. It has been stated that the hybrids have yielded 400 lb more lint per acre than normal high yielding commercial varieties, which means an additional $120 per acre to the grower. 
This is certainly important and encouraging, but unfortunately cotton growers in the Ord area, who will receive no bounty payments at all between now and the 3 to 5 years required to develop the new plant, will find it very difficult and perhaps impossible to survive. Certainly any decision to suspend cotton growing on the Ord during the intervening years also would create difficulties and no doubt cause very serious further economic loss, and may not even offer any solution at all. Anyway, because of the possibilities which this new plant offers, it seems a reasonable suggestion and in fact a very good reason why the Government should immediately reexamine the bounty situation with a view to reintroducing the bounty. What now appears likely to occur in relation to this hybrid and its economic potential certainly highlights the wisdom of our 1969 amendment, in which we said that a review should have been carried out and that while that review was being carried out the bounty should be continued. 
As regards the re-establishment of the bounty for a few years or, if that is claimed to be unconstitutional, the granting of some other form of assistance, I should like to remind the Minister for Trade and Industry that during the course of the debate in 1969 he referred to the possibility or even perhaps gave a promise of making a review of the situation if the industry got into difficulties. I am aware that the Minister qualified what he said by adding that he was referring to the industry and not just to a section of it. But nevertheless, considering that a section faces serious difficulties, the possibilities now being offered for the future and also the area in which the industry can be developed, there is a very good reason why the position of this section of the industry should receive special attention. If it is claimed that the bounty cannot be applied to one section without including the whole industry, then there is certainly no obstacle to prevent the Commonwealth from making a specific grant to the State, to allow the government of that State to provide the required assistance. So I ask the Minister for Trade and Industry whether he can give any assurance now that the Department of Primary Industry will inquire into these new possibilities, if it has not already done so, or otherwise whether he will raise with the Cabinet the question of granting additional assistance to the industry. 
In conclusion, and to show how ideas or views must change with the times, while reading the speeches on the Raw Cotton Bounty Bill in 1969 I was interested to see that the then Minister for Primary industry ridiculed the idea of giving a subsidy to wool growers. He was trying to find fault with our amendment which was designed to continue the cotton bounty. He suggested that if the Parliament followed Labor's ideas in relation to granting assistance to exporting industries, we could have the ridiculous situation in which someone said at some time in the future that the wool industry should be subsidised. The Minister asked: 'Where do you finish if you follow that sort of policy?' Does the Minister remember that? Anyway, we know what the situation is in that regard today. So any decision to reestablish the cotton bounty could not be rubbished in that way, as it was on the last occasion. 
In speaking to the estimates now before the Committee, I intend to confine my remarks to a subject which in my opinion is receiving very little, if any, real attention from the Department of the Environment, Aborigines and the Arts. I refer to the urgent requirement to improve substantially what in many areas at the moment can only be described as the deplorable and disgusting conditions in which many Aborigines are expected to exist - conditions which in turn are largely responsible for the high mortality rate among infant children, for the dreaded disease of leprosy and for several other ills and complaints from which so many Aborigines suffer. Naturally if the problem is to be solved the Commonwealth Departments of Health, Housing and Social Services will also need to be involved. But as I see it the initial responsibility lies with the Department of the Environment, Aborigines and the Arts. 
Information supplied by the then Minister for Health,  Dr Forbes,  in reply to questions asked of him last year regarding infant mortality makes it fairly clear that until such time as living standards are substantially raised the mortality rate and the incidence of leprosy is unlikely to diminish and other complaints will flourish. For instance, the then Minister for Health told me: 
The causes of death vary according to the particular age group and geographical area, but in general prematurity, gastro-enteritis, chest infections, malnutrition, dehydration and infections such as those causing meningitis all play a significant part. 
He said that the major role played in causing deaths in Aboriginal children between the age of one month and one year in Western Australia was highlighted by figures indicating that around 92 per cent of the deaths in those age groups were associated with infections of one sort or another. The Minister also informed me that in some areas malnutrition is almost certainly of much greater significance than it would appear at first, due to the underlying effect in enhancing the development of terminal infections. So it seems quite certain that the causes leading up to mortality, as spelt out by the then Minister for Health, are closely associated with as I said earlier, deplorable living conditions which could in turn largely be removed if the conditions were raised to a much higher standard. 
It would not be a simple process to do this, but it would not be over difficult if the Commonwealth itself were prepared to set up the necessary body to carry out the work or otherwise ensure sufficient finance to the States and to those people who are prepared to carry out such work and in fact devote themselves to it. In the latter respect, I refer to the Australian Inland Mission and other organisations which are at present doing a sterling job in very difficult conditions, largely due to a lack of sufficient finance. For instance, in 1966 the AIM began to employ a sister to do field work in Aboriginal care. Judging from the reports she subsequently has submitted there can be no doubt that, provided reasonable finance and equipment is available together with sufficient staff, a large part of the existing problem could be removed in a fairly short time. The work would probably have to be continued over several years to educate properly the parents and children, but even in the short term it would certainly be well worth while. 
Unfortunately, time does not permit me to read the reports of the sister of the AIM, which prove just what can be done in that respect. But I will refer to a few passages just to give the Committee some idea of what this lady set out to do and what she achieved in a fairly short time. She worked an area around Fitzroy Crossing where there was a population of some 700 Aborigines. During 3 years she drove a Land-Rover approximately 39,000 miles, which is no mean feat in that sort of country and climate.  Her  original aims were to cut down the infant mortality rate and admissions to hospital by raising the standard of child care. Reference is made in the reports to gastro-enteritis which was prevalent and dangerous in its results. It is important to point out that there were 15 infant deaths in the Fitzroy Hospital' during the 3 years prior to this sister's work but only 2 deaths during the 3 years she was working in the area. That result alone is indicative of what can be done. The report refers to trachoma, which was almost 100 per cent active when the first check was carried out. A further important point is raised in this regard. After almost 12 months treatment with eye drops the 100 per cent activity amongst the preschool children remained the same but at. the United Aborigines Mission school where the children were housed in dormitories and had regular balanced meals, fruit and vegetables, and their own towels and face washers, there was an approximately 80 per cent cure, which shows what proper living conditions can mean. 
The sister states that in the final year she gave 271 immunisations of tetanus toxoid to adults. She also introduced Sabin oral polo vaccine which she said entailed a tremendous amount of work setting up a card system for almost 800 people. In order to undertake leprosy checks she attended the Derby leprosarium to learn what was required in that field and subsequently took leprosy smears. Then in her final summing up. after all that work and effort, she said that in Fitzroy just a toehold had been gained but little lasting value would result because of the lack of security and adequate equipment and the need for a team approach to the problem. In her second year report the sister had this to say: 
I have come to realise more fully that unless all of us here, working for the benefit of the natives, start working together as a team we will achieve nothing. I realise also that the station people will have to be involved more tellingly with their natives and provide more facilities and  accountrements  for better hygiene. At present my maximum efforts only bring minimum results because all I am doing is to teach their natives to survive in filth. 
I am quite sure that anyone who reads the reports to which I have referred will have not only a great respect and admiration for the sister concerned but also will quickly realise that a concentrated drive must bc made on the problems referred to by upgrading the living standards of the Aboriginal people, particularly in the northern parts of Australia. This can be done only if the Commonwealth accepts its proper responsibility, which it was given in 1967 as the result of a referendum. The Department of the Environment, Aborigines and the Arts is surely the department which must take the initiative even though it will have to obtain the co-operation and assistance of those other departments to which I have referred. 
In the early part of last year I directed a question to the then Minister-in-Charge of Aboriginal Affairs regarding these particular problems. As a result of the reply which I received some 12 months later - it took him 12 months to reply, so he must have given it some fairly deep consideration - 1 was hopeful that at long last something was to be done. The Minister told me: 
The eradication of leprosy amongst Aboriginal people of Australia is seen by the Commonwealth as being within the framework of the general improvement of the health of Aborigines. My Office of Aboriginal Affairs and the Commonwealth Department of Health are planning an Australia wide study of these health problems that will produce a programme to improve the problem areas that we know exist. 
That reply naturally led me to believe that a move was at last being worked out. So I asked another question to find out when the study would commence and also when positive results could be expected from the study. I am sorry that the Minister is not interested enough to listen. 
On 27th August of this year I received a reply which was, as I see it, a complete contradiction of the reply I received earlier. The answer to the second question was in these terms: 
At the present time no specific survey into the health problems of Aborigines, either on an Australiawide basis or in Aboriginal communities and fringe settlements, is under consideration by the Department of Health and Office of Aboriginal Affairs. 
So we have a situation in which we were told in February that the 2 departments were actually planning an Australia-wide study of Aboriginal health problems, and then in August we were informed that such a study was not even being considered. Does this mean that the new Minister has banned a study earlier proposed, or does it mean that the previous Minister was a little reckless in his reply? I certainly hope that the Minister for the Environment, Aborigines and the Arts, who is at the table, notwithstanding that his interest seems to be very little, will give us some satisfactory explanation of the contradiction that exists between those 2 replies. 
asked the Treasurer, upon notice: 
When were the (a) boundary, (b) amounts of deduction and (c) qualifying period sections of the zone allowance provisions of the Income Tax Assessment Aci last (i) amended and (ii) considered with a view to amendment. 
ls it the intention of the Government to amend these provisions. 
If so, will they be amended during the Budget sittings; if not, why not. 
The Bill we are presently discussing proposes the adoption of a scheme which carries the title of wool deficiency payments whereby the wool growers whose wool does not sell at or above a certain price at auction or by private treaty will receive, as a result of this scheme, some amount of money which will be determined on the actual price they receive for the wool as against the notional price of approximately 36c a lb greasy. Because it is impossible to accurately or even approximately forecast the future state of the wool market and as a result the approximate auction or return price for wool, it is also impossible to determine the actual or even approximate amount of money that will be required to finance the scheme. In addition, it is an across the board scheme whereby every wool grower, irrespective of his means, will qualify to participate and to obtain payment. The only qualification to be met is that the wool grower must have received for his wool at a normal sale a price below the amount laid down. Furthermore, it is impossible to know what amount of wool will sell short. 
Notice of this Bill was given in the Budget Speech of the Treasurer  (Mr Snedden)  last August and the estimated amount of expenditure he gave for this year was $60m. I do not know whether he was simply trying to fool the taxpayers or had himself been badly advised, but the fact of the matter is that an amount of $60m will be nowhere near sufficient if the present price trend continues, and is more likely to be in the vicinity of $120m or $130m. I would like to think that $60m would be more than sufficient to meet the needs, but it is most unlikely that this will be so. Before I go any further let me just say that I, and all other honourable members on this side of the House, are fully aware of the very serious situation applying in the wool growing areas. We fully realise the extreme difficulties which face so many people who grow only wool, wool and wheat or wool and something else. We are fully appreciative of those difficulties and are very anxious to see them overcome, but the money which will be required to finance this scheme will not necessarily be channelled into the areas or the pockets where the assistance is desperately needed and to which it is entitled to go. In fact, it would appear that the highest level of assistance or the more substantial amounts of subsidy - call it what you like - will go, to a large degree, to the very people who are in the least need and, in fact, taking their overall situation could be described as reasonably well off. 
I know very well that size of farm or size of flock is not necessarily a proper guide. I know that a large wool grower could be worse off than a small wool grower and vice versa, and one cannot arrive at a proper conclusion on assistance simply on that basis. But surely the main object and the real target of any assistance scheme, especially where large amounts of taxpayers' money are involved and where the assistance is in the form of an emergency grant, must be to ensure that the money goes where it is most required and where it will do the most good. Unfortunately, under this scheme such will not be the case. In fact, a great injustice can be done to some taxpayers. On this point I cannot help but recall at this time that one particular wool grower who, I am quite certain because of his means would not be suffering to any great extent as a result of the depressed wool prices, refused point blank to support a proposal for additional assistance for gold mining but who, from his remarks on the same day on the question, would nevertheless be ready and eager to accept from taxpayers in the gold mining industry some part of their hard earned cash by way of a wool subsidy to further swell his already well furnished bank balance. 
On the other hand I am pleased to say that to the best of my knowledge he was the only wool grower in that district with such a shortsighted and selfish attitude. But even forgetting that person's peculiar outlook, surely where taxpayers are obliged to contribute to an emergency grant, one to meet special needs, they should be safe in the knowledge that their contribution will find its way to where it is really needed and not into the pockets of those who do not need it. Apparently Government supporters claim that it would be very difficult to apply a means test to a proposition such as this deficiency payment scheme. Quite frankly I fail to see why. I have a lot of wool growers in my electorate. Many of them are very good friends of mine. I could adopt the attitude of members of the Country Party and give away principles for votes, but I am not prepared to do so. If a wool grower is in financial difficulties through no fault of his own and he needs assistance, he should get that assistance but he should have a good idea why he needs it, and it should not pose any great difficulty for him to show why. I would be surprised if it were not a fairly simple matter for him to do so. After all, wool growers keep books of some sort. Surely they all make taxation returns. Surely they all know or could quickly work out what their income from sources other than wool may be. 
I do not accept for one moment that any great difficulty would arise. If a wool grower requires some short term or long term assistance to overcome real problems, I would be one of the first to come down in support of him, and this goes for any farmer or anyone else irrespective of who he is or where he may be. 1 find it very difficult to support a proposition under which taxpayers with very meagre incomes are obliged to contribute to people whose net incomes are substantially in advance of the contributing taxpayer, and 1 do not think that any self-respecting wool grower or anyone else would accept such a situation either. 
Speaking of supposed difficulties in submitting statements of means, let me again refer to the assistance to gold mining. That assistance is not granted to large producers across the board as a fiat rate. The producers have to submit proof of their qualification for entitlement to assistance. If a company considers that it is entitled to assistance it is obliged to submit documents to show what it cost the company to produce each ounce of gold, if that production cost is more than a certain amount determined against the actual price of gold, the company may be entitled to assistance, but the amount of assistance will not necessarily be the maximum. It may be only a minor portion of it or if may be a substantial portion, depending upon what the cost of production actually is. It is this Government which required and still requires the gold mining companies to produce those figures, and I think properly so. But if those companies arc expected to do this and can show just how much it costs to produce an ounce of gold, it should not be difficult for a wool grower, particularly a company, to show actual overall financial circumstances. 
After all lt must bc kept in mind that every person who grows wool is not engaged solely in rural activities, nor are all people who grow wool solely dependent upon the returns from their rural interests. There are the so-called Pitt Street farmers, the Collins Street pastoralists and the St George's Terrace graziers who have business interests in the city, live there in very fine style and great comfort, and employ a manager to look after their property - and in some instances a very poorly paid manager at that. Then there are doctors, solici tors, land agents, stock firms and even members of Parliament who have substantial interests in wool growing. Surely a labourer on the main roads, a foresty worker, a miner or an attendant employed in this House should not be obliged to pay additional tax to provide members of Parliament and those other people to whom I have referred with additional income dimply because they are having a lean time in their wool growing activities but are 0 !herwise well off. 
If such people have incomes from other sources sufficient to give them quite a good living they should not be permitted to qualify for Government assistance or to participate in a scheme such as this - an emergency grant. It must be remembered also that by disqualifying such people we would not be doing them any injustice or causing them any hardship, but on the other hand it would mean that those who really needed assistance and who could be put on the road to recovery would receive from the available finance a more realistic and useful amount. As I said at the beginning, that should be the real target of an emergency grant. 
Let me return to the total amount of money that is likely to be required to finance this scheme, and in addition let us look at the amounts of individual assistance that the different wool growers could be expected to receive. When F ,ay different wool growers I am talking about the size of flocks. With a wool market such as we have today and with no real prospect of any sufficient upward movement in the price of wool for at least some months we can only arrive at the conclusion that under an across the board scheme such as this practically every pound of wool that is sold will attract some subsidy. In that regard it seems reasonable on price trends to estimate an all-round or average deficiency figure of 6c a pound. 
I am unable to say with any accuracy how much wool will be produced and sold between the beginning of July this year and the end of June next year, which is the period this proposed scheme will cover, and unfortunately or perhaps unavoidably the Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Sinclair)  did not give us any estimate either; but if we use the 1968-69 figure as a guide - I know of course that sheep numbers between 1968-69 and now could have been greatly reduced, but these are the latest figures I could obtain from the Parliamentary Library - approximately 2,000 million lb of wool will be produced during this period. This then would mean that the amount of money required to satisfy the demands on the scheme would be in the vicinity of $120m or double the estimate given us in August by the Treasurer. However, whatever the amount should be, whether it be $120m or $60m or some other amount, the important point is that it should be used in the manner by which it will do the most good - and not simply the most good for certain individual wool growers but the most good for the wool industry as a whole. That is the important point. 
I am quite certain that every member on both sides of this House would want to see the wool industry recover to its former solid position, and anyone else with any sense of responsibility must surely feel the same way. The mere fact that the industry has been such a very large export income earner for Australia in past years is an obvious and sufficient reason in itself why we should all want to see its return to a similar position as quickly as possible. Therefore it is natural and indeed very proper that we should in turn want to be very sure that the money provided by this scheme or any other wool assistance scheme is used to the best advantage of the industry as a whole. In fact Parliament has a responsibility to that end. 
But how can we decide whether money being provided is being used for its best purpose if it is to be distributed without any knowledge of the actual overall circumstances of those who apply to become beneficiaries. In that regard let us examine how the SI 20m or the $60m, or whatever it should be, will be distributed without any investigation of the receiver's overall financial circumstances. Whatever the amount, the same principles and the same comparisons must apply. According to the statistics I obtained from the Parliamentary Library there are 10 rural holdings which carry flocks of 50,000 or more sheep each. This means that on a 9 lb fleece average those 10 holdings would each receive at the very least $27,000. Some would receive more, perhaps $32,000 or even more again. Certainly I find it extremely difficult blindly to accept simply on an application basis without any particulars of actual financial circumstances that one holding and indeed perhaps one person should be entitled to receive an amount of $27,000 or $30,000 of other taxpayers' money. 
The money to be paid out under this scheme is an emergency grant, yet no-one is obliged to show that he is in an emergency situation. If it were a loan, even a very low interest loan or even an interest free loan, it would be an entirely different situation. But this is a straight out grant; it is a gift of cash; it is a gift to one person of money from another person, from a taxpayer or a group of taxpayers. In these circumstances, when in fact some of the actual givers are much worse off than are the receivers, I fail to see how a government or this Parliament can justify gifts of $20,000 or $30,000 to individuals or companies without first conducting a proper inquiry into their overall position to ensure that they are in real need. As a matter of fact I fail to see how a gift of even $100 can be justified without proper inquiry. 
This is not our money; it is not the Government's money. It is the taxpayers' money and the taxpayer is entitled to expect protection from the Parliament in matters such as this. If wool growers or anyone else expects assistance they should be prepared to make available, not to Parliament where it would become public knowledge but to a committee or a department, where it would be dealt with in confidence, whatever information is required to substantiate their claim. It must be remembered that this scheme, or one like it, may need to be continued beyond one year. If that is so, and certainly there is no indication that it will not be so, an even greater amount of finance will be required. In those circumstances, surely the committee or the department is entitled to know what real advantage has come from the scheme in its initial stage and, if that is not known, how can any future proper conclusion be reached by this Parliament? 
There are 248 holdings with flocks of between 20,000 and 50,000 which each will receive assistance of between about $11,000 and $27,000. On that basis, using an average of $18,000 - I would be surprised if it were less - it will be found that an amount of some $Sm will be distributed amongst 258 holdings. I would suggest that a number of those holdings would be run on an absentee ownership basis with some of them even being owned by persons such as Hollywood film stars whom I would suggest are not exactly on the poverty line. At the other end of the scale are the growers who run flocks of between only 1,000 and 2,000 sheep. In this classification there are just over 2,500 holdings. Those growers will receive between $540 and $1,080 each, depending on the actual size of their clip. I certainly cannot imagine an amount of $500 or $600 making any significant contribution towards putting such people on the road to recovery or towards easing their particular problems if they are in real difficulties. Yet, if $60m, $120m or some other amount is available to assist the wool industry in getting back on its feet, it could well be that a proper investigation would show that a payment of $5,000 or $6,000 rather than $500 or $600 to each small grower would be of much greater advantage to the overall industry than would be a payment of $20,000 or $30,000 to each of 10 or 12 large producers. 
If individual applicants were required to submit details of their overall circumstances and their total income from all sources, it may well be that something higher than 6c a lb could be given to those who really need it and who, if they were properly assisted over this year, could become self-sufficient from then on. Statistics show that 15 per cent of the wool growers produce approximately 60 per cent of Australia's total wool clip. This in turn means that 13,500 growers out of a total of 90,000 growers who run 200 or more sheep could receive between them approximately $72m while 76,500 growers would receive only $48m between them. 
On this basis, we would find that very large amounts could go to people who are on very large properties and who could never be properly re-established or become self-sufficient for several years even if the price of wool increased substantially. The fact is that the properties have been overstocked and have never had anything ploughed back into them by way of pasture improvement or control. They are completely run down and will need spelling for several years before they can again become anything like a reasonable sheep grazing proposition. Many of these properties are owned by stock firms and any money which is received by them through this scheme will not be put into the properties concerned but will be used for other purposes. This scheme, like others produced by this Government is a hit and miss, hotch potch affair which will do little, if anything, to solve the real problems of the wool industry. The money is more likely to go where it is not needed than lo go where it is needed. What is needed is the introduction of the policy of the Australian Labor Party which states: 
Labor will legislate for a statutory wool marketing authority to acquire and/or market the Australian clip in the most efficient way. Reserve Bank funds will be made available to Finance the Authority. Labor will reconstitute the AWIC and the Australian Wool Board on a democratically elected basis and have an investigation and an evaluation of wool promotion and research. 
I would not think that anybody would dare to criticise that policy. As I said earlier, I have a proper appreciation of the industry' difficulties. I realise what its value shoud be to Australia. I know how important it is that it should be firmly re-established and I am prepared to give my full support to any scheme or proposition that has the means of doing this. Unfortunately, the scheme now before the House can, at its very best, only slightly assist towards that end. It will assist only a few of the genuine, bona fide wool growers while many others will receive practically no help at all. It is only because some deserving growers will be assisted that I am prepared to support this Bill, if our amendment is defeated. However, at the moment, I support the amendment. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Health, upon notice: 
Is it a fact that the Commonwealth meets the cost in excess of $40 of return air fares involved in transporting residents of the Northern Territory to southern States where urgent medical or specialist treatment, not available in the Territory, is required by the resident. 
If so, does the Commonwealth make a specific grant to Western Australia for a similar purpose to meet the circumstances of the north and north-west of that State which are so very similar to the Nothern Territory. 
If not, will the Minister give early and favourable consideration to so doing. 
asked the Minister repre senting the Minister for Health, upon notice: 
Is it a fact that residents of the Northern Territory who are in necessitous circumstances have the cost of their return air fares met by the Commonwealth if they are obliged to fly to Adelaide for special medical treatment not available in the Territory. 
If so, does the Commonwealth make  a  specific grant to Western Australia for the same purpose in relation to residents of the north and north-west of that State who are in similar circumstances to those referred to in the Northern Territory. 
If not, will the Minister give early and favourable consideration to so doing; if not, why not. 
asked the Minister for Primary Industry, upon notice: 
Why did the Council of Egg Marketing Authorities of Australia recommend that hens kept for commercial purposes in the Northern Territory should be exempt from the levy imposed under the Poultry Industry Levy Act. 
asked the Minister for Social Services, upon notice: 
Is it a fact that a person dismissed from or obliged to leave his place of employment due to ill-health and who receives a lump sum payment for long service to his employer, is unable to receive sickness benefit until such time as the furlough payment is exhausted at the normal weekly rate of pay. 
If so, in view of section 108 of the Social Services Act, what is the reason for this approach to a person who is temporarily incapacitated for work by reason of sickness and has thereby suffered a loss of wages. 
I rise to support the amendment moved with such great sincerity and ability by the honourable member for Grayndler  (Mr Daly).  For approximately a quarter of a century Australia has been absorbing annually on a permanent settler basis quite substantial numbers of people from many different countries. That absorption has been carried out under an immigration programme the foundation principles of which have never been seriously challenged or criticised either inside or outside Australia during that time. While there have been some minor alterations to the Immigration Act over the years they have not made and I do not believe they were intended to make any significant difference to the initial intention of the programme. That does not necessarily mean that the Act or the programme has been completely acceptable in all respects to everyone concerned. Indeed, one could never expect to witness within the entire community anything like unanimous approval for everything that is done or not done in the field of immigration. 1 say that, because many people from many different countries with many different interests and outlooks - both social and occupational - are directly or indirectly involved. I say that, because those same people, both young and old, are spread over the whole of Australia, which in turn means that the whole Australian community, those whose parents were born here and those whose parents were not born here, and who also have different interests, outlooks and attitudes and, in some cases perhaps, memories or knowledge of events in the early part of this century which were not entirely palatable, is vitally interested in immigration. Those people are all involved in some way or another, and it is only natural that the subject of immigration always has been, and for some time at least will continue to be, a very sensitive area of deliberation. This being so, the fact that the plan has operated so smoothly over so many years and has not required other than minor alterations is, I believe, a very great tribute to the first Minister for Immigration who commenced its opera tions in the difficult early, post-war. years. I refer to the. right honourable, member for. Melbourne  (Mr Calwell). 
When I refer to the smooth operations of the plan I am naturally speaking of it in the broad sense and not within the narrow confines of decisions taken at ministerial or government level. It is my. . opinion that any well-founded criticism in the area of immigration is not the fault of the plan itself but the fault of the Minister for Immigration  (Dr Forbes)  or of his Govern- . ment's policy going outside the definite requirements of the Act and involving a lack of sympathy and understanding. Nevertheless, unlike some other countries, which .have. a fairly large, migrant population, Australia has been free of any vio- . lence and has not experienced any real trouble which could be associated with or blamed upon in any way the broad foundation principles of the immigration programme. Here again the forward thinking of the Austalian Labor Party and its Minister for Immigration should be applauded. 
Therefore, to my mind it is very important - in fact it is vitally necessary - that, in the interests of the Australian people, those who have come from elsewhere to live here and those who may be born here or migrate here in the future, we do everything possible to ensure the continuation of the generally harmonious relations which have existed up to date within the community. This must always be a serious consideration in any change in immigration policy or programme. Of course, the principles which are embraced in the policy of the Australian Labor Party are no different today from what they were in the very first years of immigration. In my opinion they have the complete support and confidence of the vast majority of people in this country and there is very good reason why they should receive that support. The Australian Labor Party has always remained firm in the belief that an immigration policy must be administered with tolerance, sympathy and understanding, and I am . quite sure that no-one would wish to argue against that principle, even though those, qualities are lacking within the Government ranks. As a result of our belief in that regard, the basis of our policy includes the welfare and integration of all our citizens. To achieve that end one of the prime factors in the selection of migrants must always be to . ensure that they will be able to fit into the Australian way of life and become part of the general community, not just an isolated section of it. 
Our policy provides that Australia should have the capacity to provide such things as housing, employment, education and social welfare. After all, it is a simple fact that if we cannot provide all those necessities we not only will create unnecessary problems and suffering of an acute nature for people already in Australia but also will seriously aggravate the situation as more people come in. So it is obvious that intake must be measured against our capacity to provide those important necessities of life. We also say that there must be an avoidance of the difficult social and economic problems which may follow an influx of people having different standards of living, traditions and cultures. Our policy would also preserve the democratic system of balanced development of our nation and our national and economic security. As I said earlier, 1 am quite certain that the principles I have outlined will find favour with the large majority of the people of Australia; but, of course, for Australia to abide by and carry out those principles requires the certainty that we have the unfettered right to regulate the intake of our migrants at all times and also have a complete right of selection and rejection. 
During recent years there has come from some quarters, and not in my opinion from non-European countries, a demand for changes in our selection attitude. Some go so far as to want quota systems or even open gate extremes, neither of which, in my opinion, would ever be acceptable to a responsible Commonwealth Government. I venture to suggest that some countries which did relax their entry policy are now sorry they did so and wish it was a simple matter to revert to their earlier attitudes without seriously offending or disrupting relations with certain other countries. I hope that we will always be mindful of those errors. So it seems to me that, as we have had the foresight and, no doubt to some extent, the good fortune to attract and retain migrants of very good standard, in most respects anyway - after all, we cannot expect to be 100 per cent successful, but in the main our migrants have made very good citizens - it is reasonable, desirable and wise that we continue to obtain our future requirements from the same sources. The point also arises as to whether we need to reduce our intake or whether we need only people with particular skills. In that respect I would like to refer to the words of Labor's platform in 1958 which really still holds good. I quote: 
Entry of suitable migrants is to be encouraged but is to be strictly regulated so as not to impose an undue strain on the Australian economy or to imperil full employment or Australian industrial conditions through over-competition for available work. 
Australia's economy and employment situation at this very moment - which has all of the earmarks of becoming much worse - calls for deep consideration with respect to future migrant intake. The same thing applies with regard to moneys for housing and the fall-off in building; it applies again in relation to lack of education facilities and hospitals; and it applies in some instances with respect to insufficient social service payments, all of which are affecting not only newcomers but also original Australians and those who have been here for several years. 
Very certainly the time is overdue for a full scale, but a fairly quick examination of the whole field to determine just what should be done in the area of immigration. This Parliament is entitled to have that knowledge and information resulting from such an inquiry and report. We say that we should proceed with such an inquiry. We should examine the system of granting assisted passages to ascertain to what extent we are gaining long term or permanent residents as against those who use that concession as a holiday or tourist scheme to the detriment of genuine migrants. Also there is the Colombo Plan. After some 18 years of operation we may find that the scheme would be more beneficial in its purpose if we established colleges or other educational facilities together with staff to provide advanced education opportunities in the country we are assisting rather than bring students to this country who, after 3 or 4 years of Australian life are told to return. There are many other areas which should be looked at. 
I ask the Acting Prime Minister a question. Is he aware that the significant weakening of the nickel market has caused both potential and active nickel producers to substantially delay and reduce their labour requirements? Does he realise that this situation has definitely destroyed any possibility of the nickel industry absorbing the displaced work force of the gold mining industry? Has the discussion regarding additional financial assistance to keep the gold mining industry active taken place between the appropriate Ministers as promised by the Prime Minister on the 24th day of August last and if so what is the Government's intention in that respect? Finally, if no decision has been reached, will the Acting Prime Minister treat the matter with the urgency and take the action it demands so as to avoid the serious economic and population disruption which must occur when some 1 , 500 men are thrown out of work? 
Under the Income Tax Assessment Act as it operates at the present time the maximum deduction allowed to a taxpayer in relation to education expenses is $300 for each dependent full time student under 21 years of age. The amendments now proposed to that Act would increase the maximum permissible amount to $400 and would also extend the age limit to those dependent children of a taxpayer who are students of less than 25 years of age. Neither amendment will be the means of offering any real assistance in meeting the actual high cost of education, and even where there may be some simple or slight benefit it will be directed towards the more wealthy taxpayers while the very people who do require some significant assistance towards the education of their children will gain very little if any help or relief. 
The amount of $300 as a maximum deduction from actual income was set down in 1963 and, as everyone knows - and many of them to their sorrow and to the depletion of their savings - during the years since 1963 there have been very substantial increases in the cost of education itself and also in the cost of transport and accommodation, etc., for those children who are obliged to travel to and remain in either capital cities or large country towns to obtain an education. Those latter costs are very substantial indeed, and it is quite unjust and shows a complete lack of sympathy and understanding, or perhaps lack of concern by the Government, that a taxpayer in the far north, for instance, is allowed no more for education expenses as a taxation deduction that is a taxpayer living in a capital city who is not subject in any way to costs of fares and whose children are able to live at home during the whole time they are gaining their education. 
The fact is that while education expenses under the Act include those for uniforms, fares, fees, books, etc., the fares alone with regard to children travelling long distances and who go home during the year - surely they are entitled to do that - would be very close to the allowable maximum deduction. Therefore it could correctly be said that the taxpayer in those circumstances exhausts his entire entitlement on fares and is unable to claim on the several other items which a taxpayer in the city successfully can include. For instance, the air fare from Perth to Kununurra or Wyndham is approximately $240 return and from Perth to Derby is approximately $200 return and so it goes on down the coast. So even if the child went home only once during the school year it would mean that at least half the maximum amount would be used up on fares. In giving consideration to these amendments it must be borne in mind also that like every other form of concessional deduction such as for spouse, medical costs, children, etc., the amount of deduction is not a direct deduction from taxation itself but simply a reduction in actual income for the purpose of arriving at the income upon which tax will be imposed. As a result of such a method a taxpayer on a low income obtains very little benefit and in some cases none at all, while on the other hand a taxpayer on a very high income may obtain a very considerable benefit, reaching as much as two-thirds of the amount of his actual expenditure. In other words, this means that the taxpayer who needs the greatest relief or assistance receives little if anything, while the taxpayer in exceptionally good circumstances and who could really well afford to forgo any tax concession is the only one who reaps any real benefit. 
For those reasons I am not at all happy with the present method of offering family assistance or concession and am of the opinion that a straight forward allowance of direct taxation deduction irrespective of income would be a much more equitable and acceptable system, but even this would not help those people who, because of their circumstances, pay next to nothing in tax in any case and yet who at the same time are the very people who require assistance for the education of their children or to ensure their good health. 
Because of these inequities and discriminations within the present system there is an urgent need for a review of the whole taxation set-up to ensure that those in the greatest need receive the greatest assistance or relief. But if the Government intends to retain this present system, and there is no indication that it does not, surely with regard to education expenses alone it would be a much fairer and proper method to have at least 2 areas of allowance or even perhaps 3 areas to meet the different items of costs involved. The first allowance could take care of the normal expenses which every parent is obliged to meet. I refer to the cost of books, uniforms and that sort of thing. The second area, if only 2 areas are to be adopted, would be for fares and accommodation, or if there were 3 areas fares and accommodation could be separated. 
I imagine that having just 2 areas would be sufficient to meet the situation and would certainly at the least remove much of the unequal application and effects which we have under the present system, where fares and accommodation, as I said earlier, can well and truly exhaust the maximum deductions permissible at present. Admittedly the proposed increase of $100 for education expenses can mean a slight reduction in tax for some parents in distant places who can afford to send their children south or elsewhere to school and who will be able to claim that $100 against air fares, but it will not be such as to mean the difference between a parent being able to afford to send his children away for that better education. 
This brings me to the point that if the system is to be retained and if $400 is now considered to be a fair and appropriate figure to meet education costs in areas where the bulk of taxpayers reside - I refer of course to the capital cities - certainly an amount much higher than $400 should be allowed to taxpayers who live in remote and distant areas and who can do nothing other than pay very large amounts for both fares and accommodation costs if they wish to give their children the opportunity of gaining a good schooling. It is for that reason that I suggest the necessity of a second area or section of education expenses being struck. 
This would not in any way prevent city dwellers lodging their claims against bus fares, nor would it prevent those living not so far distant from claiming for train fares. They would still have that right even though it would mean a separate claim item. But in addition people in far away places, who are a very important section of our community, would have a right not only to claim on the high cost of fares and accommodation but also to claim in relation to costs of uniforms, books, fees and so on in a like manner to those who have no need to consider fares, etc., and who therefore, if their circumstances permit it, are able to expend the maximum permissible amount on books and fees and so on in the knowledge that the whole of that amount can be reflected in their taxation returns. 
As I said earlier, I do not like this present system but if it is to be retained then the least we can do is to make such alterations as are necessary to give all taxpayers an equal claim measured against necessary expenses which include fares and accommodation. The same corrective measures should be taken in relation to medical and hospital expenses which at present exclude the cost of transport which is often necessary to allow a sick person to obtain medical or hospital treatment. A completely ridiculous situation applies and is retained by this Government at the present time, whereby a taxpayer may claim as a deduction against his income the actual cost of any doctor or hospitalisation for a dependant but is denied entirely any claim against the costs he incurs, which are quite often very substantial, to bring or send that dependant to a place where the treatment is available. The situation is similar to that which applies with regard to education expenses. The taxpayer who is resident close by a doctor or hospital has a very distinct advantage over the taxpayer who, because of distance and lack of medical facilities, is obliged to travel or to meet travel costs to allow his dependent wife or children to consult a doctor or to enter a hospital. 
Referring again to my opposition to this present method of determining tax allowances in respect of dependants and certain expenses incurred by a taxpayer, I want to explore that situation just a little more to illustrate how inequitable the system is and to show how it operates to favour the rich and do nothing at all for those in less fortunate circumstances. The fact that deductions apply to actual incomes and not to the tax itself means, for instance, that this proposed SI CO addition to the education allowance will give to a taxpayer with one child attending school and on an otherwise taxable income of $1,500  -  that is, of course, if he can afford to spend $400 on the education of his child - an actual tax reduction of approximately $16 while another taxpayer with a taxable income of $15,000 and with one child at school could gain a tax saving of approximately $58 - $16 in one case and $58 in the other. This could be a fact even though both taxpayers live in the same street and meet exactly the same education expenses for children attending the same school. This is a completely ridiculous situation, particularly when it is quite obvious that the taxpayer with the taxable income of 31,500 is finding the education expenses are a much greater burden than does the taxpayer on the income of $15,000. Of course when there are 2 children in each family, or 3 or 4, then the man with a higher income gets an even greater advantage. 
As a matter of fact it is obvious from taxation statistics that the great bulk of the taxpayers obtain very little real help from the existing allowance of $300, and those same taxpayers will receive no benefit at all from any increase whether it be $100 or $1,000, for the very simple reason that the low income earner cannot afford to pay out $6 or $8 a week for the education of a child, or twice or three times that amount if he has 2 or 3 children. This is a very big problem in distant areas, this cost of giving the children a good education. This is why one so very often hears parents say that they will not be able to stay much longer in the far away places as much as they would like to do so. Certainly the very small amount of tax relief which comes from the existing system of education allowance will do exactly nothing to overcome the problem, and this proposal of an additional $100 will make very little difference even to those taxpayers on incomes of $6,000. There are some 4! million to  4i  million taxpayers with incomes of less than that amount, while taxpayers with incomes above $6,000 total only approximately 660,000, which proves, as I said earlier, that the great bulk of the taxpayers will gain very little from the additional $100 and that where any benefit is gained it will go largely to those who actually do not require it and in fact are well situated to meet the cost of their children's education. 
Actually it does not matter whether the taxpayer be a low income earner or a high income earner, because the effect of the Government's somersault decision to increase income tax this year by  2i  per cent will very largely deplete any benefit or tax relief which may have otherwise flowed from the $100 added to the existing amount of allowable deduction for education expenses. Honourable members will recall, and the taxpayers outside are not likely to forget, that just prior to the last election at the end of 1969 the then Prime Minister promised the people that if his Government was re-elected it would bring about reductions in income tax, but now we have this Bill before us which will have an opposite effect and will increase the amount of individual tax paid last year by  2i  per cent. This will mean, of course, that those taxpayers with school age children and who cannot afford to pay even $300 - the existing allowable deduction for education expenses - will be even worse off this year than they were last year because of the additional direct tax they will be obliged to pay. We on this side of the House intend to oppose that proposition. 
Taxation statistics show some rather interesting figures in relation to the average amounts which taxpayers with different incomes claim as education expenses. For instance, that group of taxpayers whose incomes ranged from $417 to $1,599 in 1968-69 claimed an average amount of approximately $57 a child for some 64,500 children of over one million taxpayers. It is quite clear from those figures that those taxpayers and those children will derive no benefit at all from this increase of $100, and they would in most instances be stretching the purse even to reach the $57. Also, of course, it is most unlikely that any taxpayer in that group could afford to keep at school a lad or girl of 21 years of age, let alone 25, and so no benefit can flow to that group by the extension of the age limit. Then we have the group whose incomes range from $2,400 to $2,599, a group comprising approximately 252,000 taxpayers and 89,000-odd children with an average claim of $75. So here again is a group which is unlikely to gain any benefit. 
Let us go to the group whose incomes range from $5,000 to $5,999. This group comprises 282,500 taxpayers and 293,000 children with an average claim of $96 for each child. Very few in that group would be likely to exceed the existing $300 and so are unlikely to gain any relief from the extra amount. As I pointed out earlier, by the time you reach the group whose incomes become as high as $6,000 something like 80 per cent of the total number of taxpayers have been included and only a small percentage of that number would reach the existing maximum claim for $300 for education expenses. This is where the system or method is so wrong. There are something like 320,000 taxpayers in the income group up to $6,000 who have 3 or more children and it is quite obvious that those taxpayers, except in a few instances, would find it very difficult and in fact impossible to pay out more than perhaps $50 or $60 towards each of their children's education. Therefore the children's education suffers and the best this Government can do is to increase the concessional deduction which does absolutely nothing for these taxpayers. 
This system which the Government follows so slavishly can give one taxpayer a tax reduction of $205 for a spouse while another taxpayer will receive only $30 or even less. The first taxpayer can receive $137 tax relief for a child and the second taxpayer only $15. Surely there can be no justification for such different treatment. In fact if there should be a difference it should be in the reverse direction because there can be no doubt that the second taxpayer, the one on a fairly low income, requires a much greater relief than a person whose taxable income is over $30,000 a year. But this Government is either concerned only with the rich or too lazy to have a proper review of the Taxation Act, and the only way that those people other than the wealthy can win is to ensure that they elect a Labor government at the next election. 
asked the Treasurer, upon notice: 
Is the cost involved in moving themselves, their families and their belongings to a new place of residence an allowable deduction for income tax purposes to farmers, farm workers, miners and other people in rural or gold-mining areas who because of the critical situation in those fields have been or will be in the future forced to move elsewhere to obtain employment. 
If so, how is it applied. 
If these costs are not allowable deductions will he (a) state the reasons and (b) take steps to ensure their inclusion in the Income Tax Assessment Act at an early date with retrospectivity for at least the last 2 years. 
asked the Postmaster-General, upon notice: 
How many applications for telephone installations are at present outstanding in the subdivisions of (a) Dundas, (b) Greenough, (c) Mer- redin (and (d) Yilgarn in the Electoral Division of Kalgoorlie. 
How many applications have remained unsatisfied in each of these subdivisions for (a)5 years or more, (b) 4 years, (c) 3 years, (d) 2 years, (e) 1 year and (f) less than 1 year. 
How many outstanding applications in each subdivision are within a l5-mile radius of (a) an existing exchange and (b) a proposed exchange. 
How many of those applications in each subdivision which have remained outstanding for (a) 5 years or more, (b) 4 years, (c) 3 years, (d) 2 years and (e) 1 year are expected to be satisfied in (i) 1971-72 and (ii) 1972-73. 
I address a question to the Prime Minister. Has it been estimated that early cessation of gold produc tion in Western Australia will cause a population drop of at least 25 per cent over the area concerned? Has the Prime Minister recently received numerous requests to increase the assistance to the gold mining industry to ensure its continuation and to prevent the large scale unemployment which must otherwise occur? Have the local authorities of both Kalgoorlie and Boulder informed the Prime Minister that they will fly a deputation to Canberra to present to him and his Ministers their reasons why an increase in the gold subsidy is required so urgently? Is the Prime Minister aware that the cost of sending that deputation would be approximately $2,000? Finally, docs the Prime Minster now fully recognise the grave concern with which the councils and the people view the situation? If so, can he now tell the House what his intentions are regarding the matter? He will recall that some 3 months ago he told the House that in view of the changing circumstances in the nickel industry . he would reconsider the question of providing further assistance. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Civil Aviation upon notice: 
Can (he Minister say whether it is a normal situation for a MacRobertson Miller Airlines Fokker Fellowship aircraft flying north and scheduled to land at (a) Broome or (b) Derby to carry insufficient fuel to proceed, if need be, to an alternative aerodrome other than Fitzroy Crossing. 
If not, why did the Fokker Fellowship which landed at Fitzroy Crossing on 31st July 1971 have insufficient fuel when it arrived over Derby to fly to one of the other alternatives. 
Where would the captain of the aircraft have been obliged to seek a landing bad Fitzroy Crossing been unserviceable. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Civil Aviation, upon notice: 
For how many minutes could the Fokker Fellowship aircraft which landed at Fitzroy Crossing on 3 1 si July 1971 have continued flying on the 300 to 500 pounds of fuel which the captain estimated as remaining when the aircraft landed (Hansard, 28th September 1971, pages 1604-5). 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Civil Aviation, upon notice: 
Which airports are classified exactly as alternatives to (a) Derby and (b) Broome for (i) 
Fokker Friendship and (ii) Fokker Fellowship aircraft. 
What is the flying distance in each case from (a) Derby and (b) Broome. 
What amount of fuel, in pounds, would bc required at full passenger and freight load and under normal flying conditions for the flight by (a) Fokker Fellowship and (b) a Fokker Friendship aircraft from (i) Broome and (ii) Derby to each of the alternative aerodromes 
Which of the alternative airports are tully equipped with night landing facilities. 
It is 3 months today since the Prime Minister  (Mr McMahon)  told this House that, in the light of the changing circumstances in the nickel industry, he would reconsider the Government's earlier decision in relation to further assistance for the gold mining industry. On 2 occasions since then - the latest as recent as yesterday - I have asked questions on the subject and have received the same reply, namely, that the matter is being considered. It therefore seems obvious that the Government is very little if any nearer to making a decision today than it was 3 months ago and the reason for my raising this matter of public importance is to acquaint the Government again with the urgency of the situation and the need immediately to increase or to give notice of an increase in the amount of assistance provided under the Gold Mining 
Industry Assistance Act. This increase is necessary to prevent large scale unemployment and subsequent suffering on the goldfields, and also to prevent a very substantial movement of people from those goldfields to the capital city. 
It must be recognised that unless a favourable decision is taken very shortly, some of the goldmines will have been worked to a stage where it will be impossible to keep them going, even if an increase in assistance were given at some later date or if the price of gold increased. Once you stop development in a goldmine and start to remove pillars in stopes or pull up levels, it is the finish of that section of the mine because it becomes too dangerous to re-enter. Many shafts and sections are coming close to that stage now, and that is one of the reasons why this matter is so urgent and why we require a very early decision from this Government. If the Cabinet, in refusing to agree to the request for additional assistance to goldmining, did so under the genuine impression that the nickel industry shortly would become a large employer of labour, then all I can say is that Cabinet was badly advised and it is a very great pity that not one member of Cabinet bothered to accept the invitation to come to Kalgoorlie to learn for himself what the  actual situation would be, a brief explanation of which I will now give to the House. 
In both Mount Magnet and Noresman where the population is almost entirely dependent on the goldmines, there are no nickel developments within the district at the moment, but this could well change within  4  or  5  years as prospects are investigated. Therefore, an early closure of the goldmine would be nothing less than disastrous for those areas. My information shows that the population in Mount Magnet at the moment is approximately  800  persons and that that number would reduce at least to  200  if the mine closed. Possibly the figure could be much lower depending on the future of the pastoral industry. The whole of the work force of the mine and the workers' families would be obliged to move, as also would most businessmen and their employees, and the only place to which they would be likely to move would be the capital city provided, of course, that they could obtain housing. The situation in the rural industry precludes any possibility of .these people obtaining employment in that area. 
The present population in Norseman is approximately  1,600  and it is estimated that a closure of the mine would mean a reduction in that population by at least  50  per 'cent almost immediately and then, as housing became available elsewhere for the families of workers, the population would reduce still further. As at Mount Magnet, businesses would also shut down and the people concerned would move away. Previously some mine workers in Norseman had expected to be able to continue living in Norseman by obtaining employment at the Anaconda nickel mine, some  50  to  60  miles distant. Unfortunately, from information given to me the situation now is that Anaconda has not only stopped recruiting labour but is in fact reducing its work force substantially, and this has destroyed any hope of Norseman workers obtaining a job in that area. 
It had been accepted in some quarters that quite a number of men from Kalgoorlie mines would be able to obtain work at the Western Mining Corp. Ltd nickel mining project at Kambalda, some  30  miles out. But now it has been reported through the Press by the manager of Western Mining that he will not. be recruiting any more labour for some months and will not even replace those workers who leave. So here again we have a nickel mine where the labour force is being reduced. Then we have the glamour show Poseidon in relation to which it was claimed, when shares reached  $200  each, that  2,000  or  3,000  people would be in residence within a year or so, and a decision had even been taken regarding the siting of a new town. The story now is - it seems to come from authentic sources; in fact, it was so reported in this morning's 'Australian' newspaper - that Poseidon will not be making any worthwhile progress for at least a couple of years or until the demand for nickel becomes much more certain and stronger than it is at present. It could be even longer than  2  years. If this is so, then we can forget Poseidon as being an alternative source of employment for some time to come. The nickel mines at Scotia and Carboyd Rocks are  only small and would not employ many at their best, but here also there is a slackening in production due to the weakness of the nickel market. 
Now 1 turn to the effect the closure of the goldmines would have on the cities of Kalgoorlie and Boulder where at present there is a population of well over 20,000 people, lt would be very difficult to arrive at a reasonably reliable estimate of what the population drop could be unless one had access to what were the family responsibilities of the men and women working for the goldmining industry and elsewhere in those towns. But a person, whom I do not intend to name but who could easily gain that information, gives an estimate of a reduction in population of between 20 and 30 per cent if the goldmines cease their operations during the next 3 or 4 years. I have reason to believe that either the present Prime Minister  (Mr McMahon)  or his predecessor, or both, have been furnished with that estimate. That is the rather grim situation which the people on the goldfields of Western Australia face at the moment. Approximately 25,000 people are involved, and at least one-third of them are facing very extreme difficulties. 
Someone may suggest that I am painting a gloomy picture, but the fact is that I am trying to give the true picture. 1 would suggest that the share market, as it stands at the moment and as it has stood for several weeks, is a fairly clear indication that ali is not well with the nickel industry at present, nor will it be for some time in the future. If the goldmines close where then do those workers and their families go? What is their future? That is the problem we are facing. I just cannot accept the fact that any responsible government would continue to refuse a request for an increase in the gold subsidy if it was properly aware of the situation and realised that the continuation of the goldmining industry would provide employment for such a large number of people, either directly or indirectly. Surely the Government also would recognise the value of the goldmining industry in relation to decentralisation. 
In about the middle of August of this year the  Deputy  Prime Minister  (Mr Anthony)  said that further employment opportunities must be made available in country areas to stop the drift to the cities. Since then the drift has increased considerably and is still increasing. On 24th August this year the Prime Minister, in reply to a question from myself, said that he strongly supported the view taken by his  deputy,  and he went on to say that 'wherever there is a prospect of efficient and effective decentralisation we should take action to try and assist decentralisation'. Surely here we have the opportunity in the goldmining industry for the Prime Minister and his  deputy  to prove by action whether the views they expressed in August were really genuine. 
I pose this question: What would it cost to establish housing, water supplies, means of transport and communications for a population somewhere in the outback equal to the number of people now in Kalgoorlie, Boulder, Norseman and Mount Magnet in Western Australia? How far would $1.5m a year go in that direction? That is about the amount being requested in order to keep the goldmining industry in production. The amount being sought is practically nothing when measured against the assistance being provided, in one way or another, to several other industries in Australia. Iri that regard it must be remembered that in assisting the goldmining industry we are helping one which unlike several other subsidised industries has no difficulty in selling what it produces. No matter how much it produces, it can sell it all. There is no fear of stockpiles of overproduction. In addition, the Prime Minister, when he said that decentralisation must be supported, referred to efficiency. No-one can deny that the goldmining industry is efficient. Any industry which is still on deck despite the fact that the price of the article which it produces has not increased for some 30 years could never be branded as being inefficient. 
I return to what is required. A request has been made  for  an additional $4 per oz, and using, as a guide, the information contained in the annual statement given on the Goldmining Assistance Act for the year ended 30th June 1971, it would cost no more than Si. 5m or S2m a year at the most. Surely this is a very small amount but nevertheless a very worthwhile amount to pay to ensure the employment and livelihood of such a large number of people, many of whom will have no alternative but to apply for unemployment relief which, in turn, of course will cost the 
Commonwealth money and also reduce the revenue presently being obtained from income tax and indirect tax. So the provision of this additional assistance immediately would be a wise move and the money would be well spent. The total amount of subsidy paid on gold for the year ending 30th June 1967 was S3. 8m, and in that year 574 oz of gold were produced in Western Australia. My reason for using 1967 is that it was the year from which the significant reduction in gold output commenced. 
For the year ended 30th June 1968 the subsidy amounted to $4.3 m and the amount of gold produced in Western Australia had fallen to 516,000 oz. But in that year there was included in subsidy pay-out an amount of S2.2m as advance to large producers for 1967-68 as against a Si. 5m advance in 1967 for 1966-67 large producers, For the year ended 30th June 1971, the amount of subsidy was only $2.9m but gold production for 1970 in Western Australia was down to 350,000 oz, a reduction of 200,000 oz over the 4 years, and it has fallen still further this year. I cite those figures because they must make it quite clear that as a result of the fall in gold production an increase of $4 an oz would mean only a total subsidy pay-out of little, if any, more than was the case in 1967 and 1968. So really we are not asking the Commonwealth to give very much more in total than it did in those years. Here again in this industry there is a totally different situation to that which we have in some other industries. On 6th August this year the Leader of the Country Party and  Deputy  Prime Minister of this country  (Mr Anthony),  told the annual Country Party conference that his Party was the best equipped to speak on behalf of country people in this Parliament. He also said: 
And when I talk of country people 1 mean all country people, not just farmers but everyone in the country. 
If that is so, surely we can expect every Country Party member in this place to support this motion because it concerns country residents in particular. We can expect Country Party members, surely, to demand to speak on this motion. If they do not, we can only conclude that the remarks of their leader were not factual and that actually the Country Party is not concerned about the general run of country people at all. 
As I pointed out yesterday, the situation on the gold fields is viewed with such seriousness as to cause the Town Council of Kalgoorlie and the Shire of Boulder to decide to send at a cost of about S2,000 a deputation to Canberra to seek an audience with the Prime Minister, the Treasurer  (Mr Snedden)  and the Minister for Labour and National Service  (Mr Lynch).  If the Treasurer cannot give us a definite assurance of further assistance and if the Government still holds some . doubts regarding the situation  1  suggest they immediately send someone to Kalgoorlie to get the facts for themselves. If the Treasurer or the Minister for Labour and National Service are prepared to go, I can assure them of complete co-operation and assistance in all respects for them properly to view the situation and - obtain the real picture. But  1  emphasise that this is a matter of urgency and a favourable decision is necessary very quickly. 
In conclusion, I refer to an earlier speech of the Minister for Labour and National Service who told the House that his Government wished . to avoid any serious disruption of the population and economy of the goldfields. Let me tell him and the House now that the serious disruption he referred to is ready to take place. It is just around the corner.  Therefore, if his remarks were a true reflection of the Government's attitude it should not hesitate any longer in providing the necessary assistance. Honourable members should not forget that a large number of displaced workers will suffer a considerable loss due to the fact that their houses, particularly in Mount Magnet and Norseman will be either unsaleable or at the best have very little value. This is a very serious situation which requires urgent attention and I call upon the Government to see it in that light and act accordingly. 
asked the PostmasterGeneral upon notice: 
To whichcentres or district  in Western  Australia, other than those included in stage seven, is  it  intended to extend the national television service during(a) 1974. (b) 1975,(c) 1976 and (d) 1977. 
Which centres or districts in Western Australia (a) have been surveyed, (b) are currently being surveyed and (c) will be surveyed shortly in relation to future extensions of television. 
asked the PostmasterGeneral upon notice: 
What stage has been reached in establishing atelevision station to serve the SouthernCrossBullfinch area in Western Australia. 
Will the station also serve Koolyanobbing. 
Can he give approximate dates as to when the station will be (a) commenced, (b) completed and (c) operative. 
asked the Minister represent ing the Minister for Civil Aviation, upon notice: 
When does the Department of Civil Aviation intend to provide adequate and safe parking facilities at the Kalgoorlie Airport. 
When will the terminal be upgraded to a reasonable size and standard to meet passenger traffic demands. 
is Kalgoorlie aerodrome to be made an alternative to Perth aerodrome for large aircraft: if so. when is it expected that the necessary work will be (a) commenced and (b) completed. 
I present the following petition: 
To the Honourable the  Speaker  and Members of the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled. The petition of the undersigned citizens of Austrafia respectfully showeth: 
That there is a crisis in Aboriginal Welfare in the South West Land Division of Western Australia resulting from a population explosion, poor housing and hygiene and unemployment and unemployability. 
That there is a need to phase out Native Reserves in the South West Land Division of Western Australia over the next three years. 
That town housing must be provided for all Aboriginal families where the bread winner has permanent employment or an age or invalid pension entitlement. 
That such housing must be supported by the appointment of permanent 'home-maker' assistance in the ratio of one home-maker to every eight houses or part thereof. 
That Incentives of housing, 'home-maker' services and training facilities must be created in centres of potential employment for those who are currently unemployed or unemployable. 
That insufficient State or Federal assistance has been made available to meet these requirements. 
That adequate finance to meet these requirements can only be provided by the Commonwealth government. 
Your petitioners most humbly pray that the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled will give earnest consideration to this most vital matter. 
And your petitioners, as in duty bound, will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
I wish to make a few comments in relation to the seventh stage television development programme in what the PostmasterGeneral  (Sir Alan Hulme)  referred to as relatively remote areas of the Commonwealth. Naturally I am mainly concerned with the programme as it applies to Western 
Australia and, more particularly, to my electorate of Kalgoorlie. I do not consider some of the Western Australian areas in the programme to be relatively remote and this is one of the reasons why I am critical of the delay that is being experienced in the provision of a television service in those areas. I must express my disappointment and concern that, with the exception of Carnarvon, the Western Australian stations in the seventh stage will not come into operation until June 1973 in the case of the first station to be completed and until July 1974 in the case of the last station to be completed, that is, at Esperance. The PostmasterGeneral has informed the House that in regard to Esperance it has been found necessary' to provide a special trunk line and television relay system which has meant a delay well beyond the date first expected. 
The people at Esperance have become completely confused about what are the real causes of the delays and how far the delays will eventually extend. A public meeting in Esperance in February 1969, if my memory serves me correctly, was told by representatives of the Australian Broadcasting Control Board that a service should be available during 1972. Since that meeting many representations and inquiries have been made to both the PostmasterGeneral and the Control Board in an effort to obtain a firm completion date. The early answers we received soon made it quite clear that the date given in the first instance as a probability was in fact never even a possibility and should never have been suggested as such, lt was quite unfair and rather cruel to build up the hopes of the people in that way on something which could not be achieved in the time and which, it would now appear, was never intended to be achieved in the time. Subsequently, further inquiries were made and 1973 was given as the year in which the station could be expected to commence operations. Then at about the middle of this year we were told that it was unlikely that a service would be available before early 1974. Now we are told by the PostmasterGeneral that the target date is to be July 1974, almost 3 years away. Is it any wonder that the people of Esperance are expressing concern and resentment at the continual extension of the completion date? lt is no wonder that they see them selves no closer to a service today than they were led to believe they were over 2 years ago. 1 am far from satisfied that the station will be on the air by July 1974. J hope 1 am wrong. 1 am not satisfied because I have been told by both the PostmasterGeneral and the Control Board that the main delay in the establishment of this station results from the delay in obtaining broad band equipment from overseas. This delay is claimed to be 2 years. While the delay in the construction is blamed on the 2 year lag between ordering and delivery of equipment, the fact is that the equipment has not yet been ordered and, according to the information I have received, an order will not bc placed until early next year at the very best. I have been informed also that there is a 1-year delay in the importation of television station equipment which in tura, I understand, cannot be ordered until it is quite certain what is actually required following the establishment or receipt of the special trunk line or broad band equipment. If this is correct, and 1 have no reason to believe it is not, we have the following situation in relation to Esperance: If the broad band equipment is not ordered until early next year, say March, then delivery cannot be expected until at least March 1974. 
The distance between the existing microwave link at Norseman and the station site at Esperance is approximately 120 miles, and therefore quite a bit of work will be entailed in covering that distance with the building of towers or the laying of cables as required. From what I have noted in relation to other extensions it will take much longer than 3 months to carry out that work. Therefore, because of the continual changes in estimating the completion date and the advice in relation to delays in delivery of equipment, and the fact that that equipment will not be ordered before early next year, I still remain to be convinced that the date given by the Postmaster-General tonight will be met. 
With regard to the line to which the Minister referred as necessary to serve Esperence, I had hoped he would have given us something definite in regard to what is intended towards providing a television service to those centres along the line between Norseman and Esperance; places such as Salmon Gums and Grass Patch. I had hoped to hear whether the line could or would carry the facilities or equipment required whereby the centres referred to could be connected directly to the line or whereby a separate service could be provided. The station at Esperance will, I understand, be of very low power sufficient only to serve the town area. If this is so, it is a great pity and something needs to be done immediately in the planning stage at least to ensure that outlying areas will not suffer the same delays and frustrations as experienced at Esperance itself. I notice in the statement that Mingenew will not gain a service before May 1974. This seems to be rather ridiculous, as I see it, because Mingenew is situated right alongside the coaxial cable carrying television to Geraldton which has been in operation now for several months. 
Surely there can be no good reason why a service cannot be established reasonably quickly. We were told 3 or 4 years ago that places like Mingenew, Mullewa and Morawa would have to wait until an experience was gained as to the extent of the signal from the Geraldton station. This was fair enough, but surely it does not take 5 years to gain that experience. If the Postmaster-General, the Australian Broadcasting Control Board or the Government - whichever is responsible- really wished to establish these stations as quickly as practicable, as the Postmaster-General has told us, they could have done so in a much shorter time than the statement proposes. Wc were told that Morawa, which is approximately 35 miles from Mingenew, would have to await the experience of the Mingenew service in relation to radius. Does this mean that Morawa will have to wait at least 3 or 4 years beyond the middle of 1974? That certainly seems to be the pattern which the Government is following. We were told a booster station would be provided for Mullewa as soon as the Geraldton area of service was known, and yet the Postmaster-General makes no mention of Mullewa at all. Does this mean that Mullewa is to be disregarded until after 1974? 
These delays are just not good enough. In addition, insufficient information is given to us in relation to the real causes of the delay. 
I notice that the Moora and Carnamah services are also in the 1974 period and yet they, as with Mingenew, are situated close by the coaxial cable. Three Springs, which is also on the cable route, will be a 1974 model. I would like to know whether this delay is also due to the delay in delivery following the ordering of equipment. Is that the reason? If so, it would be interesting to know whether, as with Esperance, the necessary equipment has not yet been ordered. Dampier and Port Hedland are not to be served before the middle of 1973, and most likely the end of 1973. I understand that the coaxial cable is all right, and if this is correct, why must there be a 2-year delay in establishing the stations? ls it again because the equipment has not been ordered? If this is so, we are entitled to know why it has not been ordered. 
I note also that the Southern CrossBullfinch station completion target is not until lune 1973. Because that centre is right on the link between Perth and Kalgoorlie it seems quite unreasonable that whatever is required to connect Southern Cross cannot be quickly carried out. Kollyanobbing, an iron ore town some 30 miles from Southern Cross, can apparently, on the information I have received from the Postmaster-General, forget all about television unless its population, presently about 350, is substantially increased. It is only 30 miles from where a station will be set up, but there is no chance of a service in the foreseeable future under the approach of the present Government. According to what the Postmaster-General told me just recently, no plans, no surveys and no investigations have been made beyond this seventh stage programme, so therefore it is pretty clear that any area which will not be served by this seventh stage can forget its chances for several years to come, and at least until the very late 1970s. Naturally enough, I am delighted that such centres as Kalgoorlie, Kambalda, Norseman and Geraldton now have a station, and that Carnarvon will be serviced by the middle of next year. 
I know from my own experience that until a person has a television service he does not realise what he is missing in relation to the several programmes and the information contained in some of them. Because of this, every possible action should be taken to extend the service as quickly and as widely as possible. I notice that the Postmaster-General does say that he has asked his Department to remain alert to any possibilities of advancing the completion dates of these other stations, and I sincerely hope that this can be attained and that in fact the dates will be advanced very considerably. As I sec it, they should have been and would have been advanced had not it been for the fact that in February this year the Government instructed all departments substantially to reduce their expenditure. 1 believe this was the real cause of the delay and the real reason why orders were not placed. 
In conclusion, I take the opportunity of pointing out to the Minister that the service which Merredin people receive from Mawson is far from satisfactory resulting, I believe, from a weak signal. T hope that the PostmasterGeneral will take up this matter in the appropriate quarter to try to bring about a very quick improvement. It may be that the signal from Mawson could be strengthened, but this would perhaps only improve the picture at Merredin and do nothing to extend a satisfactory service east and north of Merredin. Therefore, as Southern Cross is to have a station at some time in 1973, if I remember correctly, and as it is 70 miles from Merredin it could well mean that the area between a few miles west of Southern Cross and a few miles east of Merredin would be no man's land. If this is so, then the proper thing to do would be to establish a station at or near Merredin. As I have just said, I hope the Postmaster-General will take some heed of what I have said in this respect and that in addition he will let me know as early as possible what is intended so that I can pass on the information to those people who at present are ruining their eyes trying to look at a picture on a snowedup screen. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Civil Aviation, upon notice: 
Would Fitzroy Crossing Aerodrome be suitable as an alternative to Broome and Derby if the landing strip and taxiways were upgraded and lengthened to meet the requirements of Fokker Fellowship aircraft. 
Has any estimate been made of the cost  ot  this upgrading: if so, what is the estimate. 
Has consideration been given to carrying out the work: if so, with what result. 
asked the Treasurer, upon notice: - 
What was the expenditure by the. Commonwealth under the Civil Work's Programme in each State and Territory in .each of the years 1969-70 and 1970-71. 
What was the. expenditure under, the Pro gramme,- on a 'pet capita basis, in each-State and Territory, in each of the. years 1969-70 and 1970- 71 and what is the. estimated expenditure, on the same basis, for 1971-72. 
What was the total revenue, on a per capita basis, received by the Commonwealth from' each State and Territory in each of the. years 1969-70 and 1970-71 and what is the estimated revenue, on the same basis, for 1971-72. 
asked the Minister for the Interior, upon notice: 
Has it been found necessary to purchase from or pay compensation to any company or person for land or buildings situated in the vicinity of the Learmonth Airfield in Western Australia. 
If so, what are the companies or who are the persons concerned. 
What area of land is involved and what is the purchase price or compensation to be paid for it. 
What buildings are involved, of what material are they constructed, and what was the purchase price or compensation paid or to be paid for them. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Civil Aviation, upon notice: 
Are all privately owned light aircraft subject to regular major inspections for airworthiness by or under the supervision of the Department of Civil Aviation. 
If so, at what intervals are these inspections carried out and what is the recognised method of supervision. 
If inspections are not made or supervised by the Department, are the owners obliged by any regulations or Act to make or arrange regular major inspections; if so, are they in turn obliged to furnish the Department with particulars of any defects or repairs. 
Are owner/pilots or pilots generally prohibited from carrying (a) paying and (b) nonpaying passengers in light aircraft which are not subject in any way to Departmental inspections or Certificates of Airworthiness. 
asked the PostmasterGeneral, upon notice: 
ls a telegram delivery service provided to residents of all towns north of Geraldton in Western Australia. 
If not, which towns are without this service. 
Where a delivery service is not provided, what methods are used to advise people that telegrams have been received at the Post Office. 
Which towns can expect a telegram delivery service to commence during each of the years 1971-72, 1972-73 and 1973-74. 
asked the Postmaster-General, upon notice: 
In how many country centres in each State have house deliveries of mail been discontinued during 1971. 
How many are expected to be discontinued during the next six months. 
Have these deliveries been discontinued as a result of the Government's instruction to departments in early 1971 to reduce expenditure. If not, what are the general reasons. 
asked the Minister repre senting the Minister for Health, upon notice: 
Is Commonwealth benefit payable under the National Health Act for (a) physiotherapy treatment and (b) hospitalisation while receiving physiotherapy treatment. 
If not, why is the benefit denied to people requiring this treatment. 
I address my question to the Prime Minister. Has the United States Navy reduced its Australian workforce by some 70 men at the North West Cape base in Western Australia? Has the Navy now asked the majority of its remaining employees to work 9 hours a day for 6 days a week? Would those hours of overtime by some 200 workers be equivalent to the hours the 70 displaced men would have worked on a normal 40 hour a week basis? Is the Navy acting on any recommendations of the Government in regard to its unemployment policy, and if not can the Prime Minister give any other explanation for its unreasonable attitude? Will the Prime Minister immediately request the United States Navy to employ additional men rather than requiring a deliberately depleted workforce to work excessive overtime? 
asked the Minister repre senting the Minister for Health, upon notice: 
How many (a) age, (b) invalid and (c) widow pensioners lost their medical entitlement cards as a result of the recent increase in Commonwealth superannuation and reduction in pension. 
Are those pensioners who, immediately prior to becoming pensioners, were members of a friendly society or other organisation by which they obtained pharmaceutical benefits but who resigned upon receipt of a medical card now prohibited from rejoining these organisations so as to again obtain pharmaceutical benefits. 
If so, will the Minister take immediate action to remove the prohibition. If not, why not. 
asked the Minister for Primary Industry, upon notice: 
Can he say whether the United States of America is expected to introduce laws on the handling of sea foods which could have serious effects upon prawn and crayfish exports from Australia to the United States. 
If so, what information has he in respect of the provisions of the proposed laws. 
Has he taken any steps in an endeavour to ensure that Australian shellfish processors will not be unduly affected. 
Has he given Australian processors any advice upon the expected provisions of the proposed laws and when he expects them to become operative. 
If he has not advised the processors, when does he expect to be in a position to do so. 
asked the Minister for Primary Industry, upon notice: 
Who determines which sections of the meat industry shall be represented on the Australian Meat Board. 
Is it a fact that the pig industry has no representation; if so, why. 
Will he offer a direction or make a recommendation that the pig industry be given representation as soon as possible. 
asked the Minister for Edu cation and  Science,  upon notice: 
Is it. a fact that a number of children in remote areas of the States are denied a proper education simply because their parents cannot afford to pay the high costs of transport and accommodation involved in allowing the children to gain a proper education in a town or city far distant from their homes. 
If so, what financial assistance does the Commonwealth provide or does it intend to provide to ensure that children from remote areas are given at least an equal opportunity with city children to gain a proper education. 
asked the Treasurer, upon  notice: 
Is excise payable on petrol irrespective of Its usage. 
If so, will the Government take steps to grant an exemption in respect of petrol used for petrol propelled farm machinery; if not, why not. 
I present the following petition: 
To the Honourable the  Speaker  and Members of the House of Representatives in Parliament assem bled the petition of the undersigned electors of the Commonwealth of Australia respectfully showeth: 
That on 10th December 1948, Australia signed the 'Universal Declaration of Human Rights', Article 25 reads: 'Everyone has the right to security in the event of unemployment, sickness, disability, widowhood, old age and other lack of livelihood in circumstances beyond his control.' 
Yet, 23 years later, in our country of great national wealth and abundance it is to the nation's shame that many thousands of our people live in a state of being inconsistent with the dignity and worth of the human person - languishing in poverty and want, neglect and the lack of proper care necessary for their health and well-being. 
We, the undersigned, respectfully draw to your attention that the conscience of the nation is not at ease while the records of our country show that social services are not comparable with that of other advanced countries administering such services, therefore, we call upon the Commonwealth Government to immediately legislate for: 
Base pension rate - 30 per cent of the average weekly male earnings, all states, plus supplementary assistance and allowances based on a percentage of such earnings. Unemployed benefits equal to the foregoing. 
Completely free health services to cover all needs of social service pensioners - hospitalisation, chronic and long-term illness, fractures, anaesthetics, specialist, pharmaceutical, bearing aids, dental, optical, physiotherapy, chiropody, surgical aids and any other appliances. 
Commonwealth Government to promote a comprehensive national scheme in cooperation with the States and make finance available to provide for the building of public hospitals, nursing and hostel-type homes necessary to effectively meet the special requirements of aged people, in conjunction with a comprehensive domiciliary care programme to enable aged people to say in their homes. 
Mental illness placed in the same position as physical illness. 
Substantial Commonwealth increase in the $5 subsidy a day per public bed pensioner patient in general hospitals. 
Ten per cent of Commonwealth revenue to local government for general activities which now include social welfare, health, conservation and other community needs. Commonwealth subsidy for the waiving of rates for pensioners. 
Commonwealth Government to increase the non-repayable grant to the States forlow rental home units for pensioners. 
Royal Commission or other form of public enquiry into Australia's social welfare structure that Australia may be brought into line with accepted world standards of the most advanced countries. 
And your petitioners, as in duty bound, will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
asked the PostmasterGeneral, upon notice: 
Has  a  decision been made to establish  a  radio station at Exmouth, Western Australia. 
If so, (a) when is it expected that transmission will commence, (b) what will be its power, (c) where will it be sited and (d) what will be the radius of satisfactory reception. . 
It was not my intention to enter this debate but, as it has gone far beyond the original intentions of the legislation before the House, I feel that 1 should make a contribution to the debate. The purpose of the Bills which are now before us is to authorise the payment of certain moneys to the States of the Commonwealth following upon the Premiers Conference and the Australian Loan Council meeting in February of this year. The amounts involved total only $24.3.m - $15m under the States Grants Bill and $9.3m under the States Grants (Capital Assistance) Bill. That money is to be distributed among the States of the Commonwealth. Naturally I am particularly interested in the fact that my own State of Western Australia will receive only $2.7m as a result of these Bills. 
The Treasurer  (Mr Snedden)  in the process of introducing the Bills some time last month told the House that they included grants for the relief of non-metropolitan unemployment. Those remarks may suggest that the Government - honourable members on the opposite side of the House - is concerned about the very considerable increase that has taken place in unemployment over the last few months. Honourable members opposite may even suggest that the Government has a genuine desire to rectify that situation. The fact of the matter is that most of the increase in unemployment - not all of it but most of it - has been brought about by the deliberate actions of the Government itself, I believe that it was not only a deliberate action but also a deliberate decision by the Liberal-Country Party Government to bring about a situation where there would be a large number of unemployed. Irrespective of whether that is correct the fact remains that the Government, by its economic policies, did create a situation of unemployment. 
Under those circumstances the Government is not entitled to claim any credit for making finance available to relieve that situation, even if the making available of finance meant that that situation would be relieved entirely or even substantially. Unfortunately the money which will be provided to the States under the Bills that we are now discussing is nowhere near sufficient to do anything to relieve unemployment in the non-metropolitan areas.  Mr Speaker,  if you were to examine the unemployment figures for the nonmetropolitan areas at the end of August last year and the end of February this year, you would find that there has been an increase of 19,500 in the number of unemployed over that short period. A total of 29.092 were unemployed in August and 48,617 were unemployed in February. It is fairly obvious that very little inroad will be made into that situation by the small amounts of grant that we are dealing with here. It would not be sufficient even to set up the situation that we had in my youth back in the depression years, of which I have a very strong recollection, of soup kitchens and that sort of thing. 
As the honourable member for Grayndler said earlier this afternoon, the Bills with which we are now dealing are in reality a move along the same lines as we had during the depression of a dole being handed out to the people to whom we have looked over the years to carry on this country. The finance for unemployment relief in country areas is to go in the main to the local government authorities for local works. It must be realised that, as far as the female unemployed are concerned, these amounts of money that will be provided under the Bills that we are discussing will do very little, if anything, towards relieving any unemployment that the girls and women find themselves in today. So, although the Treasurer speaks of relief for the unemployed, the Government has really failed to provide the wherewithal to bring about that relief. 
I wish to deal now with matters related to the situation in non-metropolitan areas that the grants with which we are now dealing are apparently expected to assist. My own electorate of Kalgoorlie covers some 900,000 square miles or nine-tenths of the State of Western Australia. 
It may not be very much but it is a little larger than the electorate of the honourable member for Sydney. My electorate is completely nonmetropolitan. There are only 2 electorates in that category in Western Australia and they are both held by the Australian Labor Party. Surely that is something at which the Australian Country Party must have a look. Perhaps the honourable member for Mallee  (Sir Winton Turnbull)  should have a look at that situation. Fancy such electorates being held by the Labor Party. I think that suggests that the people of Western Australia who live in country areas in which there is no metropolitan content are convinced that it is the Labor Party and not the Country Party that can best look after their interests. A great deal is said about the problems of local government in the city and the near city areas. I agree that those authorities do have a problem. But they are in a very different situation from that of the authorities in the far flung parts of this country. The problems experienced in the country areas will never be solved - in fact, they will never be relieved to any great extent - until such time as the Commonwealth Government is prepared to have a look at its priorities and at the situation as it affects not only people but also values. Naturally in an electorate such as Kalgoorlie and in a State the size of Western Australia a fairly substantial number of people are living in what can only be described as remote areas. Even those who live in what could be said to be reasonably large country centres are still a considerable distance from the metropolitan area and from any large towns in which such services as advanced education facilities, for example, are available. Those people who live on stations or pastoral properties - indeed, on farming properties in some of the larger agricultural areas - are in many cases unable to obtain close to home even a primary education for their children. As a result of all this, people in the small country centres and on outlying properties are faced with very substantial costs for education which are far in excess of the costs to parents in the cities, particularly within the metropolitan areas. Quite a lot of those parents in far flung areas - the owners, managers, employees or whatever their situation in life may be - are not in a financial situation to meet the ever-increasing cost of education which, as far as they are concerned, includes transport and board and lodging. Perhaps they may have to employ a governess or an instructor and provide board and lodging in that respect. 
Fortunately for those people in Western Australia the Labor Government, which came to office only recently, recognises and appreciates their difficulties. Shortly after talcing over from the Liberal Government it substantially increased the boarding away from home allowance. I would like to refer briefly to those allowances because I suggest that they are very closely tied to the matters we are discussing at this time. In 1969 I wrote to the Liberal Minister for Education in Western Australia in an attempt to have the allowance increased, and I received a reply in January. I was informed that, in zone A or north of the 26th parallel of south latitude, the allowance for children up to the third year of schooling would be $160 a year and for fourth and fifth year children the allowance would be $200. In zone B the amounts were $120 and $160 respectively. I want to draw the attention of the House to this situation. Earlier this year in an answer from a Labor Minister, after the last election in Western Australia, I was informed that Labor had increased the amounts to $261 for the third year in zone A and up to $312 for the fourth and fifth year students, while in zone B the amounts had been increased to $210 and $252 respectively, which means that the allowances in that regard have been increased by approximately $100 a year. 
The Labor Government also acted to increase the supervision allowance, to which I referred earlier, which is paid to parents who are required to employ a person to supervise their children's lessons. The Liberal-Country Party Government paid only $200 a year. Labor quickly increased it to $300 to parents with one child and $400 to parents with more than one child. The total increase in payments for this financial year which the Labor Government in Western Australia has made in respect of the allowances mentioned, plus a hostel allowance which it has also provided for these people, will be approximately $35,000 above what the Liberal-Country Party Government had provided in the previous year. While the Labor Government took immediate steps to improve the position, it is still realised and well recognised that much more is required. Unfortunately, to do all that is needed will not be possible, except perhaps in a minor way, unless a Commonwealth government is prepared to make available to the State quite substantial amounts by way of grants or other means. There seems no doubt that while the present Federal Government remains in office it is most unlikely that any additional finance of any consequence will be made available to the States for education purposes. 
All right, and to support my claim just listen to this. Let me quote the relevant part of a letter 1 received from the Prime Minister  (Mr. McMahon)  on 12th July last year in reply to representations I had made on behalf of the Kalgoorlie School of the Air Parents and Citizens Association concerning assistance for the education of children in remote areas. The remote areas referred to more particularly in this case were those of the eastern goldfields and the Murchison, which is a pretty substantial part of the outer area of Western Australia and in which there are many people who have pastoral properties - the people whom the Austraian Country Party professes to represent. This is what the Prime Minister had to say: 
The States, under the Constitution, have the primary responsibility for education, including the education of children living in the sparsely settled areas. In matters of this kind, where State responsibilities are concerned, the Commonwealth Government sees its role as one of endeavouring to ensure that the States have access to sufficient funds, both capital and current, to enable them to expand and improve the important services which they provide. 
We agree, of course, that the Commonwealth should provide sufficient funds to the States, but it is not doing so, and that is the point of our complaint. This Government is not doing what the Prime Minister tells us should be done. The honourable member for Angas  (Mr Giles),  who just interjected, should listen to what the Prime Minister said instead of reading the daily news. The letter went on: 
The Commonwealth Government believes that, with the substantially improved arrangements for the payment of financial assistance grants settled at the June 1970 Premiers Conference, with access now to a new field of taxation- 
That was the extra tax that the States would impose -  and with the additional special revenue provided as a result of the recent Premiers Conference, the States Governments are well placed- 
This would supposedly include South Australia - . .  to meet their financial responsibilities including those for education. 
I do not see how that could be read other than to mean that, as far as the Government and honourable members opposite are concerned, they will not provide finance to the States to improve the situation. They may provide extra to meet rising costs but they will not do anything to upgrade the educational standard of those people in the remote areas. That is the situation, and honourable members, opposite cannot deny it, because their Prime Minister said- 
The present Prime Minister said that, as far as the Government was concerned, the States had adequate finance to do all the things that were necessary in relation to education. 
Of course, the honourable member for Angas comes from the wine country so he has to be excused. A great deal more could be said with regard to education and the needs of people in areas outside the cities. In that regard I refer to the need for high schools both for those up to the stage of the third year and for those up to the stage of the fifth year, and also the need for the upgrading, and indeed the establishment in some areas, of primary schools. However, I want to deal with a couple of other matters and, therefore, I content myself with saying that, in regard to education, there is an urgent need for the Government to make much more in the way of funds available to States such as Western Australia, Queensland, South Australia and New South Wales for use in country areas. 
turn now to housing. I want to quote from an article on housing which appeared as a leading article in the 'West Australian' newspaper as far back as 13 th October 1970. The article criticised the Commonwealth's action in relation to the allocation of funds for Aboriginal housing. The article states: 
. the Commonwealth will give $1,080,000, its contribution being $90,000 higher than last year. Since it is estimated that at least $10m is needed to meet WA's present Aboriginal housing requirements, it is clear that spending at this rate is inadequate. 
Not so long ago the Government was given responsibility by the people of Australia to take over the Aboriginal situation and to provide the finance that is required. The Government has completely rejected that responsibility. It has refused to accept that responsibility. 
The other matter to which I would like to refer briefly relates to coloured television. I think the honourable member for Melbourne Ports  (Mr Crean)  and the honourable member for Maranoa  (Mr Corbett)  mentioned this matter. The Government will introduce coloured television at some astronomical cost while we have people in need in so many different areas of Australia. I think this is something in relation to which the Government should be condemned. 
asked the PostmasterGeneral, upon notice: 
Will the television station proposed to be established at Dampier, Western Australia, provide a service to Karratha or Roebourne or both. 
If not, is it intended that these centres will be serviced with television inthe near future: if so, when and by what means. 
If there is no intention to provide a service to either Karratha or Roebourne or both in the near future, when can the people in those areas expect that a television service will be established. 
asked the Postmaster- 
General, upon notice: 
Is it a fact that the commencement of transmission from the television station at Carnarvon, Western Australia, may be delayed beyond June, 1972. 
If so, what is the reason for this delay and when is the station now expected to commence transmission. (3)If there is to be a delay with respect to Carnarvon, is it anticipated that similar delays will also occur with other stations in Western Australia. 
asked the Postmaster- 
General, upon notice: 
Is the coaxial cable to be extended north of Port Hedland in Western Australia. 
If so, when is it expected to reach (a) Broome, (b) Derby and (c) Wyndham. 
If this extension is unlikely for several years ahead, will he recommend to the Government that local authorities north of Port Hedland be offered substantial financial asistance towards the establishment of television series similar to those operating in iron ore towns in the north. 
asked the Postmaster-General, upon notice: 
How many applications for telephones are outstanding from persons resident within a 15 mile radius of (a) Grass Patch Exchange, (b) Circle Valley Exchange and (c) Neradup Exchange in the Electoral Division of Kalgoorlie. 
When is it expected that the applications will be satisfied. 
If they are not expected to be satisfied before 30th June 1973, what is the reason for the delay. 
My question is to the Minister for Labour and National Service. I ask him if, as he suggests, his Government is genuinely concerned about the loss of wages to workers as a result of industrial disputes, will he tell the House exactly why his Government deliberately brought about the tremendous increase in unemployment which has meant a loss in wages over the last 6 months of something like SI 60m? 
I rise to support this matter of public importance that was introduced by the honourable member for Herbert  (Mr Bonnett).  The matter is in the following terms: 
The urgent need for the Government to take immediate steps as a matter of public importance to plan for the protection of the Australian meat industry against the probable future influx of synthetic or imitation meats on the Australian market or Australia's overseas markets following recently announced developments overseas. 
Although I support the proposition I am sorry that the honourable member did not include in what I have just read a protection for the Australian consumer because, after all, it is the Australian consumer who is major purchaser of our meat. The proposition of the honourable member would not have been necessary if the Federal Government were carrying out its responsibilities to the people of Australia as it should be doing. The fact is that the Government should have taken steps long ago to ensure that synthetic meat or imitation meat - call it what you like - would not be an attractive commodity to the Australian housewife and her family or consumers of meat in Australia generally. Surely the only reason why imitation meat could be attractive would be the cost factor. If genuine meat is no dearer or very little dearer than synthetic then it is a pretty safe bet that the genuine meat will remain in full demand and will never be endangered by the production or importation of synthetics. 
Even if synthetic meat looked attractive and even tasted the same or similar to the real thing there would still be considerable resistance to its purchase if the cost was somewhere near the same. I feel quite certain this would be so. I would be very surprised if any housewife or mother would even consider offering synthetic or imitation meat to her family while she was in a position financially to purchase and serve real meat. I believe that cafe and restaurant owners and such people also would be disinclined to serve imitation meat unless the cost of the real thing got out of hand. If this is so, the best protection we can give to the industry and the consumers is to ensure that the cost of genuine meat does not rise to a point where it ceases to be attractive for financial reasons. 
At the same time the cost of meat, particularly beef, to the consumer is rapidly reaching the stage where the consumer will be forced to look for an alternative - either something other than meat or otherwise, if available, the types of meat referred to in the proposition before the House. A breadwinner on anything less than the average wage just cannot afford to buy good steak or good sirloin or such meat because of its high cost. Let me say right now that I do not believe for a moment that either the grower or butcher is receiving or charging as the case may be any exorbitant amount beyond what he is entitled to receive or charge. It is well known that the grower's return from lamb or mutton is well below an economical figure yet there is a very considerable difference between what the grower receives and what the purchaser pays at the butcher shop. Certainly there is a great deal more than should be the case if the butcher paid only the amount which the grower received plus a reasonable margin which, of course, we can expect him to add to the purchase price payable by him. 
As we all know, most butchers do not purchase direct from the grower and as a result pay a higher price than would be the case if there was a direct purchase. It seems clear to me that if the grower received for his lamb and mutton a price equal to his cost of production it would mean, if the present differentiation applied, that the cost at the butcher's shop to the consumer would be almost prohibitive today. This suggests to me that there is an urgent need for an inquiry to be held to ascertain at what stage of the transaction between the grower and consumer there is either an unnecessary or inflated charge or percentage take. The same thing applies with regard to beef. The difference between the return to the grower and the charge to the consumer would appear to be much more than it should be. I may be wrong but if I am I know that many thousands of other people are equally wrong. I suggest that there is a general belief that somewhere along the line there is a charge or percentage take well above what it should be. This applies especially in the domestic market. Alternatively, there is a stage in the handling which might be looked at and perhaps bypassed. It must be remembered that the domestic market is our major market for meat. The domestic market absorbs approximately 85 per cent of meat produced. It accepts all pig meat and approximately half the beef, veal and mutton produced. Therefore the Australian consumer is the main consumer to be protected. To do this it is necessary for the Government to take action to afford that protection. Even if there were no danger of synthetics making inroads into the market it would still be necessary and proper that the Australian housewife, the Australian families and Australian people generally, wherever they obtain their meats should be protected against unreasonable and prohibitive prices. On the other hand we must consider the growers' position. If prices are allowed to continue to increase such as they have with beef it will not be long before we are facing difficulty in selling meat and gaining a proper return not only locally but also overseas. Beef and veal production in Australia is steadily increasing. However, prices are increasing too and I should like to quote some statistics. About March 1970 the number of cattle in Australia reached 22.2 million head, an increase of 8 per cent over the previous year which itself had been a record. The figures for March of last year showed a further increase in the number of beef cattle to approximately 24.4 million head due largely to a decrease in dairy cattle herds. In 1970-71 beef prices generally were higher than for the previous year. In April 1971 the average price for first grade and second grade export beef was something like $2.50 per 100 lb dearer than it had been in 1969-70. If the existing circumstances continue prices will increase accordingly. It might well be that it is necessary for the price of beef to rise to match the increased cost of production. This Government has done nothing to halt increased costs of producing beef and if something is not done soon in that regard continual increases in production costs will force many people out of the industry. 
Much has been said about proper labelling of synthetic meats so that housewives will not be fooled. I agree with what has been said but a necessary move is to ensure that housewives can buy genuine meat at reasonable prices. While housewives and other consumers can do that there will not be the same danger of a severe intrusion into the genuine meat market as might happen otherwise. I agree, as I said earlier, that synthetics should be properly labelled so that their real and actual contents are revealed. However, that will not prevent the purchase of synthetic substitutes if the price of the genuine article is beyond the buyer's purse. I trust that the Government will take urgent steps not only to protect the future of the Australian meat industry but also to protect the consumer. Action of the type I have suggested would go a long way towards protecting the industry. 
asked the Minister repre senting the Minister for Health, upon notice: 
When was the most recent X-ray survey carried out in the Northern Territory for the purpose of detecting the incidence of active tuberculosis. 
How many persons . were X-rayed in that survey. 
Did the survey cover the whole of the Territory and include full-blood Aborigines. 
How many (a) adults and (b) minors were found to be suffering from the complaint. 
When is the next survey proposed. 
asked the Minister for Shipping and Transport, upon notice: 
At which centres and line camps along (a) the Trans-Australian Railway, (b) the North Australia Railway and (c) the Central Australia Railway have (i) septic systems, (ii) hot-water systems and (Hi) electricity systems been Installed since April 1967. 
At which centres and line camps ls it intended to install these systems during 1972-73 and 1973-74. 
The Bill which we are presently discussing proposes to amend the Conciliation and 
Arbitration Act. The very nature and the effects of the amendments contained in the Bill make it patently clear that either the Government has no knowledge or appreciation of what is required to improve employer and union relationships or it has deliberately set a course that not only will further aggravate the existing position but also will bring about a situation in which it will be well nigh impossible for unions and employers working in concert to prevent minor issues from becoming major stoppages. One would imagine from the amendments that, rather than wishing to prevent disputes, the Government is seeking to foster them. One of the main functions and responsibilities of members of the arbitration courts and conciliation commissions is to promote goodwill in industry. Indeed, the Act sets this out as its chief objective. This then must mean that those members in the execution of their duties are expected to ensure on the one hand that the workers receive wage justice while on the other hand the employers receive justice in relation to production efforts. 
However, production efforts and the results that flow from those efforts are largely dependent on the efficiency of management. No matter how efficient or how dedicated the work force may be, its efforts cannot bring about the best results if the business itself is run in an inefficient manner. Unfortunately, this is the situation in many cases. It is in these areas of inefficiency that the main discontent occurs, mainly because the management not only is inefficient in organising the proper operation of the business but also is incapable of recognising its own shortcomings in relation to general work conditions and wage justice and is incapable of entering into any worthwhile or effective negotiations with employees or the union concerned. It is in these particular types of situations that small problems can develop into major disputes, often because those employers and managers, due to their own lack of knowledge and ability in industrial affairs, rely completely on the employers federation to arrange settlement of any of their troubles. 
The employers federation, from my knowledge of the way in which it acted during my time in union affairs, was a past master in the tactics of delay. This in itself quite often made it very difficult for union officials to prevail upon the work force and the members of their unions to continue working while negotiations were taking place. On several occasions I have been involved in such situations where the union, having failed to reach a satisfactory agreement with the employer, has served a log of claims which in turn has been passed on to the employers' federation, as the employers' representative, to handle. The federation would invariably wait until the very last day which the Act allowed before it would lodge its answers. Then it would take advantage of the Act to gain further delay by lodging amendments. When at long last a hearing date was arranged the federation, on some fixed or flimsy excuse, would seek a postponement. Then eventually when the hearing was fixed, when it was heard and when the decision was brought down the federation would try to delay speaking to the Minutes. 
The idea of these delays, of course, was to save the employer money. Even though it was obvious that the court would grant wage increases or additional allowances, or whatever the claim happened to be, and even though it was obvious what those amounts would be, those payments would not become payable until the effective date of the court's decision. This was never made retrospective. As a result, the employers could be saved the payment of quite a considerable amount of money in wages. This was the way in which the federation really justified its existence in the eyes of the employers. By the same token, of course, the workers were also denied wages which they would have received otherwise. It is no wonder that in such circumstances the workers become disenchanted and dissatisfied with the system. It is no wonder that they feel obliged to withhold their labour in an attempt to bring notice to the situation and to hurry up the proceedings. Yet when, despite that provocation, such an action occurs, it is people such as honourable members on the Government side who are the first to condemn the workers and the union officials and accuse them of trying to incite strike action. 
The Bill that we are now discussing could worsen the situation in relation to delays because it will force the union to go before the Arbitration Commission and argue its case regarding wages and so on even though agreement has been reached between the employer and the union on the matter in question. Let me quote the amendment that the Government wants to insert in the Act. Proposed section 28 reads as follows:  lt.) If, before an industrial dispute has been referred to arbitration in accordance with this Act, the parties to the dispute or any of them reach agreement on terms for the settlement of all or any of the matters in dispute, they may cither- 
make a memorandum of the terms agreed on and request a Conciliation Commissioner to certify the memorandum; or 
request a Conciliation Commissioner to make an award or order giving effect to their agreement, and, subject to this section, the  Comciliation  Commissioner may, by order to which a copy of the memorandum is attached, certify the memorandum or may make an award or order accordingly. 
That may sound quite all right. But then the amendment goes on:  (2.) A Conciliation Commissioner shall refuse to certify a memorandum or make an award or order in accordance with this section if he is of the opinion that - 
the terms are not in settlement of an industrial dispute; 
any of the terms is a term that the Commission does not have power to include in an award; or 
it is not in the public interest that he should certify the memorandum or make the award or order. 
I believe that if that amendment is allowed to be inserted in the Conciliation and Arbitration Act it will be one of the most retrograde steps that could be taken. It will make a mockery of employer-employee negotiation and relationship. It will make a mockery of the employer and union discussions. It will make a mockery of the function of the Commission itself. 
Even worse still - this is perhaps much more serious in the eyes of the general community - it will cause more industrial unrest than any other factor in industrial relationships. As we all know, the function of the Commission is for its members to hear argument from both parties to a dispute and then after consideration of those arguments, which might take weeks or even months, to bring down a decision. But whatever the final decision happens to be. the Arbitration Commission has always been very careful not to overjudge or overacknowledge wage claims. No one could ever accuse the Commission of being overgenerous with an employer's money. It could never be accused of granting to employees any excessive wage increases. The employers and the employers federation are well aware of this. As a result, some employers will be prepared to negotiate and agree or even offer wage increases which they can be certain the Commission will reject. While on the other hand genuine and fair employers, knowing full well that what has been agreed upon with the union is only fair and just, could see it completely changed by the Commission and as a result be involved in industrial unrest and discontent. 1 have no doubt that the amendment to which I have just referred has been inserted on the demand of the employers federation. More and more employers of large numbers of workers in substantial industries are becoming more and more inclined and find it more successful and more valuable in the long run, in the interests of all concerned, to discuss and settle their problems and disputes at conferences with union representatives and officials around the office table. They are becoming more and more inclined to discuss matters with job representatives with a view to preventing any major disputes. I have noticed this trend amongst the iron ore mining companies in my own State where the problems for both sides are completely different from the problems in the cities, for instance, and where completely different decisions are required. But this type of settlement does not suit the employers' federation which in earlier years was able to wave the big stick and practically demand of employers what they should do or should not do. It told employers in no uncertain manner that they should not agree to this or that because they would be setting a precedent or standard which other employers would be obliged to follow. 
The Federation over recent years has lost a lot of its influence with employers and is very concerned with the progress which unions are making. It is concerned that unions and employers should be each enjoying the respect of the other and be able to negotiate on reasonable terms. The Federation is most concerned that wage settlements which it would strongly oppose are being made outside industrial tribunals, and apparently the Government is equally concerned about that situation. At this point I would like to quote what the Executive Director of the Australian Council of Employers Federations,  Mr G.  Polites, said on 14th April 1970. He said: 
Management, whether it be socialist or private, must realise that whatever it does for employees, no matter how well it develops its business oi how much it is prepared to share the improvement in productivity, there will be an constant clamour by labour for a greater share. 
Apparently  Mr Polites  strongly believes that in no circumstances, irrespective of his efforts or the result of his efforts productionwise, should a worker be guilty of seeking or be allowed to seek an improvement in remuneration on his own initiative, but that he should always be content to settle for whatever the employer is prepared to offer irrespective of how that offer actually compares with effort, production or profit.  Mr Polites  went on to say:  1 believe this demand will never be satisfied or avoided whatever economic system is put into operation, unless you cast aside the democratic processes and impose a dictatorship of some form or another. 

 Mr Polites, at that time anyway, was the main voice for the Employers Federation, an organisation whose views carry considerable weight with the Liberal-Country Party Government; an organisation whose members subscribe very largely to Liberal and Country Party funds; an organisation which over the years has done everything within its power to depress workers' wages and prevent improvement in conditions; an organisation which has acted as best it could to deny wage justice to workers in one industry, if such wage justice could perhaps flow on to workers in another industry. What  Mr Polites  was advocating was that if any wage justice exists in this country by way of some democratic system it should be replaced by a system of absolute dictatorship, a dictatorship controlled by a Liberal Government in collaboration with the Employers Federation, which could stop any further progress by unions towards obtaining a better deal for their members and, in turn, obtaining a fairer share of profits resulting from greater efforts of workers. 
This Bill to amend the Conciliation and Arbitration Act is the second step by the Government to bring about this form of dictatorship which  Mr Polites  advocated. The first step the Government took was last year's Budget by which it intended to cause a substantial pool of unemployment. It was obvious at that time that the Government had taken its instructions from the Employers Federation. Government members accuse Opposition members of taking their instructions from the trade union movement. Even if this was correct, and of course it is not, although we naturally respect their views, how much different would that be for the Liberal and Country Parties acting on the instructions of the Employers Federation? Opposition members are proud to admit that we are mainly concerned with the disadvantaged and underprivileged sections of the community. Certainly if one cares to compare the workers of this country with big business, such as the Broken Hill Pty Co. Ltd, Reg Ansett, General Motors-Holdens Pty Ltd and many others who make so many successful demands upon the Government, of course the workers of this country must be listed in the disadvantaged and underprivileged. So naturally we are on their side. 
Referring back now to the Budget of last year, we know that its effect has been to bring about a very substantial increase in the unemployed. In fact, in many areas unemployment doubled. However, honourable members will recall that on that occasion the Treasurer  (Mr Snedden)  gave notice of the Government's intention to amend the Conciliation and Arbitration Act along the lines required by  Mr Polites.  The Treasurer made it clear that the Government would use every avenue at its disposal to prevent any further increases in wages either as a result of court action or from union and employer negotiation and agreement. Honourable members will recall also that the Treasurer concluded his Budget Speech by telling the House that the Government believed that wage increases following industrial disputes were substantially larger than they should be. Just how he was able to arrive at that decision, particularly in relation to union-employer agreements in farflung places such as the north and north-west of Western Australia, for instance, I just cannot understand Of course, the Treasurer made no attempt to substantiate his remarks. 
The House will recall that the Treasurer told us that the Government was considering methods of strengthening the arbitration system and apparently, in view of the Bill now before us, its views are much different to mine with respect to strength and weakness. But honourable members were told that and also that in particular the Government would bring to the forefront the economic consequences of wage increases. Those remarks must have been insulting to members of the Arbitration Commission and to the Commissioners because the Government is saying in effect that at the moment and for some time past the Commission has been ignoring economic consequences when actually it is always careful not to ignore them. Honourable members on the Government side who believe that conciliation or arbitration commissioners do not take full recognition of the economic effects of arbitration decisions should read and digest the remarks of  Sir Richard  Kirby,  President  of the Commonwealth Conciliation and Arbitration Commission, appearing in the Federal Law Review of 1970. For the information of honourable members  Sir Richard  Kirby then said: 
On the question of economic policy, the then Chief Justice of the High Court,  Sir Owen  Dixon in 1953 used words of such clarity and wisdom that they would have put the Commission's role beyond question I would have thought. However although all newcomers find them early and quote them often they have not resolved the confusion. 
It would seem that  Sir Richard  might, have been addressing his remarks to Government members. He continued: 
I myself quote  Sir Owen  again in the hope that among readers of this review at any rate the repetition of his wise words will have the effect they deserve.  Sir Owen's  oft quoted words are: 
While an arbitral tribunal deriving its authority under an exercise of the legislative power given by s. 51 (xxxv) must confine itself to conciliation and arbitration for the settlement of industrial disputes including what is incidental thereto and cannot have in its hands the general control or direction of industrial, social or economic policies, it would be absurd to suppose that it was to proceed blindly in its work of industrial arbitration and ignore the industrial, social and economic consequences of what it was invited to do or of what, subject to the power of variation, it had actually done. 
I would hope that those words make it perfectly clear to honourable members opposite that arbitration tribunals do closely consider the economic effects of their decisions. I would suggest that that is one reason why workers do not receive the increases that they otherwise would. If the Government does recognise what  Sir Richard  Kirby has drawn attention to in relation to  Sir Owen  Dixon's remarks, perhaps someone on the Government side could tell me why section 39 of the Act is to be amended by adding the words: 
In proceedings before the Commission ... the Commission shall, in considering the public interest, have regard, in particular, to the state of the national economy, and the likely effects on that economy of any award that might be made in the proceedings. 
Here is an added insult to the integrity and good sense of the Commissioners. All this amendment means to me is that it is a direction from the Government to the Commission to cast out claims for wage increases unless it is placed in a position where it cannot possibly do so and, when that occurs, to make any increase as small as possible, in other words, it is asking the Commission to accept the full responsibility for any price increases which may follow wage justice when in actual fact that responsibility lies fairly and squarely upon the Government to prevent unscrupulous retailers or manufacturers from charging unwarranted prices. The Commission will be placed in a position where it will decide that the workers concerned are justly entitled to an increase in wages in the pastoral industry, for instance, but because the increase will allow BHP to use it as an excuse to increase the price of combs and cutters and, as a result steel generally, then the pastoral workers will have to forego their increase in wages, even though they should otherwise receive it. That is the situation in which this Government is prepared to place the Commission. 
The second step taken by the Government to bring about the situation required by  Mr Polites  and his Federation is the Bill now being debated, a Bill containing amendments which, if allowed to he inserted in the Conciliation and Arbitration Act, will not, as the Treasurer suggested, give it any additional strength but will in fact weaken it very considerably in relation to the settlement of industrial disputes. Several of the amendments would simply create a vehicle for bigger and more bitter disputes. This Government is endeavouring to interfere in the affairs of unions beyond its authority. It is endeavouring to create a situation amongst the unions and the employers which neither will tolerate. 
asked the Postmaster-General, upon notice: 
Did he state on 9th December 1971 that unless special procedures were adopted a delay  of  some 2 years could occur on the original completion dates in relation to stage 7 television stations. 
If so, did those special procedures include the urgent provision of additional engineering positions. 
If the position is as stated, when were those additional positions first provided and over what period have they continued. 
What other special procedures were necessary to meet the completion dates and when were they first adopted. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Health, upon notice: 
When was the most recent survey carried out in the Northern Territory for the purpose of detecting the incidence of leprosy among the Aboriginal population. 
How many (a) adults and (b) minors were found to be suffering from the disease and how do these numbers compare with previous surveys. 
When is the next survey proposed. 
asked the Postmaster-General, upon notice: 
Is the charge for telephone installations $40 for each quarter mile beyond a15 mile radius of a telephone exchange. 
Is the charge the same for radio telephone installations. 
What is the cost of extending  a  radio telephone service beyond the15 mile radius compared with the cost of a normal cable or line service. 
What is the approximate difference in the costs of the two services over a distance of (a) 2, (b) 4, (c) 6, (d) 8 and (e) 10 miles. 
What are the advantages or disadvantages of  a  radio telephone against a cable or line connected telephone. 
My question is addressed to the Prime Minister. Has the Government any firm terms on which it provides financial assistance towards drought relief in pastoral areas? If so, is the extent of Commonwealth assistance merely a reimbursement of what a State itself spends on relief or may the Commonwealth provide some additional assistance? In either case is there a minimum amount which a State must spend before the Commonwealth will make any contribution, and if so, what is that minimum? Finally, do the terms of relief apply equally in all States or are some States treated differently, and if so, which are those States and what is the difference? 

 Mr McMOHAN  There is a formula generally agreed to by the States that each State shall have the responsibility of making appropriations up to a specific amount and that over and above that amount the Commonwealth will take responsibility. This applies to each State, but naturally the capacity to pay differs for each State. Consequently, the basic amount for which the State is responsible is different for each State and the balance which has to be paid by the Commonwealth for each State is different as well. If the honourable gentleman has a specific problem relating to Western Australia he should know that the Labor Government in that State has not made any approach to the Commonwealth up to the present. That is to say, as far as J am aware it had not made any approach up to the time I came into the House. If that State wishes to do so, of course, it has the capacity to do it. 
Members of the Australian Labor Party support this Bill to amend the Gold Mining Industry Assistance Act, but at the same time we deplore the Government's failure, or perhaps ft may be more correct to say the Government's refusal, to recognise and accept at a much earlier date the obvious and urgent need to provide additional assistance to the industry to prevent the serious economic and population disruption which was so rapidly developing in the areas concerned and which, in fact, already has happened to a large degree. We also deplore the Government's attitude in that the delay in taking some positive action has destroyed much of the benefit that would have otherwise flowed from this additional assistance had it been granted much earlier. 
The amendments proposed in the Bill will increase the maximum subsidy of $12 per oz. but it must be remembered that that increase of $4 per oz was sought in June 1968 - 4 years ago - and asI will show later, the situation over that 4 years, due to the Government's failure to grant any increase at all, has deteriorated quite considerably. The amendments will also bring about an alteration in relation to the effect upon subsidy of any gold sold on the free market. This amendment is now, I believe, by far the most important of the amendments proposed by the Bill. Under the existing Act the subsidy is reduced by 75 per cent of any amount above the official Australian price which is recovered from sales of gold on the free market. As a result of the amendment, the reduction in subsidy will be 50 per cent on any such amount and that 25 per cent, which is equal to 25c per oz difference, will be very valuable indeed because the subsidy alone now is not sufficient with the official price to allow the continuation of the industry for any length of time. Much will depend upon the free market, how much gold can be sold upon it and how much can be gained from it. Because a fairly substantial free market price will be necessary if the industry is to live and because of the reduction in subsidy which will result from any such sales, it is extremely doubtful that the Commonwealth Government will be called upon to pay out the full $12 subsidy. 
Another reason, of course, is that if a producer reaches the stage where he becomes entitled to the full $12 he will not be in production for very long because his operating surplus will be too small or otherwise he will be operating at a loss. I believe that in the circumstances the Government, without fear of any significant increases in overall payment, could have quite safely either increased the subsidy at that stage to $15 or otherwise reduced the amount of deduction from the subsidy still further in relation to sales above the official price. However, I would hope that, in the interests of the industry and more especially in the interests of the people dependent upon the industry, whether it be direct or indirect, as a result of a substantial price on the free market or, better still, a substantial increase in the official price for gold the subsidy pay out will be a great deal less than $12 per oz. I say that because every dollar above the official price of $ A3 1.25 which is received from sales on the free market in relation to full production will mean that the producer will be 50c per oz better off. 
This is why we need a healthy free market until such time as the official price itself is much higher than it is at the moment. For instance, if the free market were to collapse completely and the official price to remain as it now is, the producers who were entitled to the full subsidy of $12 per oz would receive in total an amount of only $43.25 which at the very best could give them only 25c per oz working surplus. On the other hand, if they recovered, by way of sales on the free market and sales at the official price, an average of $37.25 for each ounce they produced - which would be $6 above the official price - they would receive a total amount of $46.25. As a result of this they would be $3 per oz better off even though the subsidy payment was only $9 rather than $12. 
If the average price obtained from the free market and official sales meant $10 above the official price for all gold produced, the producer would be entitled to only $7 subsidy, but as he would receive a total amount of $48.25 per oz he would be $5 better off than if he received full subsidy and no free market. So it can be readily seen that as far as the producer is concerned in the best interest of the industry generally, and as far as the general community is concerned and as the Act stands, the lesser the subsidy the better pleased everyone will be, including, no doubt, the Treasurer  (Mr Snedden).  However, with regard to the subsidy, the Government, as it now proposes to amend the Act, has once again allowed the deterioration to continue in relation to its real value in the same way as this has occurred on every other occasion the subsidy has been increased. I want to explain to the House that simply by increasing the subsidy but without, at the same time, amending the formula, the real value of any such increase, as compared with the early years of the Act, is swiftly being eroded. 
Large producers are the only producers who will be affected by these amendments. As far as they are concerned the formula for determining the amount of subsidy payable each year on each ounce of fine gold produced is three-quarters of the excess of the average cost of production over $27 per oz. That is exactly the same formula as applied in 1954 when the Act was first introduced and it will not be altered by the Bill now before the House. Also, the official price for gold in Australia today is the same as it was in 1954, namely, $31.25 per oz. When the Act was first introduced the maximum subsidy was $4 and that was payable when production costs as per the formula reached $32.34 per oz. This meant that such a producer received $31.25 for his gold plus $4, making a total of $35.25 per oz, which gave him a working surplus of $2.91 per oz. But more importantly it allowed him to continue producing to well beyond the cost of production point at which he received maximum subsidy. It left him with a very reasonable safety margin and as a result allowed a number of mines to continue for some time after reaching the maximum subsidy stage. 
In 1957, however, the maximum subsidy was increased to $5.50 with no alteration to the formula. As a result a large producer became entitled to the $5.50 when his average cost of production reached $34.34. This in turn gave him a working surplus of $2.41 which was 50c less than the previous surplus. This was where the rot commenced. In 1959 the maximum subsidy was increased to $6.50 but again without any change in formula. This meant that the $6.50 was paid when average production costs reached $35.67 per oz, but the working surplus at that stage became only $2.08. In 1965 the maximum subsidy moved to $8 and again there was no change in formula. So the $8 was payable when production costs reached $37.66 but the working surplus at that time had dropped to $1.59, or $1.32 less than what it was in 1954. In other words the length of time, on a production cost basis, by which a mine could continue to produce beyond the maximum subsidy stage had been more than halved. Surely that was bad enough, but let us look at what the situation now will be. 
The present amendment, as we all know, will provide a maximum subsidy of $12 per oz. But also, as we all know, there has been no alteration to the formula and therefore the maximum will be payable when the average cost of production reaches $43. But the total amount the producer will receive will be only $43.25. so the producer will be left with an operating surplus of a mere 25c - $2.91 in 1954 but only 25c today, $2.66 less than when the Act was first introduced and, indeed, $1.26 less than when the subsidy was last increased. This 25c leaves no room at all in relation to costs and will mean that no company will be able to continue if it reaches that stage. So, as I said earlier, it is most unlikely that the maximum subsidy will ever be paid even if the price of gold does not improve. So, it would seem either that the Government has failed to realise this gradual deterioration in the end value of the subsidy or that it has been prepared to deliberately bring about this deterioration. But, whatever the case, the situation now has been reached where the producer, once he arrives at the point of entitlement to maximum subsidy, has nowhere to go and can only work at a loss or commence closing down his operations. 
If it was considered fair and reasonable when the Act was first introduced that there should remain an operating surplus of nearly S3 when the maximum subsidy point was reached, surely there is no reason why that principle should have been changed and certainly there is no reason why it should have changed to the extent that it has. The surplus could have been retained over the years simply by slightly increasing the subsidy and at the same time slightly altering the formula. For instance, to regain the 1954 principle today we would need only to increase the subsidy to $14.66 and to alter the formula to three-quarters of the excess above $23.45 instead of $27; or the base cost of production could be left at $27 and the percentage of 75 per cent of excess increased to 91 per cent. This is what should have been done, one way or the other, because as a result of the delay in granting additional subsidy it will now be necessary to recommence and step up development and therefore the cost of production will go well beyond the break-even point of $43.25 and will be more like $46.50 to $47. As there is no tolerance beyond the point of maximum subsidy, the continuation of the industry, even for the immediate future, is dependent upon a substantial sale of gold on the free market at a very substantial price. 
Actually, to meet the estimated costs for this year the industry will need to sell sufficient gold on the free market at a price which will bring an average return of at least $5.50 above the official price for every ounce produced. This in turn will mean that the subsidy payment will be not $12, as the amendment provides, but only $9.25 per oz, even though the production costs are $2.60 above the cost at which the maximum subsidy would otherwise be paid. Even if the maximum subsidy were $14.66, as I suggested it should be to hold its 1954 value, the payment in this case would still be less than $12. It would still be less than the maximum which the Government claims it is prepared to pay but which it never will pay while any gold is being sold on the free market. 
I have said in previous debates on gold mining that I was firmly convinced that there would be a substantial rise in the price of gold during this decade. Both the 
Treasurer  (Mr Snedden)  and the Minister for Labour and National Service  (Mr Lynch),  in replying, have strongly disagreed with me. But I believe that what  1  said would happen is now actually happening. I am certain that there will be a further rise in the official United States price above the recent $3 rise. I believe that that increase was but the beginning of what will occur in the not too distant future, and I believe also that the free market price will eventually rise above its recent record and that before long no subsidy at all will be required. But, unfortunately, the free market is a fluctuating market and it could drop significantly before it finally reaches a reasonably firm level. 
But, because it appears certain that before too long it will reach and remain at a price equal to what the industry requires and because it is certain, in my book, that due to industrial use demand alone the official price must also rise. I believe that to ensure that the industry survives over what could be a critical period the Commonwealth should guarantee the industry for at least 3 years a subsidy which would ensure a return of at least $46.25 per oz. This would mean that even if the free market collapsed entirely - and surely noone would suggest that - the Commonwealth would be obliged to pay a maximum subsidy of only $15 per oz, because it is absolutely unthinkable that the official price could drop. If it did, of course, the industry would go out of existence. On the other hand, if the free market price were such that the industry obtained an overall $6 average above the official price, then the Commonwealth subsidy need only be $9 per oz or in fact exactly the same amount as would be paid under the proposed amendment. If an average of only $4 per oz over the official price were obtained, then the subsidy would need to be $11 instead of $10 as provided by the amendment contained in this Bill. In other words, only $1 more per oz would be required. If the average price were only $3 per oz above the official price, the subsidy would still need to be only $12 rather than S 10.50 and would still not be above the maximum which the Government claims it is prepared to pay. 
Under the proposed amendments the industry has a guarantee of only $43.25 per oz which is less than the actual cost of production. Therefore, the collapse of the free market could, if the industry were able to continue, cost the Commonwealth the $12 subsidy anyway. So, my proposal for a $46.25 guarantee would cost very little even if the worst happened. Actually, I believe that in the long run it will cost next to nothing. The value of the $46.25 guarantee is that the industry could plan at least 3 years ahead in relation to opening up ore bodies which could subsequently be mined at lower cost and which in turn would give the mines a life of production several years ahead of what could be - not necessarily will be - the case under the existing proposals. On the other hand, it could carry them through to the time when, if my contentions and those of several well known economists are correct, the price of gold both officially and on the free market will have increased substantially. 
Therefore, I put it to the Government that having now recognised that in the interests of all concerned it is necessary to give further assistance to the gold mining Industry, it should do the job properly. It should not just provide a half-baked cake but should give immediate and favourable consideration to the proposal of increasing the guarantee to a more realistic figure. I would like to point out that notwithstanding that the Minister for Labour and National Service in his capacity as Minister assisting the Treasurer in October 1970 - apparently he was speaking for the Government - said that he saw little prospect in the foreseeable future of any increase in the official price for gold because it was not in America's interests, shortly afterwards we learnt that America was considering the situation and a $3 increase. This has now happened without, unfortunately, increasing the Australian price. The Minister also said: 
Even if there were an increase in the official price of gold which frankly I do not foresee I doubt whether the industry could exploit any such increase. 
Of course, the fact is that any increase in the United States official price will cause an increase in the free market price. The industry is well placed to take advantage of any such increase. That is exactly what it is doing and just as well, because otherwise it would have collapsed long ago. The situation today is that with the increased demand for gold for industrial purposes and because of the recent upward movement in the price it is even more necessary in the national interest to ensure the survival of the industry over its present critical stage. The comment of  Mr Menzies  in 1954 that the importance of the gold mining industry to Australia needs little emphasis is even more valid today. I trust that the Government will recognise this and change its ideas about allowing the industry to perish. 
At the beginning of my remarks 1 said that the 4-year delay by the Government in arriving at a decision to grant additional assistance had caused the general deterioration of the whole situation and destroyed much of the benefit which could otherwise have been gained. In support of what I said I now refer to the 1970 report of the proceedings at the annual general meeting of the Chamber of Mines of Western Australia. It clearly shows that by that time the industry was rapidly approaching a complete cessation of its operations. I would like also to remind the House that it was at that time the Government decided that the industry should be allowed to phase out. The report stated: 
Great Boulder Gold Mines Limited ceased milling gold ore on 8th December 1969, and the plant has been converted to the concentrating of. nickel ore. 
Lake View &amp; Star Limited, in February 1970, and North Kalgurli (1912) Limited, in April, 1970, announced that virtually all development work on their gold mining leases would cease, and unless there was a marked improvement in the economic position of goldmining, their operations were expected to cease in approximately 4 years and 2 years respectively. 
That was 4 years and 2 years from 1970. The report continued: 
Gold Mines of Kalgoorlie (Australia) Limited have stated that development and mining of the Mount Charlotte ore body below the 1,150 feet level is unlikely in view of the high capital cost involved. Current ore reserves give the mine a life of J to 6 years. 
The Great Boulder mine which, as the report stated, was obliged to close down its underground operations in December 1969, carried an average work force of approximately 750 men. It is fairly safe to say that had the Commonwealth Government introduced the present amendments to the Gold Mining Industry Assistance Act approxiately 4 years ago instead of waiting until now Great Boulder would still be producing gold and would still be employing a very substantial number of men to produce that gold. The Lake View and Star, which over the years has constantly employed between 900 and 1000 men, quite naturally required a much lesser number of employees when it found it was necessary to reduce production costs by cutting down almost completely its development work. The same situation applied with regard to North Kalgurli, which normally employed about 500 men. Here again the reduction in work force and the curtailing of development work would not have occurred if the additional assistance had been provided 4 years earlier. Gold Mines of Kalgoorlie, whose overall work force was normally in the vicinity of 900, was also obliged to reconsider and change its intentions in relation to further development which again had a reducing effect in relation to employees. 
The 1970 report of the Chamber of Mines made it quite clear that unless additional assistance was provided the whole industry would fold up within 3 or 4 years from then, not only in Kalgoorlie but over the whole of Western Australia. But the Government, largely no doubt because it had no real appreciation of the true situation and because it refused to take any heed of what people who had the knowledge said, continued to refuse any further help. Naturally as a result of the amendments now before the House, and more particularly as a result of the improvement in the price on the free market, the situation today is healthier than it was in 1970. But unfortunately the fact remains that those shafts which have already closed are unlikely to reopen, and those companies which are still operating have as a result of the forced tapering off actions lost certain and in most cases very substantial sections of their mines which could otherwise have been kept in production for quite a considerable time. Therefore this Bill to amend the Gold Mining Industry Assistance Act and which contains only 2 amendments of any real consequence should have been introduced at least  3i  to 4 years ago to have had the required effect. 
Perhaps I should point out at this stage that as early as May 1967 an industry deputation sought an increase in subsidy to $16 and were later advised by the Treasurer that a decision was deferred for 12 months, which I suggest makes it clear that the argument advanced by the deputation had considerable weight even at that time, 5 years ago. Yet despite the fact that the situation was gradually worsening the Government's only action was to allow the producers to retain 25 per cent of what was received by way of premium above the official price. That magnificent concession, of course, had no value at all unless the free market price was substantial, and this was not the case at the time. Even if there had been a substantial increase the Treasury would have been the main beneficiary because of the resulting reduction in subsidy. 
I must also point out that in June 1968 the industry lodged a submission seeking a $12 maximum subsidy, the amount which is now to be provided, but the submission was rejected. In June 1969 the industry sought the retention of a higher amount recovered from premium sales, and even this was refused. In March 1970 a further submission was made for a $12 subsidy, and was again rejected by the Government. In October 1970 the Government was asked to reconsider its earlier decision, but this appeal also failed. In addition, over the years referred to, other honourable members on this side and I have on several occasions made it perfectly clear to the Government that unless further assistance was provided large numbers of people would soon be unemployed and a serious population disruption would occur. But the Government remained unmoved. Also, various people and organisations in the areas concerned made submissions and pleas to the Government. All were treated with contempt. 
I draw the attention of the House to those facts simply to make it known that the Government was constantly made aware of the serious situation developing in the gold mining areas and to show also that the Government just as consistently treated the several requests, submissions and appeals as though they meant nothing. The House will recall also that on 24th November last year on behalf of the Australian Labor Party I submitted for discussion a matter of public importance in the following terms: 
The urgent need for the Government to provide assistance to the gold mining industry to prevent  large scale unemployment and population and economic disruption which must otherwise occur in the goldfields of Western Australia. 
The House will recall also that on that occasion I was strongly supported by both the honourable member for Melbourne Ports  (Mr Crean)  and the honourable member for Stirling  (Mr Webb).  In reply the Treasurer said that hrs Government recognised certain changed circumstances and had therefore submitted the matter for further consideration. He was referring to the nickel industry, but actually it was not a change in circumstances which had occurred but the bringing to light of the Government's failure to recognise, in the first place, that the nickel industry could not possibly develop either in time or in size to absorb anywhere near the total work force of the gold mines nor prevent a serious disruption in the economy and the population. 
The Government's failure or refusal to recognise the real situation became clear by the remarks of the Minister for Labour and National Service on 15th October 1970 when he said: 
The industry should be allowed to phase out. 
He also said that in the judgment of the Government there was no lack of employment opportunities for goldfields miners, that economic activity in the area does not, in the view of the Government, require any stimulus, that labour demands in the area would remain strong and that there are plentiful opportunities offering in connection with nickel mining. Those remarks and others that the Minister has made on the subject, when considered against the submissions presented by people with a long and practical knowledge of the mining industry, and when measured against what has occurred over the past few years and also against what the situation actually is today with regard to both gold and nickel, show just how little the Government knows or cares about the gold mining industry and what that industry means in relation to supporting a very substantial population, as a decentralised industry. They also show just how far away the Government is from having a proper realisation or appreciation of demands in relation to mineral markets generally. 
So I make it perfectly clear that while we welcome the fact that the Government has finally realised and admitted its errors in previously refusing any further increase in subsidy, while the proposed amendments, even at this late stage, are helpful and are welcomed by everyone associated with the industry or dependent upon it in any way, and although the Act is to operate from 1st January this year, the fact remains that the Government's failure to recognise the seriousness of the situation at a much earlier date and to act accordingly has caused considerable damage to the future life of the industry and, worse still, has caused not only a considerable amount of worry and suffering but also, in many cases, a considerable financial loss to a fairly large number of people. However the Government can still rectify, to some extent, its earlier failings and help retrieve some of the losses that it has caused if it now accepts my suggestion of an increased guaranteed return. So T again ask the Minister and the Government to give that proposal immediate and serious consideration, with a view to giving a favourable decision. 
In conclusion 1 quote from a document titled 'International Letter' of the Federal Reserve Bank of Chicago which is dated as recently as the 12th of this month. It says: 
The price of gold on the London market reached an all time high of $54 per oz this week, after rising steadily for about 2 years. According to some observers, the steady rise in the price of gold in the absence of any turmoil in the international monetary system (as in 1967-68, when speculative demand precipitated sharp increases) reflects the steady rise in demand for gold for industrial uses, jewellery and long term investment. 
The article also states: 
Over the longer term, however, market analysts feel that a much higher free market price than the current one will be necessary to produce new supplies to meet the steadily rising demand. Marginal mines of the world's major producer, South Africa, are becoming exhausted, and new, less economical to exploit lodes can be tapped only at a higher gold price. 
I suggest that that article should be considered seriously by the Government because it makes clear that in the not too distant future there almost certainly will be a substantial increase in the price of gold and a substantial increase in demand. Therefore, we should be absolutely certain that when that occurs the Australian industry is in a sound position to take advantage of the situation. To do this the Government should confer with the industry to determine exactly what is required. 

 - Mr Deputy Speaker, I rise to support the remarks of the honourable member for Dawson  (Dr Patterson)  and the honourable member for Forrest  (Mr Kirwan). 
Motion (by  Mr Giles)  proposed: 
That the question be now put. 
The 'noes' have it. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
asked the Minister for Education and Science, upon notice: 
Is it claimed in a report of the CSIRO in relation to grain alcohol that the use of a 10 per cent blend of grain alcohol in petrol would cause a 5 per cent loss in miles per gallon to the motorist. 
Can he say whether research data of an automotive laboratory in Western Australia indicated a gain in miles per gallon from the addition of 10 per cent grain alcohol to super grade petrol. 
If the position is as stated, was this information available to him or his Department prior to the CSIRO report being finalised. 
If so, did it receive consideration and was it thought to be of no significance or value as against the United States experience referred to at page 20 of the report of December 1971. 
If it was considered to be of no value, why was this so. 
asked the Minister for Edu cation and Science, upon notice: 
When was the inquiry by the CSIRO in relation to grain alcohol production and use (a) commenced and (b) completed. 
Were any organisations from Western Australia asked to provide evidence or information; if not, why not. 
If so, which organisations were asked. 
On what date was the report (a) brought down and (b) released to the news media. 
Is it a fact that release to the news media was delayed so that it would become public only a short time before the Annual Conference of the Australian Whcatgrowers Federation; if not, what was the reason for any delay. 
Was a copy of the report forwarded to the West Australian Grain Alcohol Liaison Committee, Graincol Pty Ltd; if not, why not 
Did the report severely criticise the original proposal of a  Mr A.  W. Humphries on the subject. 
If so, was a copy of the  report  sent to  Mr 
Humphries; if not, why  not 
My question is addressed to the Minister for Customs and Excise. Will a general reduction in the price of wine follow the reduction in the wine excise? Will the affluent society be the major beneficiary of that reduction? Does the Minister recognise that beer is by far a more popular drink within the lower-middle income community, and if so, will he take immediate steps to remove or substantially reduce the excise on that beverage? If not, will he explain why, with respect to indirect taxation generally, his Government continues to require those on the lowest incomes to bear the greatest burden? 
asked the Minister for the Environment, Aborigines and the Arts, upon notice: 
In relation to the Commonwealth Capital Fund for Aboriginal Enterprises, how many applications for rural loans have been received from each State and the Northern Territory in each year since the Aboriginal Enterprises (Assistance) Act was assented to. 
How any of these applications (a) were successful, (b) were rejected and (c) are still under consideration. 
What sum was applied for in each (a) successful and (b) unsuccessful application. 
asked the Minister for  Parimary  Industry, upon notice: 
Can he say whether the Legislature of Nebraska, early in 1971, introduced an amending Bill to provide a reduced fuel tax on fuels containing grain alcohol and no lead. 
If so, did section 1 of the Bill declare that it is the public policy of the State that, in order to safeguard the life, health, property, and public welfare of its citizens, the production sales and use of motor fuels and the pollution caused by the additives in motor fuels is a matter affecting the public interest, and that a reduced tax on motor fuels containing grain alcohol as a substitute for lead additives is necessary for the reduction of pollution and will further serve as an incentive for the agricultural economy in the State. 
Has he sought information on this subject from Nebraska for the purpose of considering whether similar legislation should be introduced in Australia; if not, why not. 
asked the Minister for Primary Industry, upon notice: 
What investigations are being carried out currently by his Department or any other Department in relation to grain alcohol production and use. 
If investigations are not in process or being arranged, does this indicate that he and his Department are convinced that (a) there is no value, (b) there are disadvantages, or (c) there are dangers in the use of grain alcohol for motor fuel purposes. 
If so, on what grounds were these convictions reached. 
asked the Minister for 
Repatriation,  upon notice: 
How many applications were received from each State for assistance under the Defence (Reestablishment) Act between 1st January 1966 and 31st December 1971. 
How many applications from each State were (a) successful, (b) unsuccessful and (c) under consideration at 31st December 1971. 
asked the Postmaster-General, upon notice: 
What is the estimated cost of establishing the proposed low-powered television station at Esperance, Western Australia. 
What is the estimated cost of providing a television service, by way of translators or other means, to centres in the Dundas and Esperance Shire areas which will be outside the radii served by the Norseman station and the proposed Esperance station. 
What is the estimated cost of establishing a station which would be capable of providing a service within a radius of 70 miles of the Esperance Post Office. 
What population is resident within (a) the area which the proposed low powered station for Esperance will serve and (b) a radius of 70 miles of the Esperance Post Office. 
Would (a) one high-powered station, (b) several low-powered stations or (c) one lowpowered station plus necessary translators or other means be the most economical method in the long term to provide a service to the whole of the area referred to. 
asked the Postmaster-General, upon notice: 
What is the current situation regarding the establishment of a radio station to serve the districts of Wyndham-Kununurra. 
Has the Australian Broadcasting Control Board submitted a report on the matter; if so, what recommendations has it made. 
asked the Postmaster-General, upon notice:  (0 What will be the power of the proposed television station to serve Southern Cross, Western Australia. 
What will be the approximate radius of satisfactory reception. 
To what extent would the power of the station need to be increased to extend the service to Koolyanobbing. 
What would be the approximate cost of increasingthe power to that extent. 
What would be the approximate cost of providing a translator service to Koolyanobbing. 
Would there be any significant delay in the establishment of the station at Southern Cross if it was decided to increase the power. 
I ask the Acting Minister for Health: Is it correct that hospital coverage for pensioners under the pensioner medical service is limited to hospitalisation in public wards in public hospitals? If so, is the Minister aware that such accommodation, particularly in country areas, is frequently unavailable and that pensioners have no alternative but to enter other wards or other hospitals where charges are well beyond their capacity to pay? Does the Government recognise the injustice of such a situation? If so, can we expect during this current session to see legislation introduced to provide total coverage to all pensioners in all hospitals and wards, public or otherwise? If not, why not? 
The matter I wish to raise tonight is one which falls within the responsibility of the Postmaster-General  (Sir Alan Hulme).  It is one which also is causing considerable concern and hostility throughout the Shire of Esperance and within a substantial area of the Shire of Dundas. Both of these shires are situated in the southern portion of my electorate. At the latter end of last week I received by courtesy of the Minister for Works  (Senator Wright)  advice that a tender had been let for the construction of a building in Esperance itself to house equipment for the television station which is to be established at that centre. This has disturbed me very much because the letting of such a contract at this stage suggests to me that despite very strong protests the Commonwealth is persisting with its decision to provide only a second rate service; that is, simply a low powered station, which will mean that a considerable number of people resident within the shires to which I have referred will be denied any television reception at all from this particular station, with no assurance or even suggestion that other means will be used for the purpose. 
What is really required for the area is a station of sufficient power as will provide a satisfactory reception over a distance of some 60 to 70 miles. There is very good reason why this should be done. Tn support of our argument for the establishment of a high powered station I wish to point out that Esperance is a growing district both in population and production. It has developed very considerably over the past few years and now has a very substantial farming community. The growth in the farming interest has extended into part of the Shire of Dundas, a part which cannot possibly obtain any television reception from the station at Esperance which is the main centre of the shire. The station at Norseman is also of very low power. So if the Government persists with its decision to set up only a low-powered station at Esperance also, it will mean that the people resident beyond a few miles from both Norseman and Esperance will be in no man's land with no prospect of receiving a television service for many years to come. In other words, almost the entire farming community of the Dundas and Esperance district will be denied at least for several years the benefit and enjoyment of a facility which has now been available to city people for quite a long time. 
This disregard for country requirements is not good enough, particularly when people in those areas make such a valuable contribution to the nation's requirements. I am not in a position to give any accurate figure of the amount of capital which has been invested in the Esperance district over the past few years, but it would be considerable and certainly would amount to several million dollars. Much more will be invested in the future. There can be no doubt that the population of the Esperance hinterland and of Esperance itself will continue to increase and will in turn continue to make an ever increasing return to general revenue. In asking for a television station with a wide coverage we are not asking for something which will not have much value in relation to the numbers of people concerned. Actually the opposite will apply. In fact we are asking for something which will increase in its service value and will prove, in the not too distant future, to be money well spent. 
According to the Broadcasting Control Board there would be no technical difficulties in establishing a high-powered station. The only argument the Board and the Postmaster-General raise against this is one of finance. The Postmaster-General informed me by way of an answer to a question on notice that his Department estimates that 6,000 people are resident in the area which would be served by a lowpowered station and that only another 1,000 would be included as the result of the installation of a high-powered station. Those figures are disputed by people in the area who claim that figures of 5,500 and 1,500 respectively would be more correct. Of course, the latter number would increase significantly. But irrespective of whose figures are correct, the fact remains that the Government apparently believes that $600,000 to provide a powerful station in the areas to which I have referred is apparently unwarranted. That is the message we have received. In the next breath the Postmaster-General tells the nation that his Government, within the next couple of years, will establish colour television in Australia at a cost of $43m. This will be provided for people who have now not only the benefit of television but also a choice of several stations. 
The Government apparently believes that providing 38 stations in country areas at a total cost of $5m is a magnificent gesture for which the people should be eternally grateful. Indeed, I was told by the Board that to provide a high-powered station in each instance would increase the total cost to an astronomical figure. So it would seem that $20m to provide a proper service in 38 different country areas is absolutely unthinkable while to provide colour television at a cost of $43m to areas already enjoying a good service is just a natural process. However I was not satisfied that each of the 38 stations in the 7th stage would necessarily require a high cost station. I did not know the present situation or the future prospects of the hinterland of each main centre so on 12th April this year, over 4 months ago, I placed a question on notice to try to obtain the information so as to be able to compare their various present and future requirements with those of Esperance. 1 asked the following question: 
What is the proposed or actual power of each of the television stations in the 7th stage of television development? 
What is the expected radius of satisfactory reception for each station? 
What population is expected to receive a satisfactory reception from each station? 
What approximate population would receive a satisfactory reception if each station was of high rather than low power? 
Up to now I have received no reply. The question remains on the notice paper. This can mean only that very little investigation was carried out in the first place in those several areas to determine their future requirements or even the present population service situation; because if investigations had been carried out properly before deciding that only a low-powered station was necessary to service the areas my question could have been answered within a few days. The only other conclusion one can come to is that in relation to population outside the radius of a low-powered station Esperance is in a different position from other places or that just a few are in a similar position to Esperance and that the cost of providing high-powered stations where actually warranted in the 7th stage would he nowhere near the amount suggested by the Board and the Postmaster-General. But if on the other hand I am wrong in my conclusions in that respect - 1 hope I am - and if those other areas are in a similar situation to Esperance then they also are entitled to a high-powered station. 
If the cost is such as would mean that colour television had to be delayed for a few more years - actually I do not think it would - no great harm would be done. In any case I understand that television receivers for colour television will cost about $1,000 each so thousands of people will not be able to alford them anyway. People in country areas, including children - or, perhaps in relation to education, particularly children have the same right to a television service as people in the cities. We must expect that to provide that service it will cost more per head of population. While 1 have no desire to deny to people who already have television the enjoyment of colour television, 1 believe that we are getting our priorities mixed if we come down on the side of high expenditure for colour television rather than the provision of normal black and white in the first place for those areas of reasonable population where at present no service at all is provided. I suggest that the hinterland of Esperance is one of those areas. 
In conclusion, I again ask the PostmasterGeneral to reconsider his earlier decision in relation to Esperance and I trust that having done so he will appreciate that a highpowered station is warranted for the district and will take the necessary action before it is too late. I hope that he will now take the opportunity to tell us whether he will or whether he will not. We are not being unreasonable in our request. We are not asking for something which is not available to the majority of the people. We are not asking for something which in a few years will have no value or even depreciate in value in relation to a service to the people. We are not asking for a luxury item. People in country areas have very few amenities and there is very little in that respect and several other respects to encourage or attract people to the country districts. But television is popular and will help to retain and to build up population and development in outer areas. So. again, f ask the PostmasterGeneral to give this particular request his favourable consideration. Earlier I indicated to the Postmaster- General that .1 intended to raise this matter tonight but I understand that unavoidably he is unable to be in the House so I ask the Minister for National Development  (Sir Reginald Swartz)  to pass on to him the remarks I have made for his consideration. 
The speeches of the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam)  and the honourable member for Melbourne Ports  (Mr Crean)  last Tuesday night must have shattered completely any hopes which Government supporters may have held that the Budget could give them some slight chance of winning the next election. As a result of those speeches and others by honourable members on this side of the House in this Budget debate, great consternation has been evident in the Government ranks and particularly within the Ministry. Cabinet members - indeed the Ministry generally - have engaged in a wrangling match, the bitterness of which I have never before witnessed during the time that 1 have been here, about whether they should go for an early or a late election. The 'Australian' newspaper this morning carried bold headlines reading: 'McMahon and Ministers wrangle over poll date'. In this evening's press we saw big headlines stating: 'McMahon furious' and the report underneath referred to the poll date wrangle. In the House this morning one could sense the considerable and real bitterness that the Prime Minister  (Mr McMahon)  holds towards the  Deputy  Prime Minister, the Minister for Trade and Industry  (Mr Anthony). 
According to the media the Prime Minister is adamant that it should be a late poli and has ordered Government supporters to go forth into the electorates to try to perform the impossible task of selling the Budget to the people - a job at which even a super salesman could not succeed. The Deputy Prime Minister, being a little more astute and a better judge of electorate reaction and attitudes, is strongly in favour of an early poll. His idea is that the people will have less time to realise the general inadequacy of the Budget and that once again it is only a wealthy man's document. Of course, there are not too many of them in rural electorates either. 
Even though this most recent effort of the Treasurer  (Mr Snedden)  contains a number of very objectionable measures; even though it aggravates still further many of the undesirable features of the general tax system which makes the rich richer and the poor poorer; even though it leaves so much unrecognised and uncared for in so many fields, such as educational opportunity and assistance for children in remote and isolated areas; even though it fails in regard to health, social services, repatriation, primary industry, decentralisation, northern development and so on; even though it will do nothing towards overcoming the serious and frightening unemployment situation; even though it does nothing to halt the continuing rapid increase in prices and the cost of living, it nevertheless would not be quite so bad if we could only trust the Government. But history proved that we cannot trust this Government. For instance, it would be extremely difficult for anyone to accept the words of the Treasurer in respect of the abolition of the means test sometime in the future when, as everyone knows, an assurance was given by the same people in 1949 that they would do just that. That assurance is now 23 years old and has never been honoured. It is an assurance which has been repudiated on several occasions since 1949 by various Prime Ministers. It must be remembered that on this occasion, as in 1949, the Government has put forward only an election promise. Actually it has nothing to do wilh the machinery of the Budget. There will be no legislation introduced for that purpose and, just as it was before, it could well be another empty promise. 
No-one should believe that the Government has made any firm decision to abolish the means test because it has not. It is only a promise and it is no firmer on this occasion than it was on the previous occasion. There is every indication if we look at past events that the Government will treat this last promise in the same way as it treated the 1949 promise. As I said earlier, various Prime Ministers have been extremely critical of any proposal to abolish the means test and 3 Prime Ministers - the late  Mr Holt,  the right honourable member for Higgins  (Mr Gorton)  and the right honourable member for Lowe  (Mr McMahon)  - during the last 6 years have been just that. I have a Press cutting from the 'Courier Mail' of 29th March 1966 and the relevant part reads: 
An approach by some Queensland unions to the Prime Minister  (Mr Holt)  to tie the old age pension to the basic wage and abolish the means test, has been rejected. . . . 
The committee has received a letter from the Minister's Department secretary  (Mr E.  J.  Bunting) rejecting the proposals. . . . 

 Mr Bunting said in his reply that if the pension proposal were adopted, Parliament would no longer have the power to determine the amount of revenue to be allocated for social services, but it would still be responsible for raising that revenue by taxation. . . . 

 Mr Bunting said that it was estimated that the additional cost of abolishing the means test would be about $300 million. 
He wrote: 'This is expenditure which in the light of the Government's present commitments cannot be undertaken.' 

 Mr Bunting, of course, was answering on behalf of the then Prime Minister. So in 1966 the Government used as its reason for not abolishing the means test the excuse that it had other commitments and it could well use that excuse again this time. But in 1969 the then Prime Minister, the right honourable member for Higgins, did not hide behind excuses. He came straight out with a direct denial of any suggestion that his Government, and that means the same men who are sitting on the Government side tonight, would ever agree to abolishing the means test. I have another document which is beaded 'Liberal Women's Rally, Brisbane, Queensland, 30th July 1969. Speech by the Prime Minister,  Mr John  Gorton.' On page 4 of that speech the following words appear: t  hope nobody will imagine when I say that that I am talking about the possibility of abolishing the means test.  I  am not and it should not be abolished. 
The right honourable member for Higgins, when he was Prime Minister. There is nothing vague about that statement. It is a direct and positive 'nothing doing'. It is rather interesting also to note that he refers to a cost of $450m which is a 50 per cent increase in the figure given by  Mr Holt  3 years earlier. One thing about Government supporters is that a few hundred million dollars means nothing if they are trying to make a particular point. And further, as the Leader of the Opposition pointed out last Tuesday night, the present Prime Minister a short time ago said that the proposal to abolish the means test was even more irresponsible than the right honourable member for Higgins had made out, so his 'nothing doing' was even more definite than the previous one. As I said earlier, 2 Prime Ministers and one would-be Prime Minister who now is Prime Minister have over the past 6 years and as recently as 1969 roundly condemned any suggestion that the means test should be abolished. 
How can we accept anything the Treasurer now says in that respect? Certainly the people of Australia will not be fooled on this occasion, particularly as they will bear in mind that there is a very strong move among Government supporters to sack the present Prime Minister and reinstate the right honourable member for Higgins  (Mr Gorton),  the very man who in 1969, as Prime Minister, said quite definitely that as far as he was concerned there would never be an abolition of the means test.  His  remarks today, in a very unconvincing speech, simply confirmed my statement that one cannot trust this Government. It promises things today and then denies them tomorrow. On the other hand, the Australian Labor Party has always been consistent in this regard. Ever since 1954 it has said that upon becoming the Government it will move to abolish the means test and it sticks by that promise. The people of Australia know that they can trust the Labor Party and that it will do as it says. In addition we will increase the pension to 25 per cent of the average weekly wage, which would mean a significant increase above the amount that the Government has proposed at the present time. 
The people of Australia are entitled not only to have grave doubts regarding the sincerity of the Government in relation to the abolition of the means test but also to be rather sceptical of the Government's intentions in relation to the so-called cut in income tax. Over the past few years the Government has followed a policy in regard to income tax of off again, on again, off again, on again. It is just like Finnegan 
There is every indication to suggest that the same pattern will be followed in the future and that if it does retain the Treasury bench at the forthcoming election it will reimpose taxation at something like the existing rate plus the increases which have been imposed over the years. The cut this year is not a real cut because the amount of revenue which will be recovered from income tax this year will still be S439m more than it was last year and $390m of that will come from pay-as-you-earn tax. 
In introducing the Budget last year the Treasurer said: 
From what we see now, the influences tending to produce excess liquidity could continue strongly into 1972. This provides a further reason for seeking to achieve a large domestic surplus. The figure we have decided upon is $630m or $80m more than the previous year. 
Actually the surplus finished up at something like $387m. The Budget this year was drawn up, so the Treasurer tells us, on the basis of an overall deficit of $630m, which is the same figure as the domestic surplus sought to be achieved last year. There will be a domestic surplus this year of only $60m. 
Only last night the honourable member for La Trobe  (Mr Jess)  stressed very forcibly that any deficit budget would have to be paid for. He was warning us that there would be increased taxation next year if the Government were returned to office. It is becoming obvious that any bread handed out this year has been made possible as a result of an excessive amount of corn gathered over the past 2 years and stacked away in the granary. There seems to be little doubt that it would have remained in the granary and been added to this year but for the fact that an election is just round the corner. Last year's Budget was a deliberate attempt to create unemployment and it did just that. This year's Budget is a deliberate attempt to try to fool the people, but it will not. 
Ever since I can remember, which is quite a few years now, the family man and the taxpayer in the poorest circumstances have, upon a measurement of the financial circumstances, made the greatest contribution to the revenue of this country, have carried the greatest burden and have been treated most unfairly in relation to taxation, both direct and indirect. As I said earlier, the method which the Government has decided to use on this occasion in relation to alterations in the taxation scale has further aggravated and further reduced the living standard of the family man and the man on the lower income as measured against those without families or in comfortable or wealthy circumstances. 
The Treasurer issued a document which he was pleased to call 'Examples of Tax Reductions'. While that document was issued only to try to give a little bit of gloss to the Government's generally murky image, the examples in it when analysed show very clearly and conclusively that once again the Government has not tried to help those who require the most financial relief but has either hurriedly introduced a tax reduction purely to try to attract votes or deliberately decided, as it has on so many other occasions, to give not relief but deliberate handouts to the very people who are in a position to withstand the existing tax requirements. 
I noticed that on the morning following the Budget the newspapers came out with statements that lower income groups would receive the most benefit from the tax concessions. Of course, this is just another case of trying to fool the people. The right honourable member for Higgins tried the same sort of tactics this afternoon, I am sorry to say. Certainly the reduction in percentage is greater, but in actual money, which means actual relief - it is actual money that buys food and clothing, not percentages - It is the low income groups and the family man who get the worst deal and who in fact have been treated very shabbily in this Budget compared with those on very high incomes. For instance, the man with a wife and 4 children with an actual income of $67 a week and other allowable deductions amounting to $500 will receive a tax reduction of 34.2 per cent. But it amounts to only $67 a year or 21c a week per person of the family. 
On the other hand, however, to show where the Government's real concern lies, let us look at the taxpayer with the same number of dependants whose income is $20,000 a year, or $385 a week. I notice that the Treasurer carefully avoided setting out the weekly amount in this case. 
That taxpayer will enjoy a tax reduction of 9.1 per cent, which in actual money amounts to $646 a year, or $2.07 a week per person of the family. The higher the income, the greater the relief. So 1 suggest that when one comes down to real things, the things that really mean something - that is, the money involved - one finds that it is the wealthy, high income group and not the low income earner which really derives the greatest benefit from this Budget. In fact it is a very much greater benefit. It is quite wrong, and indeed contemptible, for newspapers and for the right honourable member for Higgins to suggest otherwise. It is the family man who suffers most from increases in the cost of living, and the larger his family the more he suffers - not only financially but also in a general way, because it is a great strain and worry to him if he is unable to provide his children with the start in life to which every child should be entitled. Surely, in all fairness and justice, this should not be allowed to happen if it can possibly be avoided. Surely those are the very people who are deserving of the greatest consideration. But unfortunately it does not happen with this Government 
This Government is too lazy, too unconcerned or too incompetent to trouble itself about working out a system or formula for giving the family man a fair go. There are a number of ways by which the family man could and should be assisted. One would be by a fairer method of taxation and taxation allowances, a method which would have a real relationship to his means. He could be helped by way of increased child endowment, which is real money and which is not taxable. This could be spent towards the welfare of his family. Then there is assistance in regard to the education of his children. This also would be real assistance in a financial way and could remove much of the worry and burden which family taxpayers carry at the moment. 
The burden of providing an adequate education for their children is a greater burden to those taxpayers in the far flung and remote areas of the Commonwealth than for families resident in the city. This is quite natural, because of transport and accommodation costs which are involved when the child is obliged to attend a school in the metropolitan area or in some city or town some distance from his real place of residence. However, even with regard to taxation allowances for education costs, the taxpayer in the remote and distant places is allowed no more than the taxpayer in the metropolitan area. So even in that respect he is at a serious and distinct disadvantage. But taxation allowances are not enough. The Commonwealth should be making specific grants to the States for the specific purpose of assisting the parents in distant places who have children who are obliged to obtain an education away from home or if the parent decides to provide the education by way of a governess. This Government compliments itself upon providing certain moneys for universities and scholarships, which are very necessary and welcome. But it must be remembered that before a child can sit for a scholarship or attend a university he must have a solid basic teaching. Here again we have the situation where children in distant and remote areas are at a considerable disadvantage and will continue in such a situation until the Commonwealth is prepared to allocate specific amounts of money to help them. Also,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  what about the people who live in the real high cost areas such as in the north and north west? The Government has done nothing really to improve their position when compared with people in metropolitan areas where the prices are a little lower. Again I say that if this Government is going to persist with its tax system of handouts to the wealthy and a few crumbs to the nonwealthy it should also give some further assistance by way of zone allowance and by extending the zone boundaries. The zone boundaries have not been increased for 13 years. 1 know that zone allowance increases are not the real and positive answer in relation to the high cost of living in the north. I realise that the Government has done nothing to implement the recommendation of the Loden Committee in that respect. This would have reduced haulage charges and thereby, to some extent, prices. I realise that the Government has done nothing to contain prices. While I realise these things I still believe that the Government should have in fact done so. Therefore there is more reason why it should have provided on this occasion some relief in relation to high prices in the north. It could have done this by way of increased A and B zone allowances and by extending the A zone into other remote and high cost areas. This is a very bad Budget and one which will not stand up to examination. As time goes on it will become more obviously bad. The  Deputy  Prime Minister is certainly wise in wanting to go to the polls early while at least some of the people may believe that the Budget is not so bad. But while the  Deputy  Prime Minister is on the right track he has picked the wrong horse and left his run too late. The people have had enough of this Government. They realise that the further it goes the worse it gets and the more apathetic and lazy it becomes. Therefore, on this occasion, we can look forward to an overwhelming victory for the Australian Labor Party. I support the amendment moved by the Leader of the Opposition which states: the House condemns the Budget because it falls to define adequate economic and social goals for Australia; and in particular because it provides no programme fox restoring full employment, no means of checking the costs and prices of goods and land, no framework for improving the standards of education, health, welfare and public transport and no national plan for our capital cities and regional centres'. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Graham)  adjourned. 
During the few moments at my disposal 1 wish to direct my comments to the estimates for the Treasury. In the first instance I draw attention to the fact that once again no provision has been made for any increase in taxation zone allowances or for any review of zone boundaries. Despite the fact that several submissions and representation.1 have been made to the Government there is no reference at all to this particular subject. The zone allowances were introduced by a Labor government in 1945 and were opposed very bitterly at that time by the Liberal-Country Party Opposition although they were granted in recognition of and as compensation for the disadvantages which taxpayers and their families suffer by living in zone areas, disadvantages such as the high cost of living, the uncongenial climatic conditions and the isolation. 
While the Government's failure over some 13 or 14 years to make some adjustment may suggest otherwise, the fact is that the same disadvantages exist today. For instance, in relation to living costs an article appeared in the 'West Australian' of 26th March this year giving a list of prices which shows that a basket of goods that could be purchased for $13.11 in Perth would have cost $22.01 in Port Hedland, some 70 per cent more. Surely that does not suggest that the disadvantages in that regard have lessened. Just a few days ago I received a list of prices being charged at another town in the A zone area and (hose prices included 30c for a cucumber, 30c for lib of apples, $1.78 for one dozen oranges, SI. 02 for 10 lb of potatoes, 63c for a cauliflower, 45c for 1 lb of tomatoes and 45c for a lettuce. In addition, the chap who wrote to me pays $18.30 a week rent, $4 a week for electricity and $2 a week for water. So it is abundantly clear that, with respect to the cost of living alone, the people in zone areas are certainly at a very serious disadvantage as against people resident in the capital cities. Whether the higher prices being charged are justified I am not in a position to say, but the fact remains that they are extremely high when compared to those charged in the cities, lt must be remembered that this Government is opposed to any system of price control or consumer protection and, therefore, if it accepts that the charges are justified it also should accept the requirement of compensating consumers, or in this case the taxpayers, for the high living costs which they are obliged to suffer. 
Now let us consider another disadvantage, that of uncongenial climatic conditions. Those conditions have not changed but their effects have been made easier only because of refrigeration, air conditioning, better housing and so on. However, all of those things have added to the overall cost of living, so any improvement of one side has been more than offset on the other. The high cost of electrical equipment, the high cost of building materials and construction and the high cost of electricity to run the electrical equipment all take a very heavy toll of the pay packet. Then we come to the third disadvantage - -isloation. Certainly transport and communications have improved in many places, but in others they have worsened as a result of the termination of rail services. As with climatic conditions, any improvement in the effects of isolation have proved costly to those taxpayers who can afford to take advantage of them, many cannot. 1 realise only too well that concessions such as zone allowances provide the most benefit to those with the highest incomes, but until such time as a system which will give the most benefit where it  is  most needed is adopted, those who are io need, and there are many of them, should not be denied the relief that increased zone allowances could provide. lt is quite clear that the disadvantage, for which concessions were first given  art  still in existence. It seems that the cost of living situation has worsened. It is quite ridiculous and unfair for the Government to  refuse to  recognise that fact and to refuse to adjust the allowances accordingly. The refusal over the past 13 or 14 years to increase zone allowances and to extend the boundaries can prove only that the Libera1 and Country Party members hold the same attitude as they held in 1945. They are completely opposed to the allowances but have not the courage to eliminate them They know quite well that if they remove them altogether it would mean a loss o seats on zone areas. For instance, the Government would lose the seats of Kennedy, Herbert and the Northern Territory on that issue alone. So while the Government remains opposed to zone allowances it has not the courage to remove them, and instead is prepared to make them  a  mockery. It is prepared to give wealthy companies tax concessions in various way but is completely unsympathetic to the people living in and developing the northern parts of our country and the mining areas and who, by their efforts, are building  up  the assets and export earnings of this country. 

 The next matter I wish to deal with is the unfairness and unjustification of taxing district allowances. The courts decided in their wisdom that workers in certain parts of the Commonwealth suffer particular disadvantages and disabilities which do not apply to workers carrying out exactly the same duties in the metropolitan areas. To help offset these disadvantages or disabilities the courts awarded a certain extra payment above the normal rate. The court is not concerned with what the worker's taxable income will be, and grants in most instances the same allowances to a highly skilled man on a high wage as it does to a labourer on a low wage. The court is concerned only that the worker should receive a certain amount above his city counterpart to offset, and to do no more and no less, the differences in living costs and to compensate for other conditions. But the taxing of those allowances completely upsets the purpose that the court set out to achieve. If the allowance granted for a particular area is $300 a year, the tax on that $300 would amount to approximately $100 if the taxable income of the worker would otherwise be $4,000. Therefore it means in turn that despite the intention of the court's decision he is still $100 behind his city counterpart when everything else is taken into consideration. So it seems to me that if the court's decision to grant $300 was correct, then the Government by taxing the allowance is deliberately lowering the living standard of those taxpayers and their families in district allowance areas by $2 a week. 
It may be argued that the zone allowance preserves to some extent the value of the district allowance, but even if this were so, surely the failure to increase the zone allowance must have brought about a gradual reduction in the real value of the district allowance which has increased over the past 13 years. However, irrespective of any argument related to the district allowance versus the zone allowance there is a certain section of taxpayers who work and reside within zone areas, who are paid a district allowance upon which they pay tax but who are not eligible for any zone allowance concession. In their case the taxing of the district allowance definitely results in a reduction in their living standards com. pared with their city counterparts. The people concerned are mainly those who cannot determine their length of stay in a zone area, people such as school teachers, bank staff, post office staff, police staff, Department of Civil Aviation employees and so on, whose date of arrival and date of departure are usually determined by the State or Federal department involved. Those people can be in a zone area for almost a calendar year and not qualify for the zone allowance simply because the Act provides that they must be so resident for more than 6 months of the income year. So if those people receive a $300 district allowance they may pay one-third, more or less, in tax spread over 2 income tax years. As a result, the amount that the Arbitration Court or some other body considered necessary to equalise the living standards of workers in the city and workers in district allowance areas is reduced by approximately $1 a week and the taxpayer outside the city suffers once again. 
I also wish to deal with the Government's refusal to allow as a taxation deduc- lion all or part of the cost of travelling to receive medical or hospital treatment. Unfortunately I have not the time to develop my argument, but all honourable members know that in the country areas, the far flung areas, people have to travel long distances to receive medical attention. It may be that they have to receive specialist attention and may have to make a return journey of up to 3,000 miles. The cost involved to obtain that specialist attention or hospital attention is a full charge upon them. It is not included in medical and hospital entitlements under the so-called national health scheme, nor is there any provision for a taxation claim for such costs. I ask the Government to look at this aspect also. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Mr Cope)  - Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
asked the PostmasterGeneral, upon notice: 
Are public telephones installed iti any caravan parks in Australia. 
If so, at  which  parks  are they  installed  in  (a) Queensland, (b) the Northern  Territory, (c) New  South Wales  and  (d)  Western  Australia. 
What was the average number of occupants of these parks when the telephones were first installed and what was the revenue from each during the first and second years of use. 
If public telephones are not installed in caravan parks, what is the reason for not doing so. 
In directing my question to the Prime Minister I refer to an election promise made by the Australian Country Party in 1969 to provide Commonwealth assistance to local authorities for amenities such as swimming pools. I ask: Does the Prime Minister recall telling me recently that that promise was merely a Country Party proposal which the Government had not adopted? Does this mean that the Country Party deliberately made a promise which it knew would have appeal to country people but which it also knew would be rejected by the Liberal Party, or is it correct that it was actually made with Liberal Party approval which was subsequently withdrawn? Or does it simply mean that promises made by either Party are subject to subsequent approval by the coalitition and therefore must always be treated as suspect? Finally, is this the reason why we so frequently hear members of one Government party blaming the other for the non-implementation of election promises? 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Civil Aviation, upon notice: 
Has a site been chosen for the new Kalgoorlie Aerodrome; if so, where is it to be situated in relation to direction and distance from the Kalgoorlie Post Office. 
When is it expected that construction will be commenced and when will the aerodrome become operative. 
My question is to the Postmaster-General. I ask: Is telephone cable in such short supply as to be causing indefinite delays in the installation of telephones in country areas? Are automatic exchange installations also being held up due to a shortage of equipment? Is more modern equipment being installed to replace multi-coin boxes in the cities and are the obsolete boxes being transferred for country use? If this is correct, why has the Department allowed its supply of cable and other equipment to reach such a low level when it was obvious that the demand would increase? Why does the Department give the city preference over country users in relation to modern equipment? 
On 17th August 1972, the Minister for Education and Science  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  read a statement to this House which was reported to be the Commonwealth's education programme for 1972-73. During the last few days honourable members have been furnished with a document entitled Commonwealth Programme in Education and Science', which, according to the first page, contains material produced for the information of members of the Australian Parliament in their consideration of the Estimates for 1972-73. We are now considering those Estimates. 
Having studied both the statement and the document very carefully, I am most disturbed to note that, despite the fact that many representations and submissions have been made to the Government on behalf of children and parents in isolated and distant parts of Australia, not one mention is made in either the document or the statement which would suggest that the Government has any ideas about how to tackle this very serious problem. The education of those children must continue to suffer unless and until a Commonwealth Government is prepared to provide a substantial amount of financial assistance for the specific purpose of ensuring full and proper opportunities to those children to obtain an adequate education at all levels. This Government is failing to do that. 
Surely the education of Australia's children is a matter of national necessity and importance, and surely it must then naturally follow that the major responsibility rests not with the individual State governments but fairly and squarely upon the Commonwealth Government to ensure that every child, irrespective of whether he lives in the city or in the far north, has the opportunity of gaining an education not limited by the financial circumstances of the parents, not limited by the financial resources of the State in which he lives, but limited only by his own ability to learn. But the Government obviously does not accept that view because in all States of Australia today there are hundreds of children whose chances of gaining a good education are very remote. This, of course, can only mean that they will be severely handicapped in the future for the very simple reason that they will not be able to compete with more fortunate school leavers or job seekers for jobs of security and substance. Indeed, it goes further than the child. Australia itself must be the loser in the long run because talents that would otherwise have been available will be lost forever. 
The need for positive and specific assistance is due to the fact, and this cannot be denied, that a large number of parents cannot afford to meet the high costs involved in sending their children to cities or towns away from home where adequate school facilities and accommodation are available. These costs are steadily increasing. In support of what I have said I refer to an article appearing in the 'Australian' newspaper dated as recently as February this year. It states: 
Between 2,000 and 3,000 New South Wales children are 'isolated' from their schools, the New South Wales Education Minister,  Mr Cutler,  said yesterday. 
This is an urgent problem, where either those children are not getting an adequate education or in many cases the cost of sending them to school is breaking their families, he said. 

 Mr Cutler said New South Wales could need about $1.2m a year to make adequate arrangements for these children, but the State could not find this money. 
That, of course, is the problem in all States and certainly in my own State of Western Australia - lack of finance. The only source from which to gain that finance is the Commonwealth. Because the Commonwealth refuses to grant that finance we have the situation right now where the education of many children is almost completely limited by the financial circumstances of the parents. As I said earlier, this can be no longer tolerated. 
Unfortunately, when one speaks of parents and children in outback areas, there seems to be a tendency in some quarters to believe that one is talking about rich pastoralists or cattle kings and their families. Of course this is not the situation at all. Certainly some station owners are involved, but I would hesitate to suggest that most of them are overburdened with wealth either, particularly at this time. The owners who have made a lot of money are no longer putting up with the disabilities and disadvantages of station life and have moved into the elite, areas of the metropolis. But on the other hand there are those who are battling to make a go of it and those who are simply managers, many of whom are underpaid. Then there are station hands, stockmen and those in numerous occupations who live in the small towns or centres in the pastoral areas, the cattle station areas, the agricultural or the mining areas. All in all I would believe that the majority of these people are receiving an income of no more than the average weekly earnings, and in many cases they would be receiving considerably less. At a rough guess I would say that in a number of cases it would cost the bread winner something like half his annual wages just to send one of his children to school in the metropolitan area or some other area where schooling is available. Of course people in the isolated areas cannot afford to do this. 
The parents of children in isolated areas have certain alternatives which can be boiled down to 3 choices. They can use correspondence courses, with or without the School of the Air, and with the mother acting as teacher. Obviously there are difficulties in regard to that. As a result of the Government's proposal to change over from double side band to single side band radio the cost of replacing sets could be beyond the financial capacity of many parents, and unless some assistance is given in that regard we will see ourselves in a situation where the School of the Air will not be available to some of these children. The second choice is to employ a governess or male teacher, which is a fairly expensive exercise even if they are available. The third and certainly the best choice as far as the child's education is concerned is to send the child to the metropolitan area or elsewhere where good schooling facilities and accommodation are available. But the third choice poses very substantial cost problems that many parents cannot measure up to. Air or train fares are expensive items, particularly if the child is to return home at the end of each term or during school holidays - and surely it must be in the best interests of the children if they are allowed to do so. Therefore much more substantial allowances and assistance must be provided in that regard. 
Then there are the costs of hostels or other accommodation. In this regard there is very good reason why the Commonwealth should provide funds to establish hostels in or at least adjacent to the more popular schools in the metropolitan areas and also in country areas where good primary and secondary schooling is available. One frequently hears complaints from city dwellers in relation to the cost of education, and I think they are genuine in their complaints, but how much greater must be the complaint and how much more is it justified from people in the country and outback areas as compared with the city people, and how much greater is the worry of the parents in remote areas as to the adequacy of their child's education? I do not profess to be able to say what amount of assistance would be required or in what form assistance should be given. I doubt that any member of this Parliament could do so. But it would be neither a difficult nor an expensive exercise to carry out a proper inquiry and investigation into the whole field of education requirements in remote and distant areas. I believe this should be done, and done immediately. Certainly there would be no doubt about the co-operation and assistance that would be received from the States in that regard when they know that an inquiry is being conducted with a view to providing sufficient finance to overcome the problems of those areas. 
In conclusion 1 say that children of the outback have equal rights with children living in the elite areas of the capital cities to a good education. Assistance towards scholarships, science blocks and libraries is necessary and very acceptable in most areas, but it is of very little use or advantage to children who have no chance of qualifying for a scholarship or of attending a school of advanced education for the simple reason that their parents cannot face up to the costs. It is quite idle to say that the States are well equipped to be able to provide the finance for increased allowances and assistance because they are not, and the responsibility must be accepted by the Federal Government. How little apparently would the cost be to an institution such as the Commonwealth Government when we look at the figure given by the Minister for Education in New South 
Wales and see that $10m or SI 2m annually could be very near sufficient for all the States almost completely to overcome this problem. So I ask the Minister to take a serious view of this situation. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Mr Armitage)  - Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
Sitting suspended from 12.58 to 2.15 p.m. 
I intend to address my remarks to that section of the estimates dealing with Aboriginal welfare. It is quite obvious that the present Government has a very scant regard for the Aboriginal people generally and places very little importance upon the urgent need for substantial improvement in their general welfare and conditions. 
The Minister for Supply, a Minister from my own Stale, says: Look at the Budget'. In other words he believes only in the importance of money and nothing else. Of course one has to go a long way beyond that in relation to Aborigines. The remark by the Minister shows that he has very little knowledge of their needs. Aborigines are not different from us, other than in colour and custom. The portfolio of Aboriginal Affairs should be looked upon as a very important and responsible portfolio; but notwithstanding its importance, the Government has appointed as the Minister in charge of Aboriginal affairs a man who has very little interest in these people and certainly has very little knowledge of their customs and problems. I hope that no-one will think that I am casting a reflection on the Minister for the Environment, Aborigines and the Arts  (Mr Howson)  in that regard. I am not, but if he does not have much interest or much knowledge in these matters, that is it. The sources at fault are the Government and the Prime Minister  (Mr McMahon)  for giving him that particular portfolio to handle. 
A further indication of the Government's lack of interest is the fact that the same Minister has been given several other areas of ministerial responsibility - tourism, arts and the environment - to take up the bulk of his time. So it is clear that the Government considers that Aborigines are worthy of only a bits and pieces Minister. In a report which appeared in the Melbourne Herald' of 12th August reference was made to him as an odds and ends Minister. The article suggested that the present Minister seemed to be ill-fitted to cope with the mounting Aboriginal demands. It went on to say that the Minister was no match for Country Party Ministers who see Aboriginal land rights demands as being the thin end of the wedge which could threaten existing land ownership in the outback. In this area  Mr Wentworth,  the previous Minister for Aboriginal Affairs, ran foul of the Country Party. He had a reasonable understanding and sense of sympathy for the Aboriginal people, but apparently he pressed their case too hard and clashed with  Mr Nixon,  then the Country Party Minister for the Interior, who was also responsible for the administration of Aboriginals in the Northern Territory. As a result of Country Party pressure and Liberal Party apathy and disinterest a change in the Ministry occurred. As far as the Aborigines are concerned, it is a change for the worse. 
In order to illustrate the attitude of the Liberal Party to Aboriginal affairs I refer to an article which appeared in the Australian' of 23rd March last. It reported the honourable member for Bradfield  (Mr Turner)  as having referred to the Minister as a shreds and patches Minister presiding over a rag bag of responsibilities of minor importance. If the honourable member was correctly reported one can assume only that he and his colleagues look upon the Aboriginal people as a lot of ratbags and of very little importance. If this is the general attitude, and it certainly appears that way, it is no wonder that the Aboriginal people have expressed their resentment and lack of confidence in the Government generally. 
Of course, there can be no doubt where the Democratic Labor Party stands in this regard. Members of the DLP also would have thrown their weight against any suggestion of land rights for the Aborigines. The DLP attitude was made quite clear in an article appearing in the Melbourne Herald' of 7th August which stated that the DLP at its State conference had rejected a motion calling on the Government to recognise land rights for the Aborigines. The article reported that  Senator Little  of the DLP had said that the only thing worth preserving in Aboriginal culture was bark painting. It is a shocking thing to say, but at least it proves where the DLP stands in relation to protecting the land rights of the the Aboriginal people. One can well imagine the brick wall that the Minister must run into when he tries to put up any recommendations of his Department in respect of moves towards Aboriginal land rights. 
It is utterly impossible and ridiculous for one Minister to try to handle the several responsibilities that the present Minister for the Environment, Aborigines and the Arts has had placed upon him. If he is to do the job properly there is ample room in Aboriginal affairs alone to keep him fully occupied at least for a few years until the several problems have been largely ironed out. To the best of my knowledge, during the period of 18 months or so that the Minister has held the portfolio he has never visited, let alone made a detailed survey or investigation of the situation, in the north, north-west and north-east of Western Australia where several thousand Aborigines live. Many of them are forced to live in deplorable conditions which the Minister would do well to study. I know that he travelled in that area as a member of the Committee examining Aboriginal voting rights, but that is a long time ago. The fact that he has not been there since shows that he does not have the interest he should have or that he has other responsibilities which have not allowed him the time to do so. I hope the latter is the case. If so, it further highlights the need for a Minister to have Aboriginal affairs as his sole responsibility. 
I have said previously in debates in this House that housing, education, health and employment are the 4 main areas which require full and urgent attention in the interests of the Aboriginal people. These areas require urgent attention in a general way and not only with regard to Aborigines. There are general problems for all people in these fields. There is a serious lack of schooling opportunities and facilities for the majority of children, particularly in the outback areas of this country. The same is true of housing. The general situation in relation to hospitals and doctors is far from satisfactory. In each of the 4 areas there is a general need for overall improvement. If this general need was properly dealt with, if sufficient finance was made available, it would not be necessary to place so much emphasis upon the Aboriginal situation alone. Much of it would be attended to in a general manner. However, in some cases - not in all cases - in particular areas we have to adopt a different approach in the first instance. 
Some well-meaning people err in believing that all Aborigines can be treated in the same way, regardless of the part of Australia in which they are living. That is not so. In certain parts of my own electorate of Kalgoorlie some of the Aborigines need teaching. They need to be shown what is required and what particular forms or lines should be followed in their own interests and the interests of their children, even the unborn children, in relation to such matters as malnutrition and health generally. Quite a few Aboriginal people do not realise the need for a proper system of hygiene or what can be the result of lack of it for themselves and families in the immediate and distant future. lt must be remembered that it could well be that before the Aborigines mixed with whites or other people the hygiene question did not have the same significance. There was then nowhere near the same incidence of some diesases. They were continually on the move and certain contaminations which are now apparent were not seen in those earlier days. Hygiene precautions were not so necessary. But today there is a need and to satisfy that need it will be necessary to finance and to equip medical and nursing terms to be operating continually out in the field, teaching and helping the Aborigines wherever they are, on stations, in camps, on reserves, or no matter where they are. 
Very little progress will be made in some of these areas towards correcting malnutri tion, infant mortality diseases and general health matters if we simply sit back and wait for the people to come to the hospitals or medical centres. The children and the parents have to be taught that it is just as important to observe the standards of hygiene at home during weekends and school holidays as it is when the schools are in session. They must be taught that certain actions taken by them will greatly relieve the incidence of disease and will be a very large extent help to lower the infant mortality rate. These lessons can be learned only if the Government is prepared to provide sufficient finance. 
I express my protest at what has happened. I think that the Whip on this side is completely entitled to express his concern in relation to this matter. If we look at the blue sheet which sets out the matters to be debated today we see that the Department of National Development estimates are supposed to come on at this time. There does not seem to be any reason that I can see why the proposed programme of business should not be followed. As the Opposition Whip has said, honourable members on this side are prepared and want to develop their arguments in relation to the Department of National Development estimates. Yet we are to be forced into a position where we cannot do so at this time. Apparently the Government wants to bring on other business at this time of night. I do not know for what reason it wishes to do so. It may have something to do with the fact that the proceedings of the House are not being broadcast and the Government wants to bring on some other matter that would be very interesting to the people of this country. I express my resentment at what has happened. We have heard so many times before, as we heard from the Leader of the House  (Mr Chipp)  tonight, that arrangements were made between one side and the other. Honourable members who take their seats in this Parliament look at the blue sheet and see what is to be debated, but on this occasion the matter listed for debate next is not to come on. I sympathise with the Opposition Whip being placed in the position where, as the honourable member for Dawson  (Dr Patterson)  has said, he has arranged for speakers to speak on national development, which is a very important issue in this country, only to find that the estimates are not to be debated. Therefore, I express my resentment at what is going on in this place tonight, and I think we should proceed with the business as it appears on the blue sheet. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Civil Aviation, upon notice: 
Will Trans-Australia Airlines provide a passenger and freight service at airports between Darwin and Perth when it enters that route; if not, why not 
We are debating 2 Bills, the Wool Industry Bill and the Wool (Deficiency Payments) Bill. The latter Bill merely seeks the authority of Parliament to extend for an additional 12 months, to the end of June 1973, the terms of the existing scheme. That scheme provides a subsidy to wool growers in order to guarantee them an average price of 36c a lb or 79.37c a kilo of greasy wool for the season's clip. If honourable members take their minds back some 15 or 16 months they will remember seeing numerous Press statements in which the Country Party was reported to be holding out for 40c a lb rather than 36c a lb. It was reported that Country Party members were going so far as to threaten their resignation from the coalition if their demands for 40c were not accepted by the Government. 
We know what happened. The guaranteed price is 36c, not 40c, but the Country Party members still sit on the Government side of the chamber. They did not resign. In fact, when the Bill was being debated they were loud in their applause of the decision of the Liberal Party to make it only 36c. Government supporters, including Country Party members, said then that 36c was sufficient to ensure wool growers a reasonable return for their year's labour. Knowing the members of the Country Party as I do it did not surprise me that they were prepared to ignore the welfare of the wool growers in favour of retaining their comfortable seats in Parliament. Surely it is more than surprising and shows their complete lack of concern when today, about 12 months later, they are still happy to go along with the same guarantee of 36c and to have it operate to the end of next year. 
Everyone knows that production costs are increasing steadily. This being so, surely it must mean that either 36c a lb last year was more than sufficient or that this year it is insufficient. I for one do not accept that the guaranteed price of 36c last year was in any way an over generous offer except, of course, for those large companies which have not actually been in any need of assistance but nevertheless have received substantial subsidies. Production costs to which I will refer later can eventually kill the industry. I am sorry that the honourable member for Wimmera, the Assistant Minister assisting the Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr King),  is not present in the chamber. Earlier today he made great play about all the Government speakers being wool growers while Labor speakers came from several different walks of life other than wool growing. All I want to say in regard to that extraordinary statement is that all the wool growers on the Government side have a very nice sideline income from their parliamentary salaries. No doubt that is one of the reasons why they are not over concerned about their farming colleagues outside who, for some considerable time, have been finding it difficult to survive. If all the farmers outside had a guarantee of $9,500 a year to subsidise their farm incomes they would be very much happier too. 
This is one of the complaints I have about the deficiency scheme. The taxpayers are being fleeced - in other words, they are being asked to contribute - to provide a subsidy for several Liberal and Country Party parliamentarians who grow wool. This is happening not only in the Federal Parliament but also in the State parliaments. Let me return to what the Assistant Minister assisting the Minister for Primary Industry said about the speakers in this debate. Surely Labor speakers who have no direct or personal financial interest, such as several Government supporters have, are to be commended even more - if we use the Assistant Minister's argument - for their genuine desire to gain a better deal and a guaranteed security for wool growers and farmers alike, than Government members are to be commended who themselves stand to gain from the legislation. 
The Wool (Deficiency Payments) Bill is a further illustration of the Government's lack of interest and failure to make any real attempts to solve the industry's problems. It is just another hit or miss piece of legislation, with no proper object of helping the people who really require help. Experience has shown that the scheme is only a partial success, yet the Government has done nothing on this occasion to try to guarantee that the situation will not become as deplorable as it was a short time ago. In his second reading speech the Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Sinclair)  said: 
The extension of the deficiency payments scheme for a further 12 months will provide wool growers with a sense of security and should enhance confidence in the future of the industry. 
I find that statement rather hard to accept as being the fact of the case. I find it hard to accept that 36c will give the grower any sense of security or confidence, when in 1969-70 the average price was 37.55c and growers at that time certainly were feeling far from secure. 
Even in 1967-68 when the average price was 41.75c per lb they were expressing their concern as to what the future held. Events proved that their concern was well warranted. The fact is that subsidies can never give any real sense of security or confidence. As a matter of fact, the mere necessity of subsidy is in itself an expression of insecurity. But where subsidy is necessary - I believe it was necessary at that time to give the industry the opportunity of getting over what we hope has been only a bad patch - it should be of such amount as to give the wool grower, in this case, an overall return of a decent wage, plus cost of production. Cost of production includes the employment of labour, with that labour also having a good living standard. As far as I am concerned, anything less than a 40c per lb guarantee will not allow the return to be such as to ensure the decent standard I have referred to. 
I now want to turn to the Wool Industry Bill which, according to the Minister, is designed to create a wool statutory body to be known as the Australian Wool Corporation. This will cause the functions of the 2 separate bodies - the Australian Wool Board and the Australian Wool Commission - to operate as a new single body. Last year the Opposition moved an amendment to the Wool (Deficiency Payments) Bill which stated: 
In the opinion of the House emergency finance for the deficiency scheme should be complemented by legislation to (a) establish a single statutory marketing authority to acquire, appraise and market the entire wool clip and, (b) implement a progressive reconstruction and rehabilitation programme to apply to those areas of wool production and marketing which are in urgent need of improvement and assistance. 
To my mind that amendment was what the industry was seeking. It wanted an acquisition scheme. It still wants an acquisition scheme. But our amendment was rejected when every member on the Government side voted against it. They expressed their complete opposition to an acquisition scheme, as they had done on several occasions previously. The Minister for Primary Industry tried to tell us that one of the jobs of the Australian Wool Corporation would be to investigate ways and means of setting up such a scheme. In his second reading speech the Minister stated:   . . and to specifically' empower the new Wool Corporation to investigate the whole question of wool marketing and to prepare a detailed plan for a compulsory acquisition scheme, clearly defined in all respects. 
The House will note that the Minister said that the Corporation would be given specific powers. I have looked carefully through the Bill and I cannot find that power specified anywhere. Division 2 of the Bill sets out the functions and powers of the Corporation. Nowhere in that division do we find the word 'acquisition', or any suggestion of it. In clause 40 of the Bill we find set out the specific powers of the Corporation in relation to wool marketing. Again there is nothing about an investigation into acquisition. If the Government intends the Corporation to have that specific power, as the Minister said it would, one would expect to see that specified in the Bill. I will be interested to hear why it is not in the Bill and also by what means the Government intends to implement or extend that power to the Corporation. 
I notice that the Minister's second reading speech makes no mention of the Corporation treating the investigation of an acquisition scheme as a matter of any urgency. I suppose we can look forward to the same old slap-dash system of marketing for some little time at least. If the Government moves with its usual speed the Bill will be an historic document before we get around to any acquisition. As I see the present Bill it will do nothing other than form the Corporation. In relation to its activities in the marketing field it will be given little if any power beyond what the Commission has at the moment. If this is correct then the Corporation falls far short of what the industry is really asking for in relation to the protection of its rights and interests in actual selling. Naturally most people are pleased to see wool prices at a much higher level than they were last season when they dropped to a low of approximately 29c per lb. I say 'most people' because for some it can mean a further burden upon their financial circumstances as a result of the increase in the price of woollen goods. It is one of several wonders of the world that an increase in the price of wool causes an immediate increase in the price of woollen goods while a decrease in the price of wool has no downward effect in the shops at all. For this reason the Government needs to act to protect the industry in relation to consumer attraction. 
We all hope - but I suppose without certainty - that the activities of the Wool Commission have played a major part in causing wool prices to increase and that any buyer uncertainty has disappeared. But one cannot be sure that the price will remain at a reasonable level or drop again. Certainly we do not want to see it rise to any dangerous level. It could be dangerous if it goes up too far. The fact is that manmade fibres for a very long time have been looked upon as a direct threat to wool. But they can only be a threat by way of price competition. If the prices are such that they are not strongly competitive against wool then wool will be the favourite in relation to demand. If wool prices soar then it is only natural that consumers or users of wool and woollen goods will be hit harder and will start looking for something a bit cheaper to suit their purse and purpose. It could be that we could move from a dangerously low to a dangerously high price in relation to the wool industry. The present rise in consumer demand stems from wool's attractiveness as a fibre and also from an economic advantage which it is gaining over man-made fibres. 
As far as the woolgrower is concerned the world inflationary spiral is a benefit in some respects. It gives his industry an edge on other industries in relation to adverse effects. The inflationary spiral causes labour costs to increase. As those costs increase, man-made fibres - synthetics - will gradually but certainly fall into a position in which they becomes less and less advantageous in relation to wool. Labour costs in relation to production and placing the article at the consumer purchase level are very much higher for synthetics than for wool. As a result the cost of man-made fibres will rise and become less competitive if wool prices remain reasonable. Honourable members will recall that several months ago Imperial Chemical Industries in Britain reported a very substantial write-off of about 57m sterling in relation to its synthetics division. 
The report referred to the poor trading conditions in the textile industry; it said that fibre prices declined and profits were poor, which all reflected low selling prices and increases in costs. It was claimed that synthetics were suffering from overproduction and a falling-off in public favour. But this state of affairs will remain only while wool is competitive in price. Therefore, wool growers cannot depend upon wool prices alone to keep them in a comfortable position. 
Prices which are continually increasing or which reach too high a level will not solve their problems. In fact such prices will have exactly the opposite effect by placing them in the position referred to by Imperial Chemical Industries of Australia and New Zealand Ltd - no demand and no consumer appreciation. The wool producer has to face up to the fact, and no doubt does face up to the fact, that he must produce as cheaply as possible and must be in a position to market as cheaply as possible. In both of these, areas the Commonwealth Government can offer immeasurable help, particularly in the marketing field. 
This is why we need the acquisition scheme, which can not only keep a reasonable control on the price, of the commodity in the interests of all concerned, but also keep marketing costs at a reasonable level. It is in the interests of buyers, consumers, producers and everyone, else to ensure a satisfactory price in all respects. It is in  their  interests to have a solid woolproducing industry - one that can produce at prices favourably competitive with those of man-made fibres, lt is in the interests of the nation as a whole. The present Government over the years has failed to do anything positive to bring about such a situation. Even now, despite what the Minister has said, there appear to be grave doubts that the Government really wants to set up an acquisition scheme or a protective scheme. 
The Government still appears to be quite willing to allow marketing methods to run along on the slap-dash, hit or miss style which has operated for years. It still has nothing positive to offer. It brings in pieces of patch-up legislation which at best can have only a temporary effect and it still pursues its 'get big or get out' policy. This is obvious from the terms of the deficiency payments scheme, which gives very little to the small man who is in real trouble and gives quite considerable assistance to companies and such like with other means and income. 
The policy of the Australian Labor Party in the rural sphere includes the establishment of a statutory wool authority to acquire, appraise and market the whole of the Australian wool clip. We have not wavered in any way in that respect. We believe that that is the only way to protect the grower, the community generally and the whole industry. It is quite certain that the large majority of wool growers support our policy because they also can see its many advantages. It seems very strange that the Government, and particularly a party such as the Country Party which always claims that the Government will pursue what an industry wants, in this case is doing everything it possibly can to avoid having eventually to set up such a scheme, even though the industry has been urging an acquisition scheme for years. It is no wonder that the general farming communities are looking for a change. It is no wonder that they are looking with favour on our slogan 'It's time'. When we are the government after 2nd December we will take immediate steps to bring about the situation for which the wool growers are looking, to protect their rights and to give them a feeling of real security instead of the uncertainty which the present Government's policy fosters. 
I do not want to delay the Committee for long, but there are one or two matters I wish to have cleared up in relation to this Bill. In the first place, I must say that I am very disappointed in the remarks of the honourable member for Mitchell  (Mr Irwin),  for whom I have always had some respect, and that he should come out and tell the Committee that the Liberal Party's policy is nonacquisition. He has made that pretty clear tonight. I am one of those who are very concerned that we should have an acquisition plan. 
We are dealing with 3 amendments at the moment. The Minister for Primary 
Industry  (Mr Sinclair)  made some reference, in relation to the first amendment, to the words 'or otherwise', which he seemed to be looking at very closely. I draw his attention to clause 38(l.)(c), which states: to formulate, and make arrangements with a view to securing the adoption of, terms and conditions governing the acceptance of wool for sale, and the sale of wool, whether at auction or, with the approval of the Minister, otherwise than at auction; 
I should like to know from the Minister whether this means that the Corporation without the approval of the Minister cannot operate in any way at all in relation to a flexible reserve price, which is referred to in paragraph (a) of that subclause. That is the only way that I can read paragraph (c). Perhaps he would be able to explain it to me. I refer also to our second amendment, which states: to formulate a detailed plan, for operation by the Corporation, of a scheme to acquire and/or market the Australian wool clip and to report this plan to the Parliament within 6 months of the commencement of this Act; 
In his second reading speech the Minister said: and to specifically empower the new Wool Corporation to investigate the whole question of wool marketing and to prepare a detailed plan for a compulsory acquisition scheme . . . 
As I see it, if the Minister says 'to specifically empower the new Wool Corporation to investigate the whole question' surely there should be something in the Bill to state that the Corporation should do that. But all I can see in the Bill to suggest that is in clause 38 (l.)(o). It states: to inquire into (whether alone or in cooperation with other authorities and organisations), and from time to time report . . . 
What does 'from time to time' mean? Does it mean once this year, once next year, once the year after; or perhaps once next year and never again? I do not know what it actually means. I think it is reasonable for us to say that at some time within at least 6 months the plan should be reported to the Parliament by the Corporation. I am not satisfied with the wording of paragraph (o), which seems to be the one on which the Minister relies. I think it is the one to which the honourable member for Wimmera  (Mr King)  referred. He said that it gave the Corporation all the authority it required. Certainly, I cannot see the word acquisition' anywhere. The Bill refers to methods of marketing wool, but there is no suggestion in it of acquisition. 
As I said in the first place, this is the thing I am mainly concerned with. I think this is what the growers are mainly concerned with, namely, that we should have an aquisition plan. Certainly, as I see it there is nothing in the Bill which in any way suggests - certainly not specifically anyway - that the Corporation is actually being asked to inquire into an acquisition plan. Therefore, I think it is fair enough for us to say that the Corporation should be called on to formulate a detailed plan of operation in this regard and to report to the Parliament so that members of the Patterson). I hope that the Government is doing in this field. I do not think there is anything wrong with this. I certainly hope that, well and truly before 6 months, something in relation to an acquisition plan can be presented and put into operation. Certainly it should not be a Kathleen Mavourneen sort of thing, as it is in paragraph (o). This can go on for ever and ever amen, if I may use that expression. 
I support the amendments moved by the honourable member for Dawson  (Dr Patterson).  I hope that the Government will accept them. I cannot see any reason why it should not, unless, as the honourable member for Mitchell said, it is not prepared to accept an acquisition plan. I should like the Minister to make it clear whether he agrees with what the honourable member for Mitchell said - that the bulk of wool growers do not want an acquisition plan - or whether he will instruct the Corporation to investigate it. If he is prepared to do the latter, I suggest that he should agree to the amendments to ensure that this is carried out. 
I feel that I must express briefly my disappointment that the Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Sinclair)  did not in any way dissociate the Government from the remarks of the honourable member for Mitchell  (Mr Irwin).  If he did so, I did not hear him. 
If the Minister says that he does, that is OK. We accept what the Minister has said in relation to the Government's preparedness to introduce an acquisition plan, but we want to know when that plan will be introduced. Surely this is the important point. The honourable member for Maranoa  (Mr Corbett)  said that surely the main thing is that we have a scheme. It is not much good having a scheme unless it is in operation. Surely that is the thing that has to be looked at. It is not much good to the wool growers to know that a scheme will come into operation in the distant future if they are to go broke in the meantime. Therefore, for the Minister simply to say that the Government is prepared to accept the proposition of an acquisition plan is not sufficient for the wool growers. We want something more definite than that. It seemed pretty obvious to me when the Minister said that he could not tie the Corporation down to a time that he did not expect anything to be done for 6 months and that it would be far longer than 6 months. This is not at all satisfactory. 
The Minister has not said anything to convince either side of the Committee that the amendment moved by the Labor Party should not be carried. I thank the Minister for his explanation of the clause to which I first referred but, as I said before, my main concern is that we must have an acquisition plan. This is also the main concern of the wool growers. The least the Government could do is give us some idea of when it is likely to come about. The honourable member for Maranoa  (Mr Corbett)  claims that the Opposition wants the Government to delay action for 6 months which suggests to his mind that the Labor Party does not believe that it will be in power in 6 months' time; in other words, it would not be the government after the next election. The fact is that before Parliament meets after the election this Corporation will have been set up. The Opposition is supporting the Bill as it is, so the Corporation will come into being. We want the Corporation to be working on this matter before we become the government later this year. We want it to be working. Therefore it is idle for the honourable member for Maranoa to suggest that the Labor Party will not be the government. He knows full well that it will be the government. And we know from what the Minister has said that it will be the Labor Party which will be introducing the stabilisation plan in the same way as it introduced the wheat stabilisation plan. I remember reading in Hansard that when that p'an was introduced by the Labor Government the former leader of the Country Party,  Sir John  McEwen, opposed the proposal. He said that it was the first step by the Labor Party towards socialising the rural industries. But the Labor Party persisted with its plan and the wheat growers have benefited ever since. I wonder what would have happened had the Labor Party riot persisted with its plan. I wonder what will happen to the wool growers if it does not persist with what it is doing on this occasion. 
It is the fact just the same. I would like the Minister to give the Committee something more definite than what he has said so far in relation to the formation of an acquisition scheme so that the Opposition can decide whether -o pursue its amendments. But so far as 1 am concerned at the moment, the amendments still stand. 
asked the PostmasterGeneral, upon notice: 
What is the proposed or actual power of each of the television stations in the seventh stage of television development. 
What is the expected radius of satisfactory reception for each station. 
What population is expected to receive a satisfatory reception from each station. 
What approximate population would receive a satisfactory reception if each station was of high rather than low power. 
The Social Services Bill seeks to amend the Social Services Act and, naturally, we on this side of the House, appreciating what it will mean to many people, wish to see the Bill passed as speedily as possible so that the recipients of social service benefits can more quickly enjoy the substantial improvements to the Act which this Bill sets out to provide. Therefore it is not my intention to delay the House to any great extent. The provisions in this Bill are sufficient to leave no doubt in the minds of the people that the Labor Government intends to ensure, by way of legislation or other means at its disposal, that the entire population of Australia - not just some small sections of it - will be able to look to the future with a feeling of security. For instance, it will be seen that the very people directly concerned with the measure now before the House can look to the future with complete confidence, safe in the knowledge that at long last there is a federal government in Australia which will treat them as persons who have a right to live in a dignified and respectable manner. They can look forward with the knowledge that while there remains a Labor government in the federal field they will be treated with the respect and sympathy they deserve as citizens of this great country. Certainly that was something they could never look forward to during the life of the LiberalCountry Party coalition Government. 
The amendment moved today by the Opposition to the motion that the Bill be read a second time and the speeches of Opposition members in this debate are sufficient proof that the Liberal-Country Party Opposition can see no reason for the increases which we have proposed in pensions and other social service benefits. For 23 years the aged, the invalid, the handicapped, the sick and the unemployed have suffered immeasurable hardship and, in many cases, just a miserable existence due to the attitude and policies of an unsympathetic, inconsiderate and disinterested government. That situation and those conditions will now change. What a great relief it must be to so many of those people to be able to see ahead of them a clear future of security and happiness rather than one of utter despair. 
Last week, on the very first business day in the Parliament of the new Government, we had the pleasure and satisfaction of witnessing the introduction of amending legislation which will go a long way - certainly not all the way because there is still much more to be done - towards correcting the many anomalies and injustices in the existing Act which have been created and aggravated by the previous Government. No-one could expect to find the wrongs imposed over so many years rectified by one Bill. Over the years the Liberal-Country Party Government introduced a number of Bills to amend the Social Services Act, but invariably those Bills were not notable for what they contained in the way of increased benefits or for what they did to improve the Act or the circumstances of the recipients. They were notable in particular for what they failed to provide, what they failed to do and what they left undone as well as for the further anomalies and injustices which they created. What a significant and welcome change is the present Bill. As the Minister for Social Security  (Mr Hayden)  said during his second reading speech, this Bill will not only remove a number of the seriously unjust and penalising anomalies in the existing Act but will also provide generous increases in all pensions and in sickness and unemployment benefits. 
The existing amounts of benefits payable in the several areas of social services will, as  a  result of the proposals in the Bill, be increased by amounts ranging from $1.50 a week to $14 a week. That is certainly a very welcome change from what we had become accustomed to expect from the previous Government, when the increases generally ranged from 50c down to nothing. For instance, between October 1961 and 1964 married pensioner couples received no increases at all. Between October 1964 and January 1968 they received a total increase of 75c a week. Incidentally, if measured against the consumer price index which the then Government claimed to adopt as a measuring stick, that latter amount was less than half the increase the pensioners should have received during that period. Of course, they have never caught up. Perhaps I should also point out, while referring to the previous Government's 'generosity', that over the period of 20 years between 1950 and the end of 1970 the average weekly increase in each of those years for married pensioner couples was only 52c and for single pensioners it was a mere 43 4c This can only be described as being no better than extremely miserable and certainly it did nothing to help the recipients overcome their problems. 
The Government intends to improve very substantially the circumstances of social service recipients. The people know its intentions in relation to pensioners and the average weekly male earnings. The Government has said that its first move in that direction will be to increase pensions by $1.50 a week and that thereafter the base rates will be raised by a further $1.50 a week during each spring and autumn session of the Parliament until such time as the pension reaches 25 per cent of average weekly male earnings. Furthermore, the Government has said that while it remains the Government, which will undoubtedly be for many years, the rate of pension will not be allowed to fall below that 25 per cent level. The Bill which we are now debating is the first legislative step in the direction of our final objective. We have taken the very first opportunity of honouring our promise to the people in this regard. As you know,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  this attitude is completely opposite to the attitude of the previous Government in relation to promises. One immediately recalls its promise of 1949 to abolish the means test. For a continuous period of 23 years it had the opportunity to honour that promise. Indeed, it was invited to do so on several occasions by the Australian Labor Party which would have been happy to support such a proposition. As everyone knows, the previous Government failed to accept the invitation. 
In July 1969 the then Liberal Prime Minister, the right honourable member for Higgins  (Mr Gorton),  told a Liberal women's rally in Brisbane that the means test should not be abolished and would not be abolished and that he could see no reason why it should be abolished. Yet despite that refusal to honour a promise made over 23 years ago, despite the fact that one of its Prime Ministers said as recently as July 1969 that it should not be abolished and despite the fact that the immediate past Liberal Minister for Social Services, the honourable member for Mackellar  (Mr Wentworth),  did not attempt to abolish it during his term of office, we now have the ridiculous and hypocritical situation in which that self same immediate past Minister has submitted a notice calling for its abolition in the 1973 Budget. It would certainly be in line with the hypocrisy displayed by the Opposition if we were to see the right honourable member for Higgins second the motion. 
As 1 said earlier, this Bill will provide some generous increases in pensions, and those increases will be made retrospective to the first pension day following the election on 2nd December last year. Referring to the retrospectivity provision, I should point out that the previous Government and its Ministers always claimed that it was extremely difficult and well nigh impossible to backdate pension payments. They always refused our requests to do so. This shows the difference between an apathetic and disinterested government and a vigorous and considerate government. Of course there were difficulties and obstacles, but unlike the previous Government our present Government and the present Minister acted promptly and positively, and very quickly proved not only that it could be done but also that it would be done on this occasion. The Minister for Social Security and the Cabinet are to be congratulated for the way in which they have acted to give the pensioners a fair deal. 
This Bill also honours a further election promise of the Labor Party in that the rate of class B and class C widows pensions will be raised to the same base rate as class A widows pensions, namely $21.50 a week. Due to the fact that the previous Government has treated these women as second or third class citizens and paid them at a rate of $2.75 a week less than the class A widow, the rate of $21.50 provided in this Bill will mean an actual increase to them of $4.25 a week. It therefore removes an injustice that we were not prepared to tolerate. The Government has also grasped this early opportunity to correct the unrealistic and unjust provisions which exist at the moment in relation to unemployment and sickness benefits. It is well known - the honourable member for Balaclava  (Mr Whittorn)  made it clear the other night as did other honourable members on the Opposition side that the present Opposition does not believe in assisting people who, through lack of opportunity, through no fault of their own or through sickness, are unable to obtain employment. The honourable member for Balaclava would deny relief to all sufferers on the ground that he believed that there are some who are voluntarily unemployed. I would not disagree that there is the odd one in that category but, by the same token, I would point out that there are a number who may be and in fact are placed wrongly in that category simply because they are victims of some particular condition that requires some particular type of treatment to put them back or to bring them forward to a condition, physical or mental, in which they could accept and be acceptable for employment. 
The Opposition stands condemned in that during 23 years in government it failed to take any action to help those poor unfortunate people and was prepared simply to leave them to face their hopeless future. Under the Act as it stands at the moment, except in such cases where sickness payments have been made for a period of 6 consecutive weeks, a single person aged 18, 19 or 20 years who is unemployed or sick and unable to obtain work may receive the very generous amount, according to the previous Government, of $11 a week. If such a person is only 16 or 17 years old the benefit, again apparently generous in the eyes of the Opposition, is $7.50 a week. I have never been able to work out how a boy or a girl 17 years of age could live on an amount $3.50 a week less than that received by persons 18 years of age, but there it is. What happens in all these cases, or in many of them, is quite obvious. They cannot exist on the amount that is paid to them and they must therefore become dependent upon their parents who, in many instances, are in very poor circumstances themselves and may even be pensioners. Those young people have either never worked before or have never worked long enough to accumulate any moneys and, therefore, in desperation are forced to look other ways and means of gaining a few dollars and the only ways and means that are available to them are not acceptable to society and therefore they are quickly on the road to ruin. 
The previous Government has undoubtedly done a very great disservice to a large number of people, particularly young people, simply by refusing to pay realistic benefits to the sick and the unemployed. We intend to correct that deplorable situation. The majority of those who are now unemployed have been forced into that position as a result of the previous Government's Budget of 1971 and they are entitled to sympathetic consideration; they will receive it from this Government. Unemployed unmarried adults and unmarried minors who do not have a parent resident in Australia receive the princely amount at the moment of $17 a week. Those people and the juniors to whom I have referred will, when this Bill receives royal assent, be entitled to receive $21.50 a week, which represents increases ranging from $4.50 a week to $14 a week, which is further proof of the miserable attitude displayed by the previous Government in this regard. 
At the moment, a married but unemployed or sick adult or a married minor receives only $25 a week, made up of $17 for the husband and $8 for his wife. This is to be increased by $12.50 to a total of $37.50 a week, or the same amount that will be received by married age or invalid pensioners. It is only fair and proper that they should do so. Actually, a young married couple with the breadwinner out of work and, for instance, trying to pay off a home or  furniture could be in  a much worse financial situation than some pensioners. Therefore, there seems to be no reason why they should not receive the same amount. Also, at present, where a sickness benefit has been paid for at least 6 consecutive weeks and the person is 16 to 21 years of age, that benefit is only $13 a week. This will be increased to $21.50 a week. Adults and minors who are married and in a similar situation, having been on sickness benefits for 6 weeks, will enjoy an increase from a total of $28 a week to $37.50 a week. 
The several discriminations imposed by the previous Government in this respect have been removed. As I said earlier, there is much more to be done before we will be satisfied. But this is a good Bill; it will go a long way towards removing those injustices and anomalies to which I have referred. It is a Bill that deserves the full commendation of this House. The Minister for Social Security  (Mr Hayden)  is to be congratulated upon introducing the Bill so early in the session. It deserves the full and unanimous support of the chamber. 
I am pleased to hear the honourable member for Herbert  (Mr Bonnett)  say that the Opposition does not intend to oppose the Bills. From the way he spoke, it could well be that, in another 20 or 30 years when the Liberal Party and the Australian Country Party may return to government, he will be the Minister for Repatriation. I intend to address my remarks in this debate more particularly to the Bill to amend the Repatriation Act, the main purpose of which is to provide increases in repatriation pensions. I do not wish to exhaust all of the time that is at my disposal for the simple reason that, as with the Social 
Services Bill which was debated yesterday, we are keen to see this Bill disposed of as quickly as possible in order to permit the recipients to have the very earliest opportunity of enjoying the improved benefits that the Bill will provide. 
The increases to these repatriation pensions proposed by the Bill, like those provided in the Social Services Bill, are to be paid retrospective to the first pay day following 2nd December last year, which was the date of the election. That pay day, I understand, will occur on 7th December. This of course means that the difference between the amount which recipients have received under the existing Act since 7th December and the amount to be provided by this Bill will be paid to recipients as a lump sum, either at the time the first full increased pension is paid or shortly afterwards. Whenever that time will be will depend upon how long it is before this Bill is passed through both Houses of Parliament. I certainly hope it will not be beyond the end of this month or very early in the next month. However, whenever that should be, the recipients can look forward to a cheque for back payment, something which they had no chance of ever receiving from the previous Government which was always completely opposed to paying benefits retrospectively. 
The amendments to the Act proposed by the Bill before the House will implement to a large extent the policies outlined by the Australian Labor Party during the election campaign in relation to repatriation pensions and eligibility for pensions. That policy received the unqualified support of the Returned Services League and, of course, the ballot box showed in no uncertain manner that it also had the approval of the general public. Again, the Government has taken the earliest opportunity of introducing the relevant amendments to the Act. Before proceeding to a brief outline of the improved benefits which are now proposed I should point out that the Government, by way of regulation, has already approved an increase of $50 to  a  total amount of $100 as the funeral benefit payable upon the death of an ex-serviceman who is qualified to receive such entitlement. While I do not suggest for a moment that the benefit of $100 is sufficient to meet the total cost of burial, it will nevertheless go a long way towards that end and is certainly a substantial - in fact,  a  100 per cent - increase on the amount which applied previously. 
With regard to other proposed increases, the House will note that they include an increase of $3.10 a week in the special or totally and permanently incapacitated pension which will bring that pension up to $51.10 a week. This is no more than it should be when one remembers that the TPI rate is paid only to men or women who are totally and permanently incapacitated as the result of a condition which has been accepted as having resulted from a war injury or a condition due to war service. We have come to the conclusion that the pension, or rather more correctly, I believe, the compensation paid to such persons should be not less than the Commonwealth minimum wage and we therefore have arrived at the amount of $51.10. Incidentally, I point out that the $51.10 is not taxable, and therefore it has a greater value than the minimum wage which is subject to tax. 
I believe that we should always regard such payments as being compensation rather than pension because, after all, the injuries or conditions were initially sustained during or as a result of his or her activities during a conflict, a war being fought to protect our country and the people against an enemy from without. This is a very much different situation from that of normal social service pensioners. I would indeed be surprised if any responsible and fair person would argue against such people being properly compensated for their losses in physical, mental or other condition. 
I suppose most if not all honourable members have read that publication titled 'Be In It Mate' and have also seen other articles in which the writers have claimed that there are large numbers of returned soldiers receiving pensions to which they are not properly entitled. This may be so to a very minor extent. There may be an odd one whose condition or injury has been wrongly diagnosed as being war caused. Certainly, I am not competent to say whether this is correct but, after all, it must be remembered that it is not the soldier who makes the diagnosis; he only makes the application. I would say that any ex-serviceman or ex-servicewoman whose condition is such as to make that person believe, even if only in a remote way, that it is due to war service, has every right to lodge an application for recognition of that condition. He or she also has the right to lodge an appeal if the application is rejected. That right  must  never be taken away. In addition, applications must always be regarded as being genuine. 
As far as I am concerned, the soldier or ex-soldier should always be given the benefit of any doubt in relation to whether his condition is war caused, and I would hope that all doctors and members of the Repatriation Board would always adopt a similar view. I believe this benefit of doubt should apply par.ticuarly in the case of cancer. It could be that, in some cases, the doctor can say definitely that a carcinoma is in no way related to a man's war service, but there appear to be large numbers of cases - some have come to my notice - in which the doctors cannot be certain of the cause, particularly where the growth is internal. With cancer, as far as I know, it is absolutely impossible for the sufferer himself unless he is a doctor, and not even then in the majority of cases, to provide any definite evidence to prove its cause. I do not know whether any survey has been undertaken to ascertain, for instance, the incidence of lung cancer among returned soldiers as against civilians but whether it has or not, I would expect such a survey to show some interesting results. Just because a doctor is uncertain of its cause and because the sufferer cannot produce any evidence other than his war service to remove that doubt, it should not be sufficient in my mind for the application to be rejected out of hand. As I see it, an applicant is entitled to know exactly why his claim has been rejected. He should be told that his claim has been rejected because his condition was caused by this or that and not by his war service. Just to say that it is not due to war service is not sufficient. 
It is always a matter of concern to me when I hear that an application has been rejected. I am always concerned that perhaps the applicant or his advocate was not able to present the case as well as it could have been presented, and that perhaps some particular matter or incident which could have made a material difference was either overlooked or not sufficiently argued. As a result of this Bill an applicant, except a widow, is not permitted to have as his or her advocate a person who is qualified in legal practice. While I appreciate that this provision could have been included to protect applicants against high legal costs, I believe it should not be so rigid as it is. For instance, as I understand it, the wording of the Act prohibits a member of Parliament who is legally qualified from appearing on behalf of a constituent. If he is not legally qualified he can appear. I believe it is wrong to draw that distinction. After all, the member of Parliament or senator with legal qualifications no doubt played a substantial part in drawing up the Act and is well aware of its intentions. Certainly, in many ways, he would be better qualified to present a case than the ordinary layman. It seems strange to me that our returned soldiers or their widows should be denied that qualification when it is available from their local member. I congratulate the Minister for Repatriation  (Senator Bishop)  on the amendment relating to widows which is contained in this Bill. 
As the Act now stands, any application for a Service pension dies with the applicant and, as a result, several weeks payment of pension which should have been available to the deceased before his death is not paid into the estate of the deceased or to a dependant or to anyone else. I am pleased that the Bill before the House will correct that anomaly or, rather, injustice. I had an experience in this respect a short time ago where a returned soldier had applied for a Service pension on the grounds of being permanently unemployable. The application had been in the hands of the Department for approximately one month but, due to some delay in obtaining a doctor's certificate in relation to the applicant's condition, it had not been finally processed prior to the death of the applicant. The Department ruled that the application died with the applicant and the case was closed. I took the matter as high as was possible within the Department without success even though, as I pointed out, had the application been made to the Department of Social Services for an invalid pension, the payments would have been made. Finally  I  raised it with the Deputy Leader of the Labor Government subsequent to the Federal election, and I am pleased to say that he did not hesitate in arranging to ensure that the payments which would have been made but for the applicant's death be paid into the estate. This is further evidence of the prompt attention that one can expect from Labor Ministers. I would like to place on record my appreciation of the Minister for Defence, who is sitting at the table, for the action he took, and I am sure that the widow also would like me to place on record her gratitude in that respect. 
One of the serious effects of the delay in processing the application to which I just referred was that certain medical, hospital and pharmaceutical benefits to which the deceased would have been entitled were denied and the widow subsequently was faced with rather substantial accounts that should have been the responsibility of either the Repatriation Department or the Department of Health. It seems to be a completely unjust situation that people should have been subjected to this type of treatment when obviously it resulted from an oversight in the Act. I am pleased that as a result of the election of a Labor Government this undesirable feature of the legislation is being removed. 
The Bill before the House will also extend the right of pensions or allowances to certain dependants of ex-servicemen who previously were not included in the Act, even though such people were accepted as dependants under the Social Services Act. I refer to de facto wives and widows who have lived continuously with ex-servicemen on a bona fide domestic basis for at least 3 years preceding consideration of her status or the member's death as the case may be. As I have just said, those people are recognised under the Social Services Act and there can be no reason why the same recognition should not be given in the Repatriation Act. As from the royal assent to this Bill they will be recognised, and properly so. 
The Bill proposes also to increase the intermediate rate of pension by $2.55 to a total of $34 a week. The maximum general rate will be increased by $2 a week. The war widow's pension will be increased by $1.50 to a total of $21.50. The Bill also extends the rights in relation to student children engaged in full time education. Service pensions will be increased to $21.50 a week for unmarried pensioners to a total of $37.50 for married couples. As I said at the beginning, we do not wish unnecessarily to delay the passing of this Bill. Therefore I do not intend to say anything more except that, like the Social Services Bill, this Bill also clearly indicates our indication of pressing ahead with the promises that we have made. It further shows our intention of ensuring that the whole of the Australian community and not just a small portion of it can look to the future with confidence. The Bill deserves the full support of this House. 
My question is addressed to the Postmaster-General. Is it correct that approximately 300 official post offices are to be declassified to non-official status? If so, why has this been found necessary? Will such action in any way destroy career opportunities of existing postmasters and other Post Office employees? Will it mean a denigration of Post Office services to any sections of the community? 
In directing a question to the Minister for Northern Development I refer to the proposal to pipe gas into Western Australia from Palm Valley. Is the Minister aware that the extent to which development will follow the introduction of gas into the Pilbara and other parts of Western Australia will depend largely on a secure and plentiful water supply which at present is not available in some of the areas? Is it correct that with today's expertise no real engineering problem would occur in damming and piping water from the northern rivers of Western Australia to Perth and places between and beyond? If so, has any study been made, and with what result, to ascertain the cost and also, what is extremely important in the circumstances, the time required to complete such a project? If a study has been made is there any intention of carrying out a survey in the near future? 
My question is addressed to the Minister for Northern Development, representing the Minister for Primary Industry.I refer to the Government's wool acquisition policy which, as the Minister is aware, has the approval and support of most wool growers? Is the Minister in a position to give the House some indication of when the scheme is likely to become operative and, if not, can he say what stage has been reached with regard to procedures which are necessary to bring the scheme to fruition? 
My question is addressed to the Minister for Northern Development. I refer to the income tax zone allowances which, not having been adjusted for a number of years, are gradually losing value in relation to their purpose. Is it correct that any attempt to increase those  allownaces  would endanger their retention in the Act? If so, does that danger not exist irrespective of whether they are increased or not? Would the termination of the allowances or a substantial loss in value seriously affect northern development, particularly with regard to attracting and retaining an adequate work force? If this is  so, has any consideration been given to preparing some other form of legislation which could not be challenged but which would serve the same purpose as the zone allowances, thereby assisting and encouraging further development and population in northern areas? 
If ever  proof  were necessary, and 1 doubt that it is, the matter of public importance introduced by the Opposition today and the speeches that Opposition members have made during this debate show conclusively that the Opposition is as barren of ideas in Opposition as it was when in Government. Certainly the remarks of the honourable member for Angas  (Mr Giles)  were no exception to the rule. The wording of the proposition follows almost exactly the same lines which the present Government used while in Opposition in condemnation of those people who are now in Opposition. But of course we had very sound grounds for expressing our lack of confidence in the previous Government whereas the present Opposition has no grounds at all and speeches of Opposition members have proved pretty conclusively that this is so. In fact, all that has come out of this debate from the Opposition side is a clear certainty that what is really worrying Opposition members is not the welfare of the rural industry and the people engaged in it, but the fact that the Government by its well planned, sympathetic and realistic policy on rural matters will further weaken the chances of the Opposition Parties of holding the seats that they now hold. 
It is quite ridiculous, indeed dishonest, for the Opposition to suggest that the Government lacks concern for the needs of rural industry. The Government's policy in that regard is quite clear and was made clear to the public prior the last election. The fact that the Government won so many additional seats, sufficient to become the Government, makes it abundantly clear that most people in country areas as well as in the cities saw the Government's policy on rural matters as being much better and more positive than the policy - if it could be called such - of the Liberal-Country Parties. If the Opposition is foolish enough to believe it has the support of people in rural areas it should ask itself why it was that it lost seats in the last election, why it was that its representation declined in rural areas and why it was that it did not receive a greater number of votes from those particular people. The simple fact is that not only was it because of its lack of definite policy but also because of its failure to come to grips with the problems of rural industry that its stocks were so low and continue to be low at present. 
The Opposition, while in Government, was notorious for its patching up scheme and for introducing measures which could never be the answer to the problems and could never have any long term effect of a beneficial nature. Despite its failure - I believe the correct term would be its neglect - to come to grips with long term requirements the Opposition now has the unbelievable audacity to try to condemn the present Government which has been in office for only 6 months for things which the Opposition failed to do, when in government, over a period of 23 years. Of course, it was not only in the field of rural matters that the previous Government failed. It failed in so many other areas as well - social services, repatriation, health, education, arbitration, housing and others too numerous to mention. The present Government has been faced with the task of correcting all of those faults or as many of them as possible as quickly as possible. 
While members of the Opposition cry out about delays in implementing our policy, it would be well for them to remember that for over 23 years they failed to honour a promise that they made in 1949 in relation to the means test. The present Labor Government has already or is now well in the process of remedying many of the matters left undone by the previous Government, matters which in many cases caused financial and mental suffering to the people concerned. Let me point out that in the majority of cases people who live in rural areas suffered the most. But despite the concern of these people the previous Government did very little except in a patchwork way to improve their conditions. 
Let me refer for a moment to the problems and anxiety besetting so many parents in the far flung and isolated areas in regard to education. Many parents on rural or pastoral properties are faced with the high cost of transport, boarding fees and so on in providing their children with a proper education. They received no sympathetic or realistic action or even thoughts from the previous Government. Those problems are not just of recent origin. They had existed for many years. It was not until the present Government came into office that those parents and their children received any proper consideration. Let me inform members of the Opposition who do not already know it that these people are extremely grateful for the quick action that the present Government took. As I said earlier, the same situation applies to social services, repatriation and so on. Surely the Opposition realises that people in country areas just as elsewhere require much better treatment than they received at the hands of the previous Government. Many people are very pleased with the quick action that the present Government has taken on their behalf in those fields. 
One of the long term benefits which should have been brought about long ago and which the Labor Party will provide for the rural industry is a statutory marketing authority to acquire and/ or market the Australian wool clip. Members of the Opposition who are trying to accuse us of any delay in that respect would do well to remember that we have been prevented from acting as quickly as we would like because of their actions when in Government. The fact is that while the Australian Wool Commission Bill was being debated in this House the Labor Party moved an amendment to provide that the Australian Wool Corporation should report to Parliament within 3 months on a comprehensive wool acquisition plan. We wanted the plan to become available as quickly as possible. The wool industry wanted the plan as did the majority of wool growers. Had our amendment been carried we would have had that plan before us long before now. But what happened? The Liberal-Country Party coalition Government of the time rejected our amendment out of hand and as a result the Australian Wool Corporation had no direction from Parliament or from the Minister then in office to produce such a plan. We still do not have the benefit of a plan. 
Surely it must have been obvious to all those associated with the wool industry that the previous Government really was not concerned with trying to solve the problems of wool growers, even though so many of those growers were in real financial difficulties and were desperate to see something done to give them a reasonable chance of survival. The fact is, of course, that it has been a Labor Government which has given the rural industry the only stability that can really be claimed. It was Labor which introduced the wheat stabilisation plan. Whilst I do not wish to open up old sores or arguments amongst the Opposition parties, it is as well nevertheless to remember that when  Mr Pollard,  the then Labor Minister responsible for primary industry, introduced the wheat stabilisation plan it was bitterly opposed by the spokesman of the Country Party on the grounds that it was a socialist plot. The spokesman said that this was the first step towards socialising the wheat industry. When the Country Party adopts that attitude in these sorts of things, is it any wonder that the rural industry is looking somewhere else for assistance? 
The Joint Organisation plan was also introduced by Labor and like so many other measures introduced by a Labor government it proved to be very beneficial to primary producers. Our performances in government during earlier years have proved surely our concern for the people in the industry. The present Opposition is well aware of our concern, desire and intention to overcome the many problems of the rural industry, and it is worried in the knowledge that we have the support of most of the people affected. Surely one of Australia's problems has been to find markets for wheat. This is one of the things required to allow wheat growers to sell and produce enough wheat to give them a good living and also to meet their payments and problems But what has happened? The previous Government by its action in refusing to recognise Red China in a political way denied us the opportunity of selling additional wheal to China and this, of course, is to its everlasting discredit. The fact is that the previous Government had no long term realistic policy in the general field of primary industry and its unconcern caught up with it at the last election. This move today therefore is simply one of desperation. 
My question is addressed to the Treasurer. I refer to the proposal to discontinue the income tax exemption in relation to gold mining. Before taking any steps towards implementing the proposal will the Treasurer first discuss its effects with the leaders of the industry in Western Australia? Will he also first conduct a thorough investigation to ascertain its effect upon employees and others - some 50,000 persons in Western Australia - who are directly or indirectly dependent upon the industry? Will he investigate its effect upon the general infrastructure which is presently valued at approximately $150m, with a potential running into thousands of millions? Will he first measure the value of the proposal against the capacity of the industry to generate further funds for the State and Federal Governments? Finally, will he give an assurance that no action will be taken which could have a detrimental effect on the industry, the people or the districts concerned? In conclusion, may I say that I do not need any help from the Country Party or the Opposition in general because I know that they wanted to phase the industry out years ago. 
My question is addressed to the Postmaster-General. I refer to the proposed alteration of installation costs for telephone line plant in country areas. What will now be the situation with regard to applications which have already been lodged and accepted under the 15-mile free installation provision? Will the terms under which those applications were accepted be changed in any way? Will there be any alterations with regard to costs for those applicants who have been given firm or tentative installation dates? 
My question is addressed to the Treasurer. He will be aware that following our discussion last night it was decided that I should telephone the manager of the North Kalgurli gold mine and speak to him in relation to the matter referred to earlier by the honourable member for Stirling. Is the Treasurer aware that the manager advised me that the retrenchments referred to had to be made and that they were in no way occasioned by any decision of the Government? Is he also aware that the manager told me that the situation in that regard had been completely misrepresented by the Press? This being so, would it be correct that the honourable member for Stirling is either ingnorant of the true situation or is otherwise happy to use the misfortune of the workers to try to gain some political advantage for his own party, which only 2 years ago decided that the gold mining industry should be allowed to die and the people dependent upon it should be thrown into the large pool of unemployed that it had decided to create? 
Is the Minister for Transport and Minister for Civil Aviation aware that a Bill which has been introduced into the Western Australia Parliament is designed to allow Trans- Australia Airlines to enter into intrastate services in that State? Can the Minister indicate the advantages which would flow to the people of Western Australia, particularly those in the north and north-west areas, if TAA is permitted to operate in Western Australia? 
Has the attention of the Minister for Minerals and Energy been directed to a statement by a high ranking member of the Liberal Party in Western Australia 
Is the Minister for Minerals and Energy aware of proposals currently advanced in Western Australia to trade off to foreign powers Western Australia's mineral and energy resources in return for a  surrender of Australia's national sovereignty? Has the Minister any details of the proposal? Can he assure the House that he will resist any attempts to lessen Australian equity in Australian resources and also any attempts to make Australia a foreign-occupied territory? 
It was not my intention to rise in this debate but I could not let the honourable member for Stitrling  (Mr Viner)  with his usual disregard for the truth get away with some of the things he said just a short time ago. He spoke of some mythical march in Kalgoorlie - it must have been one that I knew nothing about - at which he suggested there were a large number of people who were severely critical not only of the Government but also of myself. The true situation is that there was a march and it was organised by the Liberal Party and the Democratic Labor Party combined. So apparently there may be a move on for a merger between the DLP and the Liberal Party in Kalgoorlie. It was certainly organised by those branches. The employers - I am not talking about the employers in the gold mining industry but some in the mineral exploitation field - gave their employees the day off so that they could attend this march. The number that attended the march was between 60 and 70 - 60 or 70 people out of a population of 26,000. I do not think that this showed a great deal of criticism. This did not show that the people were greatly upset about the situation. 
They were not greatly upset at that time because they know very well that the Australian Labor Party has a good record. They are loyal to the Party and they know that they can look to me to do whatever is right in that regard. I am not trying to pat myself on the back but they have the experience of the things that I went through with the previous Government. Only as recently as a couple of years ago the previous government when it was returned said quite definitely - it is in Hansard if anybody wants to look at it - that it had decided that the goldmining industry could die away. That was the situation. The honourable member for Stirling apparently puts himself forward as someone who has a great knowledge of the industry. Of course, just a short time ago he showed that he had no knowledge of the industry when he asked an inane question about whether the North Kalgoorlie gold mine had put off 30 men. I am pleased that the manager of that gold mine came out in the Press and showed how little the honourable member for Stirling knew. I know that he appeared for some of the unions in cases but my information is that what he charged was greatly in excess of the value of his work. 
It is apparently all right for the honourable member for Stirling to get up and say that the honourable member for Kalgoorlie did not do something, but if I get up and say something about the honourable member for Stirling it is hitting below the belt. This is the general attitude of the people of the opposite side. It was the same when they were in government, when they were able to kick us to death, but now that are getting a little of it themselves they do not like it. 
One of the prime objectives in the proud record of the Australian Labor Party is always to protect wherever and whenever possible the best interests of people no matter who they may be who are not in the fortunate position of being able to protect their own interests. That situation can be so easily present with respect to both current and future employment opportunities. Therefore it came as no surprise to the vast majority of the general public and particularly to those with knowledge of the mining industry when it became known that the Labor Party had given further careful consideration to the advisability or otherwise of terminating certain tax concessions which applied to the mining industry and particularly those applying to the goldmining industry. 
The honourable member apparently gets very hurt when somebody has something to say about him. It came as no surprise when it was learned that the Labor Party in its normal sympathetic thoughtful.ness for the future livelihood of the community decided that it could well be in the best interests of the mining community - and indeed of the rest of the community - if certain clauses contained in the Bill were withdrawn. It was well known both inside and outside the Parliament that the Government had decided to take that action. Its decision to do so was widely applauded and was hailed with considerable enthusiasm in the various mining centres in which so many people rely on the mining industry for their livelihood. I would have expected the Government'3 decision to have been welcomed by all members of the Opposition, both inside and outside the Parliament, particularly by Western 
Australian members and senators. But I regret that subsequent comments and reports have caused me to be rather doubtful whether they support our decision. The remarks which the honourable member for Stirling made earlier make me even more doubtful whether they support our decision. 
There is a story kicking about Western Australia that the Liberal Party had printed for the State election thousands of pamphlets which attacked the Federal Government on this issue. I suppose that is why honourable members opposite are so concerned that we decided to take the action which we did. As everyone knows, it was after lengthy investigation, examination and consideration of submissions, both verbal and written, that on Wednesday, 14 November, the Government eventually decided to make the amendments referred to which, as I said earlier, were expected to be received happily by the Opposition. But on Thursday, 15 November - the next day -  Senator Durack  of Western Australia asked in the Senate a question which appears in Hansard under the heading 'Gold Mining Industry Concessions'. The question was asked of  Senator Willesee  as Minister representing the Treasurer. Incidentally,  Senator Willesee  is also a Western Australian senator. It is no wonder that in his reply he expressed surprise and disgust that a Western Australian senator should raise objections to proposals which assisted Western Australia and its people. Hansard makes it clear that  Senator Durack  had the backing of his Western Australian colleague  Senator Withers.  It also shows that  Senator Drake-Brockman  was similarly concerned. 
The question asked by  Senator Durack  makes it obvious that he and his colleagues were most unhappy that the Bill was to be changed. They were most unhappy that the Government was not proceeding with the Bill in its original form. The senators drew attention to the fact that the Bill was the result of the August Budget. They were arguing that because Liberal-Country Party members had supported the Budget which contained the provision to remove certain tax concessions to the mining industry the Government had no right to change those provisions. That is what they were saying. There can be no doubt about their attitude. They were not concerned one whit that the implementation of the Bill in its original form could cause a running down in gold mining activity which, in turn, could cause unemployment and suffering. They could see no good reason for retaining the tax concession to permit a thorough inquiry into the effect its termination might have on workers and their families and on the community generally on the mining fields. 
This is where we differ from the Opposition. We realise that to change budgetary proposals can bring criticism and cause embarrassment. We know those things, but we say that as far as we are concerned they pale into insignificance when the livelihood of people is at stake. The honourable member for Stirling attacked the Treasurer  (Mr Crean)  and said that the Treasurer was a great opponent of assistance to the industry. Let me tell the honourable member this: The Treasurer made some token resistance, but like all other members of the Australian Labor Party he has a great concern for the livelihood of the people, for the little people about whom honourable members opposite did not have any concern when they were in government when they were attacking the gold mining industry. They could not care less about the livelihood of the men working in the mining industry. That is the situation as far as honourable members opposite are concerned. It was only as a result of the Australian Labor Party, when it was in Opposition, moving motions of censure that the then Government decided to change its view and increase the subsidy to the gold mining industry. This appears in Hansard. Previously honourable members opposite had decided that the gold mining industry should be destroyed - that it should fall apart and be allowed to disintegrate. That was their policy. So it is no good their putting on a show about being the great heroes and the great supporters of the working people. They just could not care less. 
Sitting suspended from' 6.14 to 8 p.m. 
My question is addressed to the Treasurer. Is sales tax applied in a way to ensure that no matter where the article is purchased it attracts only the same amount of tax or does it operate to attract additional tax in areas where freight and handling charges cause an increase in the wholesale price of the article? If the latter applies, will the Treasurer examine the situation with a view to rectifying the tax injustice which the previous Government was pleased to impose upon the people in country areas? 
No. I address my question to the Minister for Secondary Industy. Has his attention been drawn to front page reports in yesterday's newspapers concerning proposals currently before the Government of Western Australia for an industry complex in the Pilbara region of Western Australia? If so, has the Minister any plans for consultation with the Government of Western Australia regarding these proposals? Is the Minister aware of the current state of the feasibility study being done by the Pilbara Study Group? 
My question is addressed to the Minister for Tourism and Recreation. Did he recently announce a series of grants for single and multi-purpose sporting and recreational facilities? If so, how many grants were made to Western Australia, and what was the total amount granted? Finally, how does that amount compare with grants made by the previous Government for similar purposes? 
In directing this question to the Treasurer I refer to the application by the gold mining industries of Western Australia for financial assistance for the purpose of immediate mine development and replacement of obsolete and worn out treatment plants. Does the Treasurer's invitation to the industry to apply to the Australian Industry Development Corporation mean that no assistance will be forthcoming direct from the Treasury as a result of the application that I have referred to or is it correct that consideration is still being given to the form and terms by which assistance can be made available to certain areas of the industry? If the latter is correct, will the Treasurer inform the House of the current situation in that respect? 
The honourable member for Stirling  (Mr Viner)  has spent a deal of time in trying to criticise the Government in the most unreasonable and unrealistic manner for not bringing in this redistribution proposal earlier. Surely the situation is that even had the Government brought in the redistribution the day after it was elected to office the situation would not have changed until the next election. This is the reason why there is haste at this time. It was not until just a few days ago that there was the possibility that there could be an election for the House of Representatives. Therefore the Government naturally wants to ensure that the people of Western Australia have the tenth seat allocated to them. Had the previous Government acted as quickly as it should have done there would have been a tenth seat in Western Australia before the last election. So the people who should be criticised are not the members of this Government but the members of the previous Government. The Minister for Services and Property  (Mr Daly)  has acted very quickly and very correctly to ensure that whenever the next election comes forward the people of Western Australia will gain this tenth seat. I commend him for it. 
I would also like to take the opportunity of congratulating the Minister and the Government for the decision to name the tenth seat Tangney. I think that this is a very appropriate Dame Dorothy Tangney was the first lady of the Senate. She was a very good Western Australian and a person who had the complete respect of everybody in Western Australia irrespective of their politics. It is very proper that some recognition should be given to her work in this place and of her work outside Western Australia generally. The work which she has done for the women of Western Australia and of Australia generally is very much to her credit. I have no quarrel with the Distribution Commissioners over the name O'Connor, because after all C. Y. O'Connor was a great man who made it possible for the goldfields to come into full operation at a much earlier stage than otherwise would have been the case. It is a pity that the critics of his scheme should have brought about a situation in which he did not live to enjoy the achievement of his efforts. 
My submission to the Distribution Commissioners was quite consistent with the one that I made in regard to a previous redistribution. I made my submission because of the section of the Commonwealth Electoral Act which states: 
In making any proposed distribution of a State into Divisions, the Distribution Commissioners shall so determine the proposed Divisions that each Divi sion contains a number of electors not exceeding, or falling short of, the quota of electors by more than one-fifth of the quota. 
It continues: 
For the purposes of the last preceding subsection, the Distribution Commissioners shall give due consideration, in relation to each proposed Division, to 
community of interest within the Division, including economic, social and regional interests; 
means of communication and travel within the Division, with special reference to disabilities arising out of remoteness or distance; 
I have had the honour to represent the seat of Kalgoorlie which, as has been mentioned I think by the honourable member for Canning  (Mr Halle tt),  covers an area of about 880,000 square miles which is almost nine-tenths of Western Australia. It is obvious, that large distances are involved in representing the electorate. 
The Commissioners have decided in their wisdom that they will take out of the division of Kalgoorlie the local government shires of Merredin and Esperance. My submission was that the shires of Esperance and Merredin should remain within the electorate of Kalgoorlie but that the Greenough area, which is further to the north, should have been taken out. Naturally I am a bit concerned that I should have lost Merredin and Esperance because of the acquaintances and the friendships that I have build up in these areas. By the same token I would have been very sorry to have lost friends up in the Greenough area. I would have been quite happy, adopting the principle of one vote one value, for my electorate to have a greater number of electors and to have carried the lot. This would have suited me fine. My submission was that because of the distances and the travel involved it would have been more reasonable to retain Esperance and Merredin because of their vicinity to Kalgoorlie where one could expect the members to live. I suggested that it would be better to take off that part of the electorate which was further away from Kalgoorlie and where communications and travel facilities are not so good. This submission was practically on all fours with the one I made on the previous occasion when I suggested that Merredin- Yilgarn should be part of my electorate. 
The seat of Kalgoorlie has now been determined, and we will accept this decision. There is no doubt that the electorate of Kalgoorlie will remain a Labor seat and the people of Kalgoorlie will continue to vote very strongly in favour of Labor. One cannot offer any criticism in that regard. Having represented the Merredin-Yilgarn area for about 6 years and the Esperance area for many many years, I would like to place on record my sorrow that those areas will not now come within my electorate at the next election, whenever it is to be held. By the same token, the numbers are building up in the north of the State in the Pilbara area. Three, four or five years ago there were a couple of thousand people in that region and there are now about 8,000. This will continue to grow as time goes by and will grow very rapidly. It will not be very long before the numbers on the electoral roll will be substantially greater than they are now. 
I notice also from the figures contained in the report of the Distribution Commissioners that the population of the Kalgoorlie electorate is 123,520. This is the highest number of people in any electorate in Western Australia, and I understand is the third largest population in electorates throughout Australia. So whoever happens to be the member will certainly have plenty of people as well as plenty of area to look after. But that does not alter the fact, of course, that whatever the situation there should be equality in all electorates. This is the situation that I would like to have seen. 
I do not wish to say any more except that I am very pleased that an electorate is to be named after Dorothy Tangney. I am pleased also to support the proposition. 
I ask the Minister for Northern Development: What action is the Government taking with respect to the increasing numbers of foreign fishing vessels operating off the north and north-west coast of Western Australia? Has the Minister's attention been directed to the growing concern in those northern areas of the possible introduction of exotic disease and quarantine problems generally and is that possibility being closely policed? 
-by leave-I present the report of the Australian delegation to the 113th session of the Inter-Parliamentary Council held in Geneva between 22 and 26 October 1973. 
Ordered that the report be printed. 
-The Minister for Northern Development and Minister for the Northern Territory will recall that earlier this year Parliament was informed that legislation would be introduced to provide financial assistance towards establishing an adequate water supply for the Gascoyne plantations and the town of Carnarvon in Western Australia. I ask the Minister: What stage has been reached with respect to this very necessary and indeed urgent requirement- one which, as the Minister knows, was always resisted by the Liberal-Country Party Government? Also, can we expect the legislation to be introduced in this session of the Parliament? 
-I ask the Prime Minister: Is it a fact that the Government's policy to reduce income tax by $ 1 ,200m this year is of the greatest benefit to wage and salary earners in the lower and middle income groups generally? Can the Prime Minister say what increases in wages and salaries would be required to give employees the same benefit in increasing their living standards as they will now receive from the income tax reductions? 
-Has the attention of the Minister for Minerals and Energy been attracted to an article in the 'Kalgoorlie Miner' of 4 November in which  Senator Durack  accuses the Minister of ignoring Western Mining Company with respect to the development of the uranium deposit at Yeelirrie in Western Australia? Is not the article simply another deliberate falsification of the actual situation? Is it not correct that frank and useful discussions have taken place between the Minister and a representative of the Western Mining Company? Finally, is it not correct also that as a result of those discussions the way is now open to arrive at an arrangement for the development of the deposits which will be beneficial to everyone concerned, including the people of Australia? 
My question is addressed to the Treasurer. Is it correct that the demand for gold for official purposes is declining rather significantly, but on the other hand is steadily increasing for private and industrial reasons? Is it also correct that most major countries of the world today now permit private purchase and sale of gold, some only domestically but others on the international market as well? Would it therefore also be correct that official monopoly of sales of gold is gradually losing its importance with respect to international financial transactions and the total gold market? Finally, if the reply to those queries is in the affirmative, would it not then be in Australia's interest to permit also private dealing in gold? Would not the beneficial results far outweigh any disadvantages? 
My question is addressed to the Treasurer. While I appreciate that even if he is in a position to do so he would never disclose the names of any companies concerned, could he nevertheless tell the House whether or not some companies did apply for and in fact were actually granted tax deductions on moneys donated towards the building of McEwen House? 
I direct a question to the Minister for Education. Is it correct that a number of schools have been declared disadvantaged and are eligible for financial assistance for projects which are aimed at improving their educational opportunities and facilities? Is it competent for parent bodies or community organisations to participate by submitting proposals in that respect and, if so, to whom and in what manner should the submissions be made? Finally, who is the responsible authority for determining the priorities of any such projects? 
I ask the Minister for Defence: Has the Department of Defence been able to keep a constant check upon the movements and effects of cyclone Trixie? Can the Minister inform the House of its present position and direction? Can he also provide us with information with respect to damage or injury it has already caused or may cause from here on? What steps were taken to ensure that assistance as required would be readily available from his Department? Finally, have any requests been received for assistance from die Western Australian Government or elsewhere? If so, with what result? 
My question is addressed to the Minister for Social Security and refers to the high cost of orthondontic treatment for children with a cleft palate or a Up condition. I ask: Is the Minister considering the inclusion of that treatment with respect to medical benefits? If so, what stage has been reached in that regard? 
My question is addressed to the Minister for Northern Development. What is the current situation with respect to establishing a water storage system to meet the needs of the town of Carnarvon and the Gascoyne River plantation in Western Australia? Is legislation likely to be introduced this year to enable the project to commence? 
-I present the report of the Australian delegation to the 61st Inter-Parliamentary Union Conference held in Tokyo between 2 and 1 1 October 1974. 
Ordered that the report be printed. 
I ask leave to make a short statement in connection with the report. 
asked the Minister for Education, upon notice: 
Which (a) government and (b) non-government schools within the Electoral Division of Kalgoorlie have been declared disadvantaged. 
To which of those schools did the Australian Government provide financial assistance during 1974, and what was the amount in each case. 
It is expected that further finance will be made available during 1975; if so, to which schools and what is the estimated amount. 
Was the total amount during 1974 actually expended; if not, why not. 
asked the Minister for Labor and Immigration, upon notice: 
1 ) How many and which local authorities or other bodies, within the Electoral Division of Kalgoorlie, have applied for assistance under the Regional Employment Development Scheme. 
) How many of those applications were successful. 
How many persons were placed in employment as a result. 
My question is addressed to the Minister for Minerals and Energy. I ask: What stage has been reached by the Minister in discussions with the Burmah OU Co., relative to development of the north-west shelf for gas resources? 
asked the Minister for Education, upon notice: 
To which (a) government and (b) non-government primary schools within the Electoral Division of Kalgoorlie did the Australian Government provide finance through the Schools Commission General Building Grants Program during 1974. 
What was the actual amount provided to each school during 1974, and what amounts are expected to be provided in each case during 1975. 
-Is the Treasurer aware of proposals for a further cutback in Government spending? Can he say what would be the effect of such a cutback on the process of economic recovery? 
Has the Prime Minister seen reports of a proposal to end the Budget deadlock? If so, are those proposals acceptable to the Government? 
