 I preface my question to the Prime Minister by referring to his statement to the House last year on the question of the price of crude oil. Will he, in the exercise of Commonwealth sovereignty over the sea and resources of the Australian continental shelf, as defined by Barwick C.J. in his recent judgment in Bonser v. La Macchia, fix fair and reasonable prices at the well head in Bass Strait for natural gas produced in Commonwealth territory? Will he act to retain for and restore to the Australian people full control of and benefit from all areas in Bass Strait in excess of those necessary to yield  a  reasonable return to current developers? Will he act to provide interstate pipeline transmission of natural gas by public ownership and control and resolve the present discreditable deadlock in its supply to New South Wales? 
The shibboleths uttered by the honourable member for Chisholm  (Sir Wilfrid Kent Hughes)  always carry their own answer and their own refutation. The statement by the Minister for Defence  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  was notable for three omissions. The first was even the slightest reference to the Fill fiasco. He is not to be blamed for that because, after all, he inherited the situation. The second and even more notable omission, and possibly one of the most serious that has yet to be discussed in this House, was the failure to make any reference to the terms and reservations of Australia's adherence to the Nuclear Nonproliferation Treaty. The third and equally notable omission was any reference to the Waller report - from the retiring Ambassador to the United States - and the perturbation and consternation that it has caused within the ranks of the Government because it strikes at the very roots of the Government's foreign policy and strategic undertakings. 
It is only a few weeks since the Prime Minister  (Mr Gorton)  was literally dragged spitting and snarling into a most grudging and reluctant admission that Australia, with stringent reservations, would actually go through the preliminary procedure of signing the Nuclear Non-proliferation Treaty. The Minister for Defence referred to the inviolability of human rights and quoted the United Nations Charter. I want to refer to the inviolability of the human race and the fact that the main thing to be discussed in defence is the question of human existence, the survival of the human race itself and the inner plans and plots of this Government. 
It is most notable that the Prime Minister, after extreme pressure from overseas, has switched from his stance taken last October when he made a definite statement that Australia would not sign this Treaty to a point where grudgingly and reluctantly he has been forced into doing so. He has made the conditions quite clear. They are almost impossible to fulfil. He quite deliberately planned it that way because he wants to welsh out when the final crunch comes. Behind it all is the grey eminence or the evil genius, if you like, of this Government and the Prime Minister, namely, the Australian Atomic Energy Commission. It has been implacably and consistently opposed to any accession to this Treaty. Even after the Prime Minister finally agreed that Australia should sign it - we were in the heel of the hunt; I think we were the ninety-fifth of the nations of the world that agreed to do so - the Commission is still doing its very best to undermine the Treaty and all that it stands for. 
It is worth referring to a statement made by the Prime Minister. After all, one can judge people by their pedigrees and their antecedents. If we want to know exactly what the Prime Minister intends we need to go back to a statement that he made when he was a senator. As reported in Hansard of another place of May 1957, the then  Senator Gorton  said: 
I should hope that we would use our defence funds and endeavour to secure for this country some measure of atomic or hydrogen defence  . . After all, should there be an attack on this country, the government ... in either Great Britain or the United States of America would have to come to a grim decision on whether it would retaliate and thereby lay its own country completely open to devastation . . . To relieve them of that dilemma, if for no other reason, I should like to see us have inter-continent missiles of our own and have our own bomber aircraft, capable of delivering our own bombs should we find that necessary. 
Has he recanted? Has he relented? Has he changed his mind? I say that he has not. Let him prove that he has, if he can.  His  grey eminence, his worthy adviser,  Sir Philip  Baxter, had this to say in March 1968, when addressing the Sydney Rotary Club: 
Australia should expand and protect all those industries on which defence ultimately rests, and so equip ourselves to defend our lives and country with the most sophisticated and effective weapons that man can devise - with no type excluded. 
I repeat those final words - 'with no type excluded'. If we want to know what this Government is really up to we can have a look at the specifications in the letter of invitation which was circulated last December by the Australian Atomic Energy Commission to ten countries that are capable of producing nuclear reactors. This Government has deliberately chosen a type of nuclear reactor that will enable it to avoid and circumvent the provisions of the Nuclear Non-proliferation Treaty. The Government is calling for tenders based on the supply of a type of reactor which is called the steam generating heavy water regulated reactor. In the preliminary statement to the specifications is a statement that the reactor must be capable of being fuelled by natural uranium. Natural uranium processed in an atomic reactor is the short cut to plutonium, which in its turn is the base of atomic weapons. 
If Australia accedes to the Nuclear Nonproliferation Treaty it will be cut off from the supplies of enriched uranium which arc the normal supplies being used by every advanced country in the world today. The last two countries still adhering to the natural uranium type of reactor are Canada and France. It was very interesting to note that when a nuclear reactor was mooted the then Minister for National Development made a beeline for France. But even France is abandoning that type of reactor for the enriched uranium type of reactor. 
It is true that following criticism by leading scientists in Australia the Government did modify its policy a little when it added a rider and invited suggestions as to how methods of enriching uranium could be supplied. Today we have not very substantial supplies of uranium in Australia. Canada has substantial supplies and it can afford to take the short cut and use the natural uranium type of reactor. But in the case of other countries enrichment is by one of two processes - either by gaseous diffusion or by the gas centrifuge. It is noteworthy that less than 18 months ago a certain gentleman named Cunningham, who is the V ice-Chairman of the British Atomic Energy Commission, came to this country and warned it that there had been a breakthrough by the combined experiments of Britain, West Germany and Holland in the use of the gas centrifuge, which was a much cheaper method of enriching uranium. But, of course, this Government wants plutonium on the cheap and this is the best way it can get it. If further proof of the Government's intentions is wanted, let me quote from the letter of invitation, which states: 
The reactor must be capable of operating on indigenous fuel, i.e. fuel which could be prepared and manufactured entirely within Australia from Australian resources. 
Natural uranium ore, when it is charged into a reactor, is uranium 238. There is 0.07% of uranium 235, which is the main component of the reaction. If it is enriched one can get four times as much uranium 235. But in the process one comes to what are called the trans-uranic elements, and the first of these is uranium 239, which is plutonium. Any country that is bent upon securing plutonium for atomic weapons by this purpose has to interrupt the atomic cycle of reaction, because when one goes beyond uranium 239 one comes to other trans-uranic elements, namely, neptunium and americium. The most sinister part of the whole letter is prefaced by this statement: 
The reactor is expected to operate normally at high capacity factor and be base loaded. 
That is all right. That is the conventional type of electricity production - with a full load. But then paragraph 8.5 states: 
At some time in the future it may be desirable for the reactor to operate at reduced ratings and to be capable of some flexibility in its mode of operation. The tenderer will be asked to indicate (a) operational flexibility of his plant and (b) if necessary, what modifications can be made to approach the operating conditions outlined  below  . . . 
And then certain variations of loading are suggested. It is necessary for a reactor of this type to be able to spoon out or ladle out the plutonium before it is transmuted into one of the higher trans-uranic elements, and that is precisely what this Government intends. 
Let me pass on to another .matter. Earlier I made reference to the Waller report. I challenge the Government to produce that report. I know that it will not do so. But sufficient of the report itself has already been leaked and is available in certain sections of the Austraiian Press to embarrass this Government and to reveal the truth and the depth of its embarrassment. I will quote from an article in 'Inside Canberra' of 26th February last. A report was made by  Sir Keith  Waller. In it he said that  President  Nixon's long term foreign policy aims were appraised and their implications for Australia were assessed. The article states:  (The report) forecasts a rapid and determined re-orientation of United States foreign policy and major interests from the Pacific and Asian regions towards Europe, the Middle East and South America. 
The report claims that  President  Nixon and his advisers have downgraded the threat of Communistinspired expansion in Asia. It suggests that the US military and economic involvement in the region will also be sharply downgraded in the list of US foreign policy priorities. 
The predicted US retreat from Asia will not mean merely a disengagement from Vietnam, but a major withdrawal from the whole area west of Hawaii. 
Asian and Pacific nations will be left progressively more to their own resource!,. The United States will insist on Japan shouldering a heavier share of responsibility in Pacific and Asian defence.  Sir Keith's  report throws considerable doubt on the future validity of both the SEATO and ANZUS pacts. The report implies that the British Prime Minister,  Mr Harold  Wilson, on his recent Washington visit, scored a major diplomatic coup by persuading  President  Nixon to change the balance of US policy in favour of the United Kingdom and Europe.  Mr Wilson  is also believed to have convinced  Mr Nixon  that the Middle East, and not 
Asia, is the main threat to world peace. The report by  Sir Keith  is certain to mean a basic reappraisal of Australian foreign policy, forward defence planning and Asian relations. 

 Sir, that report is the most devastating and explosive document received by the Australian Government since the correspondence between the late John Curtin and the British Prime Minister of the day in relation to the return of Australian divisions from the Middle East for the defence of this country. We will press unremittingly and unrelentingly for that report to be released. If the Government is not prepared to put it before Parliament - the people of Australia are entitled to know what is in that report - it will be because its whole defence statement will tumble into ruins the minute that report is published. If the Government is diffident to do that I challenge it at least to refer the report to the Joint Standing Committee on Foreign Affairs so that it can be discussed and then passed on to our Party Executive. We are entitled to know and the people of Australia are entitled to know what is in that report. The Australian people have been fed poison in the name of foreign policy by this Government far too long. The minds of the Australian people have been corroded and corrupted by the filth, the lies and the abuse of this Government. Foreign policy has been prostituted. Foreign policy which in other countries is treated as a matter of common consent by all parties and all factions has been prostituted and perverted for political advantage and for the survival of this Government. 
Yes, I will join it. Quite a number of other matters deserve consideration. One is this: It has been well stated by spokesmen for the Government that no immediate threat to Australia exists. We are entering a new era in relation to defence procurement and manufacture. We might well take a leaf out of Sweden's book. Sweden is a country which has types of aircraft comparable in performance with the Fill. Sweden, with less than two thirds of our- population, is capable of making the whole of its defence requirements. After all, what does our present defence procurement amount to in terms of military hardware? The Fill can be operated as wings of the United States Air Force in Vietnam. We have destroyers and frigates that could be operated as a squadron with a United States naval task force. In the future, we will need to stand on our own feet. We are capable of doing it. Australia has the men and the technology to make the whole of its defence requirements. We will need to do this to conserve foreign exchange because of the pace at which this Government is attacking and destroying the economy of Australia. 
So far in regard to defence we have been trying to keep up with the United States Joneses. We have chosen United States types of equipment. Are there not other forms of equipment that Australian ingenuity could provide? It is not necessarily true that the United States has the final answer to what are the defence needs of this country. That brings me to another point. Reference was made in the statement by the Minister for Defence to the need to obtain another aircraft carrier to replace the obsolete 'Melbourne'. In that regard, major aircraft carriers today are as obsolete as battleships - as 'Renown' and Repulse' - were at the onset of World War II. The naval air force of the future is very obviously vertical takeoff and landing aircraft of the Hawker Harrier type capable of operating from a launching pad from major cruisers, destroyers or even frigates. Indeed, four or five aircraft could operate from any one of a number of vessels. If we do not have this type of force, we will have all our naval aircraft eggs, so to speak, in the one naval basket - on one aircraft carrier. Each aircraft carrier requires a large and extensive screen of protective vessels. An aircraft carrier is highly vulnerable. Even in World War II aircraft carriers had to be shielded and kept hundreds of miles from the scene of combat. 
A lot more could be said but this I will say in conclusion: If ever there was a case for the urgent withdrawal of Australian troops from Vietnam that case has been established fully in this Parliament during this debate. Above all, I wish to see, and so does my Party, the terms of the Waller report. If the Government refuses to produce it - and it undoubtedly will - we will know what this means. It will show the measure of the Government's embarrassment. At least the Australian people will learn the real truth about the disreputable policy of this Government which it has foisted on the people of Australia for so many years. 
by leave -  Mr Speaker,  I think that the statement today by the Attorney-General  (Mr Hughes)  is an example of the inevitability of gradualness. This Parliament must give a lead to Australia. As the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam)  has said, there is no doubt whatever that the limits of the Commonwealth's corporation power must be tested. This Government has to its eternal discredit in the delay which has occurred in giving a lead both in its own right and to the constituent States of Australia such episodes as the H. G. Palmer fiasco, the Reid Murray scandal and all the rest of the earlier financial ramps which have been perpetrated. 
It is notable that the timing of this statement today coincides with the introduction by our Party leader in another place,  Senator Murphy,  of a discussion of this matter. It is equally notable that the matter is being raised at a time when even the most lethargic and backward student of financial affairs can see, in Australia, the ramps being perpetrated in the stock exchanges, the rigging of the stock markets, the forward selling, the short selling and every device that human financial perverted ingenuity can devise being used to the limit to fleece the unwary and the greedy. It has been said correctly by a cynical German philosopher that the calculation of profita bility was the invention of the devil to bewitch and to bemuse mankind. 
Unless and until we catch up - and we are the most laggard and most backward of all the so-called advanced nations in the world in our concepts of corporate responsibility - these things will continue. If we look at the whole question of finance and of commerce, we can rank the invention of money, the invention of bills of exchange and the concept of the corporation as being the three major progressive steps that have been made. As the classical maxim runs: A company has neither a body to be kicked nor a soul to be damned. It has perpetual succession and a common seal'. It has not, with the backwardness of our law, any responsibility, in decency and commercial probity, as the company laws of this Commonwealth stand at the present time. 
I address a question to the Minister for External Affairs. Has the Government received a pessimistic and alarming report from  Sir Keith  Waller, the new Head of his Department, of sweeping changes in United States foreign policy? Does the report claim that  President  Nixon and his advisers have sharply downgraded the threat of Communist inspired aggression in South East Asia and United States military and economic involvement there? What is the attitude of the report to the validity of the SEATO and ANZUS treaties? Does the report state that  Mr Nixon  now considers the Middle East and not Asia to be the basic threat to world peace? Will the Minister release the report to the House? Is he even prepared to communicate itscontents  to the  Joint Foreign Affairs Committee for its consideration? 
When this legislation is introduced by the Government there will in the ensuing debate be under discussion probably the greatest national asset that we possess. Accordingly it is of the utmost importance that all possible information be made available to this Parliament and, above all, to the Opposition. Throughout the whole history of legislation and negotiation relating to natural gas, oil and the continental shelf generally we have from time to time pointed out the illegality and the unconstitutional nature of the various arrangements which have been made. In particular a situation has arisen where the responsible Minister, who guided through Parliament this legislation, such as it was, and who negotiated the various agreements with the respective State Governments, has seen fit to refuse to serve under the present Prime Minister  (Mr Gorton).  There could have been no more overwhelming and damning vote of no confidence. 
It is of the utmost relevance that the relationship between the Prime Minister and the honourable member for Farrer  (Mr Fairbairn)  should be clearly understood. An allegation has been made - it has yet to be answered - about the circumstances under which an alteration of government policy was made. An allegation has been made that the Department of National Development was by-passed and that the responsible Minister was instructed that under no circumstances was he to communicate to his Department the terms of the arrangements that were being entered into or the negotiations that were then being pursued. Even the Minister for Social Services  (Mr Wentworth)  when this legislation was first introduced chose to characterise it as being legally unenforceable and stated in no uncertain terms that if it were challenged it would undoubtedly be ruled invalid. The agreement on which every one of these negotiations centres was circulated at the time the Petroleum (Submerged Lands) Act and associated Acts were being considered. I quote from clause 25 of this Agreement - 
 I do not propose to debate the Bill but, with due respect to you, I propose to quote two clauses which are extremely relevant. They illustrate the looseness and the illegality of the whole position. The first of these is clause 25 which says that the Agreement between the Commonwealth and the States shall not be capable of being varied or revoked or of being determined by any Government except by agreement between all of the governments for the time being parties thereto. Clause 26 stated: 
The Government acknowledges that this Agreement is not intended  to create  legal relationships justiciable  in a  Court of  Law  but declare thai the Agreement shall be construed and given effect to by the parties in all respects according to the true meaning and spirit  thereof. 
It was essentially a flexible arrangement. It was one which had to be re-negotiated from time to time. It was one in respect of which the Minister for Social Services said: There was a power of State veto that could be exercisable against the Commonwealth.' We seek in particular the production of certain minutes that were produced by the honourable member for Lilley  (Mr Kevin Cairns)  at a party meeting, giving details of discussions between the 6 respective State Ministers. We seek the production also of a whole chain of correspondence all of which is directly relevant to the present situation. We press the matter and we consider that we are entitled to this. If the Government fails to produce the correspondence, this can only be interpreted as an indication that it has skeletons to hide in its cupboard and that it has created a most difficult situation for itself, one for which the Prime Minister is solely to blame. 
1 address my question to the Prime Minister. What action is he taking to implement his election pledge for a phased reduction of $200m in personal income tax? Will he answer growing scepticism on this matter? Will he consider the urgent need for relief of the lower and middle income earners who progressively had been inflated into the middle and upper income tax scales? 
He is a Liberal. 
Yes. I believe the honourable member for Farrer to be an honourable man. I know an honest and a frank man when I see one. I accept his statement without reservation. This is not merely a matter of my own personal judgment. The events that did take place ought to be considered. At the first meeting of the combined Government Parties which took place after the federal election, the honourable member for Farrer openly stated that he was not prepared to serve under the Prime Minister. He accused the Prime Minister of having repeatedly acted arbitrarily and without consulting Cabinet. Precisely that happened on this occasion as I will proceed to prove. 
Since 1965, continuous discussions have taken place with the Australian Minerals Council and, before it, discussions between the various State Ministers for Mines and the Commonwealth Minister for National Development. In every case in those discussions the Ministers have been seeking to evade or to slide around the known constitutional position. Every possible artifice has been used to see that the deal that was made between the Commonwealth and the States would be continued and would be perpetuated. 
At the time of the September meeting of the Australian Minerals Council something sensational had happened. It was this: The offer which had been made - which the former Minister for National Development had been authorised to make  - in fact had been ruled unconstitutional by the High Court of Australia in the case of Bonser v La Macchia. That judgment, it should be carefully noted, was given on 6th August 1969. a matter of a month before the meeting of the - Australian Minerals Council. It is worth noting that the Minister for Education and Science  (Mr N. H. Bowen),  who was then the Attorney-General, appeared on behalf of the Commonwealth. He was fortified by a colleague from New South Wales in the person of the Crown Solicitor, who also appeared and asked the Court not to decide on the legality or otherwise of the very offer that had been made to the March meeting by the Commonwealth. Chief Justice Barwick said quite frankly and forthrightly that he would not take any notice of the representations of either the Commonwealth or the States. He then proceeded to make a decision. The decision was that the Commonwealth had sole sovereign rights in respect of all the resources of the continental shelf right out from low water level. 
That was the situation that confronted the Ministers and the other representatives when they met in the Australian Minerals Council in September. There had to be further negotiations. There was no conceivable alternative. The Commonwealth's offer had been destroyed. It had been ruled out. A compromise had to be entered into. The compromise was to be an obvious one. The States had won. The States had wanted a continuation of the old deal which had gone on ever since the days of negotiations between the Premier of Victoria and the then Prime Minister, the late  Mr Harold  Holt. The deal was always this: We will not ever get to court; we will not challenge one another; we will pool all our respective sovereignties, all our claims; we will agree on a cut-up of the cake and the royalties; we will enter into contracts that are non-justiciable; we will be all pals together; but it will never hit the court. 
This time, at the September meeting, the States had the Commonwealth over a barrel. They had it in this position: They could not do otherwise than meet again. They had to meet because otherwise the whole of their rickety structure of constitutional invasion would fall and collapse completely. In the light of that, can any member of the- Government suggest that there would not be another meeting; can any member of the Government suggest that it would not have been forced to meet the States? 
Then what happened? The GortonHewitt axis sprung into action. This was not the only occasion on which this had happened. The honourable member for Farrer had had his corns trampled on before, when the Prime Minister deliberately usurped his function and intruded into the negotiations in respect of the pricing of oil and the arrangements between EssoBHP and the Government. On that occasion the honourable member had said - he made this charge and I respect him for making it - that the Prime Minister had intruded into the administration of hrs Department and had forbidden him to give any of the details of the negotiations to the Bureau of Mineral Resources. What a situation! 
The same authoritarian, arrogant Prime Minister who was capable of doing that moved in again. He said: 'I, Gorton, will provide a Gordian solution. ( will provide the solution. We will go right ahead. We have a judgment. To hell with the States. Let them rot. We will assert to the full our sovereign rights'. The Commonwealth has those sovereign rights. I said this in the House when the off-shore oil legislation was being discussed some 3 years ago, in 1967. The Commonwealth undoubtedly has these rights. I am not dealing with the merits of the legislation; I am dealing with the facts as they are. They are quite simple. 
The whole structure is collapsing. The off-shore mining legislation has yet to be discussed in this chamber. I assume that the Government still intends to proceed with it. If it wants to save face with the people of Australia, that legislation will have to be proceeded with. When the States make their challenge, the sovereign rights of the Commonwealth undoubtedly will be upheld. That is the situation today, as I see it. The States need money. They are determined at all costs to proceed with mirror legislation. They are determined to maintain that rickety structure and to use it because, God alone knows, they need the money. 
Behind it all is the fundamental conflict between the centralists and the federalists. The Prime Minister is a centralist, and the honourable member for Farrer is a federalist. 1 respect their viewpoints. On this occasion the Prime Minister is doing what he said long ago he would do. He said that where there was a conflict between him and the Cabinet his will would prevail. And so it. has on this occasion. A decision was made to anticipate, to sidetrack and to prevent any further discussion. There is no doubt in my mind, there is no doubt in the mind of the Opposition and there is no doubt in the mind of the people of Australia that the Prime Minister rushed in and hamhandedly. as he so often does, decided what was to be done. He provided the Gordian solution. He was determined to give the States the pill, and they had to take it and swallow it on the spot. 
Hence the Government is in the dilemma in which it is at the present time, with Ministers rushing around trying to persuade the recalcitrant members of their own Party to support them, or at least not to abstain from voting, and sending out urgent messages for men who have gone off to other places to come back by air. This is a Gilbertian situation. It is one that J believe is a complete travesty of parliamentary procedure. This Government is not prepared at this stage to put this matter to a vote. 
The Opposition already has stated that it does not oppose the Australian Industry 
Development Corporation Bill. This Corporation has been dubbed the McEwen Bank as against its counterpart, the Australian Resources Development Bank, which is now generally known as the McMahon Bank. In a very uncharacteristic admission of his economic philosophy, the  Deputy  Prime Minister and Minister for Trade and Industry  (Mr McEwen),  when introducing this Bill, justified it by stating: lt is increasingly evident that what is best for a multi-national giant is not necessarily best for Australia. 
In the words of St Luke, there will be more joy in Heaven over 1 sinner who repents than over 99 righteous who need no repentance. The economic sins of omission and commission of this Government are beyond category. 
The Opposition supports this Bill not for its details but rather for its foundation upon acceptable general principles, if not for its immediate practicability. Its pedigree is in no economic studbook. It is one of an unnamed litter bred in the political think tank of the Department of Trade and Industry which has yet failed to get its office of Secondary Industry to operate anywhere near success. 
The Australian Industry Development Corporation is a unique statutory concept. By definition it is a body corporate, lt is a financial hybrid of doubtful economic zoology. Its stated function is to provide financial resources for Australian companies as defined - companies engaging or to engage in industries in Australia relating to manufacture, the processing or treatment of goods, or the recovery of minerals and any associated purposes. Its aid is to be given only on request or by consent. Should the Corporation involve itself to any degree in legal ownership it shall, by the injunction of a particular section, review itself yearly of its holding of shares and divest itself of them. After making due obeisance to sound business principles, and despite its passive role, the powers of the board of directors are to be exercised annually in borrowing moneys within Australia so as not to exceed an amount determined by the Reserve Bank of Australia, and on the same principles for the borrowing of moneys within Australia by companies whose operations are controlled from overseas. In other words, in competing for what funds are available in Australia it is to be pari passu with overseas investors. Staggering under these injunctions the fledgling Corporation is exhorted to direct its principal borrowings to overseas sources. 
The Corporation can best be described as a national merchant bank with a charter for industrial development with the aim of securing, to the greatest extent practicable, ownership by Australian residents of Australian companies. Despite the general broadness, the deliberate broadness, of its provisions and. in some cases, even their vagueness, there is evidence of careful drafting where necessary to conform with apprehended constitutional limitations. Judging from the recent reactions of a  Mr Scambler  of the Australian Resources Development Bank, we are shortly to experience a variation of the good old Australian aphorism: If it moves, shoot it; if it grows, cut it down. The Scambler version is the one which is the shield and buckler of private enterprise: If there is a substantial profit by the private trading banks, who are congregated together in the Australian Resources Development Bank, then let the Government keep out. But if there is none, let the Government take the rap and accept the responsibility of the hazards. Early events will determine whether there is to be a constitutional challenge on this basis, and the sooner the better in view of the present economic and political climates. 
In his speech the Minister for Trade and Industry referred to export franchise limitations. There happen to be a mere 1,100 of them which practically effectively stifle any opportunity for Australian industry to export overseas. Those franchise restrictions can take many forms. For instance, they can restrict or prohibit completely exports from Australia. They can restrict exports to Oceania. They can restrict them to certain countries of South East Asia. For years within this House the Opposition has raised the scandal of these franchise agreements. Other countries phase them out; some even prohibit them, fs it not time that the Government woke up? 
The Minister referred also to arrangements for limited competition with the foreign parents of companies. In many cases there are proven instances of older models of different parts and accessaries being pui into the current models which are being sold in Australia to ensure that the Australian model would not be competitive on the export market with the parent company overseas. 
Also the Minister referred to the processing of raw materials in Australia. I can conceive of no more advantageous method of boosting Australia's export income than the beneficiation of iron ore here. The process is referred to as one of aggregates. In other fields of evasion we have such instances as the selling at cost or the export at cost to another company owned overseas by a parent company. Then very blandly, in due course when the company's income return is submitted, it is shown that the company has not made a profit on the particular transaction. The Government has completely neglected technology. There are some consequences which can follow from the excessive foreign ownership of industry and resources. These already have been fully discussed in this House. I suggest that the real truth in these matters is that the Government is coming in with too little too late. The real damage to Australian industry has been done already. The Minister gave very scanty statistics showing that there was 90% foreign control of the motor vehicle industry, 80% control of heavy chemicals and pharmaceuticals, 75% control of alumina and aluminium production, and 50% control of the electrical and electronic industries. They are only the tip of the economic iceberg. 
Let us consider, by way of contrast, the position in such countries as Japan, which is our major trading partner and also our major commercial rival. The Japanese have been very selective in their admission of investment capital. They have improsed very stringent conditions. In particular, they have taken steps to ensure that in no circumstances is there to be a 51% control or more exercised overseas. If they do choose, in restricted cases, to allow such companies to function within their boundaries, two stringent restrictions are imposed on them: Firstly, there is no guarantee that the capital can be repatriated and, secondly, there is no guarantee that they will be able to withdraw their dividends as and when declared. Even in India, a country which is desperately short of capital for its own development, the authorities insist upon a 51% native holding. They are not prepared to trust any outside company to have a majority control. Of course, in Australia, with the techniques of modern company management, it is quite possible to control a company with even less than that, as I will show. Accurate statistics in this country, of course, are appallingly and deliberately scarce. They are sparse to ensure an uninformed parliament and an uninformed public. 
Before considering questions of financial availability we must emphasise that foreign investment in this country is conspicuously concentrated in a selected group of industries with characteristics of a high degree of technical complexity and rapid growth and also, of course, in the extremely lucrative field of mining. In the world of technology it is industrial know-how and ' its application which is of even more importance than capital inflow. In the 19th century the first industrial revolution replaced manual labour by machines. Any country which has to import its technology from abroad will be in a condition of permanent inferiority similar to that of nations in the last century which were incapable of industrialisation. In the case of Australia, in 4 fields only do we stand on our own feet. They are those of steel production, cement, glass and sugar refining. In each of those Australian techniques are comparable with and even surpass the best in the outside world. With respect to others we are a dependent country. 
In its preoccupation with capital inflow, the present Government has consistently ignored the importance of technology, of research and development, of improved managerial techniques and of expertise. One of the main benefits claimed in the past for continuing  unrestricted and undirected foreign investment has been the need to fill the gap between the chosen level of investment and the amount of capital available from local savings. Japanese capital investment is 32% of its gross national product. Its rate of sayings is the highest in the world. Australia, according to the latest figures I can obtain, saves and invests somewhere between 25% and 26% of its gross national product. That is claimed to be our absolute limit. It may be, but the point I want to make is that until recently over 90% of Australia's gross capital formation has been financed by Australian savings, and less than 10% has been financed by savings from overseas. For confirmation of that I refer to the White Paper of May 1965 on 'Private Overseas Investment in Australia'. 
A carelessly repeated myth is now part of the conventional economic wisdom of this country and it is accepted as an economic axiom. The myth is that it is impossible for Australia within its own production to generate sufficient capital to provide for its needs. Even today the overseas inflow would certainly not be 15% of our total needs of capital for industrial development. This Government has ignored the question of investment priorities and, worse still, it has allowed its control over the Australian economy to deteriorate. Between 1953 and 1960 the Australian banking system's share of total assets available for investment fell from 70% to 57%. Today it would not exceed 40%. If real influence is to be exercised on capital investment many of the developments of the last 20 years will need to be reviewed. We have had in that period takeovers of existing profitable companies. We have had the blackmarket banking system, commonly known as the hire purchase system, which has usurped many of the functions of the banks and which has doubled the interest rates which, normally would have been charged for such matters as the leasing of plant, bridging finance and home improvements. Of course we have had such other developments as the inter company borrowing market and merchant banking. 
There is a need for a more conscious control and direction of Australian capital investment based on a system of priorities and based in particular on cost benefit analyses. I suggest that one of the ultimate forms of development of Australia will be a corporation which will float its own loans in Australia, which will appeal to Australian patriotism and which will appeal to the average Australian to take a stake in the country. Many a person is hesitant to invest in an ordinary Commonwealth loan but would invest in a Commonwealth development corporation if by so investing he could get the guarantee of the Commonwealth of Australia. That money could be placed directly into the development of Australia's national birthright. In 1965 a certain  Senator Gorton  in a paper presented to the stock exchange of Melbourne in a symposium relative to investment in Australia stated that the then extent of foreign ownership of all company assets in Australia was between 25% and 30%. The lowest estimate given at that symposium for all manufacturing company assets under foreign control was 33%. None of these figures included portfolio investment. Today we find that an efficiently managed holding of not more than 20% to 30% can give effective control of an Australian company. 
One of the major tragedies for Australian development today is that in these companies, whatever the degree of overseas control, decisions are made in the board rooms in New York, Detroit, Tokyo and London deciding the future of this nation. We are in fact still an economic satellite. Through concentration on rapidly growing industries, the expansion rate of control of industry by foreign capital in Australia is greater than the average for solely Australian companies, lt is small wonder that the acutely embarrassing forecasts of the Vernon Committee of Economic Inquiry were swept under the political carpet by the Menzies Administration. The Vernon Committee's prophesy of an increase in foreign investment control to 54% of Australian industry by 1975 seems to be well within the scope of fulfilment on current economic trends. At that stage also the outflow of remittances for dividends, interest, royalties and service charges can exceed the inflow of capital. The implications of servicing this foreign capital are vital for Australia. 
In the comparative table prepared by  Sir John  Crawford on balance of trade and balance of payments on current accounts as presented last week in the course of this debate by the honourable member for Lalor  (Dr J. F. Cairns)  it was made abundantly clear that Australia has for the past 15 years been dependent on capital inflow to offset its trade deficit. The required inflow, on present momentum, is between $ 1,000m and $l,100m per annum. The cost of servicing this foreign investment is approximately $570m per annum. I will be rash enough to make a forecast. The current quarters inflow will be dangerously close to balancing obligations for outward remittances. This is the most serious fact of all: The extent of economic leverage and astuteness of foreign investors is revealed in the threatened majority control of Austraiian industry with less than a 15% capital investment. Appropriately today the Government has had as its luncheon guest Monsieur Pierre Trudeau, who represents another economic satellite of the United States - a country with a problem similar to ours of a wheat surplus, with an even greater foreign control of its secondary industry, an unemployment rate of 9.2% in French Canada and 6.5% in the whole Dominion.  His  unexpurgated opinion would make enlightening reading. 
The economic prospects of ready borrowing on the international money market were never worse than at present. With world interest rates at a record high level and a series of crises on the major stock exchanges abroad, there are stringent liquid credit restrictions in the United States in an attempt to curb inflation. There is also a record adverse trading balance in what, is still the world's mightiest economy. Forty-eight per cent of foreign investment in Australia has come from the United Kingdom and 38% from North America. With an interest equalisation tax in the United States of America, and British governmental guidelines curbing outflows for overseas investments, the prospects of loan accommodation for this fledgling Corporation were never more limited, ls it intended to give subsidised loans at subsidised rates of interest? Is it intended to use Australian internal borrowings at lower levels as a sweetener to break down excessive interest rates which will have to be paid abroad? Is it to be used as an instrument for political patronage? The  Deputy  Prime Minister has a propensity for subsidies. He has been dubbed Subsidy Jack on more than one occasion. Whatever he touches he is prepared to subsidise. 
That is right. The prospects are for a further outflow of funds in the future rather than for their inflow. The various companies which have invested here will be under pressure from their respective governments to repatriate these moneys to correct their own trading imbalance. Added to that is the general exodus of hot money which has come to Australia from abroad, particularly from London. The owners of that money have dabbled successfully on the local mining market, they have seen the rot setting in, have cashed in on their shares, and are getting out just in time. That money will be rushing out of Australia at an accelerated pace.  Major United  States companies today are paying as high as 12% for urgent finance in Euro-dollars. Is it to be expected that even with the backing of the Commonwealth of Australia a very warm welcome will be available overseas for our borrowing efforts? A typical example of the present world financial stringency is the experience of Qantas which, when seeking to finance by overseas borrowing its purchase of Jumbo jets, was rudely shocked to find that it was being asked to pay 12% interest instead of the anticipated 7% as budgeted. 
The Treasury Information Bulletin of last month contained ominous warnings, lt said that the lower liquidity ratios of trading banks are likely to become more pronounced in the current quarter, combined with sharp increases in rates of interest which have been taking place. Offsetting a fairly considerable rise in exports there has been a fairly considerable rise in imports, an increase in the deficit in invisible payments and a fairly sharp falling away in net capital inflow. This year is likely to see a reduction in overseas reserves of between $200m and $300m. I quote those figures from the estimate in the White Paper. The moment of truth has arrived for this Government. The report, incidentally, was prepared before the Government decided to pull the rug from under its own bond market by withdrawing Reserve Bank buying support and reducing the market price of $100 long term bonds issued last February down to $88 or thereabouts, thus locking in the huge holdings of its captive borrowers such as the savings banks, the life assurance companies and superannuation funds. Following tradition, the first target of this Government with its stop-go economic policies is the building industry, which is the largest employer of labour in Australia, with a work force of over 80,000. 
In curbing inflation - that is the position in Australia today - any government has only 2 remedies - the fiscal, by increasing taxation, and the financial, by control of the money supply and interest rates. Follow ing the yet unhonoured election promise of the Prime Minister  (Mr Gorton)  to reduce exorbitant taxation on the lower and middle income groups, there is no alternative but to resort to the latter controls, that is, to the control of money supply and interest. In a vote of no confidence in the Government, loan investors have subscribed less than $2m to the long term bonds in the February loan of S200m, two-thirds of which was absorbed by redemptions for loans then maturing. The more wary investors will hold aloof from the present May bond issue in anticipation of still higher interest rates in the August issue when the Government faces almost formidable problems of redemption. 
There are evident today world-wide classical symptoms of an economic crisis. The majority opinion of business leaders in the United States is that there will be a recession and even worse. This hill-billy government with its hill-billy economics is more ill equipped to face a major crisis than any former Australian administration. Moreover the Government is hagridden by the Country Party and its insatiable demands. Finance is government, and any government which lacks the power to control fully its national economy has sown the seeds of its own destruction and risks a major national economic catastrophe. Inheriting a stable economy from the Chifley Administration, with the Australian £1 at its highest prestige in history, this Government has allowed every form of fringe and black market banking to run riot in its economy. Its major lapse was the failure to control hire purchase. Today overseas merchants banks discharge all1 the functions of banking without holding a charter for that purpose and without being under proper control. 
Before this Government completes its term of office Australia will have in its capital cities crowds of demonstrating unemployed. The  President  of the Dreyfus Fund, a major American investment institution, said last week: 
What is happening on Wall Street is what is happening throughout the world. We are very extended morally, economically and politically, we ate bound to get our first margin call as a national power. 
That applies equally to Australia. It has been correctly said that when Wall Street sneezes Japan catches cold and Australia gets pneumonia. We are involved in a Pacific triangle of trade, with Japan's trading surplus with the United States being used to finance her adverse trading relations with Australia. In turn our trading surplus from Japan is used to finance our adverse trading balance with the United States. 1 would refer all honourable members to the recent comment of  Mr Prowse,  the Assistant General Manager of the Bank of New South Wales, on the apathy of Australia and its Government to the vital issues raised by Britain's Common Market bid as a matter of its economic survival.  Mr Prowse  warned that Australia should be thinking how cold it might be with Britain inside the European Economic Community, and the gloomy picture that he painted of the possible ramifications for Australia of a successful United Kingdom entry should give every one of us grievous cause for concern. 
The Opposition supports the measure for what it is worth. We will put the Corporation to other and better uses when we undoubtedly occupy the Treasury bench after the next general election. 
 I preface my question, which is addressed to the Treasurer, by referring to the increase in the Commonwealth long term bond rate to 6% in February last. Are terminating building societies the main source of building loans for borrowers in the lower income groups? Are borrowers from such societies now being faced, as a result of that increase, with increases in their repayments of up to $5 per week? Will the Treasurer extend to such borrowers similar relief to that granted by his Government to primary producers? What further increase in repayments to such societies will result from the current bond rate increase, in May, to 7%? What relief does the honourable gentleman propose for this additional impost? To what extent will such increase of interest rates further inflate the consumer index of living costs? 
These amendments should be rejected with contempt because they are aimed at the very heart of the Bill. They are in fact quite deliberately and craftily designed to vitiate it by ensuring that the maximum controlling interest that this Corporation shall be capable of holding in any overseas company operating in Australia shall not exceed 15%. I can conceive of nothing more unpatriotic. This Bill literally bristles with over-rigid precautions inserted obviously as a result of agitation within the Party room of the Government to pacify and satisfy even the most unreasonable objectors to it. These 2 amendments represent conditions that even the Government has to baulk at. 
Let us take the first amendment. The Corporation is enjoined to exercise its main borrowing powers outside Australia and not within Australia. The whole of the argument advanced by those who support these amendments has been directed towards borrowing within Australia. Not only is the Corporation enjoined to borrow outside Australia but there are very definite limitations on its borrowing powers within Australia. They are limited firstly by the dictate of the Reserve Bank of Australia. Further, in deciding the amount that it shall be permitted to borrow within Australia, the Corporation is limited to the guidelines that Huw operate in respect of borrowings by overseas companies which are operating in Australia. It is sent into the fight with its hands tied behind its back. The first amendment goes further than that because it says:   . . and that the company has made every reasonable attempt to secure assistance at appropriate rates from banking or financial institutions usually engaged in such type of arrangements . . . 
That is capable of 2 applications. Firstly, the applicant company must itself apply. The Corporation cannot solicit business. 
The initiative must come from the borrowing company. As it stands and as it reads it could, if applied ruthlessly, go further than that and the applicant company would be asked to state what steps it had taken to borrow overseas to range the world at large and to borrow from some of the institutions referred to here. 
Let us take the situation in regard to the control of a company by way of a 15% shareholding. In many cases a 15% shareholding gives quite sufficient leverage to control a company. Need I remind honourable members of the other provisions of clause 8 which say, in effect, that every year the Corporation shall literally examine its economic conscience, see how many shares it holds, see what is a fair and reasonable holding and take the necessary action to divert itself of the surplus, with only 2 reservations? The first is that it can continue to hold a very limited number of shares which might give a sufficient yield by investment to provide it with its working expenses. The other reservation is an obvious one. I repeat that the amendments ought to be rejected with contempt because the second one in particular means this: This is the new charter for the emancipation of Australian industry from overseas control, and it is to he done with a limit of 15% on Australian shareholdings. 

 Mr KEVIN CAIRNS (Lilley) (1 2.56 a.m.] -  Mr Chairman,  may I speak to the amendments? 
I fully support the comments of the honourable member for Banks  (Mr Martin),  who has just resumed his seat, ft is worth noting the very real reasons that the Government has for doing everything that it can to frustrate while pretending to patronise the credit union movement. The greatest mistake that was ever made by the general banking system of Australia was to fail to give accommodation to the ordinary, honest man who may not have had a lot of assets but who was of good character, honest and in a steady job. The greatest bank in the United States of America today was built precisely on that principle of granting personal loans. This is precisely what the credit union movement does. The bank to which I referred was the Bank of America. It was founded and developed by a man named A. P. Giannini. It was built on that principle, and he walked into a niche in the banking movement which enabled him to ride to success and to develop the greatest general bank in the United States today. 
Similarly this Government in the early 1950's sought to curb hire purchase companies which at that stage had been discounting their promissory notes with the orthodox banking system. They chose to go outside the banking system and to raise money on what is commonly called the grey market. In turn it was found that they were able to thrive and to offer serious competition in general banking to the general banks. Then, of course, using the good old maxim: 'If you can't beat them, join them', we find the situation where every major trading bank in Australia today has its subsidiary hire purchase company. These companies are making fantastic profits which range between 18% and 28%, according to the last balance sheets. Because of this, the Government fears the credit unions and is determined to do everything that it can firstly to frustrate them and ultimately to crush them. I remind honourable members that when the Homes Savings Grant Act was introduced savings in credit unions were recognised for 12 months in the hope that they could be enticed away into the more orthodox institutions. Credit unions are in fact workers' banks. The workers who are controlling the credit unions are learning the principles of credit assessment and of general banking. They are getting to the point where in due course they will be applying for their own charter. 
Let me deal now with the amendment that is suggested by the Senate. It is speaking with tongue in cheek when it suggests a limit of $5,000 for a housing loan. In fact, as is well known and as was thoroughly ventilated in the original discussion here, the limit of advances in New South Wales is $4,000. It is in New South Wales that 80% of the credit union movement operates at the present time, and this is where the funds are. There is a credit squeeze at the present time. It is certainly equal to the notorious 1960-61 affair, and it will get worse. If this Government wants to tap further sources of finance for home building, let it reduce the limits. The credit union movement can come in and help most effectively by the granting of loans for home improvements and for additions to homes. There is every incentive for the average home owner to use the credit unions rather than the orthodox banks. At the, present time the banks will not give him money anyhow, because bank accommodation is limited to old clients who have long standing accounts and who have had substantial deposits for a number of years. That being so, the credit union movement is the only field to which the average worker can have recourse. 
The Government is determined to pursue its policy of continuing immigration. A couple of weeks ago the Minister for Immigration  (Mr Lynch)  claimed great credit and announced with a very great flourish that the Government would be bringing in about 180,000 immigrants a year. How are they to be accommodated when there is a credit squeeze? How will this Government cope with the housing needs of Australia with its stop-go economics? How will it provide the necessary expansion of accommodation? Australia has been short of housing accommodation ever since the first fleet arrived in Sydney Cove. That shortage is continuing and is being intensified by this Government. It is getting to the stage where people will have to fend for themselves, because this Government is determined at all costs to curb the inflation that it has created. To construct a house is not inflationary. To finance a home for a worker and his family is not inflationary. The best of all migrants to Australia is the Australian child born of Australian parents and reared in an Australian home. We want the other migrants as well. They are welcome because we need to fill this country. But this Government is determined to do its best to ensure that people will have to fend for themselves under the worst possible housing conditions. The proposed amendment is a disgrace. 
I do not wish to delay the House, but I should like to make a few comments about this measure. I noted with interest the remarks of the honourable member for Fremantle  (Mr Beazley).  While I applaud his laudable sentiments about the establishment of colleges and their endowment, there is a word to be said for another type of university quite distinct from the cloistered ivy clad college in the tradition of Cambridge and Oxford. I refer to Wollongong University College, which could be categorised as a red brick university along the lines of what is so typical in the more densely settled parts of England, where the local university or university college does not strictly need residential colleges because it caters for a densely populated compact local area. That precisely is the situation with the Wollongong University College. While there is an undoubted case for the endowment and construction of colleges of the types envisaged in this measure, there is at the same time a very real need for the red brick universities to get their share of Commonwealth funds. The Wollongong University College has a student enrolment of between 1,300 and 1,400. lt is unique in that more than 50% of the students enrolled - 'by far the highest percentage of any university or university college - are part time students. This itself reflects the character of the area which is underprivileged in terms of average family income. If it were not for the existence of that local university college it would not be possible for the sons and daughters of many workers to live at home, work part time and go along to the university college part time to acquire a tertiary education. I know from my own experiences the advantages of a higher education and what I missed by not having the opportunity to go to a university. I had to be supported by my mother who is a dressmaker and I know what I missed. But even to go to the universities in Sydney was beyond the financial competence of 95% of the families within my area and still is. 
We need in our particular area autonomy; we are a vassal university college at the present time in tutelage to the University of New South Wales. There is a clamant demand for autonomy and there is an equally clamant demand for all the barest essentials of universities. In particular we have a wholly inadequate library; we have wholly inadequate laboratories. Through the whole range of faculties we are, in almost every respect, just as under-privileged as the people in the area. I suggest to the Minister at the table that he might give a pretty sharp nod to the Australian Universities Commission to see that we get our fair share of the loot from the University of New South Wales. We are on the thin end of the ration financially from the Kensington University and the sooner we are severed from them and the sooner wc can speak in our own right and get our own direct allocation the better it will be for tertiary education in the area. 
i address my question to the Minister for National Development. What investigations have been made by his Department or any other appropriate authority into the effects on' the environmental ecology of the proposed nuclear reactor at Jervis Bay? During what period were the investigations made? Will the Minister table details of them for the information of the House? What precautions have been considered to counter the catastrophic effects of the destruction of such a reactor either by enemy submarine attack or by internal explosion? What would be the radius of fallout of such a catastrophe? 
I listened with great interest to the remarks of the Attorney-General  (Mr Hughes).  While this Government holds office the spirit of Fabius Cunctator - Fabius the delayer - will never die. By the inevitability of gradualness, sometime, somewhere, somehow we will ultimately get legislation in both of these fields; but in the meantime the question of section 41 of the Constitution seems to crop up like King Charles's head whenever there is a debate. I should like to quote the words of the AttorneyGeneral himself in this House on 21st November 1968, when he said: 
In constitutional matters - I am speaking now of section 41 - the modern tendency, which I think is hallowed by authority, is to regard  a  written constitution as a living, organic document which is allowed, as it were, to some extent - albeit a limited extent - to grow with the times. Referring particularly to the use of the world 'adult' in section 41 of the Constitution I would venture very tentatively to suggest that it would be difficult today to deny to the word 'adult' appearing in section 41 a construction which would include 18-year-old people. After all, we allow them to drink, we allow them to drive. We make them do various things in the nature of duties that are consistent only with the concept that they are adult. If one adopts that interpretation of section 41 as a possible view - it is sufficient for my purpose to regard it only as a possible view - there is a strong argument for the Commonwealth leading in this field and leading now by giving the vote to 18-year-old people. 
It is precisely the need for a direct and a positive national lead that we ask for it today, and that is precisely the reason why this legislation has been introduced. The Government has always had as its objective to draft into military service young men at the age of 20. The Opposition has as its paramount objective to draft into citizen rights and responsibilities young men and young women at the age of 18. Our objective has been written into our party platform for many years and we press it today and will continue to press it. It is only obstinacy on the part of the Government, or dilatoriness or sloth which is responsible for the delay. 
This Bill deals with 2 distinct issues - the question of marriageable age and the question of a voting age. The age of marriage, the age of voting and the age of majority are all closely linked, but  in the field of marriage Commonwealth legislation is paramount and no-one but the Commonwealth can legislate in that field and no-one but the Commonwealth can give the necessary lead. Everything else - the question of proprietary rights, the rights of inheritance and other matters that have been detailed by the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam)  are ancillary to it and a positive and firm lead is necessary, particularly when there is a growing climate of public opinion in support of the long overdue change of the law. As a matter of fact, what we are asking for is this: That a legal anachronism, a feudal anachronism, some 900 years old should be removed for all time as a permanent insult to the young men and young women of this country. 
If the right to marry and vote is conferred, of course the full right of contract and of proprietorship must follow. There will, of course, be the need for complementary State legislation, but it is only the Commonwealth Government which can give the lead on the question of marriage, and complementary State legislation would follow. The Commonwealth would still have the added responsibility, in respect of the Australian Capital Territory and the Northern Territory, of providing for a similar civil code. About 52.000 young Australians now marry annually between the ages of 18 and 21. We give them the right to produce children and to accept the responsibilities of family maintenance. Are we to deny them the right of full citizenship? Are they to remain in civic limbo? Are they to reman infants at law and adults in procreation and economic responsibility? According to the latest available figures 43% of the brides and 50% of the bridegrooms last year were minors. At present 52% of our population is under the age of 30 and it is estimated that in 1976 at least 64% of the population will be under the age of 30. lt is necessary for us to expedite their entry into their civic heritage and responsibilities. 
On the question of con form ty and the activities of other nations, may I remind the House that when this matter was last raised in 1968 there were then only 15 major countries which had reduced the voting age to 18. That figure has now increased to 24 and it includes the United Kingdom, West Germany, Czechoslovakia, Poland, Rumania, Yugoslavia, the United Arab Republic, Canada, Brazil, Japan and parts of the United States of America. The Dominion of New Zealand has reduced the age to 20 years. There is a world movement amongst the English speaking countries, with the notable exception of Australia, towards reduction of the age of the franchise and the marriage age. Of course, we are the last in the field as usual, lt is worth noting also that in the colder countries, in what we might term the sub-frigid zone, there has been quite a uniformity of reduction in the voting age, and notoriously maturity reduces with proximity to the equator. It is a well known fact that young people in Australia mature even more quickly than those in the United Kingdom. Therefore it is worth while to consider the comment of the British Medical Association which, in a memorandum to the Latey Committee on the Age of Majority, said: 
Oxer the  past 100  years girls and boys have been maturing  at  a progressively earlier agc in England  and  several European countries. 
Intellectual ability and maturity are also closely tied. Professor Tanner, who also made a submission to that Committee, said that in England the sexes complete their growth at the average age of I7J years for boys and I6J years for girls w th standard deviations of about 10 months and 13 months respectively. Why do we insist on the antiquated concept of full citizenship at the age of 21? 
Suspension of Standing Orders 
Motion (by  Mr Snedden)  - by leave - agreed to: 
That so much of the Standing Orders be suspended as would prevent (a) the debate on the second reading of the Adulthood Bill 1970 being continued until 12.25 p.m.;  and  (b) the culling on of Government Business  at  that time. 

 - Sir, in the 9th, 10th and 11th centuries. 15 was considered to be the age of majority in Britain and many European countries. But, with the Norman Conquest came a new concept and the feudal system. The age of the Cataphractos arrived with the armoured horseman, the heavily armoured war horse, the need to maintain and to carry arms and the concept of service in knighthood. There was a dichotomy for many years in English law where a tenant in socage reached adulthood at 15 and a tenant in knight service did not reach maturity until the age of 21 . There were important property considerations too. Military tenants could be kept in ward, and, their feudal lord could control their property until the age of 21. Knighthood service was abolished in 1660. What was once the concept of law applicable only to the gentry was applied to the whole of the United Kingdom. We have perpetuated that concept. Today this Government in this House through its chosen speakers will be advocating something which was introduced some 900 years ago. 
The Latey Committee received also a report, which is worth quoting, from the Church of England Board for Social Responsibility. It put the matter very forcibly. lt said: 
. Historically the concept - 
That is the concept of the majority at 21:   is one of properly rights in and power over children, as much as of a duty to protect them. 
The preoccupation of the English statute law and common law right through the 19th century was to be concerned with the accumulation of capital and who should control it. For that reason, there was every encouragement for that concept to be continued. The quotation continues: 
. the time has now come when it is in the interests of society generally as well as the individual young people concerned to eradicate from our legal system any residual traces there may be of a legal age of majority imposed for the sole purpose of furthering the interests, or serving the convenience, of any persons or bodies of persons other than the child himself. The law should now be examined and where necessary amended to ensure that: 
no child or young person is in any way restricted by his or her capacity or independence as a citizen solely for the benefit of any other person or persons 
If the law has never matched the needs of the young very exactly, we do not feel that we need necessarily prove that the young have changed before we recommend a change in the law. 
Even the British Medical Association which is by no means a revolutionary body has said that physical maturity and emotional maturity in fact are going together with the young today. 
Again, if I may, I will inflict on the House a further quotation from the report of the Latey Committee. It is worth noting very carefully. I refer to the submissions by the Chancery judges who stated: 
Any legal system must lay down some age at which people who are not mentally defective are free to live their own lives at their own risk; free, for instance, to associate with whom they please, to live where they please, and, subject to the sanctions of criminal law, to live how they please. Whatever age is fixed there will inevitably be numbers of people over the age who many of their fellow citizens will consider to be unfit to enjoy such freedom. The law must, however, choose the age which accords best with the needs of the great majority. Moreover, the age which is appropriate to the conditions obtaining at one period may not be fitted to the conditions at another ... we think that 18 should be substituted for 21 as the age at which a marriage can be contracted without consent and the Wardship jurisdiction end. 
There would be no more experienced group in England than the judges in Chancery. 
Let us look at the situation in Australia today. Let us look at the young and their approach to the world today. Old men create wars and send young men to fight them. There is a liability for military service today at the age of 18. Are we to deny these young men or any young man who could conceivably be liable to military service the right to full citizenship?Today, the youth as never before are separate and distinct in their approach. We live in an age of technology. We live in an age of materialism. I speak as one of the older members of this House of the need for a compassionate viewpoint of the youth revolt today. 
We need these young men and young women to be inducted into full citizenship. They are entitled to express their views and to express them not outside Parliament but inside it and to have their representatives here because there is a definite younging of the population in Australia. There is a definite change in Australia's outlook. A definite need exists today for the young to be able to enter this Parliament and to express freely their grievances. They are receiving answers to them where their grievances are of no account. They equally are entitled to have appropriate remedies passed by legislation. The day has passed when people can insist that young, mature, physically capable, mentally alert Australians should be treated as infants at law until the age of 21. They are entitled to come here. They are entitled to enter into their civic inheritance. 
-presented from certain citizens of -New South Wales a petition showing that due to higher living costs persons on social service pensions are finding it. extremely difficult to live in even the most frugal way. The petitioners therefore call upon the Commonwealth Government to increase the base pension rate to 30% of average weekly male earnings, plus supplementary assistance in accordance with ACTU policy and by so doing give a reasonably moderate pension. The average weekly earnings for adult male unit wage and salary earner means the figures issued from time to time by the Commonwealth Statistician and published quarterly. 
The petitioners pray that the House of Representatives will take immediate steps to bring about the wishes expressed in the petition so that citizens receiving social service pensions may live their lives in dignity. 
Petition received. 
I address my question without notice to the Minister for Labour and National Service. Has the Minister noted the recent provocative manifesto of the Metal Trades Industry Association on industrial relations? In particular, has he noted the reference therein to discrimination by victimisation against applicants for employment who have no ticket of leave or certificate of industrial innocence from a preceding employer? In view of the progress made in current negotiations on penal sanctions in our arbitration system, and as a further step to true arbitration replacing coercion, will the Minister consider specific legislation prohibiting such victimisation by any employer or group of employers? 
I am vehemently opposed to any alteration in the sitting times of this House. I say this not because I want to act as a brake on progress but rather the reverse because as I see the position it is quite a simple one. The more weeks and the more occasions on which we can visit Canberra the better for our constituents and the better for this nation. The net result of the proposals that have been submitted for our support is this: We will be here less frequently and we will have less opportunity to observe the bureaucracy. I have every respect for the men who dedicate themselves to the Public Service. But by the same token we have 3 generations of civil servants and they have developed an intellectual elitism which needs to be watched. Parliament is being progressively downgraded. If we were to probe into the fundamental philosophy today of civil servants, not only in Canberra but in most countries, it would be: 'Parliamentarians come and go, but we continue forever till the day of our retirement'. 
I happen to be rather old-fashioned in one respect. One thing I do believe in is decorum. On many occasions I would be ashamed to bring my constituents to this House and to see the bear garden that exists here. We are here to do business, to speak, to listen and to be listened to.  A  good deal of the time that is wasted here is to be offset further by implementing a 4-day week. With what intensity are we using our time when we come to Canberra? We are not using it efficiently. If we were to ask an efficiency expert to pass judgment on us he would not give us a 15% pass for the way in which we used our time. For example, take yesterday. With all due respect to the deceased gentleman - and proper and glowing tributes were paid to him - should we have adjourned for the rest of the afternoon? I doubt it. Possibly an hour's adjournment would have been an adequate expression of sympathy. 
Precisely. I have heard debates here. I heard the Minister for 
Education and Science  (Mr N. H. Bowen)  groan on this afternoon. The subject of his address was of importance. But how many of us were in the House? What are we doing with our time? 
I would like to revert to the question of the Public Service and again I will deal with the question of committees. I come here periodically when Parliament is in recess. I am looked on as one of the rarer forms of animal life. What am I actually doing in Canberra? This is Parliament House; this is where I get the information I want. It is from this point that, fundamentally, I operate. For most of us Parliament is a place of casual resort to get out of as quickly as we can - and that goes for Canberra too. Three days a week is plenty, particularly with the commitments that I might have. 
But let us consider the assistance that we are given by the Government. The Government - to put it in brutal terms - is not going to help us to put it out of office, and for that reason it will give us as little assistance as possible to dig ourselves in and to criticise it. We are here for the purpose mainly of rubber stamping what is put before us. The whole ritual and procedure of Parliament today are archaic. They are 3 centuries old and it is time we wiped them out utterly and completely. We live in a completely new age, so let us face up to it. Before anyone has the impetinence to put to this House, or to any individual member of Parliament, a suggestion of this type, let us examine ourselves. The results will not be to our credit because of the way that we are behaving. 
Committees should not sit while the Parliament is sitting. It is like a 3 ring circus at times. Members are trying to dart around, scuttle around, between 3 committees while there is something else of importance going on in the House. Do not let us flatter ourselves that everything that is being discussed here is being discussed by us as statesmen. I have heard matters discussed here - and seen time wasted on tinpot parochial issues - that I would not be proud to have discussed in a local or parish pump council. Tonight is a case in point. If this is the national Parliament, let it be the national Parliament. How much time has been wasted? I have seen it here. I have seen debate groaning on day after day on customs proposals, and have realised the time that is wasted on them. 
Yes, procedures - the rituals. This place is as ritualised as a brolga dance. Let us consider the time that is wasted on divisions - on successive divisions. Why cannot we have proper electronic devices to deal expeditiously with recording our votes? Why cannot we abandon the archaic procedures that have been thrust on us? Every new member who comes here takes it as part of the deal - part of the routine. I have had 20 years experience in Parliament, both State and Federal, and I have seen a pretty tight ship run in the New South Wales State Parliament, and I want to see it here. I am not here to waste time. When I have finished my duties here I have corresponding duties like my colleague, the honourable member for Newcastle  (Mr Charles Jones),  and I deprecate the attack that was made on him by the honourable member for Melbourne. 
All right, the right honourable member. I am not here to deal with facetiousness, pseudo or actual. I know precisely the problems of the honourable member for Newcastle because I have exactly the same problems. The honourable member for the Australian Capital Territory  (Mr Enderby),  who has just been elected to the Parliament, has realised what has hit him like an avalanche. We have our problems too. In terms of enrolments I represent the third largest electorate in Australia. With men, women and children, and about 40,000 unnaturalised migrants, I have problems. Already in my term in the Parliament I have had 2 secretaries crack under the strain, and I have to nurse the third one along or she will crack too. All right, honourable members can laugh if they want to. 
I will only treat the honourable member for Melbourne with contempt. I am here to speak facts and I am speaking in stark seriousness. It is time that we took a pull on ourselves. We come here; we waste time. It is part of the deal. We are wasting time utterly and completely. I have heard repetitious debates that achieve nothing and make no contribution. Three centuries ago the major issue was one between the King and the Royal Prerogative on the one side and Parliament on the other. Today the major issue is between Parliament and the Executive, and Parliament is being progressively downgraded. A proposal of this nature will do more to downgrade it. Let us come here for as many weeks as we need. Let us come here for a 3 day week and, above all, let us have a fair go at the bureaucracy. 
Does the Minister for National Development support the Victor- ian Premier's persistent attitude that Bass Strait natural gas shall not be sold to New South Wales consumers at prices below those in Victoria? Is he aware of recent action by the New South Wales Minister for Mines to obtain alternative supplies at lower prices from newly discovered sources in South Australia? Does he support the Victorian Premier's claim that Broken Hill Proprietary Co. Ltd works in New South Wales will not accept supplies from sources outside Bass Strait at a lower price than BHP now imposes in Victoria? Will he speed consideration of the legislation to confirm the Commonwealth's undoubted rights to the Bass Strait area so that it can exercise its undoubted power to fix the well head price of natural gas? 
I support the amendment moved by the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam).  In so doing I wish to point out that a Budget is an economic, social and political document. It is the blueprint of a government's policy or the lack of it in these fields. Finance, of course, is government and good government can come only with a broad grip of social, economic and political realities. A good Budget needs frankness, sincerity, competence and determination. It needs compassion, economic and social justice and, above all, national credibility. The present Budget fails in all these fields. The Treasurer  (Mr Bury)  said that he could not predict with certainty and precision the ruling trends of events. In other words the Government is not capable of fully controlling the economy. He said that during the months ahead he did not know what forces would be at work within the economy. He went so far as to say it would be rash to claim that the Budget would be exactly suited to the requirements of the Australian economy in 1970-71. We can at least agree with him on that point. If honourable members want really to know the Treasurer's opinion of the economy of Australia they can get it from a Press release which was circulated for distribution on 5th July last. That Press release said: 

 Mr Bury recalled that a major element in the 1969-70 Budget strategy had been the large domestic surplus, estimated at about $500m, which was aimed-- 
Mark this -  at reducing liquidity in the economy. He said that the estimated domestic surplus had been realised and that it had been a significant factor in the tighter financial conditions of the latter months of 1969-70, which had operated to ease the inflationary pressures which had been building up in the economy. 
As a matter of fact, the Government intends to gouge out of the Australian taxpayers, particularly those in the lower income groups - and in any event the cut-off point is an actual income of $5,000 a year - another $800m. In the last 12 months the main contributors to the Government's surplus were the workers under pay as you earn taxation, because in that period they paid out a total of $480m. In point of fact they paid out $60m more than the Government Budget estimate of 12 months ago. 
What is in this Budget for the worker? Here I want to quote from the 'Australian Financial Review' of 7th August in which the following comment appeared: 
The ordinary worker is as aware of spiralling prices and the national problem they pose as any Government official. Unlike Governments whose job it is to control the economy, however, the worker is caught in the middle. 
Consciously encouraged by official policies to buy more and to enter into more credit commitments during the upswing period, he then gets slapped in the face by the crunch of the higher interest rate downswing. 
His hire purchase payments do not decline; his housing becomes more expensive; the goods, food and entertainment he has quite reasonably come to regard as necessities all follow the inflationary trend purposely encouraged by the Government as politically beneficial. 
That is precisely what the Government proposes to do in this Budget. It wants to live with inflation. It does not know how to handle inflation. In fact it suits the Government to let it run on, provided there is not too much of it. The Government has budgeted for a 4 per cent increase in inflation and it is confronted with a 5 per cent increase in the cost of living. Of course it does not know how to control the cost of living, because to do so would be to control its own political supporters. 
What will the workers and the middle income groups get from the additional $800m that are to be extorted from them in the coming 12 months? We are spending money to grow wheat that we cannot sell, to buy fighter aircraft that we cannot fly and to build dams that are engineering wonders but economic disasters. The Government proposes to cap it all by secrecy and backdoor methods, because for its 1970 election gimmick it will be announcing the acceptance of a tender to construct an atomic reactor at Jervis Bay of an outmoded type and in an unsuitable location. We are to have a repetition of the 1963 election fiasco. The Fill swing wing bomber was the gimmick of that day. We are faced with the certainty, if the Government pursues this plan, as it undoubtedly will, and uses its majority in this House for that purpose, of a $5,000m monstrosity this time and a zone of these obsolescent or obsolete stations around Australia each costing 15 times what it costs for 24 Fill aircraft. 
This Budget has been described as a high Tory Budget, as a give and take Budget. The Government proposes to take another 11.4 per cent by way of additional revenue from the pockets of the Australian taxpayers. I referred earlier to the cut out point for those who will really benefit by this Budget. A table prepared by researchers at the Macquarie University that was incorporated in Hansard by the Leader of the Opposition caused members of the Government to react like hornets. This table shows the real effect of the much vaunted, much publicised but completely spurious 10 per cent reduction in tax rates. There are in Australia 5 million taxpayers. There are 1,100,000 age, invalid and widow pensioners and recipients of sickness and unemployment benefits who also have within the very slender mercy of the Government some regular income. Of these 6,100,000 people 92 per cent will be the losers because 650,000 taxpayers are in the bracket above $5,000 and the rest are below it. That is the cut out point between the taxation remissions and the concealed increases in living costs which will be duly and even with unseemly haste passed on to the unfortunate consumers and wage earners. 
The 8 per cent who will gain - those are the people on an annual income above $5,000 - receive 26 per cent of total taxable income. It is interesting to look at the table presented by the Leader of the Opposition. I commend that table to honourable members, lt shows that the average yearly income for people in the $1,000 to $2,000 a year income group is $1,490. As a matter of fact, the income for a pensioner couple will be almost that amount with a nil tax relief and a total indirect tax burden of $27.85. To add injury to insult, the Government will be collecting sales tax in advance. The pensioners will not get their paltry increase until 1st October, and before they even collect it it will have vanished in the price rises that will result from this Budget. 
What is the plight of the pensioner? He is on the political auction block as far as this Government rs concerned. The Government has no conscience, but it has a highly developed sense of political expediency, and if and when there is an election in the offing some increase in pensions is given. Pensions and social service benefits need to be severed completely from the political auction block. The pioneers of Australia, the people who bore the brunt of the burden of the day in their contribution to the development of this country and who produced the generation that is now at work are entitled to better treatment than they are getting. There has been a regrettable weakening of family ties. There has been a regrettable growth of a general concept of pushing the old to one side, as it were sweeping their problems under the carpet. But they are here with us and they should be respected and helped. They should be able to get an automatic adjustment of their pensions without depending upon the very limited beneficence of this miserable Government 
I live in an area that has a population with possibly the largest percentage of migrants. I am ashamed to hear the criticism from the average migrant who comes to me for the assistance he is entitled to. When I ask him whether he has been naturalised, in many cases he says no. 1 ask him why and his simple answer is: 'Because I can go back to my country of birth when I am due for retirement and I can get a better system of social services and health and other benefits there than 1 can in Australia. I would like to stay in Australia  -  I like the country; f like the people - but in my own interests and that of mv wife I must go back to my country of birth." 
Let us examine where the children of Australia stand in relation to this Budget. According to statistics, about 3,177,000 children are supported by the taxpayers. That includes the first child, the student child and other children of a family. We can add to that the 85,000 children of the aged, invalids and widows and reach a total of just over 3) million. This is a very alarming social equation, because 658,000 are the children of persons in the over $5,000 a year income group. In other words, 2,604,000 children are to be disadvantaged by this Budget As a result of this Budget 80 per cent of the children will be worse off; 20 per cent will gain because their parents will gain from the tax reduction so cunningly contrived in its incidence. 
To compound the injury, need 1 remind honourable members that since 1949 there has been no increase in the endowment for the first child? lt still stands at 50c a week. Since 1949 there has been no increase in the endowment for the second child either. That still stands at $1 a week. This is another interesting social statistic: Ten per cent of the taxpayers of Australia are in the income bracket above $5,000 a year. They happen to have 20 per cent of the children. In other words, the Treasury has indirectly and knowingly or otherwise been exercising a form of fiscal birth control. It has been correctly said - and it bears repeating - that when a man marries and has a family he has given hostages to fortune. This Government could not care less, other than to look after the interests of its own friends. 
Let us see where the wage and salary earner stands under this Budget. In the year 1969-70 he paid a total of $2,084m under pay-as-you-earn taxation. This year, despite the much vaunted reduction in income tax of S280m, he will in fact be paying an additional $190m. So much for the humbug of the Government and its suggestion that it is actually making a concession. It is doing nothing of the sort. It is merely returning something out of the $480m which it extracted in the financial year just ended- Out of a total of $7,887m, $3,035m is to be paid by the workers and the other salary earners of Australia, the self-employed businessman, the farmer if he can make a profit, and the professional man. In 1954 the average wage earner needed 5 weeks earnings to pay his income tax. In the year just ended he needed 91 weeks of his earnings to pay his income tax. In the current year it will be a matter of 101 weeks. What sort of pious injunction do we get from the spokesmen for the Government? We are told that all will be rosy if the workers just stop trying to get higher wages and that the trade unions must desist from matching wages and prices under the full employment conditions when these conditions themselves are fed by Government induced inflation. 
The policies of the Treasurer and the Minister for Labour and National Service  (Mr Snedden)  are creating the very pressures which they deplore. An explosive wage price situation has been created by a generation of Government economic formulations based on day to day expediency. The remedy which we are offered for our economic ills is the same mixture as before. No wonder there is a world wages explosion. Today the wage earners of the world in every one of the so-called Western democracies are busy going flat out in the race between wages and inflation. As a further part of the confidence trick that is being played on the wage earners of Australia in the low income groups, let me illustrate the actual deduction that is available for a working man, for his wife and 2 dependent children. The concessional deduction is a total of $676 per year nominally, but in actual fact it boils down to this: With a net taxable income of $2,000 a year and a tax rate of 21c it is a matter of $146 per year. With an income of $3,000 it is a matter of $183 per year; and with an income of $10,000 it is $339 per year. 
There is a similar effect in respect of contributions to medical and hospital benefit funds, for rates and the other concessional deductions. I say that there is a need for a reverse taper in the effect of these concessional deductions. The result should be exactly the opposite, and those in the lowest income groups should be get ting the highest deduction and those in the higher income groups should have it gradually tapered off until the $5,000 a year mark is reached. Throughout the world wages are losing in the race with inflation. They never had a chance of catching up with it, anyhow. Today in Australia the only truly national price control that we have is price control on wages. When the workers present their log of claims they are told: 'Take it to the court.' When the court is able to deal with it they might get some measure of belated justice. Need I remind anyone in this House of the promise o.'" this Government and its Leader that when it came into office it would put value back into the £1. Exactly the opposite thing is happening today. 
Deductions for fares are another entitlement that has been consistently denied to the working man, and the impact of it is worse in my district than anywhere else. I want to read something to this House which will give honourable members some idea of conditions as they really are in respect of migrants and unskilled workers in the lower income groups. 1 received this letter today from a British migrant in the Fairy Meadow Hostel, which is situated within my constituency. It reads: 
I am a British migrant and my wife and my J children . . . have been living here for the past 14 months. I have already had one extension of time. 
He wants to get a 4-beclrooni house. The letter continues: 
I have tried to find a house to rent with option to purchase but on ray base rate at John Lysaghts of $42.80 per week I find it impossible to save after payment of hostel rates. 
There are not dozens, there are not scores, there are not hundreds, but there are thousands of men in my constituency on no better wages than that. Shame on the Government which tolerates such conditions and shame on any Minister who denies to any worker the right to fight for a decent fair go in Australian terms for himself. What has the Arbitration Court done in recent years? What are the functions of the Arbitration Court? It is quite a legal freak, as a matter of fact. Constitutionally it has full economic powers and this Government has in actual fact no very direct control over it. But the Government can lean very heavily on it and in recent months we have had quite an amount of leaning by spokesmen for the Government, including even the Prime Minister  (Mr Gorton),  in suitable post-prandial orations as to what could and ought to be done, and the mailed fist is being shown. 
Need I remind honourable members that 6 years ago at least the Leader of the Government of that day maintained the pose of impartiality and kept out of the field. But today the Commonwealth is in boots and all at the Arbitration Court kicking against the workers and on behalf of the employers. In the last 2 years we have had the quarterly adjustments of the basic wage killed. We have had the abandonment of the basic wage concept. The Arbitration Commission has changed relativities between occupations. It has reshuffled its policies on work evaluation. Today we have a pitched battle in the oil industry case and the question at issue is whether the profitability or ability to pay of a company counts. Of course it counts and more power to those who are endeavouring to get a fair deal for the workers. If honourable members want corroboration of the true state of affairs in Australia, the most impeccable reference I can give is a statement made by a  Mr B.  Callaghan who is the managing director of the Commonwealth Banking Corporation. In Adelaide on 7th July he had this to say to the United States Chamber of Commerce in Australia: 
Taxation iti Australia, particularly of lower and middle income groups, is among the highest in the world. There is an urgent need to  investigate  the whole structure of taxation and develop a more efficient way to raise and distribute public finance. 
What is the economic devil's brew that the Australian worker is faced with - unfair taxation, plus uncontrolled inflation, plus unjustifiable wage fixation. The net result is an industrial explosion, and that is what we are coming to today despite the snuffling hypocrisy of people on the other side of this House. It is not merely direct taxation that affects the working man in this country. We can consider the impact of excise duty. I heard the Prime Minister today in an apologia on behalf of certain of the companies with record profits telling how much was paid by them into Consolidated Revenue. But what is the real position? The people of Australia are paying this year $l,725m in excise duty on beer, spirits, tobacco, petrol, cigarettes and sales tax. Company tax which goes from the highest to the lowest - Broken Hill Pty Co. Ltd and all the rest of them- 
. . . and Mt Isa Mines Ltd, will total Sl,401m. There is today a clamant need for super tax. Super tax should be the order of the day. I hope to see a Labor government introducing it. As further proof of economic stringency, let us consider the percentage of married females who are out in the work force. I do not deny to any woman the right to go out and to earn money in a job. But there is a marked difference between being forced out to work and going to work by preference. In 1965, 25 per cent of married females were in the work force. In 1 970, the figure has increased to 33 per cent. In other words, this is an increase of onethird in 5 years. These women have gone out to work to boost the family budget because the alternative is starvation and financial trouble for themselves and for their families.  
Another matter on which I wish to touch in the time remaining to me is the question of general price control. In 1949, price control which had been administered by the Chifley Government under the terms of its defence powers was challenged in and ruled out by the High ' Court of Australia. By referendum! the Australian people accepted the advice of Prime Minister Menzies that it was best to leave price control to the States. Today, Australia has record inflation. The new Federal  President  of the Australian Labor Party,  Mr Burns,  made a striking comment yesterday in addressing the Federal Australian Labor Party Women's Conference in Brisbane. He said that he wanted the votes of women in the next Federal election. He said that the next Federal election should be a supermarket election and that the Australian Labor Party was entitled to the support of women. I wish to see, in conjunction with the Senate election, a referendum on this matter. It would sweep through the length and breadth of Australia. The Australian people can discriminate. I have heard the Jeremiahs say that the Australian people will never carry a referendum. Need I remind anyone in this House of the fate of the last referendum when the people of Australia consciously refused to increase the number of members in this House and, by an overwhelming majority, gave what they hoped would be social justice to the Aboriginals? They will do exactly the same again on the issue that 1 have just mentioned. 
Can we tolerate the present situation in Australia? We have the greatest proportion of meat on the hoof per head of population, capable of feeding a multitude of people. What do we find? Australian butter is being sold here at twice the price at which it is sold in the United Kingdom. The highest quality butter is going abroad and the inferior product is being retained in Australia. What is the value of the amount of wheat contained in a 21b loaf of bread for which a housewife pays 23c? I would say that it is not more than 5ic. What about the inferior meat which is sold in Australia while prime quality meat goes abroad. We pay double the overseas price in Australia? What about the sugar which today is being ploughed into canefields in north Queensland, a situation to which the honourable member for Dawson  (Dr Patterson)  drew the attention of this House last week? A referendum is needed. The Australian people need the chance to say that they want an end to the rackets which are occurring today in the supermarkets, in the vegetable shops and, in many cases, in clothing outfitters businesses as well. 1 turn to the plight of the young home purchasers in Australia today. What is their plight? Twenty years ago, the assessment made of the capacity of a young couple to pay off a home was based on one-seventh of their income. The figure 5 years ago was one-fifth of their income. Today, in many cases applications are accepted on one-third of a married couple's income. Twenty years ago land, as a component of the total cost of a home, represented 1 5 per cent. Today it is between 30 per cent and 40 per cent. 
Let us take the position over the last 12 months. Since the last Federal Budget, interest on home loans has increased by three-quarters of 1 per cent. On the conventional loan of $4,000 repayable over 26 years this has meant, for the first year, an extra $60 in interest payments. The additional interest for the whole term of the loan is $850. If honourable members wish to know my source for this information, it is the annual report of the Reserve Bank of Australia. In 1951, home loan interest represented 3.87 per cent of the price of a home. Today, it  is  6.25 per cent to 7 per cent, an increase of  2i  per cent, which means an additional $2,600 to $3,000 on to the price of a home. 
In the short time remaining, I wish to touch briefly on one other matter. That is concerned with what the Government  is  doing with the loan consolidation and investment reserve. The Government  is  burying the $550m surplus which it will be extracting this year from the Australian taxpayer and is lending that money, putting it into Commonwealth securities, and collecting the interest on it from taxpayers who have been denied the right to subscribe the money voluntarily to Commonwealth securities. 
I support sincerely the amendment moved by the honourable member for Wills  (Mr Bryant).  I think it is a matter of rather scathing indictment of the Parliament itself that in the division which was recently counted only 72 members were present. Fifty-three members are away. Some of them might have the best of reasons for being absent. They might have protected the relative strength of their parties by securing pairs. But the point should be made, and made very clearly, that we have just had rammed down our throats, by weight of numbers, the proposition that we should sit for 4 days a week. 
Here are the hard realities of the matter. Already there has been moaning by honourable members on both sides of the House who supported the 4-day week to the effect that it is too much for them and that they have special reasons for not being here today. Here are the realities. Fifty-three members are away today. In fact, if the amendment which we are considering had been embodied in a standing order and a question were put to a vote right at the moment, we would not be competent to pass a valid vote of the House. 
It would be so if the amendment had been incorporated in a standing order at the present time. Parliament is the Parliament and honourable members have to accept it as the Parliament and discharge their duties here or alter the Standing Orders to suit their own requirements. We sit on a Friday from 10.30 a.m. until 4 p.m. It is a broken backed half-day at the best. If a 4-day sitting week is wanted, the proper thing to do is to sit from Monday to Thursday inclusive, I have no doubt that honourable members who are absent today have the best of reasons for not being present. I also have the best of reasons for not being present today, but I consider it my duty to stay here on behalf of my constituents, and every sober and responsible member of this House will do the same. 
Parliament is being progressively downgraded. The best thing that could happen to Parliament - and I have changed my opinion on this score after many years - is that it should be televised so that people can see the paucity of general attendance here. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Mr Drury)  - I remind the honourable member that he is getting a little wide of the amendment before the Committee. 
1 am not,  Sir. lt  could be televised even on occasions such as that of the recent vote. That is a very valid point The whole concept of Parliament is being progressively down-graded. It suits the Executive to have fewer and fewer members in the House. It is the responsibility of the Government to keep a sufficient number of members in the House to pass legislation. Tt is the responsibility of the Government to have its members here to do so, but they are not here. It is our responsibility to be here to oppose legislation. But primarily it is the function of the elected government to keep the House. Government supporters are not here in sufficient numbers to do that at the present time. This situation is a standing disgrace. Either we as a Parliament knuckle down to our business on Friday or get back to the  3-day  week. The sooner we do that the better. I strongly commend the honourable member for Wills for moving this amendment. 
I direct a question to the Prime Minister. Does he still adhere to his recent advocacy of upgrading Australian mineral exports such as bauxite? Will he, for this purpose, acquire the necessary technology to upgrade exports of Australian uranium by its enrichment, thereby quadrupling its value? Is his Government's refusal to ratify the Treaty on the Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons a prime impediment to the acquisition of such technology? How does he justify his insistence on the use of natural uranium in an obsolescent process for the proposed nuclear reactor at Jervis Bay and the slanting of specifications accordingly? Does his insistence prevent Australia's achievement of world status in uranium utilisation and supply? 

 - Mr Chairman, we have arrived in my opinion at a period in our economic history which is as much an historical watershed as the attack that the Japanese made on Singapore, because we are entering now into a completely new era when no longer can it be said that we must rely as heavily as we have in the past on primary exports. The reason for my statement is simply that Britain intends, come hell or high water, to enter the European Economic Community. 
To anyone who has read the memoirs of Dean Atcheson, it might be interesting to recall a statement which was made in  1942  by the then Athony Eden to the American Foreign Secretary of that day on Britain's attitude towards Lend Lease. Britain, at the time, was in dire straits. This is the message which came by Lord Halifax, the British Ambassador. In return for the offer of Lend Lease, an agreement to be signed which was not acceptable, the British spokesman said: 'We are unwilling to barter Empire preference for planes, tanks, guns, goods, etc., because of the political repercussions which will result with Empire members'. 
Twenty-eight years later, we have another emissary, this time of a recently elected British Government, coming to Australia and telling us in no uncertain terms that the moment of truth has arrived, that we are now mature, that we are standing on our own, that we are big boys and that we are well and truly able to fend for ourselves. While I fully appreciate the impact of this decision on the rural community, nevertheless, in the long run, it may be the best thing that ever happened to Australia. It will end at least the economic tutelage and it will end the state of mind which has been that of a subservient nation. It istime infact that  we  did  grow  up. 
We are in a new world. In relation to the particular sector of the world in which we live, we are on the fringe of emerging nations which, as the result of World War II, have been liberated from colonial exploitation. These nations still have their internal differences. These are nations where the fight for political and economic power is on at the present time. To wit, the most glaring example is the current conflict in Vietnam. New nations are rising to maturity and old nations are re-asserting their independence of mind. The world, of course, is breaking up into trading blocks. We have EFTA - the European Free Trade Assocation. a free trade group which centres on Britain. We have the European Economic Community. We have the trading empire of the Americas, North and South. 
Where does Japan fit into this? 1 suggest to honourable members that, in the long term, she may be designing another greater South East Asian co-prosperity sphere. An old saying is that one never keeps a cow when one can get milk by other means. Having tried aggression and failed, Japan now tries the alternative of economic penetration. I am not unmindful of our trading relationships with that country and our importance to it. But, on the other hand, the relationship between us which at the present time is a mutually profitable one can be, in the long term, a dangerous one in which Japan could develop into a big brother and adopt the big brother complex and lean rather heavily on us. It is capable of doing so. In the shorter term, of course, Japan will continue to trade with us. If she can continue to trade and to prosper she will not resort to aggression. But in the long term, aggression is a distinct possibility and in terms of physical aggression Japan is possibly the only enemy in sight. 
There is a complete disparity between our wealth, or our national income, and that of these countries to our immediate north. I should like to refer to the 'Atlas of World Economic Resources' which was prepared by the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development. In the latest issue of that publication we find that Australia's gross national product, with our 12i million people, exceeds the total income of 250 million people in Indonesia, the Philippines, North and South Vietnam, Cambodia, Thailand, Burma and Singapore. In the short term these people are scarcely suitable economic partners. Of course, there is trade that can be done with them, and it is being done. I am not in any way trying to minimise what is already in operation. 
There has of course - this is a matter of notoriety, I hope, to most honourable members - been a considerable deteriora tion in the prices of commodities that have been produced by the liberated countries which have to depend very heavily for their cash crops upon the primary produce of their respective areas. These are mainly former colonial areas which are now just as much economic satellites as they were at one time the dominions of exploiting powers. Australia had a special and subordinate relationship with the United Kingdom because we were, and still are, a source of cheap food. In the process of providing food at the best price that we can get in what is stilt the world's greatest open market, the Australian consumer is subsidising the primary producer - and how! I have dealt with this matter on former occasions, but suffice it to say that the prices we are getting in the United Kingdom broadly are less than one-half of what the ordinary Australian worker and housewife has to pay for these commodities in shops in major cities and industrial centres. I suggest to the Australian Country Party, which of course dominates this Government, that there is something else it might try, and that is to average prices and see whether it cannot boost consumption in the process. 
Yes, average the prices. For instance, in the case of butter the prewar consumption was 42 lb per capita per year; it is now 20 lb. If the Country Party reduces the price of butter to between 35c to 40c a lb it will see a difference. It will at least get rid of some of the surplus and it will be doing some justice to fellow Australians instead of exploiting them. 
We are in a trading relationship - a special one at that - in the Pacific triangle of trade. At the present time we have a trading surplus with Japan, and we are constantly reminded of it. But Japan does not buy our products because she likes the colour of our eyes or anything else about us. It pays her to do it. Our products are good, they are cheap and they are readily available. In turn, by processing them Japan is able to build up an export surplus in trade with the United States. The United States, in its turn, sells to us and we have an adverse trading relationship with it. But broadly there is a balance between the 3 countries. That brings me to my next point. Just how far do we accept a continued  subordinate status in our trading relationships with the United States, particularly in the light of our defence purchases from her? The shutters are up, or almost up, on sugar, zinc, lead and mutton, and now by some rather devious pretext they are going up on beef as well. The United States has chosen to reject the standard of the various Australian abattoirs, but that is only a pretext, a subterfuge, and a rather palpable one at that. 
There is a rather interesting comparison to be made between Japan and Britain. Japan is an off-shore island; it is densely populated; it has limited natural resources; it has an ingenious population which is energetic, strong in national spirit. The Japanese have a very definite national consciousness. Japan is a merchant nation. It has a substantial merchant marine, and it is prepared to live by trade. 1 do not want to see Australia -I am speaking of the long term, not the short term - put itself in exactly the same relationship with Japan that we have had with the United Kingdom. When we look at the alternatives for the future, the one that presents itself most forcibly to my mind - I speak in terms of my own constituency - is the future  at  the coal and steel industry. Today we have a fantastic mineral wealth in Australia. While the quarry and farm mentality operates in the case of this Government, I say that we can take it a stage further. Already there is evidence that there is an acute shortage of coking coal in the world. For 100 years the coal deposits of northeastern Europe and of the United States have been heavily mined. There is relative obsolescence in a fair proportion of the United States steel industry. A new steel technology is emerging, and Australia, as in the case of Japan, can profit by coming last into the field and gaining the best advantage from that technology. Already there have been substantial inquiries  for  coking coal supplies from France, Holland and even Italy. The question arises as to the adequacy of our known and proven supplies. The Government is to be censured for its failure to make proper investigation of the whole of our coal resources and the respective types. 
In the short time remaining to me I want to refer honourable members to the remarks made by  Mr Cartwright,  the 
Deputy Chairman of the British Steel Corporation, at an international conference on steel technology in Tokyo a couple of weeks ago. He forecast virtually the exhaustion of the world's coking coal supplies by the year 2000. By the year 2000 it is quite certain that the blast furnace will be a thing of the past and that in its place will be the electric steel furnace. There will be an entirely new steel technology, and we are in an excellent position to take advantage of the situation. 
With Britain entering the Common Market, ifI know the British worker and skilled tradesman, be will not accept the economic consequences of Britain's entry into the Common Market. He will not accept an increase in food prices, inferior hours of work and inferior wages. 1 do not want to reflect in any way on the Continental workers who will have the right to enter Brtiain, but the British worker and skilled tradesman will not welcome the competition from the Continental worker. A very substantial proportion of the British population will want to get out of the country. I am speaking of the northern counties of Britain, such as the Midlands, Yorkshire, Lancashire, Northumberland, Nottinghamshire and Durham. These are the people we want in Australia because with new steel technology there will be an entirely different form of processing iron ore. 
Already the Hamersley people are on the right track. The new process is called highmet. If I could explain the process in simple terms, it is this: You upgrade the iron ore, which is relatively rich with a 60 per cent to 65 per cent metallic content, up to a 95 per cent metallic content. Then you are able to by-pass the blast furnace and put that directly into the steel furnace. Already it has been forecast by the Japanese - they lead the world in steel technologytoday,andweareclosebehind them - that Britain, the United States and Germany will by choice come to this country and establish new steel plants to process our iron ore. We have to be ready to handle the situation, and the very least that Australia should have in such a situation is a one-half interest in the enterprise. We will be able to utilise to the best advantage the labour which wants to get out of Britain, once she enters the Common Market. 
Progress reported. 
 I listened with great interest to the honourable member for Mallee  (Mr Turnbull).  He conveniently overlooked one- 
The DEPUTY CHAIRMAN- That is all right. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN-  The order of debate is for the Chair to call one Government  speaker  and then one Opposition  speaker.  Although the honourable member for Cunningham has spoken before he rose first and it is quite in order for him to speak and to make 2 contributions in a debate on these estimates. 
I listened with great interest to the. honourable member for Mallee and to his schemes for populating the rural areas. I wish' him every success. But I would like to point out for his information that in other parts of the country there will be plenty of job vacancies within the iron and steel industry in the immediate future. This situation will arise because of developments that will occur. Quite a lot of the projections of the Country Party relating to decentralisation are for its political survival. The whole trend has been, as the honourable member said, that because of mechanisation there will be progressive depopulation of the farms and at the same time, because of mechanisation, production will be kept up. Do not let us mislead ourselves or the country on this point. 
Yesterday, when I was addressing myself to the estimates of the Department of Trade and Industry I made the point that there is an urgent need for the complete testing of our known coal resources because we will face in the very near future an acute world shortage of coking coal. Every honourable member ought to be reading the text of the proceedings of the international conference on coal technology which met in Tokyo a few weeks ago. In my own constituency the existence and the measure of the coal deposits is a matter of life and death. The question will arise in the near future, because of the world shortage of coking coal, as to whether some restriction should be placed on exports, at least from my own district. Of course, there is development within the Bowen basin of very substantial and in fact formidable reserves. But even taking that into account and what is available in Canada- 
I ask the Minister for National Development: Are the New South Wales proven reserves of coking coal 1,300 million tons? Are they being depleted by over 20 million tons a year by local industry and export? Are substantial quantities of these reserves not economically extractable? Has any projection been made by his advisers of the life of these reserves in the light of (a) the annual growth of Australian steel production and (b) the soaring world demand of major steel producing nations whose reserves have been seriously depleted or are non-existent? What export guidelines has he in contemplation? Has he duly considered the repeated serious warnings on these matters by the 
Joint Coal Board, the Australian steel producers and the honourable member for Cunningham? 
1  thought from the initial and interim remarks of the honourable member  tor  Lilley  (Mr Kevin Cairns)  that he might have even been joining us. Of course, there is an old scriptural saying that there will be more joy in heaven over one sinner who does penance than over 99 just persons who need no repentance. Fortunately he gave himself the necessary escape hatch out of his dilemma. I might say that there are many escape hatches in this legislation. In fact, that might have been its middle name because it is intended both to get money out and, in certain cases, to get money in. The Government at this stage can feel somewhat benevolent in the light of the proposals in the Budget when it will have a little surplus, which has remained undisclosed, of a matter of $5 50m that will go into the Loan Consolidation and Investment Reserve for the purpose of the redemption of some of its bonds. Therefore there is room for a little largesse to be spread amongst its supporters, open and covert. Perhaps the best test we can apply to this legislation are the words of the Treasurer  (Mr Bury)  in introducing the measure. He characterised the situation prior to 1°60 when the celebrated amendments were made to the Income Tax Assessment Act. The Treasurer thought that as the matter then stood the then legislation permitted the giving to a deferred issue the semblance and the guise of fixed interest borrowing. The legislation in its present form is somewhat in the nature of a Trojan horse. It is a good way of getting in and, on the converse, it is a good way of capturing. A person who chooses to invest in convertible notes under the Government's proposal is due to get the best of both worlds. 
Let us briefly examine the content of the legislation and what it stands for. Firstly, it reverses and repeals the 1961 legislation, which refused, for the assessment of income tax, deduction of interest paid on convertible notes. Now that same interest is to be payable under certain conditions. After the royal assent is given to this measure, where a loan is to mature in a minimum of 7 years - of course there is a very subtle, or perhaps I should even say crude, reservation in the case of foreign investors - the conversion is to be at the option of the note holders. That is to be welcomed. The option is to be exercisable after a period of 24 months from when the loan was made and before the final 12 months of the loan. In addition it is not to be exercisable in respect of a period beyond 10 years. 
Finally - and this is a most important aspect - let us look at the price that is to be paid for the shares by the lucky people, the friends of those inside, who choose to convert. The price will be either the par value of the share or 90 per cent of the equivalent share value at the time when the notes were offered for subscription, whichever is the greater. They are very lucky people indeed. Thay have the be.-&gt;t of both worlds. The shrewd people can lend money on .security, and in turn they know that if the venture is a good one - and they have every reason to believe it will be - they can come in, not as the ordinary investor who buys his shares on the stock exchange at the current market price, but, in the good Australian phrase, on the grouter. The price they are to pay is the price which operated at the time when the notes were first offered for subscription. It is somewhat like the spider who, as is well known, chooses to sting and paralyse its prey, to leave it alive and to consume it later at its convenience. The rates of interest and other terms of the loan and the option are not to vary from time to time, again with the little proviso that in respect of foreign loans there may be variations of interest in accordance with international interest markets, and the longer the period of the loan the less favourable the terms. 
The honourable member for Melbourne Ports  (Mr Crean)  last night made reference to the peculiar nature of convertible notes. They are legal and financial hybrids. They are neither fish, flesh nor good red herring. They are neither in the nature of a fixed proprietary interest, as in the case of a share, nor can it be said that they are true interests covered by a debenture, which is another name for a mortgage on the assets of a company. But, of course, with the arts of the tax minimiser they are a very subtle invention and one which can be used, as T said earlier, for other purposes. 
One of the most sinister things I can see in this legislation is that a person who has lent money on a convertible note has not merely the right to acquire ultimately shares at par or at 90 per cent of the prevailing price at the time when the loan was arranged first but also the right to acquire them in another company other than the issuing company. It can be either an associated company or one of a group that can be interlocked with it. This is a nice way of muscling in. Let us take the classical case of Poseidon NL, which apparently is sitting on a nickel bonanza that has been valued at 180 times the subscribed capital of the company, or more. I believe the subscribed capital is of the order of $500,000. The company is virtually powerless unless it can get someone to lend it money. This is where the big boys can muscle in. They may decide to form another company and call it Poseidon Development and buy into it at par. They will have the major part of the operation and they will muscle in well and truly on the existing company. The loophole is there for them to do so. 
Not in the least. In the main they will not take advantage of this loophole. It is only the lurk man who will want to do if. As a matter of fact, about 45 per cent of the shares in Australia today are held by life assurance companies, mutual funds and superannuation funds. The trend is not and never has been in this direction, lt is very plausible now for the Government to come along weeping crocodile tears and suggesting that this legislation will attract extra money. It will not. It will have the opposite effect. It is designed rather to get dividends out for the friends of a particular group of people who have, found that a company is really on a bonanza. Let us take a simple illustration. If the borrowings are to be at the rate of 7i per cent, with proposed company tax of 42i per cent the borrowings cost that company only 4 per cent. That is convenient for the company and nice for the investor, who has the certainty that if he wishes at a later stage he can either buy into that company's shares or form the other development company to which [ referred and then take control of the whole operation. 
A share in a company is a fixed interest in that company's assets. The traditional pattern of borrowing is either by bank accommodation, which is the normal way, or by debentures, and they can be either first, second or third preferences. Then, of course, there are unsecured notes. There is another means of borrowing too that can be very effectively used by a company where there is a risk involved and the company wants others to participate with it, and that is the deferred dividend share which has been very effectively used by Ampol and certain other Australian companies. 
One of the most fundamental objections that we have to this legislation is that people who are putting in the risk capital, and in many companies doing it genuinely, can find that other people have muscled in. It is a matter of acute debate amongst company lawyers, accountants and financial experts as to what extent the capital of a company ought properly to be diluted, particularly that of a successful company. This is a matter of acute controversy, and anyone who might have read the works of Berle will find that today more than ever the board of the average big company can be very remote from its shareholders. In point of fact, as long as they are drawing their dividends they do not know much about what is happening in the company, and even in the case of the very biggest they are not capable of exercising effective control over it. In other words, we get a hierarchy or a group of financial elite who virtually dictate the policy and almost pass over their particular inheritance to one another in terms of control. 
Quite apart from these aspects there are many other features to which I want to refer. In the case of the overseas investor, by what right does the Government suggest that overseas companies which are already coming in on the Australian capital market and raising money there should then qualify to invest in convertible notes of this type? As I see it this is another means for further control - a control that is to be seriously deprecated - of major Australian assets by overseas investors. I do not want to delay the House further because I know that the Minister is anxious to get the measure through by a given time. 
Yes. But to summarise, these are our objections: Firstly,, that the aim of the Government in this is to minimise taxation; secondly, that there may be a dichotomy of interests between the equity shareholder, the person who has borne the brunt of the battle, has run the risk and is entitled to the legitimate rewards; thirdly, that the fixed interest holder ought properly to get priority only for his interest and his capital - he should have no proprietary rights; fourthly, there is the absorption, as I suggested, of the original company and the transferability of option rights to another associate company; fifthly, there is the danger of the high gearing of borrowings to capital, and high gearing is a besetting evil today in company operation and in company manipulation; sixthly, there is the inflow of overseas capital which can only provoke further ultimate control of Australian assets; seventhly, the favourable terms and the flexible rates of interest which are to be made available to overseas lenders; eighthly, the competition of rich overseas companies with Australian firms on the local capital market; and ninthly, better use can be made of deferred dividend shares. Another and major objection is this: Even assuming that convertible notes are acceptable, why should not the conversion be made on something nearer to the then current market price? Lastly, we say that - we have said lt for many years in this House and in State legislatures too - it is high time that the scandal of company share manipulations in Australia in respect of certain companies was properly controlled by the establishment of a securities exchange commission. 
The honourable member for Lilley  (Mr Kevin Cairns)  begs the question when he asks what is a regressive tax. A regressive tax in the usual glossary of economic terms is simply one whose incidence does not bear any relationship to ability to pay. If he wants an example of it I think I can convince him on that point at least, incorrigible though he may be. The Government has brought about the growing burden of income tax by not increasing tax rates but by the simple expedient of maintaining a tax schedule constant in the face of con tinually higher money incomes and by generally refusing to adjust allowable deductions in line with those increased incomes. This Government specialises in indirect taxation. The classic illustration would be the fact that it collects some $ 1,600m a year by way of sales tax and excise duty on beer, petrol, cigarettes and tobacco and at the same time in terms of company taxation it collects only $l,100m per year. In other words the individual consumer - the man in the street - pays 50 per cent more than all the major companies of Australia put together. That is another form of regressive taxation. 
The effects of the Government's inaction have been quite astonishing.' The current tax schedule has remained unchanged since 1954-55 except for the addition of a further 2.5 per cent levy and some increase of the amount that can be earned before incurring income tax. Since that time, however, money incomes have been substantially increased as is shown by the fact that the 1968-69 average weekly earnings have risen by 100 per cent and the average wage rate by 70 per cent. Inevitably, therefore, wage and salary earners have moved continually into higher tax brackets with the result that their income tax burden has been increasingly severe; that is, the percentage of their income which has been taken in tax has been continually getting higher which means that more and more of their working time has been spent labouring for the Commonwealth. At the present level of average weekly earnings the tax burden has increased to the extent that whereas in 1954-55 income tax amounted to 5 weeks pay for the average worker it has now increased to 9.2 weeks. As a result of the current Budget, as I propose to show, it will be a week in addition to that now taking it over the 10 weeks mark per year. However, the increase in the tax burden has been uniform for all taxpayers. Deplorably the increase in the tax burden has not been inversely correlated to income so. that the lowest income earners have their tax obligations increased at the greatest rate and the highest income earners have had the lowest such increase. For example, in the period 1954-55 to 1968-69, during which average weekly earnings doubled, a man on $1,500 net taxable income in 1954-55 and whose income kept pace with average weekly earnings would have had his tax increased by 277 per cent; That is his income went up 100 per cent and his tax up 277 per cent - 2i times the rate of Increase in his salary. On a net taxable income of $6,000 per year which increased to $12,000 over the same period the tax increase would be 206 per cent while the man on $16,000 whose income increased to $32,000 would have seen his tax increase by a comparatively low 153 per cent. In other words, for the lowest tax group there was an increase in taxation over the 14 year period of 277 per cent; for the tall poppy only 153 per cent. 
This Government, of course, has a vested fiscal interest in inflation. There was quite a neat little footnote in statement 4 attached to the Budget Speech which stated that in 1969-70 the Government's domestic transactions appeared - a masterpiece of understatement - to have subtracted about $500m from liquidity. In his Budget Speech the Treasurer  (Mr Bury)  said: 
Willim this overall result there would on present figuring be surplus of domestic receipts over domestic expenditure of the order of $550m which would be about $50m greater than the actual domestic surplus in 1969-70. 
Quite an achievement. We hear the argument raised from time to time: Where is the money coming from to make concessions? This is where the money can come from and this is where some real relief can be given to the average wage and salary earner especially those in the net taxable income group below $5,000 per year. How much, I might reasonably ask, is left of the 10 per cent reduction that the Government proposes to give in view of anticipatory price rises' which have been current since the Budget was introduced and prior to any relief that will operate, I assume from 1st October. At the same time the Government can very conveniently make its sales tax retrospective in its incidence to 18th August last. lt is truly said that a married man gives hostages to fortune. Today the average budget in the form that is presented is nothing more than an annual swindle sheet. The Treasurer maintains a straight face when he says there is actually a surplus of $4m. In point of fact there has been a surplus, as has already been admitted, of $550m, plus the $4m that has been stated as the official figure. Let us have a look at the real impact of this celebrated 10 per cent reduction. Let us take the year 1968-69 when the total pay-as-you-earn tax and other tax on men with annual incomes - businessmen, farmers and the like - was $2,379m. In that year the total income tax received was $2,379m. For the financial year 1969-70 there was an increase of $478m. The Government is giving back $280m of that amount. It still has up its sleeve nearly $200m of the increase for the last year. To compound the offence we find that for the current year the Government intends to take $3,035m by way of taxation from those people receiving an annual income or those who pay as they earn. This is an increase of a further $178m. With one hand the Government gives but with the other hand it takes back even more. 
But even worse than that we have the position of indirect taxation, the increase in sales tax and all the other increases which were adequately dealt with by honourable members who have already spoken in this debate. In point of fact, as is set out in the speech made by the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam)  on the Budget, no less than 92 per cent of all taxpayers are losers. The document which the Leader of the Opposition had incorporated in Hansard shows that as  a  result of indirect taxation no person in receipt of a net taxable income of less than $5,000 per year will in any way benefit from this Budget. Further, 80 per cent of the  3i  million children in Australia who are supported by the wage and salary earners are losers because they are maintained by the group with net taxable incomes of less than $5,000 per year. And what is even worse is that this Government in its paltriness has not increased child endowment for the first child since 1949. It is still 50c  a  week. It is also still $1 per week for the second child, as it was in 1949. 
In other matters, such as allowances for fares or the cost involved in the running of a motor car from a man's place of residence to his place of employment, this Government has persistently over the years refused to give the slightest taxation concession. There are 2 ways of looking at these matters. It is not merely a matter of what the man gets in the pay packet. It is a matter of what it will, in effect, buy. We have today as we have never had before rampant inflation soaring to an astronomical level. But this Government is not prepared to do anything about this. As to the fairness of the incidence of taxation let us look at the position of a man with a wife and 2 children and let us take an average net taxable income of $2,000 per year. The nominal concessional deduction for that man and his family is $676. Actually with an income tax rate of 21c in the $1 he has an annual reduction of $146 in the income tax which he must pay. In the case of a man with a wife and 2 children who is in receipt of $3,000 per year the concession is worth $329 per annum. In other words, the more a person earns and the less he needs the more benefit he will get from this Government. 
What we really need is a reverse tapered concessional deduction for a man with a wife and family. This Government is not prepared to do this. This is one of the disincentives in a country which must increasingly turn to its export income from secondary industry as primary industry declines. No honourable member will gainsay me on that tonight. We need to get the maximum production. But today the average worker is convinced that to get further wage increases without some protection by way of stabilising prices, is an exercise in futility. We have the spectacle where even a major retail chain store such as Woolworths Ltd is not prepared to accept goods because of the rorts - a good Australian term - being worked in respect to price fixation. I can go back to the remarks of the Minister for Labour and National Service  (Mr Snedden)  when he was recently addressing a gathering of people. Even be, of all people, had to rebuke manufacturers for the exorbitant price increases they were imposing and which bad no relationship to increased costs. In Tasmania last week there was a rebuke delivered by the Attorney-General  (Mr Hughes)  in respect of the Trade Practices Act. What is this Government prepared to do? Precisely nothing. Even before the pensioners received their 50c increase which was operative from 1st October they, had already lost it. It has again been taken from them in price rises. 
Whenever there is a further concession suggested by way of income tax deduction, whenever there is a suggestion of some increase  in  social services for those who need them  so  desperately, the Government asks: 'Where  is  the money  to  come from?' Let  us  have a look at the operations  of  this Government and what it  is  doing. Let us look at the Loan Consolidation and Investment Reserve which was set up in 1955 by an Act of Parliament with a view to repurchasing or redeeming for cancellation securities which represent portion of public debt to the Commonwealth. Moneys to the credit of the reserve may be invested in securities of, or guaranteed by, the Commonwealth or on deposit at any bank. Last year the Commonwealth actually tucked away $61 8m in that reserve. 1 draw the attention of honourable members to an article by no less a person than a former New South Wales Auditor-General,  Mr W.  J. Campbell, published in the 'Bulletin' in 1967. He said that today there is a pointed contrast in revenue and capital financing practice between the Commonwealth and the States. 
While I do not want to digress into the financial relationship between  the 2  tiers of government I want to make this point: There has been socked away in cash payments for the Snowy Mountains Authority a little nest egg of over $800m. There is an amount, of $400tn in the National Welfare Fund. Cash was paid out of the Consolidated Revenue Fund. There is an amount still due to the Commonwealth of $904m from war service homes loans advances. In fact the position has been reached where  Mr Campbell  ventures to say that the Commonwealth, in all probability, is holding most of its own bonds. What a miraculous result. What fantastic financing. Where is the money to come from? lt is being deliberately extracted from the taxpayers, loaned out at interest rates to the States and in the process the Government keeps a straight face. I. wonder what an auditor would say. i wonder what the Security Exchange Commission in the United States of America would say to practices of that nature in respect to US corporations. Some of the people involved would be behind bars. 

 Sir, is this to continue? Are the people ; the ordinary working people ; to be denied their rights because there is no form of price control for the benefit of the consumer today although there is rampant negative price control in Australia? It consists of price control by monopolies. This country is hag-ridden by monopolies. It is hag-ridden by 200 companies. Four of the major companies virtually control the economy of this country and they decide the prices. These companies can put up the price of steel or can fix the price on anything they wish. There is nothing that this Government can do about it. The Government introduced the Trade Practices Act which also is an exercise in futility and which has been adopted by only one State. Unless we can get price control associated with wage fixation this country will continue to go along, the steep and narrow path to destruction by utter and unrestrained inflation. 
In the very near future we will be having a Senate election campaign. Undoubtedly one of the major campaign announcements will be that the Government has let a contract for the construction of a nuclear reactor at Jervis Bay. Of course, there will be loud hosannas on the part of the Government that we are entering an atomic age. The Government will soft pedal on the fact that we are being skull dragged into it as a nation by skulduggery, lt is expected, of course, that the people of Australia will be suitably goggle eyed. . We are dealing with a Government of gimmicks. We have already had the gimmick of the Fill aircraft and all that that means. It is traditional with Senate elections to lash out in terms of electoral largess. There was a little matter of $50m for a dam in the 1967 Senate campaign. Already, as a douceur for the various States, there is to be a little matter of $50m which will go out by way of compensation for the unconstitutional position as regards receipts tax. The next one, of course - the real winner and stunner - is to be the glad tidings of great joy with regard to the Jervis Bay nuclear reactor. It can be conveniently overlooked at this stage, the Government hopes, that in the long term the Government's undoubted choice of reactor could commit it for as much as 15 times the cost of the swing wing bomber by the year 2000. The sky is the limit when it comes to electoral gimmickry. 
The project for the construction of this nuclear reactor was hawked around Australia well and truly by the nuclear hawks in the Government, lt was found of course that the smaller States of Australia could not accept any commitment to participate in the construction of a nuclear reactor with a 500 megawatt capacity. That fined down the choice to New South Wales and Victoria, neither of whom wanted it at any price. Then the Government was forced to make a choice as between Jervis Bay, which is in Federal territory, and the Australian Capital Territory. Of course, everything which the Government has touched in the field of technology has the Midas touch of failure. 
With the limited time that is allowed to me in this debate, I believe that I should categorise our objections to this Jervis Bay reactor. Firstly, it is of the wrong type. The type chosen will be either the CANDU or the SGHWR- the stand generating heavy water reactor. The CANDU is being abandoned by all the advanced countries. We object to the reactor also on the grounds that the Government, because of its failure to ratify the Treaty on the NonProliferation of Nuclear Weapons, will be committed to the use of either natural uranium or slightly enriched uranium - in either case, Australia's resources of what in the future will be the world's most valuable element. We will be prodigal in dissipating what are still relatively limited supplies of it, despite the Nabarlek discoveries. 
A further objection, of course, is based on the advice of Professor Oliphant.  His  advice was that we should wait for the fast breeder reactor which will be perfected in the United Kingdom before the end of the 1970s. This advice by a man who would be supreme in his knowledge of atomic fission would be well followed. He was associated with Rutherford from the earliest days of atomic technology. Of course, a further objection is that the choice of a reactor is limited by our refusal to sign the Nuclear Non-Proliferation Treaty. That limits us to a choice from these obsolete or obsolescent reactors. In the case of the Prime Minister  (Mr Gorton)  and this Government, it is a matter of stupid Australian chauvinism. They are going to show the world that they can do without the advanced atomic technology which is available to any country which is participating fully, by ratification, in the Nuclear NonProliferation Treaty. 
The electricity that is to be produced will be uneconomical and will need to be subsidised. The thermal power stations in New South Wales, where the reactor is to be located, are well known to be amongst the most efficient and cheapest producers of electricity in the world today. The Government's real objective is access to nuclear weapons. I need not remind the people of Australia that the former  Senator Gorton  and the  Chairman  of the Australian Atomic Energy Commission are both repeatedly on record in their advocacy of these damnable weapons. Weapons grade plutonium is readily accessible by the use of either of the two reactors from which the Government will choose, and of course that plutonium will provide the dirtiest of the dirty bombs with a primitive nuclear technology. 
Apart from the question of technology, we object to the reactor on the grounds that site studies began after the issue of tenders - a typical example of this Government's record of putting the cart before the horse. The Government does not care a rap. It has the numbers and through this Parliament it will thrust its will upon the people of Australia. Preliminary construe- tion at Jervis Bay has been commenced before the acceptance of the winning tender. The winning tender will be accepted before environmental studies in relation to the sea, land and air surrounding the locality will be complete. The environmental studies, such as they are, are sketchy. They are rudimentary and, most obnoxious of all, they are secret. There is - this is a further objection - a Manhattan project syndrome on the part of this Government. The Government is back 20 years in its thinking and its attitude is enshrined in the archaic Atomic Energy Act which goes back to the early 1950s - an entirely different era when the United States and Russia were hugging to themselves the secrets of the construction of atomic weapons and also the secrets of nuclear power generation. 
Another feature that is most obnoxious to the Opposition is that the Australian Atomic Energy Commission is the sole buyer, builder, borrower and operator, and the Parliament is being denied access to vital information and the right to ascertain the facts associated with the final choice of a reactor. There is an obsessive secrecy on the part of the Government, and there is downright arrogance on the part of the  Chairman  of the Atomic Energy Commission and of the Commission as a whole. There is - this again is a serious indictment - no machinery by which this Parliament or the Australian people can assess by public and expert inquiry the real merits of the Government's proposal. I propose to refer later to the safeguards, the very closely interlocked safeguards, which are available in the United States for a similar project. 
The chosen site is highly vulnerable to submarine attack and to attack by other off-shore craft with suitable rockets or missiles. An atomic reactor at Murray's Beach, Jervis Bay, is a sitting nuclear bomb ready to be exploded by enemy craft, not to mention the mishaps that can occur even in peaceful power generation. The Nowra air base - I propose to adduce proof of this later, but I make no reflection on the capacity or gallantry of those who are on the staff there - is incapable of protecting the reactor because of the limitations imposed by the number of Skyhawk aircraft that are available for that purpose. 
In terms of defence technology, it is a matter of notoriety that in the United 
Nations both the United States and the Soviet Union have examined this matter very closely and have suggested a treaty, which has not yet been approved, to control off-shore submarine aggression. This is one of the major fears of all leading nations in the world today. 
The  CHAIRMAN (Mr  Lucock)Order! The honourable member's time has expired. Honourable members seek to query my statement. I point out that the time limit of 10 minutes for each member was approved as from 1 5th October. 
In answer to the Minister who challenged my statement about when a fast breeder reactor would be available I want to quote from the text of a 'Four Corners' interview on 4th September this year when Professor  Sir Marcus  Oliphant said - and I would accept his say-so against that of any authority who may be available to the Minister: 
I believe that it would be better to wait til the first neutron breeder reactor came into ils own. The British, for instance, are saying that by the end of the 1970s they will be installing only fast breeder reactors and so they are right on the door step. It seems just a pity to hasten into it to build what could be an obsolete piece of equipment. 
That is a complete answer to the Minister. On the question  of  public information  it is  very interesting to consider the treatment in the United States of America of any application to build an atomic reactor. The procedure in that country is very complex. The first step is to apply to the United States Atomic Energy Commission. It is divided into 2 parts. There is a special division quite distinct from the Commission itself and it is called the Division of Reactor Licensing which was severed by an Act of Parliament in the early 1950s. Then the Director-General of Regulation submits a safety report to the Commission itself. The application is also submitted to the Advisory Committee on Reactor Safeguards, known as ACRS, which has 15 independent members. Its report is a part of the public record. The proceedings are informal. It has no voting power. Following that there is a public hearing. That is what we want. We want a public hearing before the granting of the construction permit. This was provided for 16 years ago by United States Congress legislation. That public hearing is conducted by a safety licensing board which is selected from a pool of 25 qualified technologists and administrators. The hearing is held whether there is any contest or objection to it or not. The board's decision is the decision of the United States Atomic Energy Commission unless it is reviewed. The Atomic Energy Commission may review it on the appeal of any party or on its own motion. In addition to that there is a further safeguard. The decision of the safety licensing board can be taken on appeal to the American High Court also. Finally, after all this has been done, to ensure that justice is administered fully, there is the Joint Committee on Atomic Energy of the United States Congress. 
Let the Minister tell the Committee what he proposes to do by way of providing public information. All that he gave us was guff. It was nothing more than propaganda. We want the facts. We are entitled to them. This is the Parliament of the nation and we want the facts. I speak for a quarter of a million people who are menaced by this reactor. We want a proper inquiry into conditions of public safety. We do not want to be fobbed off by ministerial guff. We do not want to be fobbed off by the propaganda that is put forward by the Minister. It might be the voice of the Government, but the hand is the hand of the Atomic Energy 
Commission, which is the dictator to the Government in this matter. It is pushing the project. The voice might be the voice of Jacob, but the hand is the hand of Esau. The prime target of aggression in Australia today would be the steelworks at Port Kembla and the Jervis Bay reactor. We will fight the Government all the way on this. 
Question put: 
That the amendment  (Mr Stewart's)  be agreed to. 
Has the AttorneyGeneral examined the restrictive penalties imposed by the Western Australian Parliament in its legislation on interstate exports of iron ore without its consent? Has he examined the restrictive price structure imposed by Esso-BHP and the Premier of Victoria which has delayed Bass Strait natural gas supplies to New South Wales for several years? Will he in particular examine the extent to which both these restrictions are monopolisation contrary to the Trade Practices Act and in breach of section 92 and other provisions of the Commonwealth of Australia Constitution Act? 
The Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Anthony)  less than 4 weeks ago in this House attacked the Labor Opposition for daring to favour cheap food. It is a matter that will not be forgotten by workers and pensioners on Senate voting day. Wages, the price of human labour, are the only commodity under universal price control in the Commonwealth today. Wages are lagging further behind than ever in the race with prices, and a Labor Government will give them a chance to catch up. In his recently tabled third annual report, the Commissioner of Trade Practices,  Mr Bannerman,  stated: 
The depression of the 1930s, and wartime price control, led to many of the price-fixing agreements still current and to the pre-disposition of many businessmen to agree on prices with their competitors. Common criticisms of price control by governments are that it constitutes undue interference with business freedom, and tends to produce uniformity and to damp down competition. These may be valid criticisms, if the comparison is between government price control and competition. Often, however, il is not competition, but industry agreement on prices, thai has replaced Government price control, which was at least known to the public. 
Australia today is the last frontier ot uninhibited monopoly and concerted price control by companies to the detriment of the Australian consumer, primary producer and pensioner. Just about every restrictive economic practice known to man is used in Australia. These restrictive practices and their associated agreements are accepted in this country as 'orderly marketing'. The economist for the Australian Mutual Provident Society,  Dr Bell,  has stated that the intensity of industrialised concentration in Australia is generally accepted as perhaps the highest in the world. Our economy is dominated by some 200 companies including 40 giants. Of these giants 40 per cent are owned or substantially controlled by overseas interests. 
The current Trade Practices Act is a ruthlessly emasculated version of the original reformist Barwick proposals. Its Register of Trade Agreements at least reveals the existence of 12,649 examinable restrictive agreements and 1,465 trade associations responsible for their formulation and enforcement The Commissioner of Trade Practices in his report states that the most common restriction in these agreements is on price competition, and that typically they are directed to ensure profitability to companies already in an industry and not to the efficiency of the industry itself. Australian business today prefers to see free enterprise in terms of cartel control of production and distribution rather than the harsh discipline of the competitive market place. To it free enterprise represents the freedom to organise the competition out of enterprise - to keep the 'ins' in and the 'outs' out. 
In 3 years operation the Commissioner has settled by consultation with the parties a whole 17 of these 12,000 restrictive agreements. One solitary case has been heard by the Trade Practices Tribunal. In frustration the Commissioner has said the processes of the Act will take years to deal with the agreements and practices that require attention; perhaps generations would be nearer to the mark. The Act was launched with unheeded pleas for State mirror legislation, and is of doubtful constitutional validity in many parts. Although it has survived one minor attack in the Tasmanian Breweries Pty Ltd case, its applicability to intrastate trade will depend on the ability of the Chief Justice to convince the majority of his colleagues in the High Court that it has regulatory rather than prohibitory operation under the principles stated in Hughes and Vale Pty Ltd v. the State of New South Wales. 
The Attorney-General  (Mr Hughes)  has screwed up his courage, according to Press reports, to actually launch a test prosecution of the national concrete pipe cartel. Should the constitutional validity of the Act be upheld, in whole or part, and the confusion of the old Huddart Parker v. Moorehead and Coal-Vend judgments be dispelled, what will emerge still will be a ludicrously inadequate watchdog without relevance to the overriding need for national price control. The Act is notoriously weaker than the Australian Industries Preservation Act which it replaced. Paradoxically, that portion of the Trade Practices Act of undoubted constitutional validity relates to the overseas shipping conferences and their agreements with 
Australian exporters. Its woolly effective machinery has been deliberately ignored by a Government embarrassed by participation in the overseas container consortium as revealed in last week's debate in this House. Australian primary producers and manufacturers can be assured that they will continue to pay the highest freight rates, based on the guarantee of profitability to the least efficient shipping line, in the over-tonnaged shipping consortium. Wool growers will pay the highest freight rates at a period of lowest prices for transportation in containers unnecessary for their product. 
We clearly have in Australia a unique situation of universal negative price control by manufacturers and producers to the detriment of consumers, allegedly policed by the wretchedly imperfect Act of a reluctant Government, with secret processes of investigation, faced with the hopeless task of unlimited years of inquiry on an ever increasing register of price restrictive agreements. The Trade Practices Act provides more escape hatches for racketeers than the runways in a rat's castle. It controls neither company mergers nor horizontal price maintenance, nor refusal to deal. Its definition of 'monopoly* is designedly loose and imperfect, and its provisions on collusive bidding and tendering are fundamentally defective. The alternative is obviously the Gordian solution of positive price control for the benefit of the consumer by direct and positive investigation and proclamation. The most urgent field is in respect of basic commodities such as food, clothing and footwear. 
We have heard much recently of the politics of the street'. More will be heard in the very near future of the 'politics of the consumers' purse' in what could be a supermarket election. The 'Sydney Morning Herald' last Wednesday reported a Tamworth farmer's complaint that his colleagues were receiving 22c per lb for pork which was being retailed at 80c to 90c, and that potatoes were being sold at a 400 per cent mark up. He logically demanded to know who was receiving the difference. Positive consumer price control will provide for economic justice to housewive, pensioner and primary producer alike. The people of Australia are justifiably cynical at the ruthless profiteering, and the Government's calculated obstinacy in refusing to control it. In Sydney recently Woolworth's General Manager warned manufacturers and producers that it would not accept unjustified price increases. He said: 
One manufacturer put all his prices up by 40 per cent across the board. We simply do not believe that there is any justification for the amount of the increase, or foi the areas in which the increases have occurred. 
The Australian Council of Trade Unions has persistently demanded price control. The various State Labor councils and the Australian Public Service Federation have asked Federal and State Governments to bring in price control for all goods. The  President  of the ACTU has said that manufacturers should have to justify their particular rises before a public tribunal instead of fixing them in the privacy of board rooms. A real Trade Practices Act would place on parties to trade agreements, particularly those relating to price control, the onus of proving to a monopolies commission that their activities were not contrary to the public interest, and suspend operation of such agreements until approved. The well tested principles of the United States legislation would be introduced by a Labor Government into this Commonwealth. Surely the Trade Practices Act under a Liberal Government should operate to make free enterprise mean something through the endless prodding of competitive pressure. 
In the coming Senate election campaign the question of price control will be one of major importance. Section 128 of the Commonwealth Constitution provides machinery under which either the Senate or the House of Representatives, despite the opposition of the other House, may submit any question to the people of Australia, for their consideration. A Labor controlled Senate will present such a question on price control to the Australian people and the result will be overwhelmingly in its favour. 
The Opposition does not oppose this Bill but offers criticism of the paucity of its provisions, the delay in its introduction and the failure of the Government adequately to conceive of. the modern trends in the world of banking. In terms of mechanics this Bill merely repeals section 88 of the Bills of Exchange Act and substitutes in its place proposed sections 88b to 88e inclusive. It is true that finance is government and, of course, this Government typically justifies the old saying of 'a mountain in labour which has brought forth the proverbial mouse'. The Government's thinking is outmoded. It is living in an economic and intellectual backwater. Quite a number of years ago the Manning Committee brought down a very substantial report. It adequately and conscientiously covered the whole field of cheques and bills of exchange. It went so far as to draft a new Cheques Act which it suggested might be considered by the Government. Of course the Government with its usual Fabian concepts and modes of behaviour has failed to do anything about it. For what the Bill is worth it merely deals with some of the mechanics of handling cheques payable to order. 
Very substantial, of course, in terms of the mechanics of banking and the number of tellers to be employed. There will conceivably be a quite substantial saving to the trading banks. We do not disapprove of this but we offer very strong criticism of the absence of legislation relating to the crossing of cheques and also the absence of a new Cheques Bill. As a matter of fact, as the Attorney-General  (Mr Hughes)  mentioned, the general law relating to Bills of Exchange originated way back in the year 1882 because our Bills of Exchange Act as it now stands is based substantially upon that measure. On the mechanics of the handling of cheques payable to order I repeat the comment made by the AttorneyGeneral that of some 800 million cheques issued annually in Australia about a quarter were order cheques and at least three-quarters of all cheques that were drawn were deposited to the credit of the payee. 
The most that this Bill does is to say that if a cheque payable to order is paid into the account of the payee there is no obligation on the teller to examine the endorsement on the back of the cheque or even to check if there is an endorsement. In the case of a cheque presented over the counter for payment where it is payable to order there is still an obligation on the banker. In respect of a collecting banker there is, of course, an obligation to check an endorsement but again there is an exemption offered to the paying banker, and we do not disapprove of that. But we do say that the Government is about 20 years behind the times in its whole approach to banking. A cheque is, of course, a bill of exchange drawn on a banker and bills of exchange have a very long history. There is perhaps a very rudimentary form of a bill market in Australia and it is time that the Government considered stimulating a true bill market, because if one takes the example of the English financial system the rate of discount for bills of exchange is the main economic regulator of the British economy. It could well be done in this country. A bill of exchange is a very potent and valuable weapon and a very good means for a government actually to control the credit on issue in a country. 
In more general terms this Government has completely failed since the early 1950s to prevent the gradual filching of the control of the credit system of the country that is taking place by the hire purchase system and by the fringe banking system - the grey banking system as it is called - and more recently it has completely failed to control the advent of merchant banks from overseas. Wherever there is a honey pot one will find the flies gathering. I do not disapprove of the Government's policy of restricting the number of banking charters. We quite agree with that. One of the main characteristics of banking in the last 20 years has been the gradual diminution of the number of trading banks and so far as I am concerned - and I speak for the Opposition - they are reputable, well administered, sound and conscientious organisations. But if one examines the total advances of the hire purchase system today one will find that they almost equal those of the banking system. 
That is due to the decision of the Government in the early 1950s to curtail the extent to which trading banks could discount the promissory notes and hire purchase agreements offered as security by various finance companies. When they were told there was a limit to the credit available to them they decided to thumb their noses at the Government and to go on to the open market and borrow directly from the public. That decision resulted in the distorted interest rates which prevail in this country today. This situation is nothing short of a major scandal. 
I particularly want to draw the attention of the Government to a decision of the High Court of Australia given 57 years ago. I refer to a case in the High Court between the Commissioners of the State Savings Bank of Victoria and Permewan, Wright and Co. Ltd in which it was held:   . . that the essential characteristics of banking were the collection of money by receiving deposits on loan, repayable when and as agreed upon, and the utilisation of the money so collected by lending it again in such sums as were required. A majority held further that it was not necessary, in order to bring a banker within the Bills of Exchange Act that he should as part of his business collect cheques for, or pay the cheques of, his customers. 
In other words, that definition exactly fits the functions of the average hire purchase company in Australia today. Those companies are not dealing merely with hire purchase. They are usurping the functions of banking. Every form of credit must be brought under the control of the Banking Act and under the control of the national government. The power is there. Let the Government use it if it will because the activities of these organisations today are responsible for the record rate of interest being paid on long term loans that are being raised by this Government. The only way to curb this is to place these institutions under control. 
Perhaps one of the least satisfactory aspects of the banking system today is the participation by the major trading banks in subsidiary hire purchase companies. There is an old motto that if you cannot beat them, join them. Under the circumstances I suppose that there is some justification for this participation by the trading banks but the sooner we place the control of all credit back in the banking system the better for all concerned. I do not suggest that these fringe banking organisations should be given full banking charters but I do say that they ought to be brought in under a secondary charter and placed in a subordinate capacity. Equally today we find merchant banks coming in- 
I support the amendment moved by the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam).  The 1970-71 Budget is now an anachronism. The Government has been galvanised into activity by the rather unique release of a Treasury report by courtesy of the publicity of Messrs Newton and Walsh. Of course, for the first time, we get a glimmer of the truth in contrast to the normal behaviour of the Government which relies upon both obfuscation and obmu- tescence. There has been a great flurry in the Government dovecote in recent weeks, due to the unprecedented post-war increase of 1.9 per cent in the cost of living index prior to the Arbitration Commission's decision. 
The last Budget contained a snide tax reduction in preparation for an electioneering Budget for the impending Senate campaign. At the same time it horrified orthodox economists with an 1 1 .2 per cent rise in Government expenditure. The Government gave, with one hand, a fictitious income tax reduction and, with the other hand, took it away by indirect taxation. It has been correctly said that no-one with an income of less than $6,000 a year benefited by the Budget. Those with incomes between $6,000 and 510,000 a year received a little. Those with higher incomes benefited by the Budget. 
This Government, of course, has always had a vested interest in inflation. If honourable members want proof of that they need look only at the income tax structure which has remained unaltered, except for a 2* per cent variation, over the last 15 years. One of the more unique features of the Budget which appears to have escaped the attention of the Australian people is that there was a little nest egg of $634m buried away in it - more than what the Government needed for its current outgoings. The purpose of that was so that the Government could subscribe to its own loans or pay out those bond holders who wished to redeem their securities. 
If one looks at the statement of the Prime Minister  (Mr Gorton)  one can discern his theme. He says, in effect: 'There has been an increase from $7,882m to $8, 124m in the Budget expenditure - a rise of $262m. I intend, for publicity purposes, to put on an act to impress the Australian people, and cut it back by $75m. The residues I will finance in this fashion.' Here again we are indebted to the revelations contained in the Treasury report to which 1 have previously referred. The Government anticipates that the 6 per cent increase will pump between S900m and $950m for a full year info the national economy in increased wages. For a half year the yield will be $1 15m to $120m by way of income tax. This is just a nice little nest egg to offset the $167m. 
To take it a stage further, in the 5 months remaining in the fiscal year, with the abolition of investment allowances, the Government would recoup another $25m. In addition to that, with escalation of the wage tax scales, with everyone going up into a higher group, another $40m would be added. Further, the Government has a particularly high redemption programme in the next 7 months with a little matter of $61 lm worth of loans maturing. The Government proposes, because it is rather difficult today with the lack of confidence on the part of the Australian investors to get new money into Commonwealth loans, to have $634m up its sleeve and to put this amount through the Loan Consolidation and Investment Reserve into loans, or in this case into redemptions, and save itself the better part of another $30m. In other words, by some nice handsome sleight of hand the net impact of the Government's proposal is very little in terms of its actual income. 
The people who have been ignored in all of this are the pensioners. Before they had even received their 50c increase they had lost it by the immediate increase in inflation which resulted from the last Budget. The victims of inflation are always the aged, the poor, the unskilled, the civil servants, the small savers, the superannuants and' the holders of small life assurance policies. Finance for schools, hospitals, housing, roads and harbours is to be cut. The whole of the State infrastructure upon which this national Government depends for its income sources is to be cut. The six States are to be reduced to a mendicant status. More than that, the six State Premiers have been treated like schoolboys. They receive one-third of the total revenues. They actually have to bear the burden nominally - and I will come to this later - of about three-quarters of the total loan indebtedness. But in actual fact the Commonwealth is still continuing to finance its capital works from revenue. There are financial relations and financial practices between the Commonwealth and the States which would horrify an orthodox economist if they were fully revealed. Today the Commonwealth is holding in State bonds an amount that is equal to its total capital debt. Worse than that, the Commonwealth is lending surplus revenue to the States and charging them interest on it. 
The present problems as I see them are as follows. We have a record rate of increase in the cost of living. Record interest rates are being paid on Commonwealth bonds and charged by banks to borrowers on overdraft. We have record redemptions of maturing loans and minimum subscription to long term bonds. The last two cash and conversion loans at the end of 1970 were relative flops. The new money that came during the last half year amounted to $55m. In contrast $120m was received for the previous half year. Record interest rates have been charged on housing advances and the extra burden on the average young couple is anything from $2,500 to $4,000, depending on the period of their loan. There is record credit being issued today outside the control of the Reserve Bank. Record interest rates are being paid by prime borrowers for company debentures. Firms such as John Lysaght (Aust) Ltd are paying 9i per cent and  9b  per cent is being paid by leading Melbourne retailers. Record borrowing rates are being paid to overseas lenders and the Government is prepared to offer even more. The last loan that was negotiated was at 7.75 per cent with a further provision for escalation in the event of an alteration of the exchange rate. 
The Government had its fingers burnt when it floated a loan in Deutschmarks at 7 per cent following an upward valuation of the Deutschmark. Record remittances are being made to overseas companies that operate in Australia. In fact, we are coming to the point in 1974, following the forecast of the Vernon Committee's report, where the outflow of our commitments - interest, royalties, dividends and so forth - will equal the inflow of capital. There is a record postwar low in the open market for Commonwealth bonds, thanks to the Government's decision last year in a hamhanded way to up the long term Commonwealth bond rate to 7 per cent. People who a few months before had bought Commonwealth bonds in the expectation that they would be able to sell them in the normal way, less a nominal fee for brokerage, have found that the value of these bonds has dropped. In fact, in the case of some of the older bonds, a bond worth $100 is ranging in value, according to ils interest rate, from $85 to $96. This is scarcely a way in which to encourage future investments on the part of the general public. 
There is a record postwar low for wool prices and a record unsold surplus of both wool and wheat. There is a record public sector debt and crisis. One-third of the rural community is in an, impossible position. There are record State loan debts and State Budget deficits. There is a record scale of shipping freights which is being imposed upon the Australian exporters and particularly on the primary producer. There are a record number of restrictive agreements which have been registered under the Trade Practices Act. Record percentages of wages and salaries are being paid under the present crushing taxation scale. There have been record company crashes. Mineral Securities Australia Ltd, or Minsec, is *he latest example. There have been a record number of stock exchange scandals, and public confidence in stock exchanges is at an all-time low. There is record foreign ownership of Australian natural resources. Finance is government and control of credit and the issue and stability of currency is a major function of government. It was Keynes who said: 
There is no subtler, no surer means of overturning the existing basis of society than to debauch the currency. 
That applies whether the society is capitalist or socialist. It is nice to note that the Treasurer  (Mr Bury)  is at the table because I want to quote a remark made by the Prime Minister. He said in April 1970, contradicting the Treasurer: 
The consumer price index is a bit higher than it ought to be, but it is nothing which anyone could regard with disquiet. 
I say that today Australia regards Gorton and Gortonian economics with disquiet. We have inflicted upon us a presidential style of government with jawboning, guidelines and off the cuff decisions which result in hit or miss results. The Prime Minister would never use an economic knife or scalpel when an axe or bludgeon was at hand. His is capricious; he is uncertain and pragmatic. But even he now sees the need for national restrictive trade practices legislation to be introduced. He awaits, of course, belatedly the decision of the High Court in the Concrete Pipes case. But 1 repeat the offer of the Leader of the Opposition that the Prime Minister go to the people. He should go to the people not only on the question of restrictive trade practices but also on the question of prices. Price control would sweep the Australian community today if it were submitted to it by way of constitutional amendment. 
In the time remaining to me I would like to illustrate my point. Prices control is always rubbished. Let us take the case of a recent increase in the cost of a pair of shoes which formerly sold at $15 and which have been immediately upped by 6 per cent to $16. The price of these shoes from the manufacturer was $10. The actual labour cost component was 30 per cent of that $10. The actual increase of the 6 per cent was a matter of 18c; yet immediately that is translated into a $1 increase in the price of these shoes. That is the type of thing that needs to be controlled, lt can be controlled only by a tribunal, established on a national basis, which can deal with all proposed price increases. The control of prices is a weapon. It is a serious weapon. It is a deadly one. But it can be used with discretion. It can be used with common sense. It can be used to make sure that the worker is no longer to be filched of his true earnings. 
Here 1 wish to deliver a Parthian shot byreferring to a statement made by  Mr Colin  Clark, a well-known economist. This statement appeared in yesterday's edition of the Sydney Morning Herald'. He said: 
Some people put the blame on rising wages. Some more specifically, put the blame on the Arbitration Court: or on  Mr Hawke  as an advocate. But they are wide of the mark. Rising wages are a consequence, not a cause. The decisions of the Arbitration Court may make some difference to some public employees, and to others who do not have strong unions: but generally speaking, the Court does no more than follow what would have been the movements of the labour market in any case. 
My question is addressed to the Prime Minister. Will he make a comprehensive statement to the House for its information following his recent conference with various parties interested in a plan of salvage of the affairs of Mineral Securities Australia Ltd? Will he in particular inform the House of the respective roles and interests therein of the Australian Resources Development Bank, the Australian Industries Development Corporation, the Reserve Bank and certain life assurance companies? Will he allay public fears that the rescue plan evolved will result in a further diminution of Australian control of Australian mineral resources? Will he instruct the Insurance Commissioner to investigate and report upon the extent of any participation in the imbroglia by any life assurance companies? 

 - Mr Chairman, I direct my comments to that portion of the subject report relating to the Attorney-General's Department. The Attorney-General has the administrative responsibility for the companies law. Today there is public consternation over the Minsec scandal - I think that is a pretty fair summation of it - and the moves that have been made in the nature of a so-called rescue operation and all that they entail. The Minsec collapse is the largest in the history of the Australian share market and conceivably could have international repercussions. I do not attempt in any way to cast aspersions on the activities of those who have been responsible for organising the rescue operation but I do say that this Government has only itself to blame for what has happened because it has ignored the repeated warnings of the Opposition on the need for a securities exchange commission. The Prime Minister  (Mr Gorton)  took such a serious view of the matter than on the invitation of  Sir Val  Duncan and  Sir Cecil  Looker he was responsible for convening a conference of parlies interested in or affected by the repercussions of the Minsec crash. It would appear that Minsec has secured debts amounting to $46m and unsecured debts about $l5m, according to Press figures. 
The control of Minsec has been in the hands of a group of young men of considerable brilliance. You could almost say that they have been the whiz kids of the mining boom in Australia. But they overplayed their hand, and with drastic consequences. I want to stress the fact that on 25th January of this year they gave a report to Minsec shareholders on business for the half year in which they stated that Minsec had made a consolidated profit in the 6 months in excess of $3.5m. Less than a fortnight later they lamely reported that Minsec had suffered a loss instead of a profit. The amount of the loss - $3. 28m - almost equalled the earlier reported profit. It was disclosed in the course of subsequent investigations that in the second half of 1970 the Minsec group had sold through brokers 6.15 million shares in the Robe River mining project - quite legitimately - but also through one of its subsidiaries the group had bought 6.37 million shares. I think those facts speak for themselves. Obviously the group was propping up the market. 
The rescue operation has been confronted with serious difficulties. It would appear that the shrewd boys in the share broking world and the investing world decided to get in quickly out of the wet. Behind it all is the looseness of the transactions on the inter-company loan market. The point that seriously concerns the liquidator and those who were responsible for the rescue operation - it certainly concerns the ordinary shareholders - is that preferential security has been given and was demanded by some of the major creditors of the company. The comment that was published this morning in the 'Sydney Morning Herald' is most illuminating. The newspaper contains a reported conversation between  Mr Van  Toll, a member of the Ord-BT group, and a  Mr Todner  in these terms: 
Van Toll: '1  saw your Managing Director  at  the meeting of creditors that was held at Ord-BT. I was sorry to see you are involved.' 
Todner:  'We are now secured.' 
Van Toll:  'When did you get your security?' 
Todner:  'Last Tuesday' (February 2). 
Van Toll:  'I think that might be the sort of security you could paper your walls with.' 
Todner:  'I don't know what right they had to give it to us but we have it and we are sticking to it.' 
How far are the Prime Minister of Australia and certain major statutory bodies to involve themselves in an imbroglio of this nature? I think that question merits an answer from the Treasurer and from the Government. It is true that if these shares were unloaded on the market at the present time the market would collapse, but surely that is a matter for the liquidator. I will not use the word 'fraudulent' but I do say that unfair and voidable preferences have been given and that as this firm progressively floundered deeper into debt by over-extending itself in the nature of its share transactions it was asked for and it gave undue preference to certain of its creditors. This is something that the rescue operation cannot sort out. There has been a variation in the quality and market calibre of some shares held. Those sitting on good security naturally will want to keep it but at the best it would appear that no more than an equitable charge has been created in respect of the majority of shares held. 
The remedy is a simple one. In respect of every mining company carrying on operations - 
 I address my remarks to the item in division 130 which relates to legal aid - payments in special circumstances. In accordance with your ruling,  Mr Chairman,  I may speak to this item because it relates to expenditure that has occurred as a result of the operations of the last financial year. I make the point very strongly that the cost of litigation today can be prohibitive, and in many cases public spirited citizens with appropriate assistance from the Commonwealth of Australia would be prepared to test matters of grave constitutional importance. Today we are unfortunately labouring under the defects of an imperfect Constitution under which sovereign powers still remain with the States although a limited cession of certain of these powers was made grudgingly by the States to the Commonwealth. 
The arbiter between the States and the Commonwealth and between the citizen and the Commonwealth is in all cases the High Court of Australia. Anyone who approaches the courts of our land, particularly the courts of senior jurisdiction, does so at his financial peril. I do not want to probe the reasons at any length. The point I want to make is that provision should be made in the future for cases of this nature. May I remind the House that early in the last financial year the Territorial Sea and Continental Shelf Bill 1970, which is at present in a sort of procedural limbo, was introduced and- 
In the middle of a sentence and before I had completed the thought I wanted to present, you chose to interrupt me. 
I was just coming to precisely that point when you chose to interrupt me. The point I want to make is that within my city there is a grave matter of constitutional importance. I wanted to cite the parallel of the offer which had been made by no less a person than the Prime Minister of Australia  (Mr Gorton)  to any of the States which are prepared, to challenge the constitutional validity of the legislation to which I have referred. I make and stand by the point that any public spirited citizen, particularly someone who also has a personal stake, is entitled to ask in special circumstances for special assistance. That is the phrasing used in the item to which I direct my remarks, 'Payments in Special Circumstances'. The special circumstance relates specifically to a test case which is looming and on which an approach will be made to the Commonwealth for assistance in respect of certain legislation of the State of New South Wales which transgresses upon the Commonwealth's constitutional rights and sovereignty over the continental shelf. 
I will take the matter no further. I am just giving warning that the approach will be made and it will be on a matter that concerns Clutha Development Pty Ltd and legislation which has been enacted by the New South Wales Parliament and the validity or otherwise of a contract already entered into which gives certain rights to Clutha Development Pty Ltd. 
I preface my question to the Prime Minister by reminding him that the subscribed capital of the Broken Hill Proprietary Co. Ltd is $266m and that the announced profit for the half year just ended of $80m is in itself a 30 per cent return on that issued capital. In view of these facts I ask: Because of this company's national monopoly in steel production and near national monopoly in crude oil production, will the Prime Minister ensure that a national dividend will be collected for the people of Australia by its Government imposing a super tax on excessive profits? 
This measure is for the purpose of repealing section 62aa of the Income Tax Assessment Act. It leaves intact section 62ab. Historically section 62aa was introduced as what might be termed a political douceur or sweetener to rehabilitate the status and the fortunes of the Government immediately after its hair breadth escape from annihilation at the hands of the Australian electors in the 1961 election. With a sudden and well understood excess of generosity the Government decided that the then statutory permission to write off progressively over a period of years 100 per cent of certain forms of industrial equipment should be taken a stage further and an extra 20 per cent made available in the first year of income. 
The Opposition, of course, supports the measure. We do so not only because the original legislation has been a scandal on the Statute Book, but after all there is always a sense of approval and approbation and even heartwarming to see repentance on the part of fiscal sinners. For that reason alone we welcome the measure. In more simple terms - and after all it is finance that counts - the Government proposes to take back a gift which has grown to the point of between $65m and $70m a year. This has been a very special and at all times a much criticised concession. If honourable members want proof of this  I  refer the House to the statements attached to the last Budget Speech in which the following figures were given. The amount for investment allowance - manufacturing - was set at §46.5m. That is the estimated revenue foregone for the year 1968-69. We can add to that figure a little matter of another $8. 5m for primary production. This expenditure is provided for in section 62ab of the Act. This makes a total of S55m. 
The Treasurer  (Mr Bury)  in his introductory speech said that there had been an increase in the subsequent year 1969-70 of approximately 20 per cent which would bring the amount foregone for the year 1969-70 to $65m. This year I think the amount would go considerably higher than that. It is very interesting to speculate upon the background against which this action has been taken. Dog does not normally eat dog and this makes it all the more intriguing to examine the Government's real motivation. As a matter of fact, the amount to be foregone approximates the amount which the States have been forced to waive in respect of the graduated receipts tax. There we find one more of the fiscal chickens of the Prime Minister  (Mr Gorton)  coming home to roost. I need scarcely remind the House that it was the Prime Minister who quite off the cuff, in his usual impulsive and impetuous style, decided at a conference with the State Premiers that if they wanted more money, and if they wanted a tax to supplement their meagre pittances they might well consider a graduated receipts tax. In that regard he quoted the noble example of Western Australia. Finally, when the State Premiers discovered the technical problems involved, and particularly the cost of administration, they came back to chide the Prime Minister. As a result we see this measure today. 
Of course, the measure now before us is paraded as part of an anti-inflationary package. Nevertheless it is the end, as I said before, of a straight-out scandal. Of course, the Government today is in a rather difficult financial position. It is scraping the bottom of the fiscal barrel. Thanks to its own foolishness in using the building industry as an economic regulator, and tampering with interest rates - with the subsequent flow through to bond rates, the Government has found that there is a very marked reluctance on the part of the normal investing public to accept Commonwealth bonds as a regular form of investment. Of course, it so happens that for this year it will have $61 lm which will accrue in maturing bonds. The Government has very cautiously set aside in the Loan Consolidation and Investment Reserve an amount of about S634m to make sure that in any event it can redeem those bonds as and when they fall due. If the Government wants more revenue it certainly cannot back track on its rather embarrassing decision to give a 10 per cent reduction in income tax. The Government cannot seek economies, for instance, in its commitments to the Vietnam war because this is part of the Government's political stock in trade by which it hopes to perpetuate itself in office. Of course, the Fill deal adds to the Government's further financial embarrassment. 
Hence, there is a need for the Government to look its best supporters straight in the eye and say: 'We are very sorry boys, but we have to do it; we have no alternative. You are for it. Again, the Government cannot look towards a lot of sympathy from the holders of its bonds who are locked in the market today because there has been a very substantial drop in the share market in the amount that the average Australian investor is prepared to pay for a $100 Commonwealth bond. It is as low as $85 and can shade up to $96. This is a very sad state of affairs when we consider that bonds that are available on the Stock Exchange should be normally readily convertible at somewhere near their face value, less brokerage. Certainly in the future those who are holding bonds which are currently depreciated at that figure, can scarcely be enthusiastic, if and when their loans fall due, about further investment. We can take it also that the Government cannot expect any further substantial increase in the inflow of overseas investment because here again investment is on tha down grade. 
In directing my question  to the Prime Minister I refer him to the comment of the Trade Practices Commissioner in his last annual report thatthere is more restraint placed on competition in Australia by restrictive agreements than in almost any other developed country that you care to think of.I ask: Are equally obnoxious restrictions imposed by current legislation on the prompt investigation of some 13,000 restrictive agreements on the secret registry? Have fewer than 60 of those agreements been disposed of in the last 5 years? Will the Government take action to ensure that the secret registry is subject to public scrutiny, and will it apply the principle of onus of proof to participating parties as prevails in comparable legislation overseas? Or does it intend to perpetuate the present haven of restrictive secrecy and procrastination? 
I listened with great interest to the Minister for Shipping and Transport  (Mr Nixon),  particularly to his disclosure that the Government was not quite sure of the internal economics of the cost of Canberra considered as a municipality. That is one of the matters which we seek to probe in the terms of the motion for disallowance of certain ordinances, which was moved by the honourable member for Reid  (Mr Uren).  It is worth reminding the House that there are 4  systems of  land tenure in Canberra at the present time. There is the special purposes leases ordinance which affects 180 leaseholders: the church leases ordinance which affects 20; the general leases ordinance which affects 10,000 and the city area leases ordinance which is the major one and affects 23,000 leaseholders. Canberra land tenures today are in a mess. Empiricism is triumphant and bureaucracy rampant. 
It is this Government which has presided over the major growth of Canberra from 1950 with a population of about 15,000 to 1971 with a population of about 135,000 which is responsible for the mess because this Government has during the major period of development tinkered and tampered with the concept of a system of land tenure by leasehold. Confusion will be worse confounded as a result of the operation of these new ordinances. There are no statistics available to the House in justification of these new ordinances nor is the Government capable of giving any. A full inquiry is the only way in which any light can be thrown on the true cost of Canberra, its development, its administration and the severance of that portion of those costs which should fairly be borne by the home owners and business and commercial interests. The impact of these new ordinances will vary it considerably. Some will gain but I believe more will lose. Only an inquiry will finally determine the facts. In Canberra land rent has been transmuted into a hybrid form of municipal rates which, if we can take the experience of other major cities, will probably be  2i  per cent of its true value. For that reason [ think there will be considerable rejoicing on the part of the major commercial interests. If there is to be a change in usage the Government, of course, will want to be cut in on the loot to the tune of some 50 per cent. 
Another matter which has not been touched on and which ought to be answered by the Government through its remaining speakers in this debate is the fact that for many years the people of Canberra have been denied the right to deduct for purposes of income tax their rental as being the equivalent of municipal rates. But, of course, in the interim it has been possible for business interests and commercial interests to write off over the period of the lease the cost of their respective enterprises. What will be the comparative position of - we have yet to hear anything on this - home owners in such differing areas of development and social status as Forrest, Deakin and Red Hill with newcomers to areas such as Belconnen and the Woden Valley? Are these newcomers to be mulcted for higher premiums than would have operated under the terms of the former leases ordinance? I say they will be. Again the final determinant in the cost of land will be the Government itself and the artificial scarcity which it has chosen to create and which is responsible for the present degree of exploitation. 
I will in a moment. If the Minister cares to listen he may learn. Need I remind the House that the first leases were granted in about 1924, a matter of 47 years ago, and the unexpired portion of the term is 52 years. What is to be the principles on which those valuations are to be determined? The Government has never considered this. What is to be the impact on probate duty in respect of the same field? The Government will deal with it step by step and make the punishment fit the crime in any particular case. The people of Canberra are entitled to the opportunity to examine the impact of these ordinances, to voice their protests and, for the first time, not to be forced to accept that Big Brother knows best. 
Of the 2 Ministers who have spoken in support of the Government's action in this matter at least one comes from New South Wales and if he were in the House I would put this question to him: Would he recommend this proposed leasehold system to his wheat and wool growers, who are operating mainly under the Crown lands system of leaseholds in New South Wales? I say definitely that he would not. What is being offered as the perpetuation of a leasehold system is in fact only a pseudo leasehold. A practised conveyancer would call it an inchoate fee simple because it has some of the worst and best features of both. The best feature of course is in terms of future capital gain. The worst is in terms of the incidents which are normally associated with leasehold. To judge by the attitude of the Government and its spokesmen, particularly the 2 Ministers who spoke in this debate, one could draw a comparison with Warren Hastings who stood amazed at his own moderation, because from now on land speculation will be rampant in the Australian Capital Territory. The whole history of Australia from the arrival of the First Fleet has been one of speculation, peculation and manipulation. Alienation of the public domain is to continue under this Government and its auspices. 
Let us examine the period in which this undertaking was given. It was an election gimmick chosen as a sop to be thrown to the people of Canberra to win a by-election. What a price to pay for the abandonment of a system which was worked out in 1910 and was based on very sound principles, because the founding fathers of federation well knew what had happened in New South Wales, of which originally this area formed a part, and the scandals associated with  Sir John  Robinson and everything that followed in that period. True land management ends and land speculation will become rampant. 
This set of ordinances introduces a freehold in everything but name and it is a free-booting Government which is doing it. Allegedly it is a simplification of bureaucratic procedures. Of course, in Canberra bureaucracy is triumphant. As my colleague the honourable member for the Australian Capital Territory  (Mr Enderby)  pointed out, it decides everything from go to whoa. In legal theory all land is owned by the Crown which grants an estate. The very name 'real estate' .is a derivation of a word meaning 'royal'. Today we have in Canberra a gradual reversion to the fee simple and it is a fee simple in everything but name. The only characteristic in which it differs from fee simple is that there are covenants which can be invoked to cancel a lease in the event of non-payment of the rental or in the event of non-compliance with the limitations imposed on the usage of the land. The Government and the bureaucrats, of course, want to retain it. They want the best of both worlds and to give the people of Canberra the worst. The main characteristic of freehold is - and I quote words from the 'Canberra Times': 
A quick, total and maximum return to the vendor for the transfer of the land. 
In other words, he wants the hard cash in his sweaty little hand, and to hell with all the rest. Irreconciliably opposed to that is the principle laid down in the Seat of Government Administration Act of 1910, section 9 of which states: 
No Crown lands in the Territory shall be sold or disposed of for any estate of freehold. 
In leasehold the ownership of the land remains with the Crown and the land is leased for a rental that rises, and should rise, proportionate to the increase in its unimproved capital value. - There is direct control, of course, by government and with the Crown exercising the right of eminent domain. As a corollary the lease of land does not require an outlay of cash by a lessee. Rich and poor have equal opportunities, or at least they did under the system as originally conceived; but now that goes well and truly into the discard. Freehold land is the most expensive of all commodities, and so it will be in Canberra. Pre-war in Sydney, Newcastle and Wollongong the cost of a building allotment represented less than 10 per cent of the total cost of the home. Today it represents around 30 per cent to 40 per cent and it is worth noting that in respect of the home savings grant of $500 within 1 year, according to statistics prepared by the War Service Homes Division, that was very neatly wholly absorbed by the land speculators. The following year, of course, the Government removed that particular item from the annual report of the War Service Homes Division. 
Leasehold rental is an annual levy payable to the Crown forever and it is - and this is the essence of the leasehold system - an inextinguishable source of revenue for the people of Australia. Land is the basis of all wealth and it is the trustee security par excellence. Since the granting of the first lease in 1924 the whole history of leasehold land tenure in Canberra has been one of progressive erosion. In point of fact unfortunately purchasers in more recent years of a leasehold have been paying the full cost of a freehold and in addition they have had the impact of the land rental. The Government has only itself to blame for nol progressively year by year, or at least in triennial periods, revising the value of the land. The people of Canberra do not know where they stand. They are entitled to know. They are entitled to an inquiry. 
The major defects of the present system of land tenure in this city as I see them are as follows: The destruction of the leasehold system and its conversion to  a  virtual freehold. The 5c a year which is imposed as a rental if and when demanded is the equivalent of a quit rent under fee simple. Another essential element of leasehold tenure is that the residual ground rent goes to the Government as public trustee while tinder freehold it goes to the private landlord. The private owner receives the ground rent which rightly should go to public consolidated revenue. The periods of the revision of valuation - 20 years - are a disgrace. The new ordinances confirm that the prior situation of paying virtually full freehold prices at auction is now the legal norm. There has been a gross breach of faith with the people of Canberra by the grafting of rates onto land rentals. In other words there should be only one charge if leasehold is to prevail and that charge, as a component, should include both rent and whatever rate contribution is needed. 
Today the system of land tenure in Canberra, speaking in legal terms, is a jungle into which any person ventures at his or her peril. The smarties in business are throwing their hats up into the air for the opportunity that they see for land speculation. There have been inadequate releases of land and even here - and Liberals cannot avoid being Liberals - it is remarkable how the size of allotments has dwindled. When Canberra was first subdivided into building allotments the norm was 3 allotments to the acre; now it is 5. Wherever there is a profit to be made, the Government will go for it. The Government has failed to prove its case. The people of Canberra are entitled to a full inquiry. 
Firstly I wish to correct some very blatant errors made by the Minister for the Navy  (Dr Mackay).  The Port of Kembla is dredged to a depth of 42 feet. At the present time it can load coal on ships with a capacity of up to 65,000 tons. The State Government is calling tenders for the deepening of the coal loading section of that port to 50 feet which will enable vessels of up to 120,000 tons capacity to be loaded there. In addition to that it has announced that a second coal loader is to be built. I was present some 8 months ago when the State Minister for Public Works made the announcement. In respect of the Coalcliff roadstead as defined in section 9 of the State legislation Clutha Development Pty Ltd has already advertised the fact that the jetty is to extend 5,000 feet. This is necessary because, as the Minister would know if he had studied a hydrographic map, the 70 feet depth of water that the Ludwig vessels will require is available only at a minimum distance of 5,000 feet from shore. 
 You need not dispute it. I have represented the area for many years and I know the facts. What I have said is correct. 
In supporting my colleague, the honourable member for Hughes  (Mr Les Johnson),  I want to say that this legislation is a sell-out second only in magnitude to that of the Bass Strait oilfield. It is for that reason that we are appealing to the national Parliament which has 2 functions; first, it can control the export trade, and, second, it can, because of its sovereignty, prevent the pollution of the coastline by the proposed coal loader. If that loader operates in the Coalcliff roadstead we can be certain of the pollution of every surfing beach between Coalcliff in the north and Shellharbour in the south. That will be to the eternal discredit of this Government because it and no-one else has the power to prevent the New South Wales Government from carrying out this crowning lunacy. Today there is a world shortage of hard coking coal. 
The Minister for National Development  (Mr Swartz)  will enter this debate later and make a great announcement as to the mineral survey which is now being contemplated. 1 do not want to become emotional; I want to quote hard facts. I wish to refer to the report of the Joint Coal Board for 1970. For the past 3 years the Joint Coal Board has given warnings of the needs of the steel industry. I speak for the major centre of steel production in the southern hemisphere. Port Kembla already produces two-thirds of the nation's steel. When the new No. 5 blast furnace begins operating Port Kembla will be producing three-quarters of the nation's steel. The Joint Coal Board stated: 
On the basis of present technology the South Coast coalfield, at present the mainstay of the Australian steel industry, can be expected to have a life of little more than SO years. 
That is without an increase in exports but allowing for the projected growth in steel. That projection was made when southern district coal exports were of the order of 3i million tons a year. Clutha intends to export immediately 8 million tons of washed coal, which is the equivalent of 10 million tons of raw coal. In other words, there will be an increase of  6i  million tons for a start. I wish to cite a projection made by  Mr Cook,  the head of the Department of Geology at the Wollongong University College. He said that, depending on the rate of increase in the needs of the steel industry the projected life of this field is from 28 to 35 years. I will make these details available to the Government although it should already be aware of them. 
I know that the Minister for National Development will produce figures relating to further coal reserves that have been discovered, but the types of coal which are needed for the steel industry are very limited. They depend upon a vitrinite content and the vitrinite content which is necessary for hard coking coal, either to be used by itself or blended with lesser types of coal - I am speaking in terms of hardness - is 55 per cent. The Japanese coal export trade is picking the eyes out of our major coal reserves, particularly those reserves which are suitable for hard coking coal. The Japanese themselves are continuing with blast furnace production of steel and I dispute the suggestion of the Minister for the Navy that there will be alterations in steel technology; there will not be any alteration in the foreseeable future. 
Let the Government be warned,, because it will have the responsibility: The availability of hard coking coal in the right proportions and in sufficient reserves is a matter of life or death for my constituents. But it is more than that. The former Deputy Prime Minister said: 'Are we to be a quarry or a farm?' We need that coal and we need a national fuel and energy policy. This Government .has been recreant to its trust for 20 years and the Opposition has pounded it for this. It still has to evolve a policy, but it cannot and will not do so. The nations of the world are lining up already making inquiries as to what they can get in the way of Australian hard coking coal. The British Steel Corporation, Holland, France, Italy, Western Germany - you name it - are ali making inquiries. Trial shipments have already been sent abroad. If the Clutha people are allowed even to start with their initial export target of 10 million tons of raw coal - 8 million tons of washed coal - the life expectancy of my constituency will be seriously reduced. It is as bad as that. Let the Government give its answer - and an answer it lacks. 
It may be suggested that testing has shown that there are very substantial reserves of coal in the Sydney basin, but where there is an overlay of more than 1,000 feet, with coal extraction technology today it is impossible to work such reserves. It can be done but it is dear coal and that in turn means dear steel. We have in Australia 16,000 million tons of iron ore. We have 16,000 million tons of various types of coal. But within the southern coalfield the limit that is available, as stated by the Joint Coal Board, is 2,020 million tons. That figure must be reduced because a certain amount cannot be extracted owing to physical limitations - rolls of stone as they are called - and then the figure must be reduced further because of what is lost through washing the coal to bring it up to the highest possible standard. We are left with a matter of 1,500 million tons. 
At the present time the coal industry is using 8,600,000 tons of coal a year in my constituency. The projections of the Joint Coal Board are that by the year 2000 the steel industry alone will be using 30 million tons of coal a year. What is the Government's answer? It has not got one. When the Government tries to bandy statistics in terms of black coal, let it state the vitrinite content of that coal. Not all the coal within the South Coast area has a high vitrinite content. Blending is required even with coal from the Bulli and Wongawilli seams. 
Lest the Government should also suggest that there is some economic advantage in this contract I give the hard facts.  Mr Daniel  Ludwig is a notoriously shrewd operator. He is the biggest shipping tycoon in the world. He operates from tax havens.  His  ships operate under flags of convenience. What will be the result of the Clutha operation if the Government is foolish enough to permit exports to start? The coal will be sold to a subsidiary company registered in Bermuda at production cost and then, keeping a straight face, Clutha executives will allege to the Commissioner for Taxation, in a quite apologetic document: 'We have barely broken even this year'. The subsidiary will resell the coal and the profits for Australia will be nil. Clutha and Ludwig are two of the toughest operators that one will find in any part of the business and commercial world. Another major scandal is that the New South Wales Government is so inept that even the royalties which it has imposed are not to be varied for a period of 20 years. In the meantime inflation will continue and the coa! reserves will be further depleted while the world price of coking coal will continue to rise. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Lucock) 

Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
Sitting suspended from 5.50 to 8.40 p.m. 
I direct my question to the Minister for Labour and National Service. I preface it by referring him to the remarks, as published, of  Mr Commissioner  Winter, to the effect that unless a satisfactory price-wage relationship could be secured he was not optimistic for the future of any kind of reasonable industrial relations and that wage earners could not have their real living standards suffering erosion from the very moment an arbitrator set a fair and reasonable standard in the current economic environment. Will the Minister accept the guidance of this distilled industrial wisdom in lieu of provocative enforcement of penal sanctions which themselves are without counterpart in any other industrial democracy? Will he accept the advice of a substantial section of Australian employers who, wisely foreseeing a fruitless major industrial conflict resulting, oppose such enforcement? 
The honourable member for Lalor  (Dr  J.  F. Cairns) has correctly stated the attitude of our Party to the general question of tariffs. I support him to the hilt. The honourable member for Wakefield  (Mr Kelly)  has been for many years an arch priest of free trade. Tonight he felt entitled to rhapsodise on the advent of the mi.lenium in relation to the future functioning of the Tariff Board. Perhaps in the light of certain other developments which will follow quite naturally from the visit of the Japanese Minister for International Trade and Industry we might be approaching the day of economic judgment instead. As I see the picture, the Government has no reason to congratulate itself on its handling of the tariff issue and the fate of its tariffs. Its approach to tariffs will largely depend on our future trading relations with Japan in particular. Debates on tariffs are endemic. They are like malaria. They are difficult to live with but one cannot shake them off. 
There are quite a few facts that ought to be noted. Firstly, despite all the wailing and the wringing of withers on the part of certain sections of the financial Press the hard truth is that a matter of 71 per cent of our imports are either free of tariffs or within the 12i per cent limit which is considered nominal and acceptable. That information is contained in the latest report of the Tariff Board. As for the remaining 29 per cent of imports, it would appear that the average usage of the tariffs as a whole is of the order of 28 per cent. If we are looking at points of reference we see that the Tariff Board said that anything at or below a tariff of 25 per cent is acceptable and this is a reasonable measure of tariff protection. That being so, if we look at things in the round there is not a lot to criticise. There are some individual cases capable of correction. There are undoubtedly some abuses, but nevertheless we as a Party are by instinct, by tradition, by policy and by persuasion a Party of protection, as is every other worthwhile trading nation in the world, particularly every nation which has industrial developmental aspirations. Australian industry can be said to have really commenced with the men who were attracted to Victoria in the days of the gold rush. They did not find gold and they went to Melbourne and formed an urban proletariat. They provided the labour force for the first real Australian industry. The tariff issue has been one of constant controversy ever since. 
I am a hard liner on tariffs but I am not a fool. I know where correction is necessary - but, let it be said, limited correction - and where there is a need to modify the tariff let us have a look at the other side of the picture because in all cases trade is reciprocal, or it will be for Australia in the future. From now on we will not be dealing with hard currency countries such as the United Kingdom where in certain cases we could sell our goods and receive currency. It will be a matter of reciprocity because today we live in a new, changing and very unaccustomed world of trade. Tariffs, of course, bulk very largely in our Constitution. If honourable members choose to examine the Australian Constitution they will find that no fewer than 10 of some 130 sections relate specifically to questions of tariffs. 
The Government has its proponents both of tariff maintenance and tariff reduction. But this should be said: If we want really to know where we are to go in the future as a nation we have to consider much broader issues than merely the functioning of the Tariff Board with all its limitations. I say, particularly to members of the Liberal Party, that the Tariff Board will never cease to work until we can remove from its windpipe the arm bar which the Country Party has always placed on it. As a reflex action, the Country Party demands the right to the Trade and Industry portfolio. The constant friction between that Ministry and the Treasury is a matter of notoriety and of scandal because up to date the Tariff Board has been in many instances given its riding instructions by the agrarian pressure group known to Australia as the Country Party. 
Where do we stand in Australia today? We need to look at this question in a very broad perspective. We are in a world where the major countries, particularly the United States of America and the United Kingdom, are in a phase commonly called stagnation - stagnation in terms of an increase in productivity but with inflation continuing Australia is still heavily dependent upon an inflow of some $ 1,000m to $1,1 00m per annum of investment to balance our trade on current account. I am not speaking of the trading balance; I am speaking of the balance of payments on current account. Although we have recently had quite an influx of hot money attracted by the marginal difference between our current interest rates and those of other countries, that hot money will go out again as quickly as it came in. So we are not in a position to dispense largesse to other countries stronger than we are in terms of international trade. Quite the reverse. As a matter of fact, we are due for the squeeze and it is coming with the visit of the Japanese trade delegation which was really the trail breaker, followed, of course, by the Japanese Minister for International Trade,  Mr Miyazawa. 
We are drifting gradually from our old relations with Britain but I will not burden the House with the general lessening percentage of our trade with the United Kingdom. Australia forms part of a Pacific triangle of trade and in that triangle we have a very substantial favourable balance with Japan. Japan deals with us not because it likes the colour of our eyes but because it cannot get better and cheaper raw materials, particularly iron ore with a high iron content, first class coking coal, first class bauxite and copper. Every mineral that is part of a modern industrial economy we have. Japan is getting our raw materials and, because of the economic ineptitude of the Australian Government, getting them at bargain prices. 
I happen to speak for a city of steel. The Australian steel industry is an efficient, industry, so efficient that we are able to sell certain types of steel on the west coast of the United States in open competition with the major American steel producers. But by the same token, whilst we can do that in relation to ingots, billets and slabs, and right down to skelp, when we get to black sheet, even the Australian industry, efficient as it is, is subject to very fierce competition from Japan. That being so I am very strongly opposed to any modification of the minute protection which we have and which we need and which is a matter that vitally concerns the employment of some 3,000 men in my city. 
I now return to the general economicclimate in which we function. We are to a certain extent getting the best of both worlds because since the end of World War II we have been one of the major primary producing nations. It is a matter of common knowledge that the terms of trade have been progressively worsening year by year for the primary producing nations in their transactions with the industrialised nations. With the exception of steel and one or two major industries, we cannot say that we really started to enter into the world of heavy industry until we were forced to do so with the fall of Singapore. From then on it has been by our own strong arm that we have been able to develop and will continue to do so. Therefore, I suggest to the Government that it should strongly temper its enthusiasm for general tariff revision until it has really considered the impact on Australian heavy industry in relation to its defence and developmental potential. 
Of course, we are in a period of transition not merely in terms of employment. Everyone knows that rural employment is on the decline. Fewer and fewer primary producers are producing more and more and getting less and less for it. On the economic treadmill they are just about holding their position. We have to enter into strong competition with a major industrial giant - Japan. In the case of the United States there is a very strong protective bloc. The so-called western capitalist democracies are breaking up into protective blocs and we do not belong to any of them. We lack the sophistication and, in the case of the Government, the will to do what needs to be done to see that we keep our place in the sun. We will be subjected to very great and specious pressure from Japan to take more and more of its manufactured goods in return for more and more of our raw materials, particularly our mineral wealth. While we are here to do business with Japan we have to realise that it respects strength, it respects skill and it respects commercial competence and this is definitely lacking in this Government. As for skill, it makes me shudder to think of the incompetence of this Government and its failure really to come to grips with our future relations with Japan. Japan will respect strength but we will be the subject of their economic ju-jitsu Japan will use our strength, and we have strength in raw materials, to work our undoing unless we are capable of matching and equalling the Japanese in wits. But for the Japanese Minister for International Trade to rebuke Australia and suggest that our tariff structure is too high is a case of Satan rebuking sin because no country in the world today has higher tariff barriers than Japan, and those barriers will continue. No person or firms seeking to invest in Japan can get any guarantee that he or it can take out dividends, much less repatriate capital. The efforts of the American automobile industry to enter that closed market have been a matter of constant friction between the United States and Japan. It is in - just in - and the Japanese are pretty smart operators. We have to match them in every way. The first thing, as I see it, is to ensure that Japan does not get its feet inside the door of the Australian economy. As good customers and respected customers, yes. We have taught them to respect us on the field of battle. Let us teach them to respect us on the field of economic bargaining. It is time that we did. Thanks to the shortcomings of the Government, we are even worse prepared today to meet them and to match them than we were in 1941 when we were under the threat of their aggression. 
If honourable members want to know the strength and the ability of the Japanese people they have only to look at how they have lifted themselves up by their economic boot straps. The first thing they did after MacArthur went in was to devalue their currency. I think that they reduced it from about 350 yen to the £1 sterling to 1,050 yen. They gave themselves a flying start. Japanese industry, when it sought to import, had to have its own internal private balance of trade with what was called the 'link method'. If a Japanese firm wanted to import it had to export an equal amount to offset it. It could sell any surplus of raw materials brought in that it did not want to use, and so make a great profit out of it. A common example of this was sugar which was coming in at that time at about 4d per lb and being sold for about lOd. The profit from that was pumped back into external trade. 
The Japanese operate as one through the Ministry of International Trade and Industry and also through the Bank of Japan. They have played our coal industry on a brake for many years. When they first came here they pitted one off against the other. In my own district there were 4 different firms cutting one anothers throats. It was common knowledge afterwards that they could have signed up for $3 per ton more than they actually got. As a matter of fact, today Japan is getting our coal landed in Japan at $5.50 per ton less than they are paying on an average for coal from other parts of the world. That is the measure of the incompetence of this so called businessman's Government. We have to study the Japanese people. We will be trading with them all along the line. They have ventured into what will be known as resources diplomacy'. They lack raw materials. They need to get them. They can get them from no better place - in regard to either quantity or stability - than Australia. We must be ready to meet these people and to play them at their own game. If we do, they will be our stable and permament trading partners. If we do not, we will be their wood and water joeys. 
Yes, you may and you may not. What facilities will be given for a complainant to make a proper examination of the books and the record of the company against which he complains? There will be none whatsoever; and the Government has not provided it. A legal obstacle race is being created, and the Government will use that, and intends that it be used, quite deliberately. Let me take another instance. The Bill makes provision for damages to be sought. What damages can be claimed by a man - or a company - who has been denied any supply at all from the manufacturer of the goods that he seeks to obtain and retail? In cases such as that a man's damages cannot be assessed, and the Government well knows it. 
As the honourable member for Isaacs pointed out, by way of secret commissions and by way of discounts and rebates this legislation can be circumvented. If a manufacturer wants to circumvent it he has another very simple expedient. He can create franchises for the individual dealers whom he will supply. In due course he can colourably, by putting on an act, claim that these people are failing to provide an adequate service or an adequate supply of replacement parts. One could drive a horse and cart through the Bill, but the Government realises that the people of Australia are grimly determined to put an end to inflation. 
But unfortunately that is the mentality of the Government. It has some of the finest minds of the 19th century in it. They are actively at work in the devising of its legislation of this day. The whole of the spirit of the 19th century is there, and it always has been. For 2 weeks this House debated the Trade Practices Act in its original form. We have been given 2 hours, and no more, to debate tonight a Bill that will govern commercial transactions worth literally billions of dollars. The Government wants it that way. It took the Government 6 years even to get to the point where it was prepared to have the matter of the validity of- the Tribunal tested in the High Court. 
Only 52 of the registered agreements are being investigated, at the present time. That is taken again from  Mr Bannerman's  report. It is true, that they . cover, some 1,000 of the registered agreements, but as there would be undoubtedly well over 13,000 by this time it would seem, as a matter of calculation, that it will be some 13 years before even the present registered agreements can .be fully investigated. Even then the Government will fiddle, humbug, delay and procrastinate. These are the tactics of evasion. The best that can be said of this Bill is that it establishes the principle of prohibiting resale price maintenance. In point of fact, it will have very little effect indeed. 
What is to be the position of the small shopkeeper who has not the money to engage in protracted  litigation, but who has to appear before a superior court of record, such as the Commonwealth Industrial Court, brief counsel - and senior counsel at that - and submit himself to all the delays and frustrations that are involved. Designedly so, he has to run that obstacle race, and at the end of it there is a fair chance that an escape hatch will be provided by the Government. I will have more to say about that in the Committee stage of the Bill. The best we can say about the Bill is that it establishes the principle; but it provides loopholes in abundance for the friends of the Government and their supporters. 
If anyone ever damned his own Party's legislation with faint praise it would have been the honourable member for Isaacs  (Mr Hamer),  who has just resumed his seat. He spoke in the grand old Victorian tradition of reaction and monopoly incarnate. If there is any State in Australia which is hag-ridden by restrictive practices it is Victoria. I suggest to the honourable member, who made reference to darkness at noon, that he might well enlighten himself and get a few rays of sunshine by examining the latest annual report of the Commissioner of Trade Practices. For. his information and that of the House I want to refer to some figures given by  Mr Bannerman,  the Commissioner of Trade Practices, as to the total number of registered restrictive agreements. Out of a total  of 12,649 of such agreements Melbourne has the single distinction of having 5,385 of them registered. Sydney, with all the great grandsons of convicts, has only 4,200. The proportion should be just the reverse. So much for the honourable member's jeremiad. Let me take it a stage further and read to the House the further comment of  Mr Bannerman.  In paragraph 3.19 of his report he said: 
Refusal to deal is the commonest cause of complaint - 
He is referring to complaints received by the Trade Practices Tribunal. He goes on to say: 
The complainant is usually a small business. 
So much for the honourable member's crocodile tears on that point. He continues: 
Refusal to deal is not examinable, even if the company refusing to deal is in a dominant position. It is examinable for a dominant company to refuse to deal except on dictated terms, but outright refusal to deal is not examinable. The Act leaves all companies, dominant or otherwise, free to decide with whom they will deal: No doubt most companies take the decisions on sound commercial grounds. . . . My Office cannot interfere to assist complainants, and there would ' no doubt be difficult practical problems if it could. It deserves nothing, however, that a company's decision to refuse to deal can have the effect of excluding a business altogether if the company is in : a dominant position and there is, in practical terms, no other company for the complainant to approach. 
It is one of the dominant characteristics of Australian industry and of Australian retail business that our economy is dominated by some 200 companies including 40 giants, and of these giants 40 per cent are owned or substantially controlled by overseas interests. We heard the wails from the honourable member for Isaacs on the need for more information. Let him have a look again at another paragraph of  Mr Bannerman's  report and he will see there for his enlightenment if he wants to what  Mr Bannerman  had to say in paragraph 2.8. It reads: 
 There had never been any general inquiry into trade practices throughout Australia. I doubt whether the extent of the restriction on competition in the Australian economy could have been known, even in general terms, before the Register of Trade Agreements was set up. 
It was  Dr Maureen  Brunt of the Monash University who said - and I compliment her on this - that every form of restrictive practice known to the ingenuity of man is in operation in the Australian economy. A further comment of  Mr Bannerman's  is. contained in paragraph 2.9 which reads: 
In Australia, agreement between competitors is remarkably persuasive. By contrast in North America, the UK and Europe, the problem has for a longer period been the subject of legislation..... 
Typical price agreements are those directed at assuring some profitability to companies already in an industry and not to the efficiency of the industry itself. Today there are 12,649 registered contracts, There are over 1,400 trade associations associated with the compilation and enforcement of those contracts. It is a shocking and disgraceful state of affairs. 
I ask the Treasurer: What are the latest statistics of the amount of Australian foreign exchange reserves held in the United Kingdom and the United States? What safeguards exist, whether by agreement or otherwise, to shield the value of these reserves in any alteration of the present exchange relativities between the Australian dollar, the pound sterling and the United States dollar? Do the arrangements still operate for the retention of certain Australian foreign exchange reserves by the United Kingdom negotiated by a former United Kingdom Prime Minister as a buttress for a loan to the United Kingdom by major financial institutions? 

 - Mr Deputy Speaker, there are many approaches to this Budget. Firstly, may I 
State that I naturally support the amendment which was moved by the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam).  Some people were unkind enough to call last year's Budget 'Bury's Blunder'. Equally unkind people have referred to the paper now under discussion as 'Snedden's Shocker'. It is, of course, the folly of the year. We have heard a lot recently about the father of the year, but no doubt this particular award will be conferred with suitable recriminations at the ballot boxes if and when this Government is finally dragged there to answer to the people of Australia. This Budget is the product of two rival rabbles - two distinct factions which are spending much more time cutting one another's throats than attending to the peace, order and good government of Australia. We can hear the screams from the bloody Cabinet tower and see the heads in due course duly exhibited on Traitor's Gate. Behind the present Prime Minister  (Mr McMahon)  is a ghost cabinet; a cabinet of more talents than are to be found at present sitting on the front bench. But I leave him to the retribution which will be his in due course. 
One could scarcely expect this Budget to have the slightest reference to the world economic climate. The best that can be said of it - this appears to be the rationale for it - is simply that the current Treasurer  (Mr Snedden)  - I do not know the period of his incumbency - has decided that the retail price index will be the basis of the budget. That is the infra-structure. There is no reference whatever to the dollar crisis which is shaking the world. We have entered a new era. The policy enunciated with regard to the dollar crisis by  President  Nixon is an economic watershed for the world and the United States has the economic muscle to decide what it wants to do. I am no apologist for it but I am looking stark facts in the face. 
This Government and the people of this country, our trade, our prosperity and our future welfare will be determined by the diktat issued from Washington; make no mistake about that. This Government is completely unprepared to deal with the situation. Its members of course are economic babes in the woods; simpletons in world trade. At a time when the world is divided info protective trade blocs, at a time when we should be standing on our own feet; at a time when we should be dealing in terms of trade contracts in good Australian dollars and repatriating our foreign reserves we are doing a piggy-back on the pound sterling. Of course in contradistinction to the Government's economic ineptitude in its overseas affairs its members are past masters in the crafty art of distortion, cant, humbug and hypocrisy. They have plundered the poor and they have socked the sick. They mouth words of praise and words of sympathy but in hard fact the pensioners, the poor, the little savers, the investors and the business people of Australia have had a lousy deal from this Government and there are no prospects of improvement. 
The Prime Minister has suffered from 2 catastrophes recently. Firstly, he had his plans for a snap election on a bogus issue completely disrupted by the Gorton episode but having in due course dispatched him he came back to face the House and in the process discovered such a drop in support for himself amongst the people of Australia that he was not game to face the people. We are ready to face him at any time and on any issue of his choosing. Of course neither he nor the Liberal Party of Australia would ever face the people of Australia on decent and fundamental issues. There must always be some gimmick, some myth, to mislead the mob and the one that was chosen was the issue, of law and order associated with the South African football tour recently. The one that will undoubtedly be expounded by the Prime Minister will be industrial law and order. They may change the name but the principle is just the same. The objective of course is to mislead the people of Australia and somehow to secure another term of office for this miserable Government. 
In fact this Budget is a blueprint for a depression. The best way that any Liberal government can ever see to temper and discipline the trade union movement is to create a pool of unemployed, and that is precisely the objective of what is fundamentally a completely deflationary budget. The unemployed will find it very cool indeed in McMahon's pool. As for the future, we can expect an intensification of the present economic crisis. It is time that the people of Australia were told the truth. 
The truth is that we are facing a stark economic crisis. The United States will not relax and it will not relent. It is a country whose gross national product and internal trade is 31 times that of the aggregate of world trade and it depends on world trade for only about 4) per cent of its gross national product. Accordingly the US is in a position to lay down the terms on the future parity of world foreign exchanges. The US is determined at all costs and for  President  Nixon's own political survival to restore stability to its economy no matter what happens to the rest of the world. That being so it is time that we in Australia stood on our own feet. It is time that we thought in terms of an independent nation because that is in fact what we are. We need to be hard hearted and hard fisted because in trade, as in foreign relations, you have interests and not friends. 
This Government has never been prepared to do anything other than to follow what has been the time honoured practice in the average Australian embassy overseas and that is to find out what the United States and Britain wanted to do and then do the same. But our interests from now on will be in the main different. In some cases they will be parallel but we are the twelfth trading nation of this world. We should be in the Group of Ten. We should be there amongst the leaders of the world and enunciating our interests and our viewpoint and getting the inside information in return. We are no longer to be a lucky province; a dependent country. Australia from now on must definitely stand on its own feet. 
The Prime Minister will also raise a suitable smokescreen about the impact of wage increases as a component of gross national product. I would like to quote some figures from the 'Australian Economic Review' for the first quarter of 1971. These figures have been brought up to date. In 1959-60 wages as a percentage of the gross national product were 63.2 per cent. At the present time they amount to 64.4 per cent. That is an increase of only 1.1 per cent. The whole structure of the Prime Minister's argument will be based on this and he will be sounding the warning bells as to the impact of wage costs and inflation. I want to quote from the 'Australian Economic 
Review' what a group of eminent and disinterested but patriotic economists had to say about inflation. It reads: 
It is not just an economic problem which economists alone might be expected to solve. It is  a  social, political and, in the end, especially  a  moral problem, involving the whole community and its basic attitudes to the kind of society and economy it wants. 
My main point is that it is no good laying the blame on wage-earners, who are merely reflecting and trying to keep up with the attitudes of the whole society they live in, and usually being beaten anyhow by those who are driving,  rather   than trying to hop on to the bandwagon 
Honourable members should mark these words: 
Accelerating inflation could destroy our society. A fair tax system, a good social security system,  a  reform of the tariff structure, control of restrictive practices, an appropriate exchange rate, the setting of norms as a guide for public and for private employers, informal public adjustments of rent and interest charges are directed to making our existing social system work better. 
That is a complete blueprint for the control of inflation. This Government will do precisely nothing about it. Let us have a look at the position today with regard to trade practices in particular. Coals of fire were neaped on the head of the Prime Minister this afternoon by the honourable member for Berowra  (Mr Hughes)  in a very subtle way, and the Prime Minister deserved it all because he was one of the architects responsible for the watering down of the Barwick legislation. It is poetic justice indeed that the man who first raised the question of trade practices and rackets was there as the Chief Justice of Australia to make sure that economic justice would be done for the people. It has been said by  Dr Maureen  Brunt that in Australia today there is every restrictive device and practice known to the ingenuity of man and the most this Government will do in the proudly announced amendments that it will make to the restrictive Trade Practices Act will be to tinker with it in such a way that there will be the minimum of relief in the maximum of time. Government supporters have a vested interest in evasion. They are, of course, privy to the rackets; they are the puppets of the racketeers. Packer, of course, still loves them. 
With regard to the wool sales fiasco, 1 know as well as every Australian knows that we need every atom of export income that we can get. For that reason, at all costs the wool grower must be kept in the ring fighting; but that means the little wool grower, it means the people who came into the wool industry during and after the Korean war wool boom, who paid inflated prices for their land and who arc now in the grip of the pastoral companies and of the major trading banks. Let this also be said, that in any event, if the squeeze is applied to them, on-one else will enter the industry so, at all costs, the small wool growers must be kept in there fighting and working. For that reason they should receive the full benefit of whatever subsidy is to be paid. It should not be paid to the 15 per cent of wool growers - the big people - who were in the game before 1950, who inherited their properties or who bought them at pre-war prices. It is the little man who is entitled to assistance. In many cases, that assistance will have to go further in the form of a modified moratorium for them but, of course, that will be another and quite distinct issue. 
The alarm will be raised by the Prime Minister as to the impact of accumulated savings, but the canny savers, the canny people in Australia today, are sitting on their savings because they can see storms and breakers ahead. They are well aware that less than 14 per cent of the capital which is being used for the development of Australia comes from overseas investors, and that by investment and by their techniques of management - they are no fools in that regard - that 14 per cent of investment has control of nearly 45 per cent of our industry. As the Leader of the Opposition said this afternoon, 30 per cent of company profits today are being remitted abroad. Of course, interest rates are at an all time record high. When this Government came into office in 1949, the bank overdraft rate was 4.5 per cent. Today it is 8.25 per cent. On mortgage loans, outside of those supported by the banks or by the orthodox building societies, the average rate of interest is 10 1/4 per cent. As for consumer credit, we find that the cops have joined the robbers. The trading banks, which at one time were able to control the hire purchase companies are now their puppets and under their control. Today, less than 48 per cent of the money flow in Australia is under the control of the trading banks. In contrast to that, when this Government first came into office 72 per cent of money flow was controlled by the banks. To that can be added the invasion of the overseas merchant banks who always know where to make a quick quid. Some of them are highly reputable but they are not here for the good of their health or because they like the colour of our eyes. They are here to do business and to do it in a big way. 
As for housing loans, already the Government has had a rebuff from the major State Housing Ministers. Again, we find that housing loan interest has increased from the Chifley 3 per cent to 7 per cent today. In other words, the average family man who would suffer about a $90 a year increase as a result of the impact of this Budget if he is unlucky enough to be going into a Housing Commission home today, with an average cost of the house and land of about $10,000, will be paying another $100 a year in interest or a total of $190 a year as a result of this Budget. Let us consider another matter which is typical of the political sleight of hand of this Government. I refer to the impact and the result of concessional deductions for the wife and children. The taxation allowance for a wife is $312 a year. To a man with a net taxable income of $2,000 a year this deduction is worth $63 a year. To a man with a net taxable income of $10,000 a year it is worth $159 a year. In other words, the impact and the benefit of it are precisely the opposite to what they should be. There should be a reverse taper of the benefits of concessional deductions. Of course, the minister for Education and Science  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  came out of his seat like an angry hornet today at a question which was directed to him by a South Australian member concerning the tax rebate of $400 for the education expenses of one child. Tt will not be those in the $2,000 a year taxable income bracket who will receive the benefits of this rebate; the Government's friends will receive it. I shall not say any more on that score. 
I turn now to another matter, and that is the question of the pensioners and their treatment by a gentleman to whom they referred, after his previous munificence, as Half a dollar Bill'. No more than 81 per cent of them will benefit as the result of the tapered means test and its particular application to this Budget. It was very intriguing to see the snide way in which it was announced that there would be an increase of $1.25 a week and to whom it would be given. We have the doubtful distinction of having one of the worst and lowest scales of social benefits in the world, and if one looks at the figures for naturalisation it will be found that it is the main reason for the abysmally low percentage of migrants who have applied for naturalisation. They prefer to go back to their own countries at the end of their period of service of labour in Australia. 
Again, there is the little matter of the domestic surplus - the biggest racket and the biggest touch of all. $630m for what? It is just a euphemism for a means of directing surplus revenue into the Commonwealth loans. Already the Commonwealth is a highly successful investor in its own loans to the tune of $2,767m. Of that figure, $2,246m came from the Loan Consolidation Investment Reserve - a nice high sounding title which bemuses the mob, who do not follow it. It is nothing more or less than a means of meeting the shortfall of loans which will not be filled because even at the record rates of interest that are being offered the shrewd and canny investor can do better by investing in the hire purchase companies. For that reason, last year the Government siphoned $280m from its domestic surplus into Commonwealth loans. Today we find- 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Hallett)Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
I direct my question to the Prime Minister. When can Australian exporters and commerce expect a credible policy on the exchange parity of the Australian dollar? What steps has he in mind to remedy the damage to world confidence already resulting from Australia's protracted controls over capital flows? Will he ensure that future Australian export contracts are denominated in Australian currency, replacing the present denomination in United States dollars? Is he in a position to inform the House of any loss likely to be suffered by the present disparity between the Japanese yen and the United States dollar? 
I preface my question to the Prime Minister by reminding him that Australia is the largest market trading nation outside the Group of Ten and our foreign exchange holdings exceed individually those of 3 members of that group, including France. What action has he taken to ensure Australia's admission to the Group? What further action, if any, does he propose? Is the impact of the present world currency crisis operating most severely in this Group, which must be responsible for an ultimate solution which will in turn, affect our economy? Why is Australia to be further disadvantaged by non-membership of this key world organisation? 
In the limited time at my disposal I want to draw the attention of the Committee to certain aspects of the Budget which I consider to be nothing short of a swindle sheet. I refer in particular to the role of the Loan Consolidation and Investment Reserve. In Hitler's day the technique was to tell the big lie; so big that it could not be controverted and therefore, would be accepted. In just the same way, the manipulation of surplus taxation by this Government is nothing short of a national scandal. The Loan Consolidation and Investment Reserve, of course, is a euphemism for a means of channelling surplus taxation ultimately into Commonwealth bond holdings. In other words, the Commonwealth 
Government arrogates to itself the right to do what no private company can do. Under the company law of any of the States no company can buy in its own shares. But the Commonwealth Government can mulct the people in taxation and then divert a substantial proportion of it into Commonwealth bond holdings. 
Yes. For example, the so-called domestic surplus for the current financial year will be $630m. It is up from $550m last year, and of that $550m, after a bit of bad luck on certain aspects of the Government's administration, the Government is still able to siphon $280m into Commonwealth bonds. The situation is that in 1966-67 there was a sum of $915m in the Loan Consolidation and Investment Reserve. In 1970-71 the amount was $2,246m. With a total Commonwealth debt of $3,800m a goodly proportion, 70 per cent or 80 per cent, is held by the Government itself. Worse than that, it is being lent back to the States and interest is being charged on it. If we accept the official estimate of an interest rate paid on Commonwealth borrowings of 4.99 per cent, the interest being charged on this alone is a little matter of another $112m. 
In our respective constituencies we are being assailed by the public and representative education organisations, parents and citizens associations, pensioners, people who are interested in hospitalisation and people who bitterly resent the swingeing increases in taxation which are being imposed on them by the State governments. It is nothing short of a major national scandal that this situation should exist. If surplus taxation is levied on this scale it could at least be put into national development. This Government, of  course  is maintaining quite a sham in controlling the Australian economy because, if any member of this Parliament chooses to examine the recorded speeches of  Dr Coombs  he will find that in 1953 over 70 per cent of the money flow of the Australian economy was under the control of the banking system. From 1953 to 1960 it has dropped from 70 per cent to 53 per cent! Today it is less than 48 per cent. Yet we have a government which has the gall to tell us that it is able to control the Australian economy. It can do nothing of the sort. 
The proof of it is this: It was the Prime Minister  (Mr McMahon)  who recently, in answer to a question from the honourable member for Oxley  (Mr Hayden),  admitted that under the terms of the concrete pipes case this national Parliament has the power to move against the hire purchase institutions. Hire purchase institutions can serve very useful functions at fair and reasonable rates of interest, but it is time that they were curbed because today we face the situation where they are almost ranking with the banks in terms of their advances. As a matter of fact, the figures are these: The total overdraft advances by the collective trading banks of Australia are $4,655m. The hire purchase company advances are $3, 801m; and this is being tolerated. The rates of interest are beyond all dreams of rapacity. It is quite a common thing not only for interest to be charged at a flat rate but also for other fringe charges to be made as well. Research shows that at the present time the average interest rate that is being charged is between 18 per cent and 20 per cent, and that is a very conservative estimate. In fact, research has been undertaken by one gentleman from the University of Western Australia who put the figure as high as 23 per cent. 
What does the Government offer? For example, let us take the case of interest on overdrafts since 1949. Interest rates have gone up from 4£ per cent to 8i per cent. Yet this is a Government which says that it is a businessman's government. It is being assailed by some of its most fervent and loyal supporters of recent years - by the Associated Chambers of Commerce, by the Associated Chambers of Manufactures - 'because it is not prepared to let money go that ought to be put into circulation. The inflation that exists today is the responsibility of this Government. When in 1953 this Government chose to attempt to put some curbs on hire purchase companies by refusing to allow the banks to continue to discount their bills, their promissory notes and their hire purchase agreements, the hire purchase companies immediately said: *We will thumb our noses at you. We will borrow directly from the general public'. This racket and ramp has gone on ever since. Finance is government and unless the Government is prepared to govern and to control the totality and flow  of finance within the economy it ceases to be a government and it ceases to have the respect and will ultimately cease to have the support of the Australian community. 
I want to touch on one other matter. There has been quite a remarkable inflow of foreign exchange funds to Australia - a little matter of between $900m and $ 1,000m in the last 12 months. This Government has made no attempt whatever either to identify its source or to quantify it or to decide what is to be done with it. It is a dangerous situation. Undoubtedly some of that money has come in here for legitimate purposes, but the Government does not know because the Government never had a financial policy. It never had a policy on national priorities. It governs by guess and by God. It plays by ear, not to music. It is an empirical government and a government that improvises, a government that is at the will and caprice of its own supporters. The time has arrived when there needs to be a real government and a real concept of an Australian national economy. This Government' has failed to do what ought to have been done. Australia is the world's 12th ranking trading nation. It has failed to join the group of Ten. It has just crawled by the skin- of its teeth into the Overseas Economic Commission for Development. It has failed to make any reasonable forecast of future problems, and a very substantial proportion of our contracts for exports have been nominated in United States dollars. 
What is to be the situation today if the advice of 14 leading economists as reported in the 'Australian Financial Review' and the 'Sydney Morning Herald' and other leading journals is to be accepted and the Australian dollar is to be upvalued? I think there is a case for its upvaluation, a moderate one, and preferably for it to be determined by allowing it to float. What provision is this Government prepared to make to allow this Parliament to come to grips with the real matters that concern people in Australia today? The honourable member for Balaclava  (Mr Whittorn)  made quite a dismal forecast of the future of unemployment. He is correct, and the figure is this: The Government expects an unemployment rate of  2i  per cent because that is pre cisely the amount by which it wants to mulct the ordinary wage earner of extra wage tax. 
In conclusion I pay a special tribute to the role of the credit unions in combating to some extent the rapacity of the hire purchase organisations. The credit unions of course have earned the opprobrium of this Government. They are workers banks. Workers themselves can understand the principles of banking, the principles of credit assessment, and the credit unions are doing a mighty job. Of course it is only to be expected that the Government would refuse to recognise them in relation to homes savings grants. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Mr Drury)  - Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
When Pitt the Younger heard that war was breaking out with France he said: You can roll up the map of Europe and put it away for the next 10 years.' Similar remarks might be made with relation to the future functions of the Tariff Board, because whatever the validity of the arguments that have been advanced here tonight we face an economic watershed in world affairs. The hard and real truth is that Bretton Woods and all that it stands for is in the discard and we are on the verge of a world trade war. Let there be no mistake about that, because that is the inner and the real meaning of Nixonomics That being so, a lot that has been said here tonight might be academically correct but in terms of hard realism it is very far from the truth. 
Today the world is breaking up into protective blocs. Britain, which has been the largest open market in the world for primary produce and foodstuffs is going into the largest of those economic protective blocs. Let there be no mistake about it. Similarly, the United States of America, which still packs more economic clout than the rest of the world together in terms of trade, has laid it on the line as to what the future will be. There will be another protective bloc that will constitute the continents of North and South America. There is another economic bloc, too, that must be reckoned with and that is the bloc of the Comintern countries. The gross national product of the United States is $1,050 billion a year, but the whole of world trade is $280 billion a year. The United States depends on world trade for only a matter of 4i per cent of its gross national product. It is still in a position to lay it on the line as to the terms on which world trade will be dictated. 
The United States can see the trends. It can also see that Japan and Australia are on the outer. Let there be no exercise in self deception with regard to our potential market in Asia, because Australia, with 12i million people, has a gross national product equal to that of Indonesia, the Philippines, North and South Vietnam when they are at peace, Camobidia and Thai land. We can throw in Burma, too. As for the chimera of China, with anything between 700 million and 800 million people, its contribution to world trade is $4.2 billion which is a little more than that of Australia at $4.1 billion. The position is - and it ought to be stated - that Australia is dependent on an inflow of anything between $800m and $ 1,000m a year to rectify its balance of payments on current account. Consistently for the last 15 years the terms of trade have flowed against Australia in respect of its exports of primary produce and that is the dilemma that this Government faces. We need to be hard fisted and we need to be hard hearted because today in this world we are out on our own. It will be necessary for us wherever we can to make a dollar by trade or by protection. We will be in a stark hard and vicious trade war, and that is the inner meaning of Nixonomics. 
When all the manipulations are finished in relation to foreign exchange parties this will be the position: The surcharge of 10 per cent on American imports will remain and even greater than that is the other concession that is given internally in the United States, a matter of another 10 per cent by way of tax concessions for the purchase of American manufactured goods such as heavy machinery, and in addition there will be the measure of deflation. In other words the United States in terms of world trade will get in out of the wet and the rest of the world can fend for itself. 
In relation to our own immediate prospects, we depend upon the Pacific triangle of trade. We have a very favourable balance with Japan. In turn Japan has an equally favourable balance with the United States and the US has an extremely favourable balance with us. As a broad illustration the 3 -way trade balances itself but this will not be the position in the future. Our future will depend on just what Japan decides to do because Japan has to break in somewhere and it will not be in the US. What are to be our remedies? Firstly, a good hard look at ourselves and where we can trade. There will be very few places indeed. The economy of Australia will be distorted in the future if the Government's present relations, and its dependence in particular for political survival, depends upon the economic vagaries and whims of the Australian Country Party. That will be the position. 
Yes. What are we to do? Firstly, we need to name our contracts in respect of exports in Australian dollars. We need to repatriate our foreign exchange reserves right into Australia. We can trust no-one with the future of world trade. In addition to that we have to prune our balance of payments on current account. Let us have a good hard look at the $792m that we are paying out for freight and transport. The question is whether we should not have our own national shipping line. The next thing is this: Are we getting the proper price for our mineral exports? We are not. Let me take a case concerning my own electorate where through crass stupidity the coal producers cut one another's throats when the Japanese came and as a consequence we are getting $12.80 per ton for our coal while similar quality coal is being purchased by Japan for $20 from the United States. 
The other day in the Ministry of International Trade and Industry statement the squeeze play started. It would not be a very bad idea if Australia had its own MITI. We could have a Ministry not of one-way trade, because that is how the Japanese one is stigmatised, but when we come into the picture we should come in with one hit. The Japanese Ministry finds out the collective requirements of the various industries. Having ascertained them it does the negotiating. We can do the same and we will need to because we have no alternative. In addition to that we need to end the restrictive franchises that have been imposed upon our exports. We have imported a good deal of technology and we have paid a high price. Despite my probing over 7 years the Government has never conducted a full inquiry into the 1,100 agreements which exist and in each case Australia goes into the export market hobbled because it is limited as to where it can sell its exports and on what terms it can sell them. Let us get to an end to that. In addition there is the little matter of taxation fiddles and I do not think there is any need for me to instance the long protracted litigation between the Commissioner for Taxation and the Shell company. Even after all that it ended in a compromise or in a draw. We are not getting paid a proper price for what we are capable of producing and what the world market will accept. For the future we will need to be hard fisted, hard hearted and think in terms of ourselves because we have gone out of the soaring sixties and we are now into the sombre seventies. Let every nation look after itself and the devil will take the hindmost. 
Progress reported. 
I present the following petition: 
To the Honourable the  Speaker  and Members of the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled. The petition of the undersigned citizens of the Commonwealth respectfully sheweth: 
That the immediate prospect in East Bengal is of mass starvation on a scale unprecedented in modern times. 
That only quick settlement of the Bangla DeshPakistan conflict will make it possible to avert the death of many millions. 
We therefore urge the Honourable Members to: 
Raise to $10m Australian aid to refugees now in India from East Pakistan. 
Support all efforts to guarantee the fully autonomous development of the people of Bangla Desh. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
I present the following petition. 
To the Honourable the  Speaker  and Members of the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled. The humble petition of the undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully sheweth: 
That the Australian Education Council's report on the needs of State education services has established serious deficiencies in education. 
That these can be summarised as lack of classroom accommodation, desperate teacher shortage, oversized classes and inadequate teaching aids. 
That the additional sum of one thousand million dollars is required over the next 5 years by the States for these needs. 
That without massive additional Federal finance the State school system will disintegrate. 
That the provisions of the Handicapped Children's Assistance Act 1970 should be amended' to include all the country's physically and mentally handicapped children. 
Your petitioners most humbly pray that the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled will take immediate steps to: 
Ensure that emergency finance from the Commonwealth will be given to the States for their public education services which provide schooling for seventy-eightper cent of Australia's children. And your petitioners, as in dutybound, will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
 I direct a question to the Prime Minister and in so doing preface it by reminding him that in the absence of an Australian counterpart of the Japanese Ministry of International Trade and Industry to regulate savage internal Australian producer competition, Japan now imports Australian coal at $12.80 a ton but pays more than $20 a ton for a similar type coal from the United States of America. Is the Prime Minister aware of the squeeze play in the recently released Japanese MITI statement suggesting a curtailment of Japanese imports of coal, minerals and other raw materials from Australia? Will he intervene with appropriate guidelines through a MITI type instrumentality to ensure that Australian coal is sold at world parity prices and accepted in quantities already contracted, thereby calling the Japanese bluff? Will he also ensure that all future contracts with Japan are denominated in Australian instead of United States dollars? 
I present the following petition: 
To the honourable the  Speaker  and Members of the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled. The humble petition of the undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully showeth: 
That the Australian Education Council's report on the needs of State education services has established serious deficiencies in education. 
That these can be summarised as lack of classroom accommodation, desperate teacher shortage, oversized classes and inadequate teaching aids. 
That the additional sum of one thousand million dollars is required over the next five years by the States for these needs. 
That without massive additional Federal finance the State school system will disintegrate. 
That the provisions of the Handicapped Children's Assistance Act 1970 should be amended to include all the country's physically and mentally handicapped children. 
Your petitioners most humbly pray that the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled will take immediate steps to: 
Ensure that emergency finance from the Commonwealth will be given to the States for their public education services which provide schooling for 78 per cent of Australia's children. - And your petitioners, as in duty bound, will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
This Bill actually stems from doubts on the part of the Government as to the scope of powers contained in section 63 of the Banking Act under which the Treasurer  (Mr Snedden)  and, therefore, the Government have the opportunity and the undoubted power to control any general disposal by a bank of the whole of its assets or shares or to merge with another bank. For that reason the Government has submitted this measure. By the same token - and it is easy to be wise after the event - had the concrete pipes case decision been promulgated at the time this legislation was introduced it might have taken a different form. Nevertheless the Opposition welcomes the measure so far as it goes. But the Opposition has a very substantial criticism to make because the main purpose of this measure is to ensure that as a matter of broad principle no overseas interests, whether a company or a consortium, can acquire holdings in the shares of any Australian bank beyond 10 per cent except in certain cases with the authority of the Treasurer. 
It is worth noting, of course, that with a total investment in Australia of 16 per cent, overseas interests have been able to acquire control, direct or indirect, of 40 per cent of Australian secondary industry. Therefore, the Government has been in this case rightly apprehensive of the consequences of the acquisition of bank shares. Of course, this in turn is a lineal descendant of what we might call Gortonomics where the former Prime Minister decided, in his typical tactic of shooting from the hip, that he would deal with specific situatons, if and when they occurred, in the most pragmatic fashion. Nevertheless he has distinctly Australian protectionist sentiments, and we give him credit for that. It is a long way back in history to the days of King O'Malley when the conservative parties of that day laughed to scorn the suggestion that there could be a national bank, lt is a long way back, too, to the period of the sneers at Fisher's flimsies when the first Commonwealth banknotes were issued. Of course, a lot of us - particularly those on the Government benches - would prefer to forget the attitude of  Sir Robert  Gibson at the time of the depression in the late 1920s and early 1930s. 
But today, thanks to the foresight of Labor spokesmen of an earlier generation, the Commonwealth banking group ranks 37th amongst the accepted banks of the world. I think that in itself is no small achievement. It is worth noting that today, as a result of various amalgamations and takeovers, we have operating in Australia a government banking group, 6 local public banks, an English banking group as well as 3 small branches of foreign banks which collectively and exclusively transact deposits or cheque-paying banking and have full control of a lucrative dealings in foreign exchange. In addition we have some 95 banking institutions grouped together under the name of merchant banks, having their respective establishments in Australia and with assets of about $500,000m - 5 times in aggregate the gross national product of this nation for the last 5 years - and having 80 times the local assets of our collective banking system. It is like sleeping alongside an elephant: You never know what will happen when it rolls on you. That is the position today. 
The Opposition makes a very valid criticism. Here I quote the words of  Dr Coombs,  a former Governor of the Reserve Bank of Australia. In one of his addresses, which honourable members ought to refer to, entitled 'Other People's Money' - it is available from the Parliamentary Library - he said that there has been a progressive de-control of the aggregate of the money of Australia by the banking system. As a matter of fact, in 1953 70 per cent of the total money flow of Australia was controlled by the banking system. By 1960 it had dropped to 57 per cent and today it is less than 50 per cent. Whilst this Government is busy protecting Australia from an incursion of overseas control, at the same time we find that no longer is the banking system of Australia in control of the aggregate finances of Australia. That is a position to be regretted and one which an incoming Labor government will undoubtedly correct, because finance is government. The abuses which exist today, in terms of interest rates and rackets, stem directly from the quite deliberate failure of the Government to control the para or grey or black market banking system which has developed. 
Until World War I our banking system was relatively primitive in its form. Of course, all wars are financed by inflation and it was necessary, because of the creation of extra money at that time, to introduce a system of statutory reserve deposits. That was done in the Chifley era. Let us pay tribute to a man who knew banking and who was prepared to apply Labor principles to banking. I pass on from there to the gradual development of the need for consumer credit and the emergence of entirely new forms of intermediaries and some degree of sophistication in the Australian banking structure. In the early days those intermediaries were the hire purchase companies which financed themselves in a completely different way then from the way they do now. That in its turn was due to the fact that the present conservative Government chose to give directives to the trading banks that they were no longer to discount hire purchase contracts and associated promissory notes as security. The hire purchase companies duly thumbed their collective noses at the Reserve Bank and the Government, and decided that they would raise money directly from investors by virtue of their status as limited companies. This they did, and with such success that we reached the point where the cops had to join the robbers and where every major trading bank in Australia became either wholly or substantially associated with a major hire purchase company. 
Today we have reached a situation in which the total deposits in the trading banks are about $4,700m and the total advances by the hire purchase companies are a matter of $3,900m. In a little while hire purchase advances will exceed trading bank deposits. As my colleague the honourable member for Melbourne Ports  (Mr 
Crean) correctly pointed out, in many cases major and formerly proud trading banks are prepared humbly to acknowledge that the major proportion of their profits are coming from their finance company subsidiaries. In the process there has been a distortion not only of the interest rate structure of Australia but also of our national priorities. Whilst I do not deny the right of hire purchase companies to exist and to function I do challenge them on their choice of interest rates and the way in which, unfortunately, in many cases the trading banks are directing to their hire purchase subsidiaries business which ought legitimately to be transacted by them at the regular and orthodox rates of interest. 
The Reserve Bank and the Government must control the money structure of Australia. As a government, Labor will see that this happens. The 1950s saw quite a number of other very interesting developments. For example, we had the growth of the building societies. They were discharging functions which in the main ought properly to have been discharged by the trading banks. We have had the growth of the credit unions, the short term money market and the inter-company market, with the borrowing backed in each case by the overdraft limits of the respective companies participating. We have emerging an infantile, rudimentary commercial bill market. An even further development has been that of negotiable certificates of deposit. They are to be welcomed also. Now we have an Australian Resources Development Bank. 
Taken as a whole, this legislation, whilst it is good, is like the curate's egg; it is good in parts. But it still does not face up to the major problem, which is the overriding control of the money supply of Australia. The national Government - the national Parliament - can, must and should at all costs exercise full powers over the national economy. As the economy is becoming progressively distorted we find a remarkable rise even in interest rates for the orthodox overdrafts granted to prime borrowers by the major trading banks. From memory, in 1949 when this Government came to office the general overdraft rate was 4i to  4i  per cent. It is 8J per cent today. At a time when Australia needs money and needs it really urgently we are paying too great a price for it. The Labor Party has always advocated the cause of lower interest rates and the creation of the necessary money, backed by the necessary assets, to ensure that national development takes place on a basis of planned priorities. 
It is generally accepted in company practice that to acquire 20 per cent of the trading shares of any company is to have effective control of that company. There is a number of reasons for this, of course. At ordinary annual meetings there is a fair amount of diffidence on the part of shareholders to attend but an effectively organised bloc of shareholders can certainly take control. Today we have knocking at the door repeatedly requests by Japan, by the United States and by Britain too for the granting of further banking charters. In this - and we give the Government credit where it is due - the Government shares a common policy with us of restricting the number of charters to those now in operation. But even in this regard it was not until 1942 that the Government of the day introduced legislation by which overseas companies could not commence banking. Many of the companies which are here can scarcely be classed as merchant banks. It is rather difficult at the best to say what is the definition and what are the functions and the status of a merchant bank, but I would suggest that a lot of the present total of exchange reserves that the Government vaunts so proudly in the main consists of funds that have been brought in here for investment. That is very good so far as it goes provided that they are used for investment and provided in turn that there is still a dominant Australian equity participation in those companies. But beyond that there is a very real danger and that danger will continue until there is a change of government and a change of outlook, and this is a consummation that we believe will occur in 1972. 
To hear the comments of the honourable member for Wentworth  (Mr Bury),  who is a former Treasurer, reminds me of the old saying in the Bible: 
Joy shall be in Heaven over one sinner that  repenteth  more than over ninety and nine just persons, which need no repentance. 
Whilst we will not lay all the sins of the Government, of commission and omission, on the honourable member's broad shoulders, by the same token, we can attribute a good deal of the trouble in relation to the gross inequity of the present income tax scales to the former Treasurer and the honourable member's current master, the Artful Dodger, alias the Prime Minister  (Mr McMahon),  because throughout the years the people have been progressively inflated from the lower income groups into the higher tax brackets. Unskilled workers are now paying the rates of tax which operated for middle class tradesmen and professional men 15 years ago, and in turn middle class income earners are paying rates of tax which were considered appropriate to those in the highest income groups some 15 years ago. 
As the honourable member for Wentworth has correctly stated, the whole system of taxation today is one of calculated disincentive. I can do no better than to quote in support of his argument and mine a comparison between a scale given to the economics committee of my Party today by Professor Hancock and table 1 from the papers accompanying the Budget Speech delivered in this House on 17th August last. Professor Hancock shows that the increase in real earnings over the period from 1965 to 1971 - that is taking a comparison in the respective June quarters - was 4.5 per cent. In the first year 1965-66, the increase in real earnings was 1.4 per cent and the increase in payasyouearn taxation - and this applies to the people who are most grievously hit - was 14 per cent. In the second year, 1966-67, the increase in real earnings was 5.2 per cent and the increase in pay-as-you-earn taxation was 13 per cent. In the next year 1967-68, the increase in real earnings was 2.7 per cent, and the increase in payasyouearn taxation was 14 per cent. In the year 1969-70, the increase in real earnings was 5 per cent, and the increase in payasyouearn taxation was 20 per cent. 
We come to a special period. With a great flourish of trumpets the former Prime Minister announced a reduction of 10 per cent in personal income tax. For that year real earnings rose by 7.6 per cent but, nevertheless, pay-as-you-earn taxation increased by 17 per cent. For the current year, 1970-71, the increase in taxation is estimated again at 17 per cent. The total increase over the period from 1965 to 1971 is 102 per cent, an average of 17 per cent, as against Professor Hancock's average increase of 4.5 per cent in real earnings for the same period. If we take off 2 per cent for the increase in population and a corresponding entry into the labour force we still have an average increase in taxation of 15 per cent. The Budget and the Income Tax Assessment Act are nothing more than swindle sheets. The Government ought to be well and truly ashamed of them. 
Of course, this Government does not specialise in skinning the lower income groups merely in direct taxation but also in indirect taxation, or what is known amongst economists as regressive taxation. In that regard it is notable that last year the revenue from company tax was $l,383m. If we add the income from excise duty and sales tax the figure is about $ 1,700m. The impact of that falls on people irrespective of their ability to pay. That again is the technique of the present Government. If we take the impact of the celebrated 10 per cent reduction in income tax last year, which resulted in a 17 per cent increase in pay-as-you-earn tax, we find that for the 'others' covered by the provisions - that is, doctors, dentists, lawyers and persons carrying on busi ness but not incorporated - the yield dropped by 4 per cent and the increase proposed for the current year is only 7 per cent. For the current year the proposed increase in company tax is only 8 per cent. How does the Government equate this in terms of financial honesty and decency with an impact of 17 per cent on the lowest income groups? 
As the honourable member for Wentworth rightly said, the 21 per cent increase ought to be abolished. But there is another and more sinister purpose for that increase. Already, after seasonal correction, we have an increase in unemployment of H per cent. The Government proposes that that should go up to 21 per cent to create a pool of unemployed by which it will club the trade unionists into submission. For the very good reason that the Government is not going to lose anything in the process, up is to go pay-as-you-earn taxation by another  2i  per cent. That is the real figure of unemployment in the pool at which the Government is aiming. The Government is toying with the idea of precipitating an industrial crisis. It matters little to it that what will be lost in production will far outweight what it is wringing its withers about - the odd loss of production in the strikes which occur from time to time. But what is that compared with the survival of this Government on a specious issue? This time the issue must be an internal one because the Government has extracted the ultimate in political mileage from foreign affairs and any other synthetic and spurious issue which its perverted imagination can devise. 
Let us have a look at the domestic surplus of $630m for which the Government has budgeted, which completes the swindle. At a time when the States are screwing the very utmost out of the taxpayers and when local government is forced to impose rates at a record level the Government coolly and calmly budgets for a surplus of $630m. In so doing it is following a systematic pattern, and a most interesting one. Since July 1969, when it had pumped into the loan consolidation and investment reserve $ 1,345m, it has gone on steadily from year to year pumping its domestic surplus into this long titled, euphonious account which is merely a gate valve by which money is passed into Commonwealth loans. The Commonwealth is lending back to the States surplus taxation that ought to be given to them to meet their legitimate needs. In the process, by 1970 the loan consolidation and investment reserve had grown by $6 15m in one year. By 1971 it was up to $2,246m. I will venture that, with the exception of what is. paid out in the way of the bribe to the wealthy wool growers this year, the whole of the balance of that $630m domestic surplus will be pumped into Commonwealth loans. Things are being done by this Government which, if they were done in orthodox accountancy, would have a man on trial for falsification of accounts. But it is considered by this Government to be good orthodox finance. 
At the same time we find that the big people are getting by very nicely. The fiddles are on, and whilst the Government is quite prepared to pursue the little man - perhaps it might have justification in odd cases for doing so - it is letting the big fish get through the net. The big fish are the people who are being pampered in the field of mining. Let us take as a crowning example the Esso-BHP group which will be paying no income tax on its profits from the Bass Strait enterprise until it has recouped itself for the whole of its capital outlay. Hamersley Iron Pty Ltd is doing very nicely, too. Time will not permit me to go into the others. The overseas or transnational corporations which operate today can do their own special fiddle. It is a very easy one. It takes the form that, in respect of component parts, the corporations can charge their Australian subsidiary exactly what the traffic will bear in respect of cars or machinery manufactured in this country. In addition they can charge, according to their whim and caprice, whatever they want in the way of royalties in respect of the use of their patents and processes. It is high time the Government had a look into both these fields. 
As the honourable member for Melbourne Ports  (Mr Crean)  mentioned, at the same time as the Government is skinning the little man we find miserable deficiencies in respect of concessions for dependants and medical expenses. Let us take the case of a professional man with a net taxable income of $9,500 a year. He claims a concessional deduction of $312 a year for his wife. It is worth more than $150 to him in a reduction in income tax. An unskilled steel worker in my own area with a take home pay of $54 a week might be receiving $25 at the most in respect of the same concession after maintaining his wife and his average  2i  to 3 children. The same applies in the case of medical expenses, educational expenses, municipal rates and the whole category of taxation. This Government poses as the friend of the worker. A complete overhaul of the system of taxation is long overdue. This Act is so patched and clouded that its original sponsors would scarcely recognise it. If I might change the metaphor, it is a jungle in which the average lawyer may venture at his peril. But studded here and there like little nuggets of gold are the special concessions for the special friends of this Government. They are very lucrative concessions for those who put them there and for those who are capable of using them. 
In the time that remains to me 1 want to raise one other matter that for many years has been the source of. festering and justifiable discontent amongst trade unionists. I am referring to the question of a permissible deduction for fares in respect of travel to and from a man's place of employment. This matter is a long standing scandal. I would like to quote from the text of the judgment in the case Lunney v. The Commissioner of Taxation which was heard in the High Court of Australia in 1958 and in which there was an observation by the then Chief Justice,  Sir Owen  Dixon. He said: 
Times have changed; the incidence of income tax greatly differs now in scope and weight from its incidence in the days when the law was more settled; possibly, the justice of the traditional legal view is a little more open to question and certainly its financial significance supplies a motive for questioning it. 
In another section of his judgment, in referring to section 51 of the Act, he said: 
In my opinion it is an unduly narrow construction of the initial part of S.S1 (1), in the case of an employment, to confine its operation to expenditure made by the taxpayer within the bare physical or temporal limits within which he performs his work or labour and to disregard any expenditure made outside those limits even though it has a necessary relation to the purpose of earning income for which the taxpayer carries on the employment It has been shown by the stated case that the taxpayer could not in the circumstances under which he was situated earn any assessable) income by his employment without incurring the cost of travelling which he claims to be an allowable deduction. 1 cannot see the difference  in  principle between an expense incurred in gaining income and one incurred necessarily for the purpose of gaining it 
He went on, and I want this to be on record, to say: 
To escape from the course of reasoning on which the decisions proceed-  in justification of the Government's parsimony -  requires the taking of refined and rather insubstantial distinctions. I confess for myself, however, that if the matter were to be worked out all over again on bare reason, I should have misgivings about the conclusion. But this is just what I think the court ought not to do. . . . If the whole subject is to be ripped up now it is for the legislature and not the court to do it. 
The whole rationale of the decision stems almost from feudal days. In a case in England it was pointed out that in those days the average professional man or the average tradesman lived at or near the place of his employment, but today with the urban sprawl- this applies to the major capital cities and it applies with even more force within my own constituency because it is a long narrow-gutted area on a coastal plain - the low wags earner is driven out to the low cost land which is on the outermost extremities, on the periphery, of every metropolis. The man least able to pay is forced to travel the longest distance and to pay the highest fares. 
Today fares are a downright imposition and these high fares are due in their turn to the parsimony of this Government because if it disgorged any reasonable part of its domestic surplus the various State governments would not have been forced into the various positions into which they have been forced. They deserve sympathy and their difficulties are due to the actions of this Government. Let us take the case of. the average shift worker in the steel industry. He works on a 3-shift basis. He has no choice as to where he is to live. Thank God there is a Housing Commission which is able to provide him with a house because he would never be able to provide one from his own earnings and savings. But he has to go wherever the Commission has acquired an estate and subdivided it. Yet we had way back in 1898 a judge in one of the New South Wales jurisdictions saying this: 
If a man chose lo live at a distance from his place of business because it was more convenient, pleasant or healthy for himself, that was a matter entirely within his own discretion, and was not in any respect connected with the earning of his income. 
There is no alternative to it today with the centres of cities being depopulated because of fantastically high land valuations which in their turn force the most intensive use of land on a commercial and industrial basis. Conditions have changed and it is a standing disgrace that this Government is denying justice to the people who need it most in respect of concessions for travel to and from their place of employment. (Quorum formed.) 
I preface my question, which is addressed to the Acting Prime Minister, by referring to the recent judgment of the High Court of Australia in the concrete pipes case relative to trading and financial corporations on which the Government depends for the validity of the Restrictive Trade Practices Act and from which flows the necessary power for nationwide regulation of stock exchanges as advocated by him. Will he introduce or give his Party's support to a Bill under the same powers to reduce the crushing burden of interest charges imposed on primary producers by hire purchase companies, pastoral companies and machinery firms? Will he similarly support the exercise to their limit of powers flowing from the same judgment in relation to general living costs in both city and country areas? 
I present the following petition: 
To the Honourable  Speaker  and Members of the House of Representatives (of Australia) in Parliament assembled. This petition of citizens of the South Coast of New South Wales respectfully sheweth: 
That it appears nothing has been done towards fulfillment of an important aspect of stated Government intention, namely, the establishment of child care centres of approved standard, and as a first step the provision of pre-school centres for children of working, or sick, mothers. 
Your petitioners therefore humbly pray that your honourable House will take the necessary action to provide these urgently needed facilities. 
Petition received. 
I wish to participate in this debate because within my constituency at Port Kembla there is a major centre for the production of sulphuric acid and also a major centre for the production of superphosphate. I do not want to traverse ground that has already been covered by other speakers but I do particularly want to stress that we are entering into a new era of world trade - a restrictive era and an era of economic protectionism - in which the world is breaking up into protective blocks. Last year, Australia had an adverse balance of payments of some $770m and in the future, instead of us looking at the stark orthodox economics of a proposition such as the Govern ment has advanced today, we might well consider whether we will not be having many other cases for the consideration of the House where we will need to look at the overall problem. 
It will not be an easy problem because the crisis in currency and in world trade that has been precipitated by President Nixon will have devastating consequences, particularly for Australia. Sooner or later we have to face up to it. The Government is prepared to subsidise the wool industry or, should I say, a particular group of people in the wool industry who do not need assistance and who can strain at a gnat and swallow a camel, yet it denies these people elementary fiscal and social justice. I think the Government ought to be well and truly ashamed of itself. There is another angle to this problem. People - good Australians - will, in many cases, be turned to social services. Has the Government or the Minister given any thought as to what will be the consequences? The Australian Labor Party is essentially a party of protection and it takes the long view; 
The Minister can have his say at a later stage. The world today is full of nations which want to sell but which do not want to import or to buy. I instance the shipping industry in particular where, to conserve foreign exchange, major nations are operating at a loss in respect of national shipping lines. They are operating at a loss in terms of orthodox economics but at least foreign exchange is being saved. Whether it is this Government which is in power at the end of next year, or whether it is the Opposition, that problem will need to be faced and we will be reminding this Government and the people of Australia of the economic consequences of what it proposes to thrust through Parliament today. 
-I move 
That the proposed expenditure be reduced by $1. 
I do so as an instruction to the Government to prepare urgently and implement a national fuel and power policy. This is a matter which the Opposition views very seriously because, as we see the situation today, the Government has failed completely to co-ordinate, to identify, to quantify and to plan for the most economic and efficient use of Australia's resources of fuel and energy. Today more coal, iron ore and non-ferrous metals are being used in the world than ever before. In fact, in the last 50 years world consumption would exceed that of all prior recorded history. That being so, and particularly in view of the marked shortages of coking coal and the relative limitations in the southern hemisphere in what are commonly called the costly fossil fuels - in particular petroleum and coal and their derivatives - we are alarmed at the Government's neglect of this particular issue. 
For example, our main trading partner Japan was dependent on imported fuels to the extent of over 77 per cent of its requirements in 1968, and it is expected that this dependence will rise to 90 per cent in 1985. At the same time the Organisation for Petroleum Exporting Countries - this being a group of countries around the Persian Gulf in particular, and in north Africa and the northern section of South America - is literally holding to ransom some of the major industrial countries. Japan is our major trading partner and. being so desperately in need of the cheapest possible fuel, will be exerting extreme pressure on us to the point where we could find our resources of both fuel ande nergy seriously depleted. In fact, it is the commonphenomenon throughout the worldtoday for the usage of energy, electrical and otherwise, to be increasing in almost geometrical progression. The United States of America has largely exhausted its supplies and is even turning to the reopening of disused coal mines and to the development of open cut mines. 
We are also on the fringe of the atomic age and, here again, we as an Opposition have a very strong reason for criticising the Government, because from the very first moment when it decided to buy into nuclear power until the recent indications that it intended to opt out - and I refer to the Jervis Bay fiasco - the Government's nuclear policy has been marked by ambiguity and secrecy. The Government has never clearly stated its objectives, both short and long term, in this field, and it is questionable as to whether it is even now prepared to get fully involved in nuclear technology. The nub of the whole problem is whether this Government is prepared not merely to sign but also to ratify the Treaty on the Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons, because unless and until it does so it will not have available to it the means of uranium enrichment. It is noteworthy that Japan in particular, which of all countries most desperately needs atomic power, in its approaches to the United States has been rebuffed to this stage. 
We noted with interest what the Minister for National Development  (Mr Swartz)  had to say this morning in this regard in answer to a question asked by the honourable member for the Northern Territory  (Mr Calder).  The attitude of the United States Pentagon is quite clear: It is opposed to the United States opening its secrets of the gaseous diffusion process for converting raw uranium into uranium 235 because it might make it easier for Japan to join the nuclear club. The process of uranium enrichment by gaseous diffusion is available not only for enriching uranium but also for enabling a country having access to that technology to make weapons-grade uranium for thermonuclear weapons. What is the reason for the Government's ineptitude in this matter? Of course, it is obvious that it has a deeply ingrained attachment to the laissez-faire pursuit of growth which either rebels against anything that smells of the direction of resources or long-term planning. When this Government's ancestors took possession of this country, if anything moved they shot it and if anything grew they cut it down. Today if minerals or energy are available, the Government is quite prepared to dig them out and to export them. 
We in the Australian Labor Party have stated our policy, and it is a first class one. It is worth quoting in some detail because the Liberals have nothing to counter it and never will, because they will do as they are told by outside interests who are concerned with short term profits and not with the long term planning and development of Australia. Our policy is as follows: 
Labour will establish a joint Federal/State Fuel and Energy Commission to devise and implement an integrated and co-ordinated national fuel and energy policy. 
The Commonwealth will 
regulate the exploration, development, transportation, marketing and use of oil, natural gas, coal, fissionable materials and generative water, 
prevent depletion of fuel and energy resources needed to match Australian requirements in mineral processing, general industry and national development, and 
guard the ecology and environment from pollution by fuel extraction and energy generation. 
Labor will stimulate the growth of nuclear technology, particularly by the earliest possible Commonwealth initiative to establish nuclear power stations using enriched uranium in reactors of basically similar design. 
Of course, that is the rock on which the Jervis Bay proposition developed. If any Government ever ducked out of the field of nuclear power with a red face and a tarnished reputation, it was this one. It has weaselled out. All that the tenderers and the Australian people know is that for  12  months the matter is to be in limbo and after that it will not be resurrected, either. 
I turn now to the other general question which concerns my own constituency, and that is the sacrifice of Australia's coal reserves. Here again Japan is getting our coal on the cheap - and the choicest of our coking coal, too - at a time when there is a world wide shortage of coal. In particular, the cost to Japan of buying and importing a ton of United States coking coal is  60  per cent higher than the cost of obtaining similar coal from Australia. Japan is also importing Australian iron ore at a cost much lower than it pays for generally inferior ores from other countries. This Government has failed to accept its responsibility as the national Government and the custodian of the national interests by failing to intervene in the Clutha ramp- -it is nothing more than that. We have the spectacle of an overseas company wanting to perpetuate the sell-out of our national resources. This is a major issue. Australia is for sale, so far as this Government is concerned. The Opposition believes that there is greater wealth below the soil of Australia than ever was extracted from that soil by rural industry. 
That being so, we look to the day, not in the very far future either, when the men from the north of England - from the black country - who will be displaced and disgusted by Britain's entry into the Common Market, will come here. They will be men skilled in metallurgy, engineering and shipbuilding. They are the men we will need to provide the nucleus of Australia's world leadership in metallurgy, general industry and steel fabrication. There is a good future for Australia but it will never be achieved in the hands of this Government because its only policy is to cash it in, ignoring the future and never at any cost to plan. Planning is a dirty and obnoxious word to this Government. 
I rise in particular to draw attention to an alarming situation which is revealed by the latest statistics available in respect of imports of iron and steel. It has often been said that when the United States economy sneezes the world economy catches pneumonia. Similarly it can be said of the Australian steel industry that when it not merely sneezes but also coughs there will be some serious economic consequences for the rest of this nation. The comparative figures for the last 2 years of imports and exports are alarming. In the case of exports, for the year 1969- 70 they were $135m. Imports were $95m. I am using round figures. There was a surplus in that year of $40m. Precisely the opposite prevails in respect of the year 1970- 71 in which exports were $97m and imports $138m, a deficit of $41 m. In terms of technology and in terms of cheapness and quality of raw materials the Australian steel industry can hold its own with that of any part of the world. The only country comparable to us in terms of technology is Japan. I believe that Japan is the culprit in this particular case. 
Let me put to the House that in the last 2 years the value of imported iron and steel products was $233m. It is true that 5 or 10 per cent of that might be special alloys and types of steel which are not readily made in Australia, but 90 per cent of those imports could have been and should have been avoided. For that reason I say that there is an urgent need for the Tariff Board, under instructions from this Government, to have a look at exactly what is happening. In my own area there are 19,000 men employed in the steel industry and all honourable members have seen reports in the Press of what is happening. There is a substantial reduction in every sector of the vast monopoly known as the Broken Hill Pty Co. Ltd and more to come because, let us be frank about it, there is over production of steel all over the world today. Certainly there is acute over production in 
Japan and that over production is a consequence of 2 things, not merely Japanese economic optimism in their planning - their false optimism in this case - because for the year 1973 they thought that they would have a market and a capacity to produce about 135 million tons of steel. 
In point of fact, for this current year their target figure is 88 million tons which is a reduction of some 5 million or 6 million tons on the previous year's output. That will, of course, have other serious consequences in respect of experts of hard coking coal and iron ore from Australia to Japan. But the point I want to make is that with what is happening in the United States today and the shutters being put up there, or at least the Riot Act being read in , term. of excessive exports to that country of Japanese steel, the pressure on Australia will be stronger than ever before. 1 know it has been said that there are a number of other covert reasons for what is happening. The management of Broken Hill Pty Co. Ltd are not economic tyros. They are not political or industrial babes in the wood either, but having said all that and having in mind the profits that they have made I believe that there is still a case for protection. That is the situation because when we look at the world trading position today we find that we are going to enter a period of acute, vicious and unparalleled economic competition and consequent protectionism. 
Today in the world we have an economic giant in the United States with a gross national product of some $1,060 billion a year and it is dependent for only 4 per cent of that gross national product on exports, in other words, a matter of $45m out of a total world trade of $286 billion. Australia's contribution is some $4 billion. But the world is breaking up into economic protectionist blocs. We have the European Common market, and my friends of the Country Party know what their chances of penetrating that are. Equally we have COMECON - Russia and its economic satellites - a close, integrated and, within terms of their own political philosophy, closely protected area. In respect of the United States, which, of course, dominates what may be termed the western hemisphere protectionist bloc we have the position where it literally has read the Riot Act to the rest of the world and told them exactly what they are to do. The United States has a deficit in terms of balance of trade of some $13 billion and it wants that corrected at the expense of certain other countries. 
In the process of forcing that correction there has been imposed a surcharge of 10 per cent on most of the major types of goods imported into that country. In addition, there is a matter of 8 or 9 per cent by way of special concession given to firms and individuals within the United States which buy goods, particularly major capital goods, made within that country. That is the situation that we face and it will be a case of every nation for itself. We can hear shibboleths mouthed by gentlemen like the honourable member for Wakefield  (Mr Kelly),  but those belong to the past because today we stand on our own as a nation. So does Japan in terms of world trade, lt will be a case of every nation for itself and the devil take the hindmost, lt is the first obligation of an Australian government, irrespective of its political persuasion, to protect the industries of Australia and the jobs and the livelihood of the Australian worker. Instead of talking in terms of hard-earned export income let. us, to begin with, examine what we can produce ourselves. With a deficit over the past 2 years of $233m worth of iron and steel imports it is time that we had a good hard look at things. 
There is nothing wrong with the Australian industry in terms of technology and there is nothing wrong with the Australian worker in terms of his skill and aptitudes. If honourable members want the proof of. it let us look at the 1970-71 report of the Tariff Board. In table 2 of the first appendix honourable members will see, referring to iron and steel, the comparative indices taking 1968 as a base year and a base figure of 100. Honourable members will find that the indices relating to foundry pig iron are not given in respect of Japan. In the case of structural steel they show that the Japanese product dropped in price from a figure of 100 in the base year of 1968 to a figure of 71 in 1971. We find that in respect of hot rolled strip steel the figures again are not available. In other words, where the Japanese want to disclose their hand they will do so, but in other cases they will not. This Government has a solemn responsibility to protect this industry because it is the key to the future of Australia. 
We face a world of economic crisis, a world of over-production. We have vast mineral wealth here but it will be made available only in the long term, considering the drop that is occurring in the prices of metals, and non-ferrous metals in particular. In respect of our exports of coa) to Japan we can at least say that if Japan can buy it for less than $13 a ton free on board but must pay S20 to $23 f.o.b. for comparable coal from the west coast of the United States and Canada, Japan will continue to buy our coal. The same will probably apply for iron ore, to the limits that Japan wants to buy it and with the revisions that it will have to make from time to time in its production targets. 
There is a lot more I could say about this matter but as a matter of courtesy to the Minister I will terminate my remarks. But I do say that any person today in this House who talks in terms of free trade and of reducing tariff protection is kidding himself and is doing a disservice to Aus' tralia. We are as a Parly by inst 'net, tradition, policy and precept a protectionist party. There is only one reservation that we make about that and it is this: Those who manufacture in Australia within the protection of the tariff wall charge a fair and reasonable price and do not exploit the Australian consumer. 
We could not possibly accept the comments of the Minister in this matter. Does he suggest with his tongue in his cheek that with 13,276 of these agreements, of which a mere 15 have been dealt with in some form by the tribunal last year, the filtering process is one that is acceptable - that it is fair or reasonable? It is an insult to the collective intelligence of the Australian electorate to suggest that. What the devil does he mean? Does he seriously suggest that, with that rate of progress and with the Government having been openly admonished by its own Commissioner in the most cogent terms, we are to accept his explanation? I do not. What he suggests is beneath contempt. 
I move: 
That the clause be postponed. 
This clause will be the subject of later consideration. 
Clause postponed. 
Clauses 35 and 36  -  by leave - taken together. 
1 ask the Minister for Labour and National Service  (Mr Lynch)  who has just resumed his seat whom he thinks he is kidding. I repeat the question: 'Whom does he think he is kidding?' I have just returned from my electorate where I obtained the latest statistics and the latest reports from the trade union movement and the men themselves on the true position in the City of Greater Wollongong. It has been said correctly that when the United States economy sneezes the rest of the world catches pneumonia. The Broken Hill Pty Co. Ltd, whatever its faults in terms of employment may be, exercises an equal role in the Australian economy. It is not only sneezing but it is coughing today. 
If the Minister for Labour and National Service were to come with me and meet the Federated Ironworkers Association of Australia, the Amalgamated Engineering Union, the Boilermakers and Blacksmiths Society of Australia and the rest of the major trade unions in the area; if he were to come along and see the management of Australian Iron and Steel Pty Ltd, the management of Mount Keira colliery, and the management of Scarborough colliery; if he were to see the tally clerks at Port Kembla and the 16,000 tons of Japanese steel that is being landed there; if he were to come along to John Lysaght (Aust) Ltd and M. M. Pty Ltd, the copper wire and tube mill people, and ask them how many men they propose to retrench; if he were to make similar inquiries at Stewarts and Lloyds (Aust) Pty Ltd, at David Brothers Pty Ltd, at B. &amp; W. Steel Pty Ltd, at Garnock Engineering Co. Pty Ltd and every other major employer in the district, he would throw his statistics away. They are worthless: they are nothing more than a monthly aberration of the true position with regard to unemployment in Australia today. 
At the moment a deputation of the New South Wales coal owners is overseas trying not only to get a better price for their products but to make sure that delivery  of  contracted supplies will be accepted. In addition the Minister should go to other collieries such as Coalcliff Colliery and see how many men will be retrenched there because of the curtailment of the steel companies' purchases of coal. That is the position. As for the Minister for Labour and National Service claiming any credit for employment, he will be the villain of the piece. Before this Parliament rises he will be giving notice to the House of proposals for the alteration of the Commonwealth Conciliation and Arbitration Act designed deliberately to exacerbate industrial turmoil in Australia, because this Government has a vested interest in industrial turmoil to save its own miserable hide. 
The Prime Minister  (Mr McMahon)  went abroad on his celebrated pilgrimage to see whether he could dig up a suitable election issue. He could not, and back he came. The instruction has gone to his minions to give the screws a turn and have a good old head-on confrontation. Fortunately, the wiser, cooler and saner heads -amongst the employers see the general world trend. They know that trade is on the decline everywhere and they do not want the position in Australia intensified. What the Government proposes to do to save its own miserable hide will create permanent damage to Australia and will lose trade that can never be regained in this period of acute and intense world trading competition. I am glad to see that the Minister for Trade and Industry  (Mr Anthony)  is at the table, because he needs to learn a few of the facts of industrial life. Let me remind the House that in the last 2 years $233m worth of iron and steel products have been imported into Australia. In the year 1969-70 we had a favourable trading balance of $40m. Last year we had an adverse trading balance of $4.1 m in respect of iron and steel. 
Let me take the particular case of black sheet steel, which is the key product for the motor body industry and for all sorts of consumer durables such as refrigerators and washing machines. In 1969-70 $12m of our surplus was exported but last year we had an adverse balance, because of steel coming in from Japan, to the tune of 51 5m. What is the Government's answer to this situation? I have here today's 'Daily Mercury' from Wollongong which says: 
Government action is demanded. The union moves to save men's jobs. The Federated Ironworkers Association has called on the Federal Government to stop all imports of steel. 
There is justification for that. Quotas are needed for this purpose because today there is acute over-production of steel in the world. The Japanese miracle is crumbling and the Japanese economy is a brittle one. Further, thanks to the United States 10 per cent surcharge. Japan, which looked upon the west coast of the United States as a major source of consumption for its exports, now finds that the shutters are going up and an acute and vicious war has commenced. What does this Government plan to do about it? The Japanese have a lot up their sleeves and they can afford to cut prices. The Broken Hill Pty Co. Ltd in its celebrated recent increase of 8 per cent in steel costs gave the opportunity which they needed to come right in under their guard. 
Over many years and more particularly over recent months I have had numerous complaints from constituents about the unavailability of particular steel types. The company is definitely at fault in respect of its phasing of production. This is the responsibility of the Government. The Government can throw all its sacred principles of free trade to the wind. Today every country is going lickety-split for its own survival. It is the fundamental responsibility of any government - whether it is Liberal, Labor or of any other political persuasion - to safeguard the industry and to safeguard the jobs of the men in it. 
We live in an age of steel and I represent a city of steel. I speak for those men and I am here to fight for them and for their rights. Let the Government take heed of what I say, be warned and act accordingly. Yesterday 16,000 tons of Japanese steel were being unloaded at Port Kembla. If we relate the $233m worth of imports of iron and steel products into Australia to the value of ingot steel production, we find it is equivalent to about 31 million tons or about 6 months' employment lost to the Australian workers, thanks to the stupidity and the crass ignorance of this Government and those who are responsible for safeguarding our trading position. Let the 
Minister get up and give his answer to this. He would not even know a steelworks if he saw one. 
I doubt whether he would then. With regard to industrial turmoil, let me quote some of the criticism which has been made by traditional supporters of this Government. Let us take for a start  Mr McPhee,  the  President  of the Victorian Chamber of Manufactures. He said: 
I  warn the Federal Government against working  up  to a law and order election.  The Metal Trades Employers Association has already served notice on the rest of the employers that it is no longer willing to fight the trade unions on behalf of the Federal Government and other employers to the last dollar. Let the Minister for Trade and Industry take heed of what was said by the former Prime Minister, the right honourable member for Higgins  (Mr Gorton),  in Brisbane last Friday. He said that it was time that the Federal Government took over price control from the States. It is also time that the Federal Government took the trade union movement into its confidence and into its counsels and sat down with them and the employers to discuss the situation. Australians can be led; they cannot be driven. If this Government wants industrial peace there is a right way to get it. It cannot be achieved by bashing, blackguarding and dragooning the trade union movement, the people who bend their backs in sweat so that this country can survive, develop and expand. Shame on the Government for its tactics and its objectives. 
There is today in Australia one commodity and one commodity only under universal price control, and that is labour. Let the lies of the Government be nailed once and for all. If honourable members want to nail them, let them look at the September issue of the 'Australian Economic Quarterly' and they will see there that over the last IS years, as a percentage of the gross national product, the cost of wages has varied only between 61 per cent and 63 per cent, and as a corrective factor to that there has been an increase in employment from 89 per cent to 91 per cent. So the impact of wages on prices is literally nil. The hard truth - any working man will tell you this - is that wages are chasing prices. They are losing in the race, are further behind than ever and will never catch up. If the Government wants the answer to the problems of the present system of conciliation and arbitration I refer it to  Mr Polites,  the leader of the employers of Australia. He said that the Commonwealth Conciliation and Arbitration Act ought to be torn up and another one put in its place. 
Is this Government prepared to do anything constructive? We heard from the Prime Minister  (Mr McMahon)  before he went overseas that we had nothing to fear but fear itself. I would say, from the fruits of his journey overseas, that Australia has nothing to fear but McMahon himself and his Government. Today it is the Government's policy - a deliberate one - to have unemployment. It seeks to use unemployment as a club to condition and to belt down the working man. The Government intends at all costs to ensure its own electoral survival, but in the process of so doing it will wreak irrevocable and irreparable harm to the Australian economy. There is no alternative in Australia to full employment. We are capable of providing it, but it was obvious in the Budget that the Government's planning, strangely was, for a  2i  per cent surcharge on income tax which obviously would offset the  2i  per cent unemployment that it proposed to create. But this is like the sorcerer's apprentice - once he starts pulling the rabbits out of the hat he does not know how to stop them. Unemployment will not stop at  2i  per cent. Worse than that - this applies particularly in the metal trades - wages for the unskilled worker are paltry, and unless and until unskilled workers can work more than a 40-hour week it is impossible for them to survive. The full award wage for an unskilled worker in the steel industry today is a national scandal, and that in itself has been productive of more industrial stoppages than anything else than even this Government could do if it implemented its plans for disruption to the fullest. 
In the time that is left to me I want to refer to a couple of other matters. One of these is of the utmost importance with regard to the general state of the Australian economy. For many years we have had an adverse balance of trade on current account, and the Government's strategy last year was to take out of circulation in the domestic surplus some $630m. Strangely, when we attempt to examine the inflow of hot money which is coming into Australia in remarkable quantities, we see a corresponding offset. In other words, the Government, taking that money out of circulation, was then confronted by employers and developers who decided: 'Very good, if we cannot get the money within Australia we will go abroad and get it'. Borrowed money today is the worst form of investment for Australia because it has to be paid for in hard earned exports at a time of economic crisis in world trade. I am not a calamity howler but I say that  we  are heading for an economic crisis. The last man who ought to be tittering is the Minister for Trade and Industry. Let him go and examine his own political and economic conscience and decide what he is doing for the benefit of the small man in rural industry. 
Yes. The Government's Budget strategy is wholly discredited. Honourable members need not accept my word for it; they can look at the recent quarterly published jointly by the Bank of New South Wales and the Associated Chambers of Manufactures of Australia and see what those bodies have said. Are they telling lies? Look at the quarterly review of the Australia and New Zealand Banking Group Ltd and their prognostications, particularly their forecasts of further employment. This Government is like a punch drunk fighter - clinching, playing for time and hoping that it can survive the vicissitudes of the next fortnight in this Parliament so that during the Christmas period at least it will get some surcease and possible relief, hoping to God that something will turn up to save Government supporters and their own miserable political hides. Planning is a dirty word to this Government. The last thing that this Government is capable of doing is plan for the future development of Australia. Its policy has been a simple one - if it moves, shoot it; if it grows, cut it down; if it is in the soil, dig it up and export it and, for preference, do not attempt in any way to process it. Where do we go with a government of this type, a government composed of economic nincompoops - that is all that they can be called? What has been the Government's policy year by year? lt has been to sell Australia out piece by piece. 
We hear Government supporters prate about overseas investment. In actual fact the total amount of overseas investment in Australia varies between 14 per cent and 16 per cent. Despite that, overseas investors have a leverage on our economy and control 40 per cent of it. This is due to 2 things. One is their managerial expertise and the other is their superior technology. For the future - I say this in respect of Australia and as an Australian - we need to stand on our own feet and to think in terms of Australia's own interests. For the future we are bound by ties of language, culture and tradition to Britain but we need to think for ourselves, and in no regard do we need to exercise more thought and to work for ourselves than we do in the steel and iron industries. Today a lot of our economic problems are due to the fact that we have been buying big ticket defence items which are by no means relevant to the true defence of Australia. The precept and example that we need to follow is that of Sweden, which is capable of making almost the whole of its defence needs whether they be for the army, the navy or the air force. Australians can do it too. Let the Government remember also that it was in 1941 that wa faced the moment of truth in matters relating to our defence in that we could not rely on our former friends and protectors. Today, 30 years later, we come to another moment of truth, and it is that we will need to think very clearly for ourselves in respect of our trade, our economy and our development as a nation. There is a need for another Curtin to speak in terms of Australia and what it needs, to speak of Australia's growing national consciousness, its sense of national identity and its national objectives. The sooner that this Government is tipped unceremoniously and ignominiously out of office, the better for Australia and the better chance there will be of retrieving a desperate economic position. 
The problem of monopolies is one which was first dealt with in the Tudor period in Elizabethan England. In the case of modern industrialised economies, of course, we had the Sherman Act of 1890 in the United Stales followed by the Clayton Act which dealt with takeover bids in 1915 and the Robinson-Patman Act of 1936. Of course, in Australia the present Chief Justice of the High Court,  Sir Garfield  Barwick, first introduced quite a progressive and completely definitive set of proposals in the early 1960s which were submitted to this House in 1962 by a former minister on behalf of.  Sir Garfield.  We then had the enactment of ! 965 which, in itself, was a masterpiece of evasion and frustration, which was not proclaimed until 1967 and which was finally declared to be this defunct in 1971 in respect of the 1965 proposal - not of Part VIII which deals with resale price maintenance or what may be more commonly termed the 'Hawke amendments'. This Bill is said to preserve competition in trade and commerce to the extent required by the public interest. Excepting for resale price maintenance, it can best be described as a pious fraud. 
The Opposition's approach to it is twofold: Firstly, to ensure that any amendments introduced by the Government to bolster and validate the present Act will remedy its most obnoxious and blatant effects. The Bill as presented to the House does neither. Secondly, as a government, which we will become, we will enact fully effective and powerful legislation not only on trade practices but also in wide relevant fields. Our objective is to secure, firstly, the preservation of the recent resale price maintenance amendments and the application of their principles of onus of proof and specific criteria of public interest to horizontal agreements. The decision in the Mikasa case largely preserved the resale price maintenance amendments. 
Our second objective would be to end the excessive secrecy of the register of examinable agreements. We ako seek to preserve the full definition of monopolisation and prohibition of predatory price cutting which was inserted by the Senate in its recent deliberations on this measure. Thirdly, we would abolish the statutory right of consultation conferred by clause 50 as an instrument of delay and frustration. lt is n piece of legal hocus pocus. Fourthly, we would confer on affected parties, that is, parties who are subject to damage by restrictive practices the right themselves to initiate directly proceedings before the tribunal for breaches. Fifthly, we would clear up the present backlog of over 13,276 registered examinable restrictive agreements. It is poetic justice that the Chief Justice sat in judgment on this Act and provided the constitutional basis on which a Labor government will be able to return any new legislation to his original proposals. 
The original Act of 1965 was debated for a fortnight. In my 21 years of parliamentary experience 1 have never seen such coming and going, such huffing and blowing, such patching and further patching and further penalties and further restrictions being placed on the free and effective operation of a measure. . In short-  Sir 
Garfield could not possibly have recognised his original brainchild after it had been left to the tender and oppressive mercies of the Government. So the Bill in its present form is designed merely to close a loophole. Following its passage, the law in this nationally vital area, it has been said, will be a model of impotence and a monument to the Government's determination to put the interests of big business, monopolies and multi-national corporations before the interests of the public. 
Of course, Australia has a reputation abroad which this Government is determined to preserve as being the last frontier for economic banditry, a place where monopoly power rides unchecked by laws considered to be basic necessities in other modern industrialised nations. It was the Commissioner for the Australian Mutual Provident Society,  Dr Bell,  who stated that the intensity of industrialised concentration in this country is perhaps the highest in the world. Our economy is dominated by about 200 companies, of which 40 are titans in the business world. Of these  giants, 40 per cent are owned or substantially controlled by overseas interests. Excluding Part VII of the present measure - the part referring to resale price maintenance - the measure is a legal zombie. It is a case of taking a corpse and breathing life into it by using the provisions of the concrete pipes judgment which relate to financial corporations. To vary the metaphor, it is a legal funkhole, a humbug and a sham. It has more escape runways in it than a rat's castle. 
The Australian economy will still be controlled, thanks to this new measure, by every restrictive device known to the ingenuity of man. As a whole, it is a legal hybrid with original parts in glaring contrast to the resale price amendments, in  which defined practices are made illegal per se with the onus of proof for exemption resting on the interested party who is under the obligation to apply to the court to prove his or its case. The Government has been brazenly indifferent over a period of 3 years to Commissioner Bannerman's repeated warnings until the bombshell of the concrete pipes judgment. The constitutionally valid corporations powers are substituted for an illegal grab-bag of expedients in the original section 7 of the 1965 
Act. in short, the judgment is a victory for Chief Justice Barwick and for Professor Richardson and a slap in the face to those who, over many years, have used the celebrated section 92 of the Constitution as an  instrument of constitutional subversion. 
I want to take the liberty of quoting from the 1970-71 report of  Mr Bannerman,  the Commissioner for Trade Practices. The report is for the period which ended on 30th June last. He had this to say: 
The Commissioner's dealing with cases- 
The 13,276 of them-  is time consuming. 
Incidentally, in a whole period of 12 months he was able to deal under section 48, the consultation clause, with only 8 of them. Another 7 were abandoned even before the consultation procedure was invoked. He said: 
The Commissioner is not able to take a case to the Tribunal until he has formed the opinion that the restrictions in question are contrary to the public interest, and until he has consulted with the parties, or attempted to consult with them, with a view to securing action on their part that will make Tribunal proceedings unnecessary, lt follows- 
I stress these words and I would like to hear the Government's answer to them -  that the pattern of restriction will remain in Australia for many years if most cases are to be dealt with case by case , al the Commissioner's level, subject to secrecy and without the assistance of genera] rules either in legislation or in decisions of the Tribunal.  
Again I quote from page 13 of the same report, and here again we have the dichotomy between section 8, where the Government's arm was twisted by public opinion, and the original 1965 proposals.  Mr Bannerman  said: 
The 1971 Act breaks away from the approach of the 1965 Act. Whereas the 1965 Act makes the anti-competitive agreements and practices it deals with examinable, the 1971 Act makes resale price maintenance unlawful. The public interest criteria for exemptions for resale price maintenance are narrower and more precise than the public interest criteria under the 1965 Act. The Commissioner is not required to form a public interest opinion, because the Act itself takes a strong prima facie stand. There is, moreover, no statutory requirement that the Commissioner consult with parties before Tribunal proceedings. Indeed, it is not the Commissioner who institutes proceedings', companies that desire exemptions to permit resale price maintenance must institute the proceedings themselves, and the Commissioner will be a respondent  10  the proceeding". Unless anil until an exemption is granted, resale price maintenance remains unlawful and may be restrained in the Commonwealth Industrial Court by injunction at the suit of the Attorney-General, the Commissioner or a person who has suffered loss or damage. By contrast, the private right of action under the 19*5 Aci is in substance much more limited, because it is a right lo  Mie  for damages in the Commonwealth Industrial Court only after the Tribunal has given a decision declaring an agreement or practice to be contrary to the public interest and ils order has been disobeyed. Com-  plainants cann  themselves institute Tribunal proceedings, but they might in any event find the expense of Tribunal proceedings beyond their means and the difficulties of getting industry information to deal with the 1965 public interest criteria insurmountable. 
Let me put it in a more simple form. Let us assume that two companies decide that they will exclude a third from either entering into or operating in a particular field pf industry and the sale of its products; they get their heads together and, in turn, consult a- competent public company lawyer. His advice would be simply this: 'The present Trade Practices Act is a beauty. You have got nothing whatever to be worried about. Reduce your agreement to writing. You will have to register it and you mast do so within 30 day--, but  (ben  you are as safe as a church because there are 13,276 agreements. With the delays, frustrations and obstacles that have been inserted in the Act by the present Government it will be generations before the matter, will even come up for consideration.' 
This is the real story behind the Act: it will be generations before the matter comes up for consideration. He will continue: 'Even then you will not be taken before a Tribunal. You will be called in for consultation and persuasion by the Commissioner himself. In the meantime you will be able to go on and do business merrily under the terms of the agreement and you will not be hurt. More than that, contrary to the experience of other countries, the register of restrictive agreements will not be examinable and no-one outside - your trade competitors and those who are being hurt by these practices - will have any idea of what is going on. They will know the consequences because they will be suffering them. But if and when it does finally, after a lapse of what may he generations, come before the then Commissioner of Trade Practices you could be rebuked or, better still, you could decide to be good boys and tear up the agreement. But then, having got to the point where you have worked together for so many years in perfect harmony, you will not need to maintain a registered agreement. As for damages, who can prove if The people who have been hurt by your practice have no access to the agreement It is only if and when the matter goes finally, not merely after consultation with the Commissioner, before the Tribunal itself and after penalties are imposed for a breach of the Act, that the affected parties can sue for damages.' This is what the Government wants to perpetuate. Shame on the Government! It is a scandal and an insult to the intelligence of fair minded and fair thinking Australians. 
 The Opposition opposes most vehemently any attempt by the Government to remove these clauses from the Bill. It does so for very cogent and valid reasons. The amendments were inserted in another place. They were inserted after due consideration and by a clear and decisive vote. That being so, we feel that, apart from any other consideration, as a matter of courtesy the clauses should be accepted by this chamber - the more so because, in fact, they are framed or couched in words which are almost identical with those in the original proposal put before the Parliament by  Mr Freeth  in  1962.  We have  yet- to  hear any reason advanced by the Government why they should not now be included. There is no reason in logic, in commonsense or in law why they should not be included, and more particularly because of the comment that was made by  Mr Commissioner  Bannerman when the 8 per cent blanket impost which was placed by Broken Hill Pty Co. Ltd on its steel prices was referred to him for consideration.  Mr Bannerman  came to the conclusion - the valid conclusion as the Act then stood no doubt, and after due advice from competent counsel - that he could not rule that a monopoly was doing anything wrong in deciding to alter prices. That being so, and for no other reason, we oppose the Government's proposal. 
Let me put it on another basis and let me paraphrase the Minister's words. Does he suggest that Broken Hill Pty Co. Ltd, the biggest company in Australia, does not know that it is a monopoly; that its directors or those responsible for its management, for its policyand the implementation of their policy, do not know when they are acting as a monopoly, when they are fixing prices when they know there is no opposition to them other than of the most minute kind from a handful of very small steel makers? Are we to believe that this argument, which is as the casuists say an argumentum ad ignorantiam, one based on the lack of knowledge of the listeners, is to be accepted? I think it is beneath contempt. 
He would have no difficulty whatever if they were under the same obligation - and they would be in respect of this amendment - to give the necessary information. It is a well known legal principle that in cases where there is difficulty in adducing proof the averment itself in an indictment is to be sufficient proof until the contrary is proved. In other words, in exceptional cases - the Minister knows as well asI do that they relate to prosecutions in such simple matters as breaches of the Liquor Act and certain breaches of the Pure Foods Act - the averment in the information is itself evidence of guilt until the contrary is proved. 
To put it at its worst, the Government, if it wants to do it can do it, and where there is a will there is a way. In this matter the Government has gone even further because in relation to original section 4 (2.) it has gone to most minute pains to ensure that the Australian Industries Preservation Act has also been destroyed. There again there is the question of the definition of monopoly and in particular cases there is provision for the imposition of exemplary damages. Who better than the Minister for Foreign Affairs wouldknow what is the position in the United States of America today where the laws in this respect are punitive, and correctly so? In Australia the only commodity under universal price control is human labour, and penalties are imposed and imprisonment has been imposed on directors of major companies. Why should it not be so in appropriate cases after due proof? Let the Minister answer that if he can. 
Question put: 
That Part IV (clauses 35and 36) be agreed to. 
I seek the leave of the Committee to move together the 2 amendments circulated in my name. 
I move: 
At the end of clause 34 add the following subclause:  (6.)  The references in this section to the Register shall be read as references to the special section of the Register established in accordance with section 40 of this Act, and nothing in this section applies in relation to information contained in the portion of the Register other than the special section of the Register.'. 
At the end of clause 42 add the following subclauses: (3.) The regulation shall provide for the maintenance of a special section of the Register, and for the filing in that section of such particulars as the Commissioner may direct, being: 
particulars containing information the publication of which would, in the opinion of the Commissioner, be contrary to the public interest; or (b.) particulars containing information asto any secret process of manufacture oras to the presence, absence or situation of any mineral or other deposits or as to any other similar matter, being information the publication of which, in the opinion of the Commissioner, would substantially damage the legitimate business interests of any person. (4.) The Register, other than the special section, shall be open to public inspection during such hours and subject to payment of such fee as may be prescribed by the regulations. (5.) Any person may, upon payment of such fee as may be prescribed by the regulations, requirethe Commissioner to supply to him a copy of, or extract from, any particulars filed in the Register, other than the special section, certified by the Commissioner to be a true copy or extract.'. 
The purpose of the amendments is that for the first time the register of restrictive agreements will be open to the public for general examination, with the justifiable exception of secret processes of manufacture or other matters which could be detrimental to the parties associated with the agreement. It is a fair and reasonable provision. This Government is a secretive Government which deals in hole-in-corner methods. It is a Government which at all costs wants to push things through quietly in the dead of night if it can and while there is no broadcasting of the proceedings of the House. The Government is adopting precisely the same tactics as it adopted this afternoon in relation to the censure motion, because the Government has reason to be ashamed of and embarrassed by its attitude in relation to this Act and to the amendments which have been proposed. The amendments are completely logical and in line with the resale price maintenance part of the Act. 
How is it possible for any person adversely affected or believing himself - or in the case of a company, itself - to be adversely affected by the operation of any restrictive agreement if he cannot have, on reasonable terms and after proper security measures have been taken, access to it to examine its contents? This Government is using shyster methods -I use the word advisedly - to conceal absolutely, to frustrate and to delay not merely unreasonably but for a length of time which can be projected into the far distant future. In every other country access is given, on proper terms, to registers of this type. Let the Minister for Foreign Affairs  (Mr N. H. Bowen)  give the House a single valid reason why access should not be given in these cases. Morethan that - it is rash to prophesy - I will be most agreeably surprised and so will a lot of people in Australia if before the next election the Government has produced any amending legislation to replace what it is ramming through the Committee here tonight.It will dive for cover. It will dive into its funk hole, and that suits it nicely. I repeat, to the embarrassment of the Minister and to the embarrassment of the Government, that the Act in its present form, excepting in the case of resale price maintenance, is a phoney. 
The Minister for Foreign Affairs  (Mr N. H. Bowen)  is again being evasive andI would like these remarks of mine to be noted. In the case of resale price maintenance it is competent for 3 distinct parties to institute proceedings for damages or for other penalties, namely, the Attorney-General, the Commissioner for Trade Practices or the person affected. What the Minister does not tell the House is that the person affected has no chance whatever until in the dim and distant future, if and when and as the Commissioner for Trade Practices finally gets around to the point of ultimately examining the legislation, there is no power of action for damages inherent in the person who suffers from the consequences of that registered contract. He is entitled to that right. It is a denial of natural justice, and I repeat that the Government should be ashamed for its obtuseness and its obmutescence. 
Question put: 
That the amendments  (Mr Connor's)  be agreed to. 
to inform the. House of a single country where a commissioner or a man exercising similar jurisdiction has the right to call parties in, to literally cajole them, to reason with them for what appears on the face of it to be a breach of an Act of Parliament, to remonstrate with them and, if possible, to get them to see the error of their ways and, without the slightest penalty and without the slightest admonition, to allow them to continue wilh their restrictive practices by agreeing to abandon the agreement as between parties and doing it as individuals, again in secret collusion. 

 Mr N. H. BOWEN (Parramatta- Minister for Foreign Affairs) - The honourable member for Cunningham  (Mr Connor)  doubted whether a consultation procedure exists in similar legislation in other countries. The provision in the original legislation was copied from the American legislation. It has in fact proved successful in the sense that very often where there has been consultation there has been an amendment of the practice or of the agreement reached by the parties to bring it within the concept of public interest and it has therefore not been necessary to take the matter to the Trade Practices Tribunal. In some instances after this consultation procedure, which is less formal than an open court or tribunal type of procedure, the practice or the agreement has in fact been abandoned. It is only where the consultation procedure fails that the matter will go before the tribunal, with all the length of argument and evidence which is required in that respect. The Government will, however, in its review take note of what the honourable member has said. 
I wish to reply to the comments of the Minister. A process called jawboning, which has become established in the United States of America, which stems from the ideas of the late  President  John Kennedy, and which has been the customary practice for a considerable time, was used very effectively to deal with proposed increases in the cost of steel. As the Bill is drafted, this provision boils down to nothing more than an old boys' club where old college chums can get together and where the Commissioner of Trade Practices can be put in the rather invidious position of having to remonstrate and expostulate with people and say: 'Look here, old boy, if you really will not listen to reason I will have to prosecute you, which is the last thing I would want to do to an old college chum, but 1 have my riding instructions on the matter from the Government'. That is the provision as it stands and the Government is welcome to it because it smells. 
I turn now to Part XIII of the Bill, which relates to overseas cargo shipping. Although it involves a matter of vital concern to members of the Australian Country Party they are rather conspicuous by their absence from the chamber at this stage of the proceedings. I should have thought that we would have heard something from them about this matter in view of the plight of the wool industry. It should be remembered that the operations of the shipping conferences affect the freight rates charged in respect of wool. Wool is the prestige cargo of shipping conferences. Anyone who doubts my word in that regard should examine the report of the commission of inquiry WhIch was held some 12 years ago in relation to this matter. Wool is the prestige and most valuable cargo. Consequently it has levied on it the highest freight rate. That freight rate is determined on the basis of awarding a premium to inefficiency because in the operations of a cartel, which is what a shipping conference is, the ultimate freight arrived at is designed to allow the most inefficient and uneconomic of the participant lines in that cartel to operate at a profit. A worse situation could not exist. 
An over-supply of freighters exists throughout the world today. If this Government really had the interests of primary producers at heart it would be calling for and getting surprisingly competitive tenders from the major shipping proprietors of the world. In the port of Piraievs alone 250 ships were tied up some 3 months ago. Any one of them would have been capable of carrying our cargoes at a much lesser freight rate than is being imposed at present. If one adds to that the enormities of containerisation and the consequences of it in terms of a further inflation of shipping rates one has a situation which could not be worse insofar as its detriment to the rural industries, particularly the wool producers, is concerned. Again 1 ask: What has the Government done to curb the activities of the shipping conferences? Already agreements have been registered and there is a clerk and a registry, but the shippers have only given lip service to the legislation. They have complied with its bare minimum requirements. The effectiveness of the legislation is another matter. The provisions of the old Australian Industries Preservation Act would have been far more effective. But the Government has effectively killed it too as a part of the process of assassination which has been included within the ambit of this legislation and the Government's activities. 
Remainder of the Bill agreed to. 
Bill reported with amendments; report - by leave - adopted. 
I address my question to the Prime Minister. Why does he, whilst deploring the Broken Hill Pty Co. Ltd's steel price increase, studiously avoid using the corporation pricing powers flowing from the recent concrete pipes case? How does he justify his Government's blatant partisan intervention in the current national wage case, with rigid controls, while tolerating unlimited licence for excessive price rises by his company friends? Can he quote a worse example of economic arrogance than BHP's rejection of his recent jawboning appeals for pricing restraint? How does he justify his economic double standards for manufacturer and employee? Will his reintroduction of the plant investment allowances give a $5.5m bonus to BHP for its new Newcastle rolling mill and up to $200m to a foreign owned steel consortium if it proceeds with its Jervis Bay project? 
It might be worth while to remind the House and those in the galleries of the origin - the inception - of this legislation. It was introduced in the early months of 1962 after the Liberal-Country Party Government had the fright of its life and survived a near electoral disaster by one vote. A- a sweetener it was introduced by the then Prime Minister. Today, with a government of the same kidney threatened with electoral disaster, it is natural that it is doing the same thing. It wants to ensure its own political survival. Let me put it this way: I might be uncharitable to think it, but campaign funds obviously are not flowing in as they ought to. Although I think my friend the honourable member for Melbourne Ports  (Mr Crean)  was rather charitable in understating the position, what will be the cash flow-back from the $50m or more that the industries of Australia - the undeserving industries - will contribute to the funds of this Government for its political survival? 
Of course, the Government has abandoned the phoney fight against inflation. Let me remind the House that in October last year, the Treasurer  (Mr Snedden)  said that there were 4 ways in which inflation could be tackled. The first was to ignore it and let things take their course. The second was to bring in crashing measures of a most draconian type that would have the effect of literally choking off industry. That of course, was politically unacceptable, although it was tried in some measure in the Budget strategy of August last year. The third phase, which has now been reached, is the carrot and stick technique, combined with jawboning, Where there are appeals to sweet reason as being better than coercion. Of course, the Government is not averse to appearing before the Commonwealth Conciliation and Arbitration Commission to coerce the judiciary there into denying the trade union movement of Australia what is its just economic due. Finally, now that the Government has run the whole gamut of its concept of economic measures against inflation, we get back to the point where, in effect, the Government says: 'Let her rip; the brakes are off. We want to win the election anyhow and we have $630m of domestic surplus in the pork barrel to dip out to our friends'. This, of course, is one of the measures which has been promoted for that purpose. 
It might also be interesting to examine the exact effect of the proposed amendment. After all, assistance of hundreds of millions of dollars was ladled out to heavy industry for the 9-year period until the former Prime Minister, with his shoot from the hip technique, decided that it was to be cut off, and cut off it was, with the exception of aid to rural industry. Hence, we have subsection 13 of section 62aa of the Income Tax Assessment Act. Now it is proposed to tinker with that. 
At this point I would like to quote from the explanatory memorandum which was distributed to the House. The proposed amendment, which is the very essence of this Bill, will limit its application to expenditure incurred before 14th September 1972 - the date of the last Premiers Conference - and the effect will be to restore the allowance in respect of eligible capital expenditure incurred or after 14th February 1972 irrespective of the date of the making of the contract under which the expenditure was incurred. In other words, this is supposed to be an inducement - I repeat the word 'inducement' - to heavy industry to instal new manufacturing plant. Those who, in the interegnum between February of last year with the Gorton amendment and the further amendment that is the subject of this Bill, and who never had in contemplation of restoration of this allowance, will now be beneficiaries from it. What would this Government say if retrospectivity were applied to the needs of the pensioners? 
By the way,  Sir, to  make sure that the cash flow is expedited, the Government is prepared even to by-pass the provisions of the Acts Interpretation Act, and the period of 28 days which normally takes place from the granting of the royal assent until the Bill actually operates has been cut off on this occasion. In other words, the Government cannot get the money into the hands of its friends quickly enough. As the honourable member for Melbourne Ports said, there has been a remarkably successful campaign. Every possible organ and every section of the media that could influence public opinion has been used with heart rending efficiency stating the plight of these people. The pressure has come from the Australian Country Party too, and this is particularly notable. There does seem to be some particular law of economic inversion so that the greater the amount that is to be handed out by way of largesse the quicker is the second reading speech of the Minister in charge of the Bill. In this case, the Treasurer in the short span of 3 minutes - 3 minutes mark you,  Sir -  without ever saying what it would cost, introduced the legislation. 
Just 24 hours before, the Minister for Social Services  (Mr Wentworth),  with the usual bonus of diatribes and political obloquy directed against the Labor Party, took the full 30 minutes, with paeons of self-congratulation, to hand out S4m a year in the way of increases in unemployment benefits to the victims of the Government's economic mismanagement. The Minister for Social Services took 10 times as long as the Treasurer. Of course, it is worth looking at the real impact of this allowance. In addition to the 20 per cent initial depreciation there will be the various rates of normal depreciation on equipment according to its type and category. But in total, over the period of years, there will be an actual concessional allowance or concessional deduction for income tax purposes of 120 per cent of the cost of the particular equipment. Today, with 47* per cent being the going rate of company tax, it means that 57£ per cent of the total cost will be recouped to the particular beneficiary. One can add to that, if one likes, at the tail end of the period of depreciation, what can be obtained for the equipment on the second-hand market by way of resale, or alternatively by trading the equipment in on new equipment. 
Will these measures increase confidence, will they increase productivity, or will they increase employment? Need I remind the House of the survey which was conducted by the Associated Chambers of Manufactures of Australia and the Bank of New South Wales. The survey pointed out very effectively, as well as grimly and starkly that only 70 per cent of manufacturing equipment in secondary industry was being used to capacity. What proof has the Government given of any increase in anticipated productivity since that date? Who today would risk plant expansion? Would the motor car industry risk this type of expansion? Certainly not. Let the Government or any of its spokesmen name the particular industry that is prepared to do so. 
No matter which way one looks at it, it is pork barrelling, lt is a concession of the worst possible type. I repeat that it is a concession that is starkly for the political advantage of the Government. For this Government planning is a dirty word. But that is the essence of the amendment moved on behalf of the Opposition by the honourable member for Melbourne Ports. Let the Government state, if it can or dare, exactly what has been paid out since 1962 until the Gorton amendment, and what will be paid out - in particular what will be paid out - for last year for expenditure on and from 14th February of this year. Also let the Government state why it is not prepared to differentiate between the different groups. 
Today there are new phenomena in industrial development and investment. The Government conveniently overlooks these things. Today there is a distinct line of cleavage in industrial investment. Investment is classified as being in either a labour intensive industry or a capital intensive industry. Let us specifically take the oil industry which is a maximum capital intensity and a minimum labour intensity industry. Yet that industry will benefit whereas other industries, where the relative cost of investment in equipment per person employed in much lower, is put on exactly the same footing. The big foreign companies, and in particular the multi-national corporations, are the people who are really responsible today for world stagflation. They are so big that they are able to distort the economy of any country of small or even medium economic size. These companies are in Australia as well as countries of a comparable size as Australia. They are largely responsible, together with this Government's ineptitude, for our present economic crisis. 
Again, the subsidies granted under this legislation will apply to luxury industries. Can we suggest that, for example, the manufacturer of cosmetics or some useless domestic appliance should be put on the same basis as the manufacturer who is producing equipment that can be used to restore Australia's export trade? Should some consideration not be given to industries which are capable of manufacturing equipment that can replace the imported product? Conversely, is assistance to be given to some of these multi-national corporations which come into Australia, and through their subsidiaries, by franchise agreements, restrict the export to overseas markets of equipment manufactured in Australia and other secondary products, and limit them to Australia, Oceania or perhaps South East Asia? Where is the line of distinction to be drawn? There is none because, I repeat, of this bare-faced pork barrelling. 
Let us take specifically the case of the Broken Hill Pty Co. Ltd and its proposed rolling mill which is to be built at Newcastle at a cost of $54m. Let us assume that the whole of this amount is to go into manufacturing equipment. If that is the case, taking 20 per cent of that, and 47i per cent of the 20 per cent, one gets the effective bonus for the first year of $5. 2m. Take the case of the long publicised project at Jervis Bay known as the Armco steelworks. If that proposition is ever consummated the following firms will be involved: Firstly there is Armco- the American Rolling Mill Company; secondly there is Kaiser Refractories Steel; and thirdly there is Thyssen, the major West German steel combine. This group is looking for another partner and have got even Nippon Mining steel to take a fourth interest in it. Assuming that this group can assemble the full complement of the consortium, the project will be worth somewhere between $800m and $ 1,000m. This Government is prepared to subsidise to the tune of anything up to $200m, by way of concessional deduction, the establishment of a steel industry in Australia not so much, I understand, to supply the local market but rather to process iron ore, to reduce it to the ingot steel form and send abroad the billets or ingots or whatever large form the exported steel takes. 
Some of the industrial giants of the world will be subsidised by this Government. Could there ever be anything more ludicrous or disgraceful? Whatever we might say in the way of criticism of BHP. at least it is 85 per cent Australian owned and we know how to deal with that company fairly and to put it under control in the proper way and to keep it under control so that it pulls it weight in the right direction. So far as BHP pulling its weight is concerned, need I remind honourable members that in the last 2 financial years completed the excess of steel imported into Australia over exports totalled $135m. If we look much more closely at the recent price rise by BHP we can analyse it from this point of view: Following the international revaluation of currencies the yen was upvalued against the dollar by over 16 per cent. The Australian dollar was upvalued to the tune of 6.32 per cent, a differential of approximately 10 per cent. BHP decided that it could very safely help itself to half of that differential, and it had this further reason for doing it: Whilst it has been able in open competition, quite effectively, to ward of Japanese steel imports in the larger section of steel, when it got down to the smaller gauges of steel where the labour component was high, there were certain types of sheet steel where the Japanese, despite the present tariff, could come in and compete with BHP. They got in quite effectively and they have pulled out the maximum that the traffic would bear. 
This is the industrial world of the future - and do not forget it. It is a world of cash flow. It is a world of major corporations, of multi-national corporations which are so big that they can ride through any period of depression or economic crisis. They take the long term view because they know that after every slump or recession there is a boom. They deliberately adjust their pricing policies, because of their monopolistic position and through manipulation of their cash flows, ensure that they will have a fixed amount each year with which to expand to deal with future market development. That is the major cause of economic distortion in. Australia today. 
In the time remaining to me I want to recapitulate and say this - and this is probably the most damning indictment of the Government of all: The Government has taken this action despite the advice of the Treasury. The Treasury has told this Government that there will be no increase in employment as a result of restoration of this investment allowance. I challenge the Government and the Minister for the Army  (Mr Katter),  who is sitting at the table, if he knows anything about it, to produce that advice, because that is the key to the whole situation. The Government received the advice not to restore this investment allowance, but notwithstanding that, it has restored the allowance and it will continue to allow this allowance because it wants to ensure its own miserable political survival. But today the Australian people are thoroughly awake to what the Government is doing, and it does not matter what the Government does, how much largess it hands out, it will face inevitable political destruction, and it will be well merited. For the first time the Australian people will find that there will be in Australia an economic plan which will be to the benefit of the Australian people and which will make this nation take it proper place in the future. 
I listened with great interest to the honourable member for Bradfield  (Mr Turner)  and I agree with his sentiments. We have entered into a new and difficult trading era.  President  Nixon's announcements on China and the United States dollar parity adjustments constitute a watershed in world foreign and economic relations. There has been much talk tonight about tariff operations and their complexity but 1 want to deal with other aspects which concern the ultimate trading relations and trading profits of countries. In particular today one of the conventional methods of avoiding tariffs is to hurdle them. Some of the multi-national corporations in the world today, instead of attempting to break through the tariffs by pruning prices, deliberately hurdle them and go straight into a country. Having cleaned up the opposition, they establish a monopoly. 
In another field also - and this is the one particularly concerning me tonight - one of the main instruments in the world trade war which is developing is the manipulation of world currencies and their respective parities. The initial impetus for Japan, after it was devastated by World War II, came from a devaluation of its currency. If my memory is correct, the yen was devalued from about 350 to £1stg to over 1,040 to £1stg. 
The burden of my address tonight is that the steel industry in Australia has lost a golden opportunity with the recent price rise to take advantage of a similar monetary adjustment. Australian steel technology will bear favourable comparison with that of any other country in the world. I have the honour and responsibility to represent the major centre of steel production in the southern hemisphere. In Port Kembla, in the Australian Iron and Steel works, 3 J million tons of ingot steel are produced annually. With the No. 5 blast furnace - a mammoth furnace with the latest in technology - productive capacity will increase to just over 6 million tons annually, or an increase of 60 per cent. I will show the economies of scale associated with large production. Where there may formerly have been a labour force of 18,000, another 2,000 or at the outside 3,000 men will be associated with the 60 per cent increase in production. In almost every field of trade in the world today a fierce trade war exists. Taken as an aggregate, the steel industry of the world is working at only 70 per cent capacity. We in Australia have certain very definite advantages. Firstly, we have rich and over-abundant resources of iron ore. We have adequate resources of coking coal of a high quality. We have entered the field late. It is the latest in any industry which has the benefits of advanced technology. A considerable exchange of technology has taken place between the Australian steel industry and that of Japan. My complaint is that with the recent price rises in steel announced by the Broken Hill Pty Co. Ltd, it has thrown away a remarkable trading advantage. 
I take the minds of honourable members back to the middle of last year. The fundamental purpose of the United States of America as the major world trading power and the largest economy was to ensure that it could create its trading balance. For that purpose, it sought quite deliberately to get by whatever means it could a 20 per cent reduction in parity between the US dollar and the Japanese yen. In actual fact, it finished up with a situation where there was a revaluation of 16 per cent or a little more in its favour. Our revaluation was of the order of 6.3 per cent. In other words, there was a trading margin of 10 per cent. While BHP and its associated company, Australian Iron and Steel Pty Ltd, have been highly proficient in their steel technology, they have been equally proficient in extracting the maximum profit. They form a national monopoly in steel production and certain national obligations go with that. 
During the last 2 years - I am quoting to the end of June 1971 - the total amount of steel imported into Australia in. the various types and sizes totalled $130m over our exports. That is an appalling situation. Perhaps, because of the availability of alloys and particular steel types there might have been 10 per cent - I am being generous there - that could not  be  produced in Australia. But as for the rest, it is time that the BHP monopoly, to use the good old Australian phrase, got off the seat of its pants and did something in the way of getting into world trade. By increasing the  price  of steel by 5.3 per cent it has gone half way towards losing the trade advantage that it had. If we are to get anywhere in the world today, we need to get out and sell. There will definitely be a surplus of steel in Australia once the new furnace to which I have referred comes into operation. The policy of BHP has been one of conservatism, lt has foreseen the world trading competition and it has preferred to stay within a sheltered market and to exploit it to the maximum rather than to get out and compete. In the situation existing in the world today, it is necessary to get out and really compete. The company may not be able to make much profit but it will make an impact and obtain the trade. VVhowever gets the trade today can hold it. 
Our advantage in terms of raw materials are such that Australia is already a major steel producer in world terms. In both consumption of steel and production of steel per capita only two or three nations would possess a better record than that of Australia. The cost advantages are these: In the early 1950s, Australia could produce ingot steel cheaper than it could be produced with coolie labour in India. That was due to the riches of our ore, our technology and the skills of our work force. The cost factor in steel varies according to the size. When steel is first produced it is in ingot form. From there it is  Deduced  to slabs and looms and processed into the various categories. In terms of Japanese competition, the labour content in producing that steel is such that until it is reduced to sheet steel and its size calculated in gauges rather than in terms of inches, cost competitively we have a very considerable advantage. Until 12 months ago, we were able, with the exception of a small protective duty on sheet steel, more than to match Japan in its attempts to capture part of the Australian market. BHP, in its foolishness by taking advantage of this competitive margin due to revaluation, has thrown away that advantage. 
Let us not forget this: The international currency adjustments have not been finalised. In fact, all the signs are there ot a looming further major adjustment, particularly as between Japan and the US. That adjustment can also work to our competitive advantage. The Japanese literally have money running out of their ears and they cannot get away with that The United States will bail them up again. This will be our opportunity because if we take a longer term view - I recognise that there are problems regarding employment in Australia today - with Britain entering the European Economic Community there will be considerable unemployment in the north of England. I am a native of my area. I was reared with the sons and grandsons of men of Northumberland, Durham, Lancashire, Yorkshire and those from the valleys of Wales and the Clydeside - men from the black country; men who know and think steel, heavy engineering, ship building and all the other associated industries. There will be 10 or 12 million of those men who will be displaced with the acute competition that is already occurring in Europe. We need these people in Australia. It will be one of the functions of a Labor government to see that we get them here because our future lies in the upgrading and the general beneficiation of our mineral wealth. 
The former Prime Minister, the present right honourable member for Higgins  (Mr Gorton),  sensed this although he went about it in the wrong way. At least he had the rudiments of the correct idea. This is to his credit. We can receive 3 or 4 times the wealth from our minerals by upgrading and processing them. It is the destiny of Australia to be a major steel producer and a major steel exporter. Today, European steel companies are coming to Australia because they, in turn, are running very short of high grade coking coal. They are coming here from the Netherlands, West Germany, Italy and Spain. Fortunately, no thanks to the New South Wales Government, the Clutha deal fell through. Australian coal is good coal. 
I do not want unduly to delay the House, but I wish to refer to the unemployment situation in my constituency. In my electorate we have the unenviable distinction of having 3,000 registered unemployed  -  1,800 men and 1,200 women. We have disabilities that are associated with the mushroom growth of a major industrial city. When we compare our growth with that of our sister city of Newcastle, we have certain definite disadvantages. Newcastle was a mature, balanced city when Greater Wollongong was a chain of industrial and mining villages. There has not been the comparable and balanced growth of secondary industry of the types which would provide employment, in particular for women. Our growth has been associated in great part with an enormous intake of migrants. Those people have come to find themselves literally trapped in a situation where there was no alternative employment. They have had to depend upon the Housing Commission of New South Wales for low cost accommodation. The wages are abysmally low for those who are unskilled or semi-skilled. The take home pay of such people would not exceed $60 a week compared with the national average of more than $90 a week. Further, they have the disadvantage that, in many cases, because of language difficulties, they could not leave even if they wanted to do so. As for supplementing their family income by their wives going out to employment, that employment does not exist except in the textile field. The point I want to make is developed with all due respect to the need to trade on a reciprocal basis with some of the Asiatic countries. Take the example of China. China's total trade is about 25 per cent less than that of Hong Kong. Hong Kong has about 5 million people; China has between 700 million and 800 million. China has a selfcontained subsistence economy. What would the Chinese have to offer us? If we bought their products here by the shipload, if our people were hydraheaded or had as many legs as centipedes, they could not absorb the quantity of cheap clothing and similar goods which would be offered to us in exchange for our commodities. The Chinese are honest traders. Our sole and main trading opportunity with them has been in wheat and associated foodstuffs and there, for a considerable time, it is likely to remain. For that reason there is this special need for protection of the textile industry. 
I speak for a city which is grievously disadvantaged because of the lack of fundamental planning on the part of this Government. Migrants have been induced to come to Australia at all costs. The Government wanted labour units - unskilled and cheap labour units - for the steel industry. It has them. The Government is not prepared to accept the responsibility of providing the infrastructure that goes with the development of a major city. That responsibility has been fobbed off onto the State Government with all of its limitations. 
Lest it should be thought by this House that I am one of those who conducted a persistent witch hunt against the steel industry, may I say that as a State parliamentarian I was responsible for no less than $400m being spent on providing the infrastructure for the Australian steel industry. But as to what the future holds I would say this, and say it very advisedly: The sooner the steel industry of Australia uses its cost competitive advantage to the maximum and thinks less of maintaining its present profits - and by the way it has a remarkable windfall from the Bass Strait oilfields and can very well carry on with that - the better. The industry needs to get out, sell and capture that market. That is where our future lies. There is more wealth below the soil in our mineral deposits than ever was gained by primary production. 
I present the following petition: 
To the Honourable the  Speaker,  and Members of the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled. The bumble petition of the undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully showeth: 
That the Postmaster-General's Department Central Office policy, of centralising Post Office affairs and activities under the various titles of Area Management, Area Mail Centres, Area Parcel Centres and similar titles is resulting in both loss of service and lowering of the standards of service to the public, directly resulting in the closing of Post Offices, which is detrimental to the public interest 
Your petitioners most humbly pray that the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled will take immediate steps to: 
Call a halt to all closing of Post Offices and reorganising within the Post Office until full details of the proposed savings and all details of alteration to the standards of service to the public are made available to Parliament, and 
Initiate a joint Parliamentary inquiry into the Postmaster-General's Department, to assess the degree on which it should be run as a normal business undertaking and to what extent its unprofitable activities should be subsidised as a public service charged more correctly to National Development. 
And your petitioners, as in duty bound, will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
 The proper answer to the honourable member for Cowper  (Mr Robinson)  is that 3 weeks ago the Prime Minister  (Mr McMahon)  conceded that 25 per cent of the Northern Territory was controlled by overseas interests; that solely Australian interests held only 43 per cent of the higher rainfall top end of the Territory; and that 29 per cent was held by joint Australian and overseas interests, 17.1 per cent by Americans, 7.3 per cent by Egyptians and 3.3 per cent by British interests. God help Australia. The question is: Who owns Australia? That is the gravamen of this debate. 
In 1941, 30 years ago, Australia stood in grave peril of physical aggression due to the unpreparedness of a conservative Liberal administration. Today Australia stands in equal peril of economic aggression in respect of not only our industry but also our pastoral holdings and, above all, commercial finance and banking. For 30 years we have heard nothing from this Government but economic tripe. The issue that has always been raised was this: There was a Red hand clutching a dagger and there was a continuing thrust of Communist aggression. The thrust has been there all right but it has been economic aggression. The policy of my Party is a fair and reasonable one: What is in the best interests of Australia? Let us hear the Government spokesmen answer that if they can. 
This Government has a cargo cult mentality. It is a government which expects the big white ship to come in here indefinitely with bigger and bigger amounts of foreign currency to be invested in this country - in other words for the family farm to be. sold off piece by piece to pay the economic grocery bill overseas. As for the celebrated simile of the right honourable member for Higgins  (Mr Gorton)  about tickling the tummy of the Australian dog in terms of economic investment, I am afraid that the tummy of that dog is no longer being tickled but it is being kicked, and the dog is being kicked right off the hearth rug and treated as a mongrel not worth feeding. If the Government spokesmen were honest and frank - and the Treasurer  (Mr Snedden)  at least let something out - they would admit that they were extremely worried today because there is an inflow of foreign capital that they are not capable of controlling. The Government does not know; it has not the machinery to know; in the past it did not want to know, and even today it is not prepared to tell the people of Australia the truth before the next election. This is a low posture government. It has been subservient at all costs to great and powerful friends who would own so much of Australia that they must at all costs come here to defend us. 
I do not like to bore the House with statistics, but there is one that has not been stated. It is this: Fifteen years ago 9 per cent only of Australia's total capital needs came from overseas and today the figure is not much more than 12 per cent; but in return, owing to economic sophistication, their possession of technology and above all of managerial expertise, overseas interests are definitely controlling at least 40 per cent, with 33 per cent of dividends being paid or liable to be paid to overseas interests. In hard fact we are well on the way to being a second Canada. What the honourable member for Lalor  (Dr J. F. Cairns)  said was quite correct: We are, in fact, the last frontier of uninhibited, semicontrolled open territory. It is true that we have exchange control regulations. The merchant banks which are operating in Australia today are driving a horse and coach through them and cutting them to pieces because they have the means to do so. In July of last year the 'Financial Review' ran a remarkable series of articles. One pointed out that there were 95 merchant banks which had either established themselves or had affiliations in Australia. Collectively they represented$5,000m worth of capital and collectively the assets they controlled were 15 times those of the gross national product. In addition to that they were 80 times the total assets held by the whole banking system of Australia. 
Finance is government and this Government no longer controls, and has progressively lost control of, the money flow and the money volume of Australia. When it took office in 1949, 70 per cent of the capital of Australia was under the control of the banking system. Last year it was 46 per cent. I venture to say that today it is down to 40 per cent and it will go even lower. The merchant banks are thumbing their noses at this Government. If honourable members want proof of that they need only examine investment figures. For the year 1970-71 there was an inflow of $2, 150m. Of that, the actual amount that was being allocated to the acquisition of resources had dropped by $41m. However, it is of equal interest that purely Australian owned companies had increased their borrowings from $142m to $744m. Their borrowings have gone up by some $631m. Strangely, that is almost the exact internal surplus that the Government budgeted for last August. In other words, when Australian companies saw exactly what was happening or what the Government strategy was they promptly turned around and were able to borrow money overseas from the merchant banks and their affiliates. In so doing they have created further exchange problems for Australia, because that money must be serviced and in the final analysis it must be paid for by hard won exports of Australian produce at a time when there is a vicious world trade war. That is the Government's tactic, and this is our indictment of the Government. 
As for the Government's capacity to handle the situation, let me remind it of the position of multi-national corporations and what they are doing to the economy not only of Australia but throughout the world in respect of the middle sized industrial nations. Today the average multinational corporation - we have them in Australia - can ride roughshod over the policy of any government. In recent times the Treasurer has tacitly admitted this. He realises that if this Government wants to control the Australian economy it has to control this excessive inflow of borrowings from overseas. The Government knows that it must do what we have advocated for so long. It must be in a position to filter, to identify, to quantify and to monitor the inflow of capital. There is capital that can come into Australia that is beneficial, but in the near future, and with the general depression that there is in the metal industry in particular, there are less prospects than ever of expansion in that field. But in just the same way as the hire purchase banks were able to get around the Government's dictate when it was decided to curtail the availability of finance to them from the banking system so Australian companies have been able to get around the policy of the Government. 
The Government has no answer to this situation and even the Treasurer today had to admit that the Government intended to have a look at it. The Government was not quite sure and he was not prepared to make any final commitment.  His  Government has had more than 22 years to do this. The Government is in the jam of its life and it does not know how to get out of this one. Reference was made to the restrictions that are imposed upon Australia by these overseas companies. One of the worst, and it is a diabolical one, is the existence of franchise agreements. Franchises amount to something like 1,100 all told. They are a serious method of curtailing Australia's export capacity because when a foreign company comes into Australia and establishes an industry it has a physical presence here. To that extent it is subject to the ultimate economic sanctions of expropriation if necessary, but in the meantime it decides what it will do. In the final analysis the policy of Australian development is decided not by the heads of that company in Australia but by board rooms in Tokyo, Washington and London. 
I present the following petition: 
To the Honourable the  Speaker,  and Members of the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled. The humble petition of the undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully showeth: 
That the Postmaster-General's Department Central Office policy, of centralising Post Office affairs and activities under the various titles of Area Management, Area Mail Centres, Area Parcel Centres and similar titles is resulting in both loss of service and lowering of the standards of service to the public, directly resulting in the closing of Post Offices, which is detrimental to the public interest. 
Your petitioners most humbly pray that the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled will take immediate steps to: 
Call a halt to all closing of Post Offices and reorganising within the Post Office until full details of the proposed savings and all details of alteration to the standards  of  service to the public are made available  to  Parliament, and 
Initiate a joint Parliamentary inquiry into the Postmaster-General's Department,  to  assess the degree on which it should be run as a normal business undertaking and to what extent its unprofitable activities should be subsidised as a public service charged more correctly to National Development. 
And your petitioners, as in duty bound, will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
I address a question to the Prime Minister. In view of the Government's decision to base its trade practices legislation on the full powers over foreign trading financial companies and financial companies formed in Australia as unanimously confirmed by the recent concrete pipes judgment, why has it failed to exercise the same powers over unacceptable investments by foreign companies and interests in this country? Why delay action by asking the Crown Solicitor to tell him the obvious legal position as stated by the honourable member for Berowra? When will he take positive action to protect Australian assets from overseas plunder? Is the Government's traditional solution to continue, namely, for its supporters to join the bushrangers as minority shareholders? 
The Opposition takes issue with the Government on not only the question of the expenditure of subsidies for oil exploration but also the general principles on which, throughout the whole period since the first discovery of flow oil in Australia, it has controlled the development of oil and, more than that, the extent to which the Australian people are being deprived of their birthright. The policy of the Australian Labor Party is the comprehensive development under Government control - I stress the words 'under Government control' - of Australia's mineral resources with emphasis on the need for the discovery of new deposits and direct Commonwealth and Stale participation in oil and mineral search and exploration throughout Australian land and off-shore territories. We will ensure at least a majority - I stress the words 'a majority' - of Australian control over both equity and policy. 
There is today a world fuel and energy crisis, lt is a crisis of hydrocarbons; it is a crisis of fossil fuel. The major consumers of crude petroleum and natural gas in the world today are its greatest economic, industrial and political powers. However, they are not the main powers in possession of the resources of fuel and energy which they need. The situation today is an interesting one. There are no fewer than 
II nations in what is known as OPEC - the Organisation of Petroleum Exporting Countries. This is a collection of states along the borders of the Mediterranean including the Arab Trucial States, Iran and Iraq and Indonesia and Venezuela. Between them they have combined literally to put the major oil refining and distribut ing companies - the petroleum giants of the world - through the wringer. They are the people responsible for pushing up the price of crude oil. They have even gone so far as to deliver an ultimatum to these oil refining and distributing companies that by June of this year they are to give them 20 per cent of the action as well as consideration in respect of their refining and other general activities. 
That being so, it can be understood why crude oil today is at record prices. Naturally, we are not prepared to go the whole distance in the way that these people would go in pushing up prices. The point  1  want to make is that with a situation like (hal and with other producing countries combining on this basis in a cartel, we find a government in operation in Australia today which cannot even assert its national sovereignty over the continental shelf - a government which is literally an international laughing stock. Australia is the only member country of some 120 countries which have signed the United Nations convention on the continental shelf and the continental sea which has failed to exercise its sovereignty. Australia is a nation which is literally without a policy in respect of fuel and energy. In addition to that, it is unable even to establish its own hegemony over the States. 
As a matter of fact, the main trouble in Australia today is that the State governments literally are thumbing their noses at the Commonwealth. We have principalities no less being handed out to exploration companies. The Bass Strait principality went to Esso-BHP and 144,000 square miles has gone to the Woodside-Burmah group in respect of the north west continental shelf. This is greater than the area of the United Kingdom and half the area of New South Wales; an area which has been stated by various oil interests to be more attractive even than the North Sea. In respect of the North Sea it is considered that 100 square miles being handed to any exploiting company for the purposes of development is a fair return for their labour and technology. That is the situation which applies today. Honourable members should consider the estimates that have been made for the development of the north west shelf or the proportion of it which is now being farmed out to some 29 overseas companies and that it will be 5 times the give away of the Bas* Strait oilfields. In Bass Strait $460m has been expended on development by Esso-BHP. There will be some $2,000 billion expended in the development of the north west shelf. 1 refer again to the statement made by  Mr Martison.  a spokesman for Woodside-Burmah. He said that 29 companies have applied to Woodside-Burmah and that a list of these companies could be drawn up. They were al) &gt;he big boys. The big boys of course want a piece of the action. What is the proposal? It is a 50-50 proposal and the major oil companies of the world which have never spent money in their lives, without knowing that they will get an adequate return are prepared to come in on this basis. Woodside-Burmah is to get 50 per cent of the rake-off. Where do the people of Australia - the people whose birthright is being handed away - come in? The Minister for Customs and Excise  (Mr Chipp),  who has just left the chamber, talks in terms of the Government's policy. 
Let us have a look at this question of natural gas and what it means to other countries. At the present time Japan is dependent on imports for 78 per cent of its fuel. 70 per cent of which is imported crude oil. In the United States today there is a serious depletion of natural gas reserves. The Americans are talking in terms of making substitute natural gas - SNG is the term that is used - and they have asked Canada to provide them with additional supplies. However, Canada has refused because it has problems of its own. The Americans have had to turn back to coal. In 1947 coal production in the United States was 700 million tons. In 1960 it was down to 480 million tons and last year it was again up to 700 million tons. That is precisely the situation which applies today. The point I would Ike to make is that here are 2 of the world's major industrial powers desperately in need of energy sources, while this Government supinely allows an oil province - an oil principality - and a natural gas province or principality to be given away. Australia has the biggest continental shelf in .'he world - 1.25 million square miles - and the area which has been granted to 
Woodside-Burmah is only a fraction of the total area, which runs right across to Indonesia. In that area is one of the world's greatest untapped resources of natural gas, as well as oil, because where you find one, you will find the other. Yet this Government has no policy on it. The best that it is prepared to do is to let its old syndrome operate - the one of bowing down starry-eyed before private enterprise. 
The Labor Party believes that a proper reward should be given to any exploring company but we say that from the word go Australia should be in on the action. The honourable member for Dawson  (Dr Patterson)  said that we have a precedent of what could be done set by ENI in respect to Italy. As a Labor government we can and we will do the same. We will have a good hard look at all that has been given away to these companies and given away illegally and unconstitutionally. No government was ever in a more embarrassing position than this Government in respect of the offshore oil legislation. The Government has put this legislation to the bottom of the list, lt has literally pushed it under the carpet and it hopes to God that no one will ever resurrect it. The Labor Party will hammer the Government on this and it will slay the Government on this between now and .he next election because today, whichever country is in possession of the resources of fuel and energy will be a major nation and Australia is in possession of those resources. We will find them and we will prove them. We know that they are there and the coming Labor government will see that for Australia and the Australian people those resources are recovered and restored to our natural heritage. 
Has the Minister for Customs and Excise received representations from the honourable member for Cunningham relative to the adverse effect on employment in the Australian sheet metal rolling industry of recent imports of tin plate? Can he inform me of the results of his inquiries and of any action he proposes? 
I will not waste time replying to the arguments of the honourable member for McMillan  (Mr Buchanan)  but direct myself to supporting the comments of my colleague, the honourable member for Hughes  (Mr Les Johnson).  For many years the Joint Coal Board of New South Wales has systematically drawn to the attention of the national Government the fact that Australian first class coal is being exported overseas at third class prices. There is no more classical example of that than what has been happening with Queensland coal exports. Let it be known that Queensland coal in its export variety is of less than 8 per cent ash content. Repeatedly the Joint Coal Board has shown that, whereas similar coal exported from the United States to Japan, called Pocahontas coal, is being exported at a price of about $22.50 a ton, the best the Australian exporter can get is from $12 to $13 a ton. What is the answer of the Minister for National Development  (Mr Swartz)  to that? Let him answer that if he can. 
While the Joint Coal Boar( has been highlighting these matters we find that no less a personage than the Treasurer  (Mr Snedden)  in Paris claiming that because of the sophistication and experience of the Australian Government in overseas trade Australia should be admitted to the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development. Of course we should be admitted, but in terms of sophistication I think there is a lot of unconscious irony with the deals that are being made, because right now - and this has been so in the immediate past - no fewer than 5 different deputations from colliery interests are hawking Australian coal in Japan. The Japanese interests, and for that, matter Italsider, the Italian group, which have been buying South Clifton coal . are both in fact monopsonies. They represent single co-ordinated buying interests. Against this we have the situation in which Utah Development Co. Pty Ltd is leading the field at the present time in the competition to sell Japan more coal. If Australian coal is to be exported let the price lines be decided by this Government. It has the definite power under the Customs Act to do so by regulation and proclamation. As a matter of fact, already the Commonwealth Government has found it necessary to intervene in respect of the exports of iron ore. The former  Deputy  Prime Minister intervened in that regard. Subsequently and more recently the Commonwealth found it necessary to intervene in respect of the give away prices at which Australian wood chips were being exported to Japan. Would the Australian Country Party not be horrified if an export price were not fixed for Australian wheat? 
I take no part in interstate rivalry but I say that there is an urgent need for export guidelines because I speak first as an Australian. Australia notoriously for many years has bad a highly adverse balance of payments on current account, and if any country needs the maximum export income it is Australia. But instead of that we have this spectacle of not only Utah Development being in Japan hawking its coal but also a rival group, again a consortium with minority Japanese interests from Utah led by a certain  Mr K.  G. Wallace. It has made an offer of $A 15.75 a ton. Also in Tokyo at the present time is a third group - Thiess -Peabody-Mitsui, headed by  Sir Leslie  Thiess. It hopes to get a $3.3m contract. On top of that Conzinc Rio Tinto of Australia Ltd is also hawking its coal. Last but by no means least Broken Hill Pty Co. Ltd also is hoping to sell some coal from its Leichhardt project west of Rockhampton. 
We have already had the farce and tragedy in my own area of rival South Coast interests cutting one another's throats when the first coal was exported from my district to Japan. That being so, will this Government ever learn? Does it realise that it needs to hold the ring between these people who, because of the canons of capitalism, are prepared to cut one another's throats to see which can monopolise the market. Having wrecked and closed up all the competitors, the successful party will increase the price, following the pattern which has been followed in other parts of the world. This is what we ask this Government to rectify and the Government has no answer to it. But we have an answer and a very positive one, because the Australian Labor Party has a policy. That policy provides for the establishment of a joint Federal-State fuel and energy commission to devise and implement an integrated and co-ordinated national fuel and energy policy. In New South Wales  Sir Edward  Warren recently led what might be called a pilgrimage to the Japanese canossa to pay penance for their errors when they were seeking to correct the results of the price cutting when the Japanese in their original visit to the South Coast played off one colliery owner against another. We need to get the maximum price we can. We need export income and we need it urgently. But this Government would not know where to start. 
To continue with our policy, and this is of the utmost importance, we insist that Australian coal and other Australian mineral exports shall be sold at full word parity price. Let the Government give us one instance if it can where it has achieved full world parity for coal exports, particularly coal of the Queensland type. As a matter of fact, the Americans have gone as far as this in their transaction with Japan. They have not only sold coal of a comparable quality to ours at prices $8 to $9 in excess of the prices we are getting but they have also insisted on the Japanese taking a proportion of coal that is inferior in hard coking terms. The Americans have dictated to the Japanese exactly what they should do. What about this gutless Government? It would not know where to start in the matter of handling a deal on an international export basis. The Treasurer talks in Paris of sophistication. Sophistication indeed! The Government is a collection of economic nincompoops. It has been said that war is too serious a matter to be left to generals, and international trade is too serious a matter to be left to the tender mercies of this Government. We need a fixed policy, and there is no earthly reason why that policy should not be established. There is no earthly reason why for the different coal types world parity price should not be ascertained and why we should not have one authority which will in turn decide the respective quotas that are to be allotted to the different coal producers of the different coal types and have our export contracts negotiated on that basis. It is time that Australia stood up for itself. 
Another angle I want to illustrate is this: In Queensland today the easiest and the cheapest coal to obtain is always that nearest the surface. While that surface coal is being produced by open cut mining methods it is possible for 270 men to produce 4 million tons of coal a year. In my own constituency it will take 4,000 men to produce twice that quantity of coal. It is not only the question of employment in New South Wales that is involved. This applies with equal force to Queensland. The employment of the 800 men in the Ipswich field will in turn be threatened if the present uncontrolled, unchecked rape of Queensland's resources continues. 
The Opposition wants to see every phase of Australian coal development fully fostered. It wants to see the ring held fairly. Only the Commonwealth Government has the power to do it. Only the Commonwealth Government has the responsibility to do it. And only a Labor government is capable and has the will, the wit and the intention of safeguarding Australia's national interests and putting these rival overseas groups in their places. I speak in the name of 350 men who, through the foolishness and incompetence of this Government, stand in grave danger of losing their employment. 
It was very nice to hear the Prime Minister  (Mr McMahon),  that lifelong trade unionist leading a party of lifelong supporters of the trade union movement - I noticed them fumbling in their pockets for their union tickets - giving us a dissertation on what trade unionism is and how trade unionists think and behave. For a long time we have heard from this Government that the trade union movement and, in particular, wages were responsible for the whole of the evils of inflation. In fact that is this Government's political stock in trade, but it has lost a good deal of it with the recent decision of the Commonwealth Conciliation and Arbitration Commission. Of course the Prime Minister, like the average old dog, cannot be taught new tricks and he reverts to type. He is artful and he wants to offload his economic responsibilities or his misdeeds onto the arbitration system. He has failed miserably in an attempt to do so. As a matter of fact we have heard his dirge - it has been repeated like a devil's litany - that the whole of inflation in Australia today is directly due to wage increases. Wages have chased inflation; wages have chased prices; they have yet to catch up with them and they are further behind in the race than ever before. 
If you want the truth, the position is this, and it is there in the economic statistics: Over the last 15 years wages have varied no more than 3 per cent in their proportion - somewhere between 59 per cent and 62 per cent - of the gross national product. But, of course, if the Government fails to pin full responsibility for inflation on to the trade union movement and on to wages it will have lost the next election. The Prime Minister is a glutton for punishment. He has already reached an all-time low with 23 per cent support, according to gallup polls. 
All right, 25 per cent, give him the extra 2 per cent. Now he wants to pull on the trade union movement and the people of Australia. This Government has a vested interest in industrial disorder for its own political survival. That is the gimmick by which it hopes to win the law and order election. The ball is in the Government's court because for the next 12 months, or I should say more correctly for the next 3 months, this Government will be deprived of its main argument which has been that wages have increased to a point where prices have been forced up by them. 
Let us take the position over the last 12 months on the defective statistics - they are defective - and on the narrow regimen of the consumer price index. Prices have gone up 7 per cent. The Commission chose to give the trade union movement on an average $2 per week, a matter of about 2.3 per cent increase. So much for the Government's argument in the past and so much for its argument in the future. 
The Minister has had his say and he will have an opportunity to reply m due course. 
The ball is now in the Government's court and from now on its supporters cannot blame wage rises. There has been an attempt to offload on to the Arbitration Commission the responsibilities for inflation. One of the worst offenders has been the Prime Minister himself. Need I remind the House that in 1970, in an address at a dinner held by the Associated Chambers of Manufactures of Australia, he chose to rebuke the  President  of the Commission,  Mr Justice  Kirby, and in turn was promptly rebuked by him? We have passed a long way in Liberal Party behaviour from the days of  Sir Robert  Menzies when he treated arbitration matters with diffidence. He knew other and better ways of getting the message where it was wanted. This Government has gone through the rakes progress, firstly of intervention and now of domination because, as the honourable member for Hindmarsh  (Mr Clyde Cameron)  said the amendments to section 39 of the Act in particular, and linked with it section 31, section 34 and section 35, is a blueprint for wages control without price control. I am reminded of the celebrated cartoonist, David Low, who depicted a meeting of armaments manufactures at which the  chairman  was saying, 
Gentlemen, there is a grave danger of peace breaking out'. For this Government there is a grave danger of industrial peace occurring. The Government has a vested interest in stirring things up to the contrary. 
Let me remind the House of the comment that was made by a certain  Mr McPhee,  speaking on behalf of the Victorian Chamber of Manufactures. He warned this Government in July last of the consequences of trying to use industrial turmoil as a means of winning an election. The Government was warned off the course by the more responsible manufacturers, who said in no uncertain terms that the Government would not get financial, physical or moral support from the manufacturers, because they know, just as well as the responsible leaders of the trade union movement, the true situation: They want to see production continue; they want to see jobs available; and they are prepared to pay reasonable wages. One of the main concerns of the Government today is to dominate the trade union movement and to force it utterly and completely into a system of arbitration. The Government objects most strongly to agreements being made outside the system, and being submitted for registration. 
Of course they could not; they never should and they never will. The point is that with good sense on both sides, that is the best method of solving industrial differences. I would like to refer in particular to the report of the  President  of the Commonwealth Conciliation and Arbitration Commission,  Sir Richard  Kirby, for the year ended 13th August 1971. In it he made remarks that show the sinister nature of this legislation. He said: 
I feel it my duty to report my strong opinion, based on my experience as a Judge of the old Court and as President of this Commission for its first IS years, that in the long term a reduction in strikes can only be brought about by an improvement in industrial relationships, and that this is far more likely to arise from changed attitudes of the organised employers on the one hand and the organised trade union movement on the other hand than from mere changes in Acts of Parliament 
And I stress this: 
I can suggest no significant area where amendment is required without bringing myself within the area of party political conflict. 
It is provocation that this Government wants and it is provocation that this Government is determined to get. It wants to end the system of arbitration because that system, as conceived by those who drafted the Australian Constitution, was never intended to apply to the financial and economic exigencies of today. As the honourable member for Hindmarsh  (Mr Clyde Cameron)  has said, economic responsibilities have been put on the Commission that it was never equipped to bear. It has no power to control prices, trade practices, investments, tariffs or any of the ordinary agencies that are available to a government, which this Government does not choose to use. 
If honourable members want to know just how far the Government feels balked of its prey and how determined it is to stir up trouble and incense the trade union movement, I can do no better than quote the words of the Minister for Labour and National Service  (Mr Lynch)  from his second reading speech on this Bill. The Minister said: 
The Government cannot be merely an interested bystander. Employers and unions simply cannot be permitted to resolve their differences without regard to the effect on those groups who are not themselves directly involved. 
The Government is getting more and more frantic because when it sees the trade union movement settling its differences with employers sensibly and fairly at the conference table, it wants to upset and to destroy any such private agreements and to push the whole of the trade union movement into a system of rigid and vicious controls. Let us take the question of amalgamations. A more proper description of that part of the Act would be not the amalgamation of unions but the prevention of the amalgamation of unions. 
It is anti-amalgamation. The Government has created a legal obstacle race that nobody could survive. It wants weak unions. The Government is afraid of strong unions. Honourable members opposite are union baiters and union haters. There are men on the Government side of the House who are living in the past and would like to be able to return to the old, bad traditions of the law of master and servant of 70 or 80 years ago. Shame on them, for they will do only  a  disservice to Australia, stirring up strife, ill-will, hatred, loss of production and hardship for the workers and their dependants. 
Let me quote from another authoritative journal, the 'Manufacturing News' of 15th April 1972: 
In a comprehensive report entitled: 'Inflation. The Present Problem' the OECD said: 'A characteristic feature of the last 18 months has been the way inflation has been transmitted from country to country via foreign trade, capital movements and the spread of inflationary expectations. 
There is no single or simple panacea for inflation. What is needed is a global approach in each country, encompassing not only firm demand management, price-incomes policies, active manpower policies and competition policy, but also intensified efforts to identify and eliminate inefficiency . . . 
The article goes on to say: 
Its wages policy is a farce- 
And this appears in the manufacturers' own journal-  . . and more likely to increase industrial tension and wage demands than reduce them. What union is going to accept restraint on wages in a situation where the Government will do nothing about prices or incomes other than wages? At best such a policy might shove some of the burden of fighting inflation onto the shoulders .of some public servants and weaker, low-paid workers. 
On the question of Government intervention a most dignified rebuke was given by  Sir Richard  Kirby in the fifteenth annual report of the Commission for the year ended 13th August 1971. He said: 
It is the submission itself which counts, not the attitude or status of the person or body concerned. 
This Government has attempted to hector the Commission, to stand over it, to intimidate it, and I am afraid from the Commission's recent decision that the Government has at last succeeded in doing so. What has been the status, what has been the case put forward by the Government's advocates who have gone along to the Commission to represent the so-called public interest, or should we say to represent the Government's own political interest in survival? Those submissions have been just broad generalities. When  Mr Justice  Kerr was an advocate, on one occasion he went along to the Commission on behalf of the Government and asked for a moderate increase, but he could not tell the Commission what was wanted. He said that he would have to refer to his instructing solicitor and get further details. 
That is right. The Government is persisting in that attitude even to this day. As  Sir Richard  Kirby said in his report: 
Because of some reaction to my report of last year it is evidently necessary to add something in this regard that I did not previously think was necessary and that is this; the Commission's hearings are held in public and all of those making submissions and presenting material to the Commission do so in public and the Commission's decisions and its reasons for them are published at large. It is the submission itself which counts, not the attitude or status of the person or body concerned. 
What does the future hold for trade unions? They face a new era of amalgamation, of takeovers, of mighty companies and of multi-national corporations. Its proper answer is to combine. By doing so it has strength, it has prestige and it has responsibility. It is able to speak with authority; it is able to stop or nip in the bud wildcat strikes; it is able to make a responsible offer and to speak with authority. It is entitled from the funds that it can have to employ proper professional assistants in addition to its rank and flic elected leaders. In the world of the future the trade union movement will have its own economists and accountants and it will have its own research departments, because when they are dealing with big business, big companies, they need to be able to go in and mix it with them. That is precisely what the Government fears. 
Of course, it dances to the tune of the Democratic Labor Party, a vicious, perverted, unforgiving and unrelenting group of men who were formerly within our Party. Of course, typical of all renegades, they are the greatest prosecutors of the faith to which they once adhered, and they too realise that the strength of Labor is trade unionism. That being so, they hate it and fear it, and they are dedicated to its destruction. This Government dances to their tune. The Minister himself, in an address which he gave on 3rd March this year to the Chamber of Manufactures, let the cat out of the bag. He was speaking in terms of what was a reasonable percentage of votes in a ballot for the amalgamation of unions, and he said this: 'It is true that in Victoria, out of 33 members of Parliament, 18 are elected on preferences.' This is a minority government. It is a government in lower esteem and lower standing with the Australian public than at any other time in its history since it came into office in 1949. It is a government which is discredited and which has a leader who is our best electoral asset. 
I contend that this particular clause is designed specifically to put the bar on the legal high jump so high that no leader in the trade union movement could ever qualify for appointment as a deputy president; hence the use of the words 'high level'. Let the Minister deny that if he can. It is a well known fact that 2 names have been well and truly bandied about. This clause is designed specifically to fit either of these 2 men whom the Government now has in mind. Of course it suits the Government at this particular stage to pass this legislation. There is a fair chance that it will not be in office after the end of this year. It hopes that it will have allies in the Senate who will be able to prevent the necessary amendments which undoubtedly will occur under Labor. The Commonwealth Conciliation and Arbitration Commission legally is neither fish, flesh nor good red herring. It is neither a court of law nor is it an economic tribunal. The Government has only itself to blame for exercising very carefully the 1947 amendment that was included in the Act by the Chifley Administration and which provided for the establishment of an economic bureau which would have exercised the function of providing the necessary economic data for the Commission to use. This, of course, could have cut down the time of hearings by 90 per cent. That bureau would have been current and continuous in its functioning but quite deliberately the Government in the early 1950s chose to repeal that section of the Act. 
Of course, there is the further dichotomy of this court. It is a court of record, but nevertheless it is not a court which can act by precedent because its functions are inchoate to say the best. At times the Government wants it to be purely an economic regulator. Increasingly that has been its chief operation in recent years and because of the Government's present economic embarrassment it will be more so as the Government wants to offload on to this jurisdiction responsibility for its economic sins of omission and commission. I recall in earlier years one particular judge, I think it was  Mr Justice  Cantor, who prior to delivering an award relating to the mining industry said: 'Well, I have to deliver my judgment in this case but I do not know the inside of a coal mine if I saw one.' 
He did. That is typical of what can be thrown on the Commission. More than ever there is a need for economists. Economics is not an exact science but nevertheless there is a need for major economic ability. There is equally a need for men to understand how trade unionists think. When one looks at the ranks of the Government one will not see a single trade unionist amongst them. How could they know how a trade unionist thinks? Surely to get a proper balance and to get confidence in and to restore some prestige to the Commission some high ranking trade unionist ought to be the Vice-President and that. I am certain, is a matter to which we will as a government give very serious consideration. So that honourable members may get a fair sample of the hiatus which does occur because of the vague status of the Commission I shall quote from a publication by no less an authority than CEDA, the Committee for Economic Development of Australia, sponsored by the Broken Hill Pty Co. Ltd, the Colonial Sugar Refining Co. Ltd, the Bank of New South Wales and all the best financial institutions and companies in Australia. In referring to the tactics of the Commonwealth in the 1966 wage case the author said: 

 Mr Kerr Q.C. appearing as Senior Counsel for the Commonwealth, indicated that they, the Commonwealth, favoured a moderate increase in wages, but declined to elaborate on what was meant by moderate wage increases.  Mr Justice  Wright, presiding at the hearing, made rather pointed comments about the adoption of this particular tactic by the Commonwealth.  Mr Justice  Wright suggested that this type of submission, in effect, placed the full onus on the Commission to fit in with Government economic policy with regard to prices, productivity and wages, without the Commission being privy to Government thinking about the desirable level of wage increases. 
In his judgment  Mr Justice  Wright said: 
The Commonwealth shrank from the task of estimation, contenting itself with a suggestion for  a  "moderate" increase but counselling against a "large" increase; such suggestions are just meaningless to one who is under an obligation to reduce his reasoning to terms of currency.' 
However, the Commonwealth has continued to follow the pattern which emerged after the 1960 hearing. 
In his judgment he went on to refer to the 1968 wage case. The pattern is still continuing. The same criticism is made in an article in the 'Australian Financial Review'. I will refer to an article published in the issue of 20th October 1971 where, similarly,  Mr Justice  Aird in relation to a flow-on case from the metal trades award heard in July and August of last year was trying to pin down the Government's representative, a  Mr Marks,  Q.C, as to exactly what his submission was and how it compared with prior submissions by the Government. Without inflicting the whole of the text of it on the Committee the net result was this, that it would appear that he could not tell the Commission and that he was submitting to the Commission submissions which were drafted by anonymous public servants. He was unable to give precise details. The Commission is the sort of tribunal which is supposed to be at times a court and at other times a wage fixing authority. 
As a matter of fact we have gone a long way from the original concept of arbitration. Arbitration is something that is entered into voluntarily by 2 parties who are in conflict as to their effective proprietary rights or obligations, where they agree in fact to bypass normal legal procedures, where they agree in fact to submit to an umpire and to accept his verdict. This has been developed more and more so far as the Government is concerned. Its approach is an ambivalent one but at this phase of economic exigency it wants to make a hard and fast court if it suits it, but it wants to be able to play fast and loose, to intervene if it suits it and to treat it with disdain if it does not suit it. Whoever goes into this position in this Commission under this Government deserves all the sympathy he can get because he does not know his status, he does not know his full power and he does not know how much economic responsibility and odium the Government wants to load on to him. 
I am by no means reassured by the remarks of the Assistant Minister assisting the Minister for Labour and National Service  (Mr Street).  As a matter of fact, really to get to grips with the functions of the Commission we need to appreciate - I do this without anticipating or trying to open the debate on a subsequent clause - the fact that more than ever before the Government is introducing economic issues into what are strictly legal deliberations. In clause 16 a new section is proposed which imposes upon the Commonwealth Conciliation and Arbitration Commission a duty of considering the public interest, having regard in particular to the state of the national economy and the likely effects on that economy of any award that might be made in the proceedings. The  Deputy President  of the Court should be there as a counter-weight to the deliberations of a court or a commission that will have an overwhelming preponderance of men who are, as we would term it, on the other side of the fence. Can it be suggested that it would not be appropriate for the  Deputy President  to be a man of acute, high and long-standing experience within the trade union movement? 
I want to stress another angle. Courts of law and the judges from courts of law take a passive role. They are those to have evidence presented to them, and traditionally a judge gives his judgment on the facts of the case as presented. I need not remind the Committee that in common law courts it was found, by experience over centuries, that it was necessary to create a fresh branch of law known as equity to supplement the known deficiencies of the common law. Similarly, with the planning of the Government to inject these economic considerations and major, broad and quasipolitical considerations into the functions of the Commission, there is more than ever before a need for men there who can speak positively and with certainty and experience for the trade union movement, the little people, the people who will be affected and who will study the real impact. The rest of them will be men, with all due respect to them, who in many cases have had a relatively sheltered experience in life. They have had higher salaries and have lived at a higher standard. But if we want to have both sides of a case heard, we must make certain that by the definitions in this clause trade unionists are not to be excluded. 
Clauses agreed to. 
Clause 12. 
The honourable member for Corio  (Mr Scholes)  raised the question as to why the increase in salaries to commissioners is to be back dated. The answer is a very' simple one. It is to be back, dated 6 months because it is almost 6 months for the post-dating of the award which was recently rendered. A very' Substantial amount of money was saved. The Government's increasing by about $4,500 the salaries of these commissioners will be easily the best investment that it has ever made in granting salary increases because it is a part - the third part- one might say - of a master plan by this Government to obtain a wage freeze without a price freeze or price control. The pattern is very clear. For years this Government has consistently used every form of pressure and intimidation that it could on the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission. Perhaps one of the most notable and outrageous instances of that was when the present Prime Minister  (Mr McMahon),  who was then the Treasurer, openly attacked  Mr Justice  Kirby at a dinner given by the Metal Trades Employers Association in Sydney, and he was suitably rebuked. Last year in the report of the  President  of the Commission, again  Mr Justice  Kirby, a further rebuke to the Government appeared. The report stated that if the Government really wanted moderation and to have its case heard it should put facts forward and not try to hector the Commission. 
The statistics for the period covered by the last wage judgment constitute the outrage of which the whole trade union movement today complains. They reveal a remarkable situation. Even the rotten, inadequate and inaccurate statistics of this Government reveal what has happened. 
There is a substantial lag in the Government's figures, and they are rigged. If honourable member's want evidence of that let them look at the consumer price index, in which the sole regimen as far as the people are concerned is made up of potatoes and onions. Fruit does not exist. Interest rates are not taken into account. Rent rackets somehow do not seem to be reflected in it. The figures for that period show a  7  per cent increase in living costs but there has been only a  2.3  per cent increase in wages. That is the difference. That is the Government's double standard. This situation will continue because there is roaring inflation in Australia today and it will not be merely a matter of a  7  per cent increase as in the period covered by the wage judgment; there will be an increase of at least  10  per cent. It is a matter of argument amongst economists today as to whether the true increase in living costs in the  12  months that was the subject of the last wage decision was not nearer to  11  per cent or  12  per cent. 
This Government talks of wage moderation. The Minister for Labour and National Service  (Mr Lynch)  - I am glad to see that he is back in the chamber - threw out a challenge to us with regard to our attitude to the salaries of the higher paid members of the Public Service. Let him give us his stand and let him answer the lower paid members of the Public Service who want to get a flow on from the  9  per cent increase given in the State Electricity Commission decision in Victoria. The Government is determined to quarantine that increase. Let him consider that stand by the Government and equate it against the action taken in regard to the group for whom he is trying to pitch to get a few miserable votes. As I said, a wage freeze without a price freeze is the fixed policy of this Government, and it will achieve that end. It is snide tactics on the part of this Government that it brought on this Bill on a day when the proceedings of this Parliament were not being broadcast. It did this quite deliberately. It hoped to get the Bill through in one day because the sooner it can get it over and swept under the carpet the better for it. 
As the honourable member for Hindmarsh  (Mr Clyde Cameron)  pointed out, clause  13,  which it is the intention of this 
Government to ram through the Parliament tonight, contains the package deal. That is the clause in which it will be found that the whole system of arbitration and wage fixation is frozen, because new factors are to be introduced. The riding instructions will be - this is the price that will be paid and this is where the Commissioners will be brought to heel - that in future they must consider the state of the national economy and the likely effects on that economy of the award that is made in the proceedings. What the statistics show and what the economic factors are will go by the board. This Government arbitrarily and quite deliberately wants to destory every concept of arbitration. The thing that it fears most - and it is on the increase - is collective bargaining. The Government wants to kill it; to nip it in the bud. Clause  13  provides the master plan, the package deal, by which this is to be done. We will fight it bitterly. We will fight it here; we will fight it in the workshops; we will fight it by every means at our disposal. 
I join issue with the honourable member for Moreton  (Mr Killen)  on the question of labour productivity. For example, in 1950 the average output a man/shift in the coal mines of New South Wales was about 2.8 tons. It is now broadly on the average of 10 tons a man/shift a day. I can que te for the honourable member a case &lt;n another field - in the field of marine transport - where a ship such as the 'Idemitsu maru' transporting 210,000 tons of oil operating with a crew of 28. In pre-war times a crew of 28 would have operated the average freighter of 2,500 tons to 3,000 tons. So much for the analogies that the honourable member chooses to use. 
More seriously, my main objection to proposed section 31 is that it is literally a blueprint for a wage freeze without a price freeze. This is the nub of the whole Bill. If I might paraphrase the clauses under discussion, the Government's thinking is this: We are browned off with the whole system of conciliation and arbitration. We have seen its vagaries and vicissitudes right through the years. We have seen it stait off with the concept of a needs basic wage. We have seen it switch over to the principle of what was the ability of the economy to pay. We have seen quarterly adjustments tried and dropped. In 1967 we went to the concept of a total wage, and now confusion seems to be worse con founded so we are coming in with a Draconian measure. We are going to use the big stick and the heavy hand, irrespective of what might be done. We note, says the Government in its own counsels, a marked tendency on the part of both unions and employers to keep outside a system of arbitration which they claim to be expensive, provocative and frustrating. We note that, but we intend at all costs that every section of industry today will be drawn into it just as effectively as when a man gets his hand caught in a chaff cutter. Every section is to be included ;n the ambit of some aspect of arbitration am', of course, with Government intervention. 
Notably, right through *he years the various sections of the arbitration system have been reluctant really to come to grips with economics. Of course, that is only to be expected in the case of lawyers, for a very obvious reason. Traditionally the Bench, in ordinary common law cases, acts merely on the evidence as put before it. The Government now proposes that it will come in as and when it suits it. irrespective of the merits of the case, and it will say: This is contrary to the public interest', the arbiter of public interest in all cases being the Government itself. Throughout recent submissions - I speak of the period since 1967 in particular - the Government has not been able even to define its own objectives. We have had eminent QCs, briefed by the Crown Solicitor, appearing on behalf of the Government and saying: 'We want a moderate increase.' But when asked by the Bench 'What is a moderate increase?' they do not know. They cannot give a better definition than that. The fundamental problem with arbitration today is that we have no power to legislate. Proposed sections 31, 34 and 35 and also the proposed amendment in clause 16 together constitute an economic, industrial and legal straitjacket for the trade union movement. Let there be no mistake about that on the part of any honourable member in this Parliament or any person in Australia who is listening to this debate. It is an economic straitjacket. 
Not satisfied with a miserable increase given in the national wage cas: that had no relevance at all to the increase in the cost of living, the Government now proposes to ensure that in the future wage justice will be denied. I say literally 'wage justice', because what is given in the future will depend on the whim and caprice of the Government. I want to refer to and commend an article by  Mr T.  Fitzgerald in Finance Week' in which he pointed out that the Government has not confidence even in its own judiciary acting in the Arbitration Commission. It must intervene. It must dictate. The Government is not a party to these matters, and the original concept of arbitration, according to the founding fathers of Federation, was to do 2 things - to settle disputes quickly and to fix wages. The less intervention there is from the Government, the better for all concerned. You can go throughout the world today,  Sir, and  you will not find any parallel to the legal paradox that exists in Australia. The longer this system continues in its present form with blatant, unrestrained and barefaced Government intervention, the worse it will get. 
These sections will be the death knell of the system of arbitration, mark my words. The system will be completely destroyed by them. When trade unionists - nien whose only commodity for sale is their labour - have to go into a court to put forward in good faith, as these amendments provide, a case based on economics and statistics, prepared at great expense and presented with great skill, and then the Government comes in and plays its legal joker - its trump: This is contrary to the public interest. It cannot be done. That precisely is the charter that is being spelt out at the present time. In addition I want to refer to proposed section 31 which says: (1.) The power of the Commission to make an award, or to certify, under section twentyeight of this Act, an agreement - 
making provision for or altering, a minimum wage that is to be payable to adult males without regard to the work performed - 
Need I remind the Committee of the existence of tertiary industry today? This is an entirely new field of industry where productivity does not count. I make no reflection on it. Let us take the example of an increase being granted to members of the nursing profession. Are they able to deal with more patients? Are school teachers, who again are in the tertiary classification, able to teach more pupils? Is a locomotive driver able to haul a bigger load on our railway system. 
Exactly. Yet the Government chooses to try to spell this out. Let us put it another way: It is the considered opinion - not merely the considered opinion but the certain opinion - of the legal profession that the minute these proposed sections are challenged the High Court will knock them out. And a challenge there will be because under the Constitution as it stands at present this Government cannot impose conditions such as these. The Government will put in these proposed charges. It will put them in by sheer weight of numbers because it has the numbers to do so. The Government will ram this legislation through and the High Court will kill it for certain. 
Or SOLOMON (Denison) (4.51)- I cannot hope to traverse the legalities of this matter and the legal evidence of what has happened in the past with the same dexterity as did the honourable member for Moreton  (Mr Killen).  I was happy to hear the honourable member for Cunningham  (Mr Connor)  because he made a clear argument concerning his reservations about this matter. I could understand perfectly well what he was talking about. In particular he said that this legislation is laying down a blueprint for a wage freeze without an equivalent in the price area. I can understand people having reservations about that. However, I believe I should say just a few words if only for the reason that my speaking does not leave it look as though there are only 2 supporters of the Government who believe that this is a justifiable clause. 
The dangers which confront the implementation of this clause, as outlined by the honourable member for Cunningham, are indeed dangers to think twice about. Nevertheless I think again, if I can take this matter on the face of it and as it reads, that it is hardly proper in these days to consider an award or an agreement which only takes cognisance of 2 parties. My friend the honourable member for Moreton has taken this on board very well but I think it should be said again that one has only to consider instances, and some already have been given. Let us assume that there is an agreement between the managemnt of the Australian National Line and the seamen or stewards concerned in that operation, and there has been evidence of this before now. Let us assume that there is an award which is what we might describe as generous and let us exclude from any judgment on the rights or wrongs of the matter the people of Tasmania, for example. Where does that get us lt seems to me that the people of Tasmania at least have as vested an interest in that agreement as do the seamen or the stewards, or whoever else might be concerned, lt would be entirely unrealistic not to consider the public interest. 
If such an agreement is entered into, as honourable members of the Opposition have pointed out who else but the Government is going to represent the public interest in most circumstances? After ill, that is what one would think it is there to do. In fact, the bane of any governments existence is to decide which public interest is more persuasive or more deserving than any other public interest because rarely is the whole public involved at any one time. I think the case which I took illustrates this point. If it were the public of Tasmania, of north Queensland or whoever else it might be, or for that matter the whole public, surely someone needs to represent them if the government or anyone else sees them as worthy of representation in the context of a particular agreement. For that reason 1 say a few words on this part of the clause. I 'believe that the provisions contained in this part of the clause are justified. I hope that the dire industrial straits that are predicted as a result of the passing of this clause do not come to pass. But on the face of it I believe that what is proposed is a reasonable proposition as far as the people of Australia in general are concerned. 
May I take up just one other point because 1 think that it was raised a good deal earlier in the debate by the honourable member for Stirling  (Mr Webb).  This matter concerns proposed new section 30. The honourable member was worried in regard to proposed new sub-section 30 (1 .) about the suggestion that conciliation and arbitration evidence and findings could not in any practicability be kept one from the other. I would like to point out that proposed new section 30(4.), as I understand it, gives a particular meaning to a couple of the words; that is to say proposed new sub-section (4.) provides that no evidence shall be given from one conciliator, for example, to a succeeding arbitrator. This means evidence as distinct from hearsay, as I understand it. Also, the proposed new sub-section states: ' ... or statements made . . . '. Again, I believe that this refers to statements made to the Commission that are not to be transferred from one quarter to the other. Therefore, whatever the human weaknesses of the problem may be, these are specific matters which are not talked about in the Bill as though they were a popular chat; they are matters relating to evidence particularly and the statements made to the Commission, so that in a formal sense they are not transferable. 
I draw the attention of honourable members - and I am sure that the lawyers here could do so better than I am able to do - to the fact that on many occasions juries are ordered by a judge to disregard a piece of evidence. No-one really believes that they totally cleanse their minds of that evidence. All they have to do is to do their best not to consider it as part of the total evidence they are receiving. I presume that legally trained people such as conciliators and arbitrators can do that equally as effectively as a jury drawn from the average population can. So 1 make that point in addition to the remarks I have made relating to the preceding proposed new section. 
I want to amplify the comments I made before dinner with regard to a number of matters. In particular, it is quite clear that the Government is systematically trying to unload onto the arbitration system as a sort of economic whipping boy the responsibilities for its own sins of economic commission and omission. The Government has shown a consistent incapacity to deal with inflation, but it has chosen in particular to try to off-load the full responsibility on to the wages system. The catchcry is raised - it is almost like some witch's chorus - that in all cases it is a matter of wages being raised first and then prices following. The position is exactly the opposite. 
The position is exactly the opposite - the interjection notwithstanding - because with the system of delays  and frustrations that are inherent in the present over-legalised system of arbitration it follows that automatically it is not possible for wages to do other than follow prices. This myth has been sedulously cultivated and the Government in political terms stands or falls by it. Hence it is determined at all costs to assume complete control of the arbitration system and in so doing, as I said earlier, it will destroy it. On the question of the submissions that are made by the Government, I want to quote from an address given by  Mr  Hince,  who is a senior lecturer in economics at the Melbourne University. His remarks have been published by the Committee for Economic Development of Australia. They are vital in considering the question of public interest. He said: 
The Government intervenes in the 'public interest' and presents material and argument in  a  brief prepared within government departments and presented by legal counsel. The presentation of material in open court, with the publicity which surrounds national wage cases, has apparently caused some considerable concern for the Government in recent years. In the 1960 hearing the Commonwealth brief did state reasonably categorically, with detailed reasons that no wage increase should be granted. Subsequently, many commentators linked this categoric assertion of the Commonwealth view on wage increases to the near defeat of the Government in the following elections. Whether this view is correct or not, it is noticeable that the Government brief in subsequent national wage cases has been less assertive and limited, in the main, to presenting general information and statistical material relating to the state of the economy. The Commonwealth has refrained from making positive submissions about the quantum of wage increases which it considers the Commission should award. 
The adoption of this position by the Commonwealth reached, in my opinion, the limits of absurdity in the 1966 hearing. In this case  Mr Kerr,  Q.C., appearing as Senior Counsel for the Commonwealth, indicated that they, the Commonwealth, favoured a moderate increase in wages, but declined to elaborate on what was meant by moderate wage increases.  Mr Justice  Wright, presiding at the hearing, made rather pointed comments about the adoption of this particular tactic by the Commonwealth.  Mr Justice  Wright suggested that this type of submission, in effect, placed the full onus on the Commission to fit in with Government economic policy with regard to prices, productivity and wages, without the Commission being privy to Government thinking about the desirable level of wage increases. In this judgment, which was part of the majority judgment,  Mr Justice  Wright said: 
The Commonwealth shrank from the tasks of estimation, contenting itself with a suggestion for  a  'moderate' increase but counselling against  a  'large' increase; such suggestions are just meaningless to one who is under an obligation to reduce his reasoning to terms of currency. 
However, the Commonwealth has continued to follow the pattern which emerged after the 1960 hearing. In the 1968 'National Wage Case' hearing, the Commonwealth ignored the stricture of  Mr Justice  Wright and suggested that Government policy favoured a small but not a moderate or large increase. 
This book was published in November 1969. That tactic has been continued and it will be intensified. We will have the spectacle of the Government striding into court - in much the same way as King Charles I, 3 centuries ago, strode into the House of Commons - saying: 'This is what we want.' The resentment that will be built up then will make an undoubted contribution to industrial hatred and turmoil for generations. In quite another field I want to refer to the impact of tertiary industry on industrial productivity. I quote from an article by  Mr T.  M. Fitzgerald published in the 'Nation' on 13th November 1971. He had this to say: 
The disturbing elements in the last Consumer Price Index were not due to increases in manufacturing prices but in tertiary-sector items - in fact, Government charges, especially transport and hospitals . . . The tertiary sector is the growing one in our economy and with the decline of rural employment it is on the way towards absorbing two-thirds of the work force. (Within this sector, the split is roughly sixty private employment to forty government employment, so that the absolute numbers of privately employed in the tertiary sector is about SO per cent greater than the number of manufacturing employees.) . . . But it seems that our economic thinking and policy-making have failed to catch up with the realities of the new pattern of activity and to draw inferences from it. To quote a phrase of some economists, the tertiary services are by nature 'unprogressive', in the sense that their performance in productivity growth seems generally to be low by comparison with manufacturing (measurement is difficult). 
That is the very thing the Government seizes on to speak in terms of a drop in productivity. That is the very principle that the Government chooses to enshrine in the proposed section 31. This Government is fundamentally dishonest in its whole approach to the matter of wage fixation. Irrespective of its future inability for the remainder of its term in office, it is determined at all costs not merely to freeze wages but also to keep wages lagging further behind than ever. Inflation is starting to gallop. This Government is prepared, between now and polling day, to attempt to buy its way with political offers of electoral largesse. In the process of so doing it will make a further contribution  to the inflation which it is unable to control. The proposed section is dishonest. It is the major section. It is the most vital one and it is the most obnoxious one in the whole of this legislation. It is one that we will oppose here not only in this Parliament but also on the hustings. 
This clause, in rugby league parlance, is what is called a double tackle. It does not satisfy the viciousness of the Government to impose the penal clauses upon the trade union movement; the Government wants to make sure that it humiliates the trade unions to the utmost because for many years when it has come to the real crunch and the Government has gone to the point of imposing a penalty and seeking to collect it, there is generally some good fairy who comes to life and pays the money. In many cases the good fairy is very obviously some employer or some business interest who realises that as a matter of stark common sense it is better to pay the money into court than to suffer the disruption, dislocation and loss of business that would result from the ultimate collection of the penalty from the assets of the union involved. 
But that is not sufficient; the Government does not want to be balked of its prey. The Government wants to carry this right through to the limit because it has a particular interest with the forthcoming election in provoking industrial disturbances for its own political survival. This clause is intended for exactly that purpose. Apart from that, there is the general question of the sanctity of banking. I quite agree with the honourable member for Moreton  (Mr Killen)  that there is not merely one way; any competent lawyer could think of half a dozen ways to get around this Bill. Nevertheless this clause is put in the Bill by design for the purpose of political provocation of the most extreme, arrogant and reprehensible kind. I agree with the honourable member for Moreton that this is something of which the Government itself should be ashamed. 
Question put: 
That the clause be agreed to. 
The right honourable member for Higgins  (Mr Gorton)  who has just resumed his seat made rather a fallacious point. He suggested that if this Bill were carried it would destroy the Government - if it were carried right here and now. Let me remind the House that this is a Bill for which the honourable member himself was responsible. He was Prime Minister when this Bill was introduced. The Bill is this Government's legislation. It is on the business paper of this House, buried suitably, but it is Government legislation. Now we have a former Prime Minister trying to tell this House and the people of Australia that to pass legislation he sponsored and his Government authorised will destroy that government. 
Nonsense and humbug - a very good reason for the right honourable gentleman no longer being in the leadership of the Government. There is an old aphorism and a true one, that in the kingdom of the blind the one-eyed man is king. At least we have a couple of Government spokesmen who support this Bill. Strangely no Government spokesmen other than the right honourable member for Higgins, the honourable member for Moreton  (Mr Killen)  and the honourable member for Berowra  (Mr Hughes)  have been prepared to come out and support this Bill. We await with great interest the contribution that will be made by the Minister for Foreign Affairs  (Mr N. H. Bowen). 
Although the 3 gentlemen I have mentioned have at least one eye open the people of Australia have both eyes open as to the reasons for this Government not wanting to proceed with this measure and to test it in the only place where it can be tested properly, the High Court of Australia. The reason is that the Government's legal advisers have told it, and if every Crown Solicitor or Solicitor-General of every State in Australia were to speak freely and untrammelled by the directives of their Premiers and governments they would say that undoubtedly the sole sovereignty in respect of the continental shelf rests with the Government of the Commonwealth of Australia. It always did and it always will. There is more money at stake - I hate to intrude this note - in the fate of this measure than there has been in any other measure that has come before this House since Federation because with the continental shelf of H million square miles and with the north-west continental shelf, undoubtedly the greatest undeveloped treasure house of oil and natural gas in the world today, the last thing the Government wants is to upset its financial arrangements. The Government might consider that a legitimate reason but the Opposition does not and that is where we differ on matters of political ideology. The Opposition puts the interests of the people of Australia first and this is a matter involving Australia's national heritage. It is our national heritage and it is being frittered away. If anyone considered today what is happening in the Woodside-Burmah group, which is in charge of a principality of 140,000 square miles, literally parcelling it out to the overseas oil combines, he would blush with shame, something which is beyond the capacity of most members of the Government parties. 
Today there is a world crisis in hydrocarbons. The Japanese are scurrying around the landscape trying to make sure that they can get adequate supplies of oil and natural gas. The United States and the multi-national companies that spring from it today are using their best endeavours to get alternative supplies of oil and natural gas to those available to it in the Arab states in particular and, to a lesser extent, in Indonesia. That being so we have an unparalleled opportunity to get full world parity for those resources but it must be done through a national government exercising national authority through a proper national instrumentality. Let us look at the Japanese. The Japanese speak through MITI; a Labor government will speak through an appropriate authority also. It will ensure that contracts are negotiated not by puppet colonial governments but by the national authority. The contracts will be negotiated on terms of world parity and negotiated on a full basis of sovereignty. Where else could it happen but in Australia that the Attorney-General of the national Government and the SolicitorGeneral of New South Wales tiptoe like mice into court in a case that was itself a test case as to Commonwealth sovereignty and ask the court not to proceed to give a verdict as to the rights or the sovereignty of the Commonwealth and the States? I would like to quote from the judgment in the case of Bonser v. La Macchia given in the High Court of Australia and reported in the Commonwealth Law Reports. This is what was said by no less a person than the Chief Justice: 
The Attorney-General- 
Speaking of the Commonwealth AttorneyGeneral - did not desire to argue the question as to the meaning of the expression 'beyond territorial limits' . . . 
In that case a fisherman was being prosecuted for a breach of the Fisheries Act of New South Wales and a question arose as to whether a prosecution would lay in view of the undoubted sovereign powers of the Commonwealth. The Chief Justice continued: 
Accordingly, he asked the Court not to decide where those inner limits were, nor where constitutionally they could be set. 
In this attitude he was supported by the Solicitor-General of New South Wales who sought leave to intervene in the proceedings merely to agree with the submission of the Attorney-General that it was unnecessary in that case to decide the inner boundary of Australian waters to which constitutional power extended or the available inner limits fixed by proclamation. The Chief Justice went on to say that he could not do otherwise than decide this point because it was part of his function, and he did.  His  decision is there. Every honourable member with legal experience or qualification in the Government parties knows what is the true position. It was stated by the honourable member for Moreton, and I pay tribute to him for the contribution he made on this occasion, that the law is there, crystal clear. The law goes right back into history. The honourable member referred to the case of the Queen v. Keyn in 1 876 and the subsequent legislation of 1878. That set out the position as at the foundation of the Commonwealth. No State of Australia, and New South Wales was the first, had any authority beyond low water mark and that is still the position. There is too much at stake in the national interest and in the people's interest. 
An estimate has been made of the natural gas resources in the north-west continental shelf. The holdings of the WoodsideBurmah group have been estimated at $ 16,000m and its holdings cover only a fraction of the continental shelf. Should these resources be left to the tender mercies of the State governments? This reminds me of the incident in the Bible where the voice was the voice of Jacob but the hand was the hand of Esau. The Commonwealth Government in this matter is the puppet of the States, particularly of the Premier of Victoria,  Sir Henry  Bolte. There was an exchange of notes, tabled in this House, between  Sir Henry  Bolte and the former Prime Minister,  Mr Harold  Holt, in which it was agreed that certain things should be done in relation to natural gas from Bass Strait. The first and most important of those agreements was that natural gas would not be supplied to New South Wales on terms less favourable than those operating in Victoria and a notoriously high figure was fixed. That is typical of the mental limitations and the constitutional ineptitude of this Government. It has literally painted itself into a corner on this issue. Here is a government which now says that there is no urgency on this matter. I quote from the speech of the Minister for National Development  (Mr Swartz),  when introducing this legislation in April 1970. He said: 
The Commonwealth believes that, except In respect of internal waters as they existed at federation, the States have no such rights. The legal issue is presently unresolved. The Government's view is that it would serve Australia's national and international interests to have the legal position resolved as soon as practicable. This will be a matter for decision by the courts. 
If it was urgent then why is it not even more urgent and of crowning importance today? Of course, we may take such matters as this that flow from it: New South Wales will be saddled with double the cost of a pipeline because of State stupidity and parochialism; the parochialism of little Australians; I hope that now I am speaking to some big Australians. Because of that parochialism, the industrial and domestic consumers of New South Wales will be saddled with the cost of a pipeline which will be about  2i  times the length of a pipeline from Bass Strait. 
The agreement between the governments of the various States and the Commonwealth, which is embodied in the oil legislation to which reference has been made, is in itself a legal absurdity. A sovereign cannot be less than a sovereign. A king cannot agree to exercise less than his full and total powers. Yet we find incorporated in that oil legislation an agreement that the respective States and the Commonwealth will not litigate the question of their respective sovereignty. The Commonwealth cannot abdicate its powers because it is the national Government. It has complete and undoubted sovereignty in this case. If one wants this matter spelt out in more detail one will find it in the judgment in the case of Bonser v. La Macchia. I quote from page 8 of the judgment. The Chief Justice, in referring to a case in the Supreme Court of Canada and the reasons given in that case, stated: 
It is quite clear historically, if one examines the descriptions of the territory placed under governorship, that the territory of the original colony of New South Wales except as to certain islands of the Pacific did not extend beyond low water mark on the eastern coastline of the Continent and of the Island of Tasmania: and that as each of the colonies of Victoria and Queensland were severed from it, the territory of those colonies by description also ended at low water mark. The same can be said of the other Australian colonies. Thus the reasons given in the Canadian Case are applicable to the circumstances of those colonies. 
We have this unique situation: No less a person than the Chief Justice of Australia has said in advance what the result of this test case will be. I know that he has other colleagues on the Bench, but I have not the slightest doubt that their verdict will be the same.  Mr Justice  Windeyer has already stated the same, and  Sir Percy  Spender, the former  President  of the International Court of Justice, also has said the same. I think that the Minister for Foreign Affairs  (Mr N. H. Bowen)  was at the legal discussion in Sydney some years ago when this matter was quite openly debated. There is not the slightest doubt as to where sovereignty resides. Equally, there is not the slightest doubt that this Government does not want to proceed with the legislation. For purposes of a safety valve, the Government has permitted discussion on this legislation today, and then it hopes to turn off the valve and bury the legislation quietly until after the forthcoming election, and beyond. No Government supporters could say that the 
Government will get agreement from the States on this matter. It is impossible to achieve agreement because, as I said previously, the legal advisers of every State in Australia have already told their Premiers what the true position is. As the honourable member for Berowra  (Mr Hughes)  said, it is a matter of obfuscation. Those who do not want to see are very hard make see and to convince. 
Let us take the dangers that flow from the present situation. We have the individual States of Australia negotiating overseas as though they were sovereign nations. Is this Government prepared to accept that situation? Let us take the recent case when the Premier of Western Australia went to Japan, entered into certain arrangements, returned home and publicised those arrangements. It has been necessary for the Commonwealth Government openly to intervene in respect of the former Government of Western Australia and to say quite openly that the prices at which that Government agreed to sell Iron ore were too low. Equally it was necessary for the former Deputy Prime Minister to intervene in the case of the sale of wood chips because the prices were too low. What is the alternative to this Bill being passed and the question being tested in the High Court? It will not need much testing, either. It will be confirmed, and confirmed very quickly. 
Of course, the Government has its arrangements and  it  has it supporters who spring to attention when the whip is cracked. We face a position that is becoming a major national scandal, where an allegedly responsible government  is  not prepared to act and to follow up a Bill which  it  has introduced. Two years ago the Government said that the Bill was of vital importance and that the matter should be legally determined. The longer the Government leaves this matter the more allegations will be made as to the true, hidden and disreputable reasons why this Government has failed to implement the legislation. 
A debate on tariffs always provokes quite a divergence of opinion. I have heard the honourable member for Wakefield  (Mr Kelly)  on many occasions, and he no doubt believes that he has all the answers; but I feel that today more than ever the whole principles that underlie the present tariff structure, the means of assessing tariffs, are becoming outdated. I am making no reflection whatever on the competence or integrity of the members of the Tariff Board, but we are in a new economic era and it is time that this Government woke up to it. We are today in the era of the multi national corporations, and they are capable of playing hob with any tariff structure. Last week a White Paper on overseas investment was presented to this House which contains some very fine information as to just what can happen in respect of the activities of multi-national corporations. 
Lest I be thought to be straying from the subject matter of the debate, I make this point: When we are calculating a tariff and its impact we need to know the profits of the companies which are being sheltered by it or benefiting from it. Even on the statements, guarded as they may be, of the Treasury officials who were responsible for the compilation of the White Paper, the truth is there crystal clear. This Government, with its present methods of taxation and its present methods of investigation of the affairs of some of the overseas companies in Australia, is not capable of collecting the full company tax. If the Government cannot do that, neither can the Tariff Board assess the correct profits of these companies. My thinking has been greatly influenced by a work of a certain Charles Levinson called Capital, Inflation and the Multi-nationals'. He had this to say: 
The view is growing that for large firms the interest in exports today extends largely to benefiting from transfer-pricing opportunities made possible through intra-company shipments. By manipulating the prices the parent charges for intra-company transfers among subsidiaries, profits can be managed so as to benefit from favourable tax laws by having the largest amount in tax-haven countries and a minimum in those with high profit taxes. 
This is of significance: 
Already nearly 60 per cent of US manufacturing shipments are from the US parents to overseas subsidiaries. Nearly a quarter of UK exports are carried out under transfer-pricing conditions. Undoubtedly, a larger percentage still applies to French, Dutch, German and Belgian exports, but the practice is not controlled by the governments at all rigorously. 
This is the nub of the chapter from which I am quoting: 
Physical exports in classical terms are, therefore, already out of date, as management and capital rather than goods now cross frontiers, oblivious to and unaffected by tariff barriers and non-tariff restrictions on trade. 
If honourable members want confirmation of that I refer them to the Gray report on foreign investment in the dominion of Canada, which is under consideration by the Canadian Government at the present time. That report states that it is impossible by orthodox means, whether by tariffs or by fiscal or monetary means, to control these companies. Further than that, the forecast is made - and this is gaining strong support amongst thinking economists today - that within 20 years there will be 300 major multi-national corporations, some of them employing as many as 1 million people, which will literally control world trade. 
Unless and until this Government or the one that succeeds it comes to grips with the problem of the multi-national corporation, tariffs and many other of our present forms of economic controls can go very much into the discard. Instances as to how far profits are being manipulated are to be found in the White Paper. The commonest one, of course, is to syphon it off by excessive charges for technology, by royalties, interest and licensing fees. For example, let us have a look at what is happening in respect of borrowing by Australian companies. A fortnight ago we had the first report from the Bureau of Census and Statistics in this field. Nearly $5.000m is being borrowed by Australian companies. Eighty-nine per cent of that is borrowed by overseas companies, and those overseas companies have borrowed it, in the main, from their principals - and for the best of reasons. We come to the principle of what is called shadow capitalisation. In other words, if you want to start an industry in Australia today, do it with the absolute minimum of capital - say, $lm. Borrow $ 1 00m from your parent company overseas and then let it charge you interest on the amount. That, of course, is tax deductible. If it wants to be reasonably honest the Australian company will pay a withholding tax of only 10 per cent on that. 
As for the switching around and the swinging of profits from one company to another, it is becoming a major international scandal. With a set-up like that it is worth examining, even at the present time, some of the statistics as to the relative strengths of these multi-national companies and major nations today. Let us take as a case in point the figures in respect of the year 1969, which will illustrate my theme. Let us look at the top 100 gross national products and the turnovers of multi-national corporations like General Motors. The gross national product of the United States was$US931 billion in 1969. The gross national product of Japan was $US164 billion. Then we come down the list to Australia, where the gross national product was$US29.9 billion. The General Motors turnover was$US24.3 billion: Standard Oil's was $US15 billion; Ford Motors' was$US14.8 billion. General Motors, in fact, carries more economic clout than countries like Belgium, Luxembourg, Argentina, Switzerland, South Africa. Pakistan and Denmark. Royal Dutch Shell comes next on the list. 
There it is. These companies will grow in strength. They will grow in sophistication. What are we erecting against them? What are we proposing to do really to get to grips with these companies? What has this Government done? What is the position in Australia today? The Treasury admits that the statistics are defective and that it can give only an approximation, but it admits that 35 per cent of the profits of Australian companies are being remitted overseas. That being so, it would appear that we are second only to Canada in terms of economic subordination to overseas investors. The honourable member for Lalor  (Dr J. F. Cairns)  made reference to productivity. This is another matter that should be well considered. Sixty per cent of the Australian work force today is in tertiary industry. It is not in productive industry. The percentage is growing rapidly. There are many reasons for it, the basic one being that, in a country as huge as Australia, the basic and the minimal infrastructure of government as a percentage of population must be higher with our area than is the case in almost any other of the advanced industrial countries. That being so, those who are critics of the output of Australian industry should consider these facts very closely. 
The Gray report also suggested that there were new means needed for major companies to come to grips with the problem of the multi-national company. This Government has nothing to offer. It can be seen from the White Paper that, in respect of the overseas mineral companies operating in Australia, it would be very advisable for there to be Australian management. In many cases there has been pre-emptive obtaining of leases so that the companies could keep opposition out of the field. The Treasury stressed the difficulty - in some cases the comparative impossibility - of even collecting company tax from them. That is the position we face today. I would like to hear the Minister for Shipping and Transport  (Mr Nixon),  who is at the table, give his version. 
I direct my question to the Prime Minister. Does he agree that control of the volume of money and credit is the prime function of a national government? Has he noted that in the last 20 years control of money and credit through the Reserve Bank of Australia and the orthodox banking system has dropped from nearly 70 per cent to less than 46 per cent? To what extent has the para-banking system, particularly merchant banks, contributed to this? What action does his Government propose in respect of the excessive inflow of overseas funds which have swollen Australian exchange reserves to a dangerously high level? 
I support the amendment moved by the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam).  This Budget is a phoney, lt was introduced by a union-hating and a union-baiting Government which has exhausted all the possibilities of political misfeasance which has over the years successfully returned it to power. It was returned firstly by the bogey of Indonesian aggression, then the Vietnam issue and then the law and order issue. Now the bogey that is raised is the lamentable effects, as given the honourable member for Denison  (Dr Solomon),  according to his interpretation, of a 35- hour week. Of course, the Government is finally reduced to mere vote buying. 
What do they say about your leader? You can have your say later. What is the position in Australia now? There is unemployment on a record scale, and concealed unemployment at that. The admitted figure is 2 per cent. There are another 20,000 people who are dependent upon a rural dole at the present time and there is record inflation at the rate of 7 per cent. The Government has a vested interest in inflation. It anticipates that it will increase to 9 per cent this year and will tax the worker accordingly. There are over 1 million people in Australia living in poverty; 70 per cent of industry is working at below capacity. The latest survey shows - and it is an authoratitive survey at that - that most of the captains of industry expect a pretty grim time. There is a squabble over exchange rates between the Libera! Party and the Country Party; there are acute differences of opinion on the same matter between the Reserve Bank of Australia and the Treasury. 
This Government is led by the most unpopular leader in Federal Parliamentary history. At present he is holding off; he does not know what to do. He is hoping thai somehow he can achieve a popularity rating of over 20 per cent. If he does he will think the millenium has arrived. The Treasurer  (Mr Snedden)  who introduced this Budget will go down in history also as Two-dollar Bill' because that is what he thinks is the weekly bribe that can be paid to the average worker to secure his vote. Today this Government has a vested interest in unemployment. It is following outmoded economic tenets of the 1 8th and 19th centuries. Of course, it was some of the best economic brains of the 18th and 19th centuries that have been responsible for this Government and its economic policy. It suits the Government to have a pool of unemployed, to have men bidding for jobs. It suits it in situations such as in my own electorate where the average wage paid to an unskilled steel worker in $65 a week, $31 a week below the national average, to have a 40-hour week because the worker then must try to get some overtime if he can - and even that opportunity is disappearing. 
Today there are, conservatively, 150,000 people unemployed in Australia and the honourable member for Hindmarsh  (Mr Clyde Cameron)  has said it would reach the figure of 200,000 at the end of the year. I agree with him. In the meantime this Government will be handling out a miserable dole but even that dole for 130,000 adult workers will amount to $2 16m a year in payments, payments that need never have been made if work had been available for those men. In addition, working on 2 per cent of the gross national product, there will be $720m lost in annual production. In terms of tax yield the loss will be possibly something of the order of $170m to $180m a year. 
This Budget is the third in 8 months of Government economic tinkering. It is a Budget that should have been introduced about 3 years ago. It is an annual swindle sheet for the benefit of the privileged because this is a Government of privilege. lt is a Government which is nothing but a mutual protection society for the privileged people of Australia. The worker does not count with this Government. It has been led by a very eminent economist, a gentleman who represents the electorate of Lowe - the Artful Dodger of Australian finance who first introduced in 1954 the situation, which is perpetuated today, of inflating everyone into a higher tax bracket so that men in the lowest income groups are paying middle income tax rates and those in the middle income groups are paying high income tax rates. 
There has been a cynical reception by the public of this Budget. The average family man says: 'If the Government offers me a bribe of $2 a week it will take $4 back from me because no increase is worth anything today unless there is price control.' Today the only commodity which is under universal price control in Australia is human labour. Money means nothing without price control. After 23 years of Liberal Country Party Governments this is the situation that we face. Labor's tax concessions and pension increases, which will be announced in due time by our leader, will be protected and not eroded by continuing and escalating inflation. I repeat, Labor will really preserve the purchasing power of the Australian dollar. 
Let me touch briefly on the family swindle. As I said before, the Budget is a swindle sheet. Let us examine the question of child endowment. There are 4 million children in Australia today who will be receiving child endowment. The average endowed family represents 2.18 children. Let honourable members mark these words carefully. Endowment for the first child was introduced at 50c in 1950. Endowment for the second child was introduced in 1948 at $1 and those figures have not been changed since that time. My point - let any Government supporter contradict me if he can - is that only one child in 11 has benefited by the marginal, minimal paltry increases that have been given over the last 20 years. If honourable members want the proof of this, let them have a look at page 78 of the report of the Director-General of Social Services, where they will see these figures in grim detail. In 1949, the average amount of child endowment paid to a family was $90; today it is $104. It is a shame and it is a scandal. 
At the same time, this Government has been stashing away money year by year into the loan consolidation and investment reserve until today it has arrived at a situation where it is holding investments almost equal to its total debts. For example, last year, despite the announced Budget deficit of $183ra, an amount of $498m was socked away into the loan consolidation and investment reserve - a very high sounding euphemism for an indirect dodge of putting surplus money into public securities. In previous years, the situation was just as bad. 1 shall go through the figures. This is a time when the Government is denying elementary justice to pensioners and to children in the form of child endowment, when it is denying responsibility for the system of education other than paltry, arbitrary subsidies given to the wealthy private schools and a time when it is denying proper responsibility for hospitalisation. These are the figures for the years in which the Government has socked away money into the loan consolidation and investment reserve: In 1967-68, the figure was 5312m; in 1968-69 the figure was $226m; in 1969-70 the amount was $578m; in 1970-71 it was $430m; and, in 1971-72, according to the figures that I have, the Government put $523m into this reserve. 
The Government is not honest. It is giving a paltry deal to the States. Money is going into public loans. Interest is being collected and, in the main, the States are paying for it and the crippling burden of State taxes and charges today is directly due to this Government's financial manipulation. If honourable members would like the proof of this, they should look at an article which appeared in the Sydney 'Bulletin' in 1967 when  Mr W.  J. Campbell, the retired Auditor-General of New South Wales, blew the gaff on this Government. This Government is unique in the world today - in the world of so-called Western parliamentary democracies. It is holding $2,570m in public securities and its total actual debt is $2,850m. Yet Government supporters raise the catch-cry: 'We are going to budget for a loss'. It will be doing nothing of the sort. The loss announced last year was a phoney one. There will not be a final Budget deficit of $630m. For the first time in the last 17 years, one might say, this Government will not be stashing something away into the public loans. It has decided to let it go to buy votes. 
Quite apart from that, let us examine the general question of where the money is to come from. Let us have a look at the White Paper on overseas investment prepared by this Government's own Treasury advisers. Those advisers say that it is impossible today adequately to collect company tax from the multi-national corporations operating in Australia. The reasons for this are obvious because every device known to financial ingenuity and to shrewd accountants is used and this Government has not the brains, the ability or the courage to stand them up. This needs to be done and this is one of the first things that a Labor government will do. The swindles of the multi-national corporations take this form: Firstly, too much is charged by &gt; way of interest loaned by an overseas principal to its Australian subsidiary. The reason is a simple one. The device is known as thin capitalisation. The parent companies do not float subsidiary companies in Australia with large amounts of capital. A small amount of a couple of million dollars will do and perhaps $100m is loaned. The reason for this is simple. At 10 per cent, the withholding tax on interest paid is much cheaper than establishing a fully capitalised company and declaring a profit dividend which would be subject to proper withholding tax. 
As for the other devices that are used, the general one is that of switching profits to tax havens. This is done in one of 2 ways. One method is by under-pricing and selling to an overseas subsidiary goods at cost price and then keeping a straight face and submitting a company tax return to the Treasury and saying: 'We are very sorry. We did not make any profit'. The profit is overseas. Of course, the converse can apply. There could be excessive charges for royalties, for expertise or for improved methods of business control. All these are devices that are used. This Government, of course, is prepared to do nothing about it and, in the meantime, Australia is for sale. We have a situation where at least 35 per cent and probably nearer 40 per cent of our assets are directly or indirectly under overseas control. This is a scandalous state of affairs. Of course, this Government still says that it is going to operate at a loss. 
What do the much vaunted income tax concessions really amount to? Last year, the figures show that income tax was increased in all categories - pay-as-you-earn and for those who submit annual returns - by $590m. Now the Government says to the wage earners and the salary earners of Australia: 'Instead of socking you for an additional $8 19m, we will ask for only an extra $430m on top of that which we gouged from you last year'. That is supposed to be a tax concession. Again, this is phoney; it is a fraud. What does the future hold for Australia under this Government? It is an inept government which is not prepared to give national leadership. It cannot speak in the name of the nation. It is incapable of handling overseas trade. Today, we are being played for suckers. In good Australian, we are being played on a break by astute overseas traders. We are not getting proper prices for the export of our valuable commodities and our valuable metals. How are we to cope with the Japanese, who operate in a country where the buying and selling is carefully vetted by MITI - the Ministry of International Trade and Industry? Instead of doing that, this Government supinely chooses to allow 6 different States to made 6 separate deals. The Australian Labor Party will ensure that future trade with overseas countries is conducted through a single agency. It will ensure also - this is another major point - that our reserves are not kept in doubtful currencies. Already we have suffered while this Government, in its stupidity, allowed major Australian trading contracts, particularly for the export of iron ore, to be denominated in United States dollars. The United States dollar today is one of the most suspect currencies. The next weakest currency to that obviously is the pound sterling. We have suffered as a result of the Smithsonian agreement last year. I mink we lost a matter of $56m. We have lost more as a result of the float of the pound sterling. But the pre sent international parities will not prevail. They have been designed to last only until the presidential election in the United States is over. 
In the first quarter of next year it is anticipated that there will be a further revision of international parities. Just exactly where will this country be? lt is a low posture country; it is a country led by a Government which has no sense of national conscience; it has no sense of national identity. I am an Australian and I am proud of it. I am ashamed of the people who, for 23 years, have been selling this country to the highest bidder. One can say this of the Liberal Party policy. If it moves, shoot it; if it grows, cut it down; and if it is under the soil, dig it out and sell it for the best price you can get. What provision has been made for Britain's entry into the Common Market? What is the true position today of the primary producer? It is worse than it has been, at any time in Australia's history.  Mr Deputy Speaker,  as a member of the Country Party, you should be well aware of this fact. 
What are our trading prospects in the future? We will be competing with some of the most astute and best managed countries as far as world trade is concerned, and we will be going in with one hand tied behind our back. What is to be the position with regard to the development of Australia's world ranking supplies of natural gas? What is to be the position with Palm Valley and with Magellan, capitalised at $2.5m and needing possibly as much as $900m to develop it. There is a need for a national development corporation. Similarly, in respect of uranium development and uranium enrichment there is need for  a  national viewpoint to be taken and for a national authority to handle the national resources of Australia, which are the birthright of the Australian people. 
Is the Minister for National Development aware of the statement made last week by  Sir William  Pettingell of the Australian Gas Light Co. of the intention of his company, through a subsidiary, to let a contract for the construction of a natural gas pipeline from Gidgealpa to Sydney, with a forecast of its probable allocation to the Mitsubishi interests? Are the Palm Valley reserves on federal territory the most valuable natural resources yet proven in Australia? Has the pipe diameter been increased from that proposed in the original tenders to link Gidgealpa with these world ranking natural gas supplies in Palm Valley? What is the value of these resources? Has the Minister obtained any information on this point? What approaches have been made by the Australian Gas Light Co. to the Government? 
I claim to have been misrepresented and I seek leave to make a personal explanation. 
In my question to the Minister for National Development  (Sir Reginald Swartz)  I stated that the Palm Valley natural gas deposits were the most valuable ever proven in Australia. The Minister said that they were not. The fact is that those reserves are already rated at  7  trillion cubic feet-  4  times the Gidgealpa deposits- 
 I do not seek to debate it,  Sir. With  due respect to the Chair, at least I might be allowed to finish my sentence. 
The point is that already the Magellan people are actively negotiating with American interests on the Pacific coast of the United States for the sale of that gas, with proven reserves. 

 - Mr Speaker, we have listened to a very broad, in fact, a major statement on tariffs and trade by the Minister for Trade and Industry  (Mr Anthony).  It is a statement which deserves a considerable amount of time for debate which unfortunately cannot be allocated to it in view of the exigencies of parliamentary business. Nevertheless, certain comment needs to be made. The Minister, as the Leader of the Country Party, must put the best gloss he can on the loss of the largest open market for rural products in the world, namely, the United Kingdom, which has gone into the Common Market. As the honourable, member for Lalor  (Dr J. F. Cairns)  has said, the Minister cannot provide a satisfactory alternative. Of course, it is nice to hear him recant in relation to trade with the eastern European countries. Trade there will be on a pretty tough basis, too. What reason have those countries to love Australia or a government of his political persuasion? 
In general terms, the world is breaking up into protective trading blocs and, frankly, we are not in any of them. At the present time the major one is the European Economic Community. Britain has gone in there to get out of the wet, and has said, in effect, 'Go hang the Commonwealth'. COMECON is the next one. Of course, it pivots on the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics. There is another one which consists of the 2 American continents. As for the rest, Japan is on the loose and so are. we. If we have any trading relationship at all it is this: We are part of what has been called the Pacific triangle of trade between the United States of America, with whom we have a very substantial deficit, and Japan, with whom we have a very substantial surplus. In the triangular exchange, up to date one has approximately balanced out the other. But that situation will not continue, because of the negotiations that are being, conducted as. a result of the recent conference between the new Prime Minister of Japan and the American  President. 
The deficit between the' United States and Japan is about SUS2,200m per year, and the pressure is on. The deal proposed is this: The Japanese need fuel and enriched uranium. In the process once more this Government will be upstaged in its trading relationships. The. proposal is that the Japanese for a period will purchase from the United States something of the order of $US1,000m worth of uranium, and Australia once more will be left out in the cold. To make the position worse, currently the world is undergoing a monetary crisis in which the world's major banker - the United States - is, according to orthodox capitalist canons, verging on insolvency. Within itself, as far as its own internal trade is concerned, it can carry on satisfactorily; but, in terms of its liabilities and its assets, the United States dollar today is a suspect currency. That goes also for the pound sterling. 
What steps has this Government taken to protect our trading contracts in the future? How are they to be negotiated? Thanks to the Smithsonian Agreement, we have lost already something of the order of S56m. We have yet to hear from the Government what has been lost as a result of the floating of the pound sterling. Of course, no-one can quantify it exactly, but we have yet to hear what will be the loss as a result of the further adjustment of world currencies which will take place following the United States presidential election. Only yesterday the  Chairman  of the Broken Hill Pty Co. Ltd in his annual report warned about currency instability. In the world today bilateral arrangements have to be made. Those arrangements will need to provide for some fixed parity as between the vendor and the purchasing country in respect of the relativity of their currencies for the term of the agreement. This Government of so-called businessmen, of course, would not know where to start in the matter. 
The Minister for Trade and Industry has paid lip service to multilateral trade. What are the facts today7 Every one of the socalled Western democracies, the industrial democracies, pays lip service to free trade, and goes as hard as it can for protection. Let us look at our 2 major trading partners, the United States and Japan. What is our position with the United States? There is a tariff on wool of 25c a lb. What has this Government done about it? How has it used its leverage in respect of our trading deficit of over $600m a year with the United States? There are. quotas on beef, sugar, lead and zinc exports from Australia into the United States. 
Let us now take the case of Japan, probably the most sophisticated and most determined exponent of protectionism in the world today. Japan will take raw materials - coal, iron ore, bauxite and other non-ferrous metals - but precisely how much can we get into Japan in quantities that count? Even if we could export satisfactory quantities, the Minister for Trade and Industry has been less than frank with the House because the system of distribution in Japan is such that it is very difficult to trade with that country. This is because of the hold of the Zaibatsu, the companies which before World War II were in charge of Japanese trade and commerce. They will dictate the terms of trade and commerce. There are some possibilities of trade with the Common Market countries but whether one looks at the Common Market countries or at the western hemisphere bloc of the 2 Americas, one finds that there are rural agrarian pressure groups in control and dictating and distorting the economies and the terms of trade of those countries. Today it would not matter at what price we offered some of our rural products because we could not get them into the Common Market countries, try as we may. As for the future, unless and until we arrive at a situation where there is some form of world monetary stability, trade will be on the basis of individual reciprocal arrangements for fixed periods and with fixed relativity to the respective international currencies. This Government is a discredited Government; it does not know where to start. It has been going by guess and by God. It has been playing by ear and not to economic music. The incoming government will face the cleaning up of a mess of this Government's creation. 
Some 90 years ago the fathers of the Australian Constitution met. They proceeded, in their deliberations, to frame a constitution with which we are still saddled. It is true that an Australian nation emerged, but our fathers lacked perhaps the foresight and certainly the charity to ensure that the States continued to discharge their proper functions. We are saddled with a constitution which is typical of Australia, the land of paradox. It  is  a constitution which leaves the sovereign powers in the major responsibilities, forgetting international relations, with the States, but in fact and as a result of the effluxion of time and a major number of interpretative court judgments it leaves the fiscal and financial powers very much with the Commonwealth. In other words, those who need financial assistance most, the States, have not first call; the Commonwealth has it. Conversely, no provision has been made for a proper proportion of the national revenues to be allocated between the Commonwealth and the States according to their respective functions and their true needs. That being so, we come today to a situation in which the States, the second tier of government, and local government, the third tier, literally have their backs to the wall. 
As a result of 23 years of the present Administration we have an utter and complete distortion of even the limited powers of the States. Today the position is nothing short of a major national scandal. Finance is government. If I might paraphrase Galbraith, we have today Federal affluence and State squalor in financial affairs. It is the States which in fact provide the infrastructure. To put it in its crudest terms, the States could exist without the Commonwealth; the Commonwealth could not exist without the States, because while we have the present Constitution and the present unwillingness on the part of this Government to alter the situation it will continue and will worsen. It was a former Prime Minister, Alfred Deakin, who said - he was absolutely correct and he said it nearly 70 years ago - that the States would finish up tied to the financial chariot wheels of the Commonwealth, and in fact they are. 
The final enslavement of the States in financial terms came with the uniform tax legislation which was passed as a war-time measure, and to this day as a result of a High Court ruling the Commonwealth has priority in the field of income tax collection and the paradox continues. If revenue is to be collected, whether directly or indirectly, it comes only through the activities of the States. Just imagine the situation in Australia today if the 25,000 miles of railway line owned by the States, when they finally repay the loans on it, were to fold up. Just imagine the situation if the present main roads system, with all its limitations, did not exist. Where would the Commonwealth be? Both these fields have received scurvy and niggardly treatment. The glamour form of transport, aviation - I give the honourable member for Melbourne Ports  (Mr Crean)  great credit for what he said about it - has money lavished on it, and it is used by fully 3 per cent of the Australian community. The rest of the people use the motor car and the rail transport system. 
Take the road system. This Government, of course, has been responsible for the swindle of the petrol tax. Only 70 per cent of it goes to the States, and of that 70 per cent the greater proportion goes where it is of the least use. To this day in Australia one will find the scandal of gravel surfaced main roads and fully bituminised farm roads leading on to them. The responsibility lies again with this Government. Australia is a maritime nation, but on the eastern seaboard of Australia there is not a single harbour which at its present depth at low water is capable of taking a ship of more than 100,000 tons capacity. We are in the world of the super freighter and the super tanker and 150,000 tons is the size of the average ship, the ship of all work, the ship to meet all trades in the world today. This Government leaves the responsibility to the States. 
Take housing. Here we come again to the impact of immigration. What has the Government done? We have attempted in Australia, and I do not disagree with it, an increase in population through both immigration and natural growth which is an alltime record for any part of the world, or at least any part of what we might call the western democracies. But in the process it has been the resources of the States that have been strained to the limit; 1 repeat strained to the limit'. The policy of the Government has been to say: 'Get them here. Kid them into coming. But when we get them here we will put them on the doorstep of the States and we will give them as little as possible'.  Mr Deputy Speaker,  if you want the proof of that, have a look at the backlog today in the waiting lists of approved tenants of the Housing Commission in New South Wales or any of the other State housing authorities. If you want further proof of the position, have a look at the inflated rates that are being charged for interest on housing loans, have a look at the inflated charges that are being imposed for land and have a look at (he deficits, the record deficits of the State governments. Only last week it was announced that the railway deficit in Victoria in the coming year will be $66m. In New South Wales it will be $40m. One could go right through every aspect of State administration and find the same system in operation. 1 regret to have to say that, looking at the difference in viewpoint between State administrations and the national Administration, it is the latter which leaves much to be desired. The States are more experienced. New South Wales and Victoria have been in the business of government for more than 100 years. They have made their mistakes. Today Australia is being ruled from a city which might be a fairyland and which might have in it some very competent men provided that we stick to the text: books, but when it comes to the hard realities 1 would back the State administrations collectively against that of the Commonwealth. Some of the people who are here in Canberra are the third generation of Canberra administrators. We have had father, son and grandson, and in administrative terms the people here are mentally inbred. If they had to get into industry or commerce and make a living they would be kicked to pieces. There is here a lack of sophistication and an elitism and brahminism which need to be well and truly broken up. These people are not the repositories of all knowledge or all experience. Today the Commonwealth and the Administration here are too apt to look upon the States as the poor relatives instead of as the major milking cows. They are apt to look upon them as a necessary evil to be tolerated, endured, taxed and then ignored. 
There is a complete and utter callous disregard for the problems of the States. If honourable members require proof of that they should look at the activities of the States and the Commonwealth in the operation of the Loan Consolidation and Investment Reserve. No other country is in the position of the national Government today, which literally owns the whole of its own internal debt. The debt figures are worth citing. The Commonwealth debt domiciled within Australia is $2,73 lm, of which the Commonwealth already holds $2,550m in bonds. The States have a debt of $9,86 lm; local government debts total $ 1,800m and semi-government debts total $6.800m. In other words the Government could in this Budget take a breather from overtaxing the people of Australia, lt has been pumping surplus revenues into its own bonds, lending the money to the States and collecting the interest on it. lt is an absolute scandal. It is the old story. Hitler and Goebbels said that the technique of the big lie was the best. The big lie is that we have been told for 23 years that this Government has had a deficit, sometimes large, sometimes small. 
Since 1955 the Government has been planting money away. This year for the first time it has decided to say: 'Right, we are pretty well holding all of our bonds that are domiciled within Australia and we can afford to let our heads go and give some money away by way of rebate'. That is precisely what the Government has done. Another government can do exactly the same thing and will undoubtedly do it. The loan field has been left to private enterprise. This again is unique. If you look at other countries comparable to ours you will find that in aggregate the Commonwealth for many years has been following the policy of paying cash on the barrel head, taxing to the limit, directly and indirectly. Twenty-six per cent of the gross national product is returned to the Commonwealth in the form of taxation. Posterity has never been asked to bear its proper share of the burden as is the practice in other comparable countries. 
Our total public debt is between 35 per cent and 40 per cent of the gross national product. In Canada it is 75 per cent; United Kingdom 96 per cent; New Zealand 92 per cent; and in the United States of America 56 per cent. In the meantime the people and the States have been taxed to the point where they simply are not able to carry on. Local government is in a greater plight than even the States. That is a scandal that has been festering for many years. Local government income is based on an entirely wrong principle. It is based on taxing the unimproved value of land. In the average suburban street which has 20 houses of a similar type all the people in them are paying about the same rates but there can be disparities of as much as 300 per cent in the respective incomes of those people. Local government provides the infrastructure of what can be termed the State structure. Progressively over the years further functions have been passed down the line to local government authorities by the States because they just did not have the money to carry on. These local government authorities in many cases were foolish enough to accept the responsibilities. But wherever they lie, the problem is the same. 
Labor's policy is a clear one. For the first time we will give local government bodies a voice at the Loan Council table. In future they will not need to act vicariously, have plans vetted and then passed on to the Loan Council by the State governments if they choose to do so and wilh whatever emphasis the State governments choose to employ. Representatives of local government bodies will attend Loan Council meetings and will have a vote. We will give a fixed proportion of the national revenue to local government. The Commonwealth Government in its relations with the States, by a system of matched grants, has required the States to allocate a proportion of their limited funds conditionally upon grants being given by the Commonwealth. This has resulted in a further distortion. This applies notably in the case of the universities, and also in many other fields. This Government has been arrogant and hard. It has taxed to the limit. The structure of the Government's present Budget shows that come hell or high water it will do all it can to extract the absolute maximum, whether by way of direct taxation - particularly on wage and salary earners - or by indirect taxation in the form of excise duty on beer, petrol, tobacco and cigarettes. Indirect taxation is of course regressive taxation, but that suits this Government because the incidence of taxation is falling most heavily and unfairly on those people who are least able to pay. Undoubtedly, gains will flow io Australia from a change of government, from a change of thinking, a change of budget structure and from financial decency, honesty and fairness that this Government will never be capable of in its relationship with the States. 
In today's Press in all the capital cities was a statement that Mitsubishi of Japan was to be awarded a contract for the supply and construction of a pipeline for the carriage of natural gas between Gidgealpa and Sydney. The contract is to be entered into with a subsidiary of the Australian Gas Light Co. In the middle of August the statement was made by  Sir William  Pettingell, the general manager of the Australian Gas Light Co. that the odds-on favourite for the allocation of that contract was Mitsubishi of Japan.  Sir William  is a quite astute and very reputable gentleman. But he has the special interests of his firm to serve.  His  statement was accompanied by a qualification that it was impossible - he anticipated trouble - for any Australian firm to supply or install the necessary pipes. 
Today I have had a flat contradiction of that statement from interests within my own constituency, which is the major centre of heavy industry in Australia. Australian Iron and Steel Pty Ltd rolls steel of the required type to a width of 144 inches, which is capable of making a 42-inch diameter pipe. The contract in question is for the construction and supply of a 34- inch pipeline. Therefore Australian Iron and Steel can supply pipe of the dimensions required, with the requisite strength and made of high tensile steel that is capable of withstanding a pressure of up to 1,000 lb to the square inch. There is a flat contradiction between the statement of  Sir William  Pettingell and the statements of reputable major firms within my area which are already engaged in the fabrication of pipes for the Dongara-Perth system in Western Australia. 
The time has arrived when the national Government should be prepared - as a truly national government would be - to intervene in the national interests of Australia. The time has passed when natural resources can be allocated at the whim of any company, no matter how large it may be. In this case a major Australian company is dealing with a major Japanese company. Let me put it quite frankly that no company other than Mitsubishi ever had a chance for this reason: The capital cost of the pipeline as a whole, with all the ancillary equipment, will be of the order of $150m. A very substantial profit can be made by the export of natural gas. This Government is not prepared to show its full hand, pending an election which will take place at any time within the next 2 months. 
The deal already has been made; natural gas will be exported and that will go a considerable part of the way towards liquidating the cost of the pipeline. That will be the quid pro quo. Where do we go in terms of protecting Australian industry? Australian industry is capable of fabricating these pipes. Are we to be just a satellite nation? Are we to be a nation paying tribute to others? Has there ever been in the last 23 years a government capable of thinking in Australian national terms? There is need for a national pipeline grid and that is something that a Labor government will supply. These people can literally get out of the road. 
The Australian Gas Light Co. has a franchise to supply Sydney south of the harbour with gas. It has had that right since the 1 830s. It is entitled to its supplies. But the time has arrived when the exports of Australian natural resources will be controlled by an Australian national government. Already this week in a fully detailed statement on foreign investment in Australia we have stated that the export of Australia's natural resources will be vetted by a statutory authority. The Japanese do it and so should we. I ask honourable members what our prospects would be in the converse proposition of our submitting a tender to supply steel pipes to Japan? We would not hit the deck. There is no question of a subsidy being required. The firm can supply the product. There is only one firm and I need not mention its name. An Australian firm can roll the steel and another Australian firm can fabricate the pipeline. It is time this Government acted in the national interest. But more than that, the glittering prize is not merely the natural gas resources of Mereenie which appear to be about 3 trillion cubic feet. The glittering prize is 400 miles beyond in the Palm Valley area. The Government is sitting on the evidence. Already both the Japanese and the United States interests are manoeuvring frantically to obtain a controlling interest over at least 9 trillion cubic feet of natural gas which is in that area. 
An approach has been made to the Government by a firm, Pacific Lighting, which is operating on the west coast of the United States. It has said that it is prepared to supply anything up to $900m because there happens to be the little matter of 16 billion dollars worth of natural gas there. And it is on Federal territory. The gas cannot leave Federal territory without the say so of the Federal Government. Having the pipeline to Gidgealpa puts the Australian Gas Light Company in a favoured position to go the rest of the distance. That is precisely what is involved. This is a supine Government. It is a Government which immediately becomes paralysed. Tonight on television the  Deputy  Prime Minister  (Mr Anthony)  said that big companies were involved. They are so big that this Government does not have the guts to face up to them. 
Today in the world there is an acute shortage of hydrocarbons. For example the United States, with 170,000 miles of pipeline, is attempting to upgrade coal gas to raise its calorific contents from 400 British thermal units to about 1,050 British thermal units which is the average content of natural gas. The United States' natural gas supplies are acutely limited. Japan would be buying this product anyhow because nowhere else can it get it better and more cheaply. Need I remind the House - I have said it on many occasions - that already the OPEC group, the Moslem oil producing states, are putting the major world oil firms through the wringer. This group is constantly raising the price of crude oil. It is continuing to do the same with natural gas. We can sell natural gas for the benefit of the Australian people and not for the benefit of any company or of the interests which are represented in this case by  Sir William  Pettingell. 
The export of Australian raw resources must be under Australian control. I noted with alarm today an indication of another deal which is being made. The Minister for National Development  (Sir Reginald Swartz)  in answer to a question asked by the honourable member for Hawker  (Mr Jacobi)  said that in relation to inaccessible off-shore natural gas resources conceivably the Government would modify its policy. Of course it will. But those off-shore resources happen to be right opposite the Pilbara and Western Australia will need them. The Labor. Government will certainly see that these resources are first quantified, that they are fully assessed and used for the benefit of Australia. We are an Australian Labor Party and the Government is not. Honourable members on the Government side are not decent or patriotic Australians. This could be the biggest steal and the biggest give-away in the history of Australia. Shame on this Government. We will put the issue strongly before the people. All power to the trade unions which are comprised of working men and patriotic Australians. Already it has been announced that the Federated Ironworkers Association, the Amalgamated Metal Trade Unions and the Australian Workers Union are prepared to put a ban on handling the overseas made pipes. Today in Adelaide the Premier of South Australia said his piece too - and more power to him. This Government will not get away with this deal. Particularly, and significantly the announcement has been made at the very time that Japanese Government representatives are in Australia to finalise the deal. It is a scandal. 
Will the Minister for Customs and Excise urgently arrange a Tariff Board inquiry into the claimed capacity of Tubemakers of Australia Limited and other Australian industries to fabricate the steel Gidgealpa-Sydney gas pipeline? Will the Minister table in this House for consideration and urgent discussion, firstly, the full details of the contract between the Australian Gas Light Company and the Mitsubishi company and, secondly, all proposals and activities related to this contract by the Australian Gas Light Company and other overseas firms for the sale and export of natural gas either from Gidgealpa or by an extension of the pipeline, from Palm Valley? Will the Minister defer consideration of the applicable tariff duty on this contract pending such inquiry, tabling and urgent discussion? 
I support the terms of the subject before us. The honourable member for Lalor  (Dr J. F. Cairns)  referred to the strong words oi'  Sir William  Pettingell. They call for strong words in reply. I speak for a steel city where there are 2,004 registered unemployed at the present time. 1 speak for an area where the steel workers have world production records, which performance they have achieved repeatedly. T speak for an area where steel can be produced cost competitively with any other part of the world. In fact, we can even export steel to the east coast of the United States in competition with Japan. I speak for an area which is capable of producing world quality steel. I speak for an area where people literally are amazed to be told that they are not capable of constructing a pipeline. 
The Minister for Customs and Excise  (Mr Chipp)  referred to this exercise as being ludicrous. He can laugh off these facts. The loss of this contract means loss of employment for 260 men who would be engaged directly in the fabrication of the pipe, lt means loss of employment for one year to the equivalent of 1,000 men who would be producing the steel. It means loss of employment to 300 coal miners who would be producing the coal for the project. Those are the facts. 
As far as quality is concerned, let me put it this way:  Sir William  Pettingell did not want to be satisfied, and the bar of the high jump was progressively raised. It did not matter what requirement he stated and that was met, he did intend to give the contract to the companies concerned. I am not interested in their feud; that is a matter to be fought out between the companies. But 1 am interested in the slur and the stigma on the Australian steel industry. As for the utter tripe about the safety of pipelines and their standards of service, let me remind the House that of the 480 miles of the 24-inch pipeline from Adelaide to central Australia, 240 miles came from the Port Kembla area. It was manufactured by Tubemakers of Australia Ltd, and there has been no trouble whatever with that pipeline. The whole of the Dongara to Perth 14-inch pipeline is coming from Port Kembla. The 110-mile pipeline from Bass Strait to Melbourne, half of which crosses land, again came from Port Kembla, and there has been no trouble with that. But the other 55 miles of Japanese pipeline gave trouble and sections of it had to be replaced. It is utter nonsense to talk in terms of standards of service. 
Again on the aspect of quality, let me say that there has been a Jot of technology thrown around behind the scenes. In the first place, the methods of producing steel were queried. It was suggested that the rare earth process to be used at Port Kembla was not satisfactory to the AGL technicians. As a matter of fact, if any of the Ministers concerned would like to look at a journal known as 'The Pipeline and Gas Journal' they will see on page 45 of the issue of July last an advertisement from Nippon Kokan Steel Co., one of the 3 steel firms which is to fabricate this pipe, advocating and boasting of using this rare earth process - using a substance known as cerium. The alternative process and at a different stage of steel production - this is used by Japan - is the use of soda ash or, as the chemists call it, sodium corbonate. 
The Australian Labor Party has a policy in regard to this matter. We consider this to be merely the first round of a battle for the control of Australia's major natural resources. We have world ranking supplies and both Japan and America are lined up to get them. The Australian Gas Light Co. wanted to impose the maximum that it could on Broken Hill Pty Co. Ltd, Australian Iron and Steel Pty Ltd, Tubemakers of Australia Ltd and the other subsidiaries. We are not their protagonists on this occasion but we know the implications, so do the men at the Port Kembla steelworks and in the different trade unions which have decided to take action, and take action they will. It is significant that the Port Kembla waterside workers in 1939 had sufficient patriotism and foresight to ban, or attempt to ban, the export of pig iron to Japan and to dub the then Prime Minister 'Pig Iron Bob'. The ironworkers at Port Kembla today are talking in terms of 'Pipeline Billy', and justifiably so. 
Australia can make anything which any other section of the steel industry in the world can make today. As to making a 34- inch pipeline, it can be made. Tubemakers was not given the opportunity to do so. It submitted a tender on the basis of a 30- inch pipeline and was never invited to submit a tender for a 34-inch pipeline. As to the quality of steel, Tubemakers submitted a special type of steel known as X65. For a period of 12 months metallurgists and other technicians at the AIS plant at Port Kembla were perfecting this type of steel and it will fully meet the requirements. A slur has been cast by  Sir William  Pettingell on the capacity of the Australian steel industry to produce. This order happens to be the largest that has ever been submitted to Japan with the exception of one order, and that was for the Alaskan pipeline. As a matter of fact, Japan had to farm it out amongst 3 groups one of which will be using the very process for sulphur elimination that AGL chose deliberately as a ground for rejecting the tender of Tubemakers. What is the Minister's answer to that? We know a good deal about steel technology and that is more than the Government can say. It does not want to know the truth in this case. 
As the honourable member for Lalor has said, anything up to 20,000 miles of pipeline will need to be manufactured. There needs to be a continuity of supply. There needs to be some basis on which we can plan. I have been informed that it is estimated that for $300,000 the Port Kembla steelworks could re-tool its production system and could definitely produce a 34-inch pipeline. The works has a world ranking steel rolling mill which can roll steel up to 142 inches in width. After trimming the works can produce steel pipe up to 42 inches in diameter.  Sir William  Pettingell has literally slammed the door in this Government's face. In his statement to the Australian Gas Association conference yesterday he said he does not want it. He is pretty bitter about it. I know that the Government is embarrassed and that is the reason why the Minister for Customs and Excise  (Mr Chipp)  has chosen airily to try to push it to one side. The only question that the Government is prepared to consider is how it can weazel out of the responsibility of imposing a 35 per cent duty. 
There is a bigger point at stake. The pipeline to Gidgealpa is just the first step in a further progression to Palm Valley, and that is the glittering prize. We want to know the full facts. The Minister in answer to a question I asked last Tuesday refused to put the full facts before the House. We are entitled to know. This is not a matter of commercial judgment; this is a matter of national responsibility. This is the national Parliament. This is a people's asset. We are entitled to know the terms on which this is to be sold, the specifications and the truth of the matter. One of the 2 major protagonists is telling a lie. We have a pretty shrewd idea which one it is, and equally we have a pretty shrewd idea that the Government has deliberately set out to protect it. This Government ought to be ashamed of itself for its attitude in this matter. It is painting itself into a corner. It is traducing and vilifying the Australian steel industry and, more than that, it is trying to tie the hands of an incoming Labor government. But irrespective of anything that this Government does, we will have our say in this matter. 
As to the ability of the Australian steel industry to produce the steel in the time required, the contract period was deliberately shortened. The route for the pipeline has not yet been finalised. The notice that has to be given under the terms of the New South Wales legislation ends at Orange, and it is from Orange to Sydney where the trouble really starts. Delhi, one of the consortium at Gidgealpa, is bucking on the question of price, and rightly so. 
I address my question to the Minister for Customs and Excise. Has there yet been any resolution of the impasse in relation to the importation of natural gas pipes to Australia by the Australian Gas Light Co.? Are that company and its general manager resolutely opposed to any proposition or compromise on the basis of part of the contract going to Australian manufacturers and the balance coming in under bylaw? What is the exact position? Is the 
Minister aware that the Standards Association of Australia recently adopted a standard for natural gas pipelines which is considerably below the impossible and arbitrary standards which are still being said to be imposed by the Australian Gas Light Co.? 
 I want to be brutally political in this matter. Of course, I accept the suggestion by the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam)  and the honourable member for Macarthur  (Mr Jeff Bate)  that there is an obvious need for telephone cables to be located underground. I understand, even if I do not accept, the explanation of the PostmasterGeneral  (Sir Alan Hulme)  of the situation in Canberra. The people in Campbelltown can beware of the Greeks when they bring gifts, because they will have every reason to examine the gift horse, if I may mix the metaphore. For many years I have been the unofficial member for a very substantial part of the electorate of the honourable member for Macarthur - a very substantial part indeed. Such refinements as underground cables have not been foremost in the minds of his neglected constituents. Having been the unofficial member for the area for many years I have found the greatest difficulty in persuading people to locate their official member, if that were possible. In the industrial areas around Dapto, Shellharbour and Albion Park he has at all times been conspicuous by his absence. 
As a matter of elementary courtesy 1 have endeavoured to refer people there to their absent member, but his whereabouts at all times is rather vague. It is true that they could communicate with his secretary, but in the long term it is very much easier for me to deal with the urgent requirements of his constituents who want telephonic communication. I refer in particular to the shortage of telephones on the Bradbury Estate at Campbelltown. We have heard nothing about that shortage from the honourable member for Macarthur. Our candidate for the area has been actively seeking to remedy that position. Like the man about to be hanged, the Honourable member for Macarthur has found that his attention has been concentrated most wonderfully. We have rather a unique situation in the Macarthur electorate. The official Liberal Party candidate has been rejected by his constituents in the State electorate. The unofficial Liberal candidate has been rejected by his Party. Very obviously the electors will complete the hat trick. 
The Department of National Development covers a vast field, and it amazes me that the Government, during the whole period of its office, has foisted the burden of this vast field upon one 
Minister. Today Australia is screaming out for a separate ministry of fuel and energy. If it established such a ministry the Government would be merely coming into line with other major industrial and trading countries in the world today. In addressing the Australian Gas Association's 11th annual convention,  Mr Bott,  the Secretary of the Department, made the comment that the discovery of large reserves of natural gas in various parts of Australia would have a bigger impact on the pattern of energy distribution and use in Australia over the next 20 years or so than any other single factor. In a further comment he said that natural gas has been identified as a major factor in the international energy market. 
The question that agitates the mind of every loyal Australian is just to what extent he will reap the benefits of his own national birthright; whether this Government, running true to form, will endeavour to see that the full fruits of it go to private enterprise, or whether a national government is prepared to exercise its undoubted rights to construct a natural gas pipeline to be a common carrier and, more than that, whether it is prepared to assert its authority over the continental shelf and in particular the deposits within the Northern Territory. Remarkably, the General Manager of the Australian Gas Light Co..  Sir William  Pettingell, disclosed his hand quite recently. Plan A obviously is to get a pipeline under State legislation from Sydney to the Gidgealpa area in the Cooper Valley basin. But he came a little into the open when he said that the company proposed to extend that pipeline to Pa'm Valley in the Amadeus basin which is on Federal territory. There are tremendous reserves there, and obviously anyone who is not a biased political partisan can see the reason for the haste with which the Australian Gas Light Co., and its subsidiary. East Australia Pipelines, is endeavouring to rush through a general agreement and tie the hand of a new administration. 
From every point of view it has encountered difficulties in respect of the proposed route of a pipeline in New South Wales under the Pipelines Act of that State. It has been able to advertise only about twothirds of its proposed route, from the north-western corner of New South Wales diagonally across that State in the general direction of Orange. Beyond that it has come to a full stop. Members of the Opposition in New South Wales have been approached and canvassed in relation to 3 alternative sites. Correctly they want to know precisely what the proposals are because there has been no advertisement. There are many formidable problems to overcome. Indeed, there are problems of natural conservation and problems associated with the suggested provision of a service corridor across the Blue Mountains. With these things still up in the air it is scarcely seemly that the Australian Gas Light Co., people should announce the finalising of a contract for the supply of a pipeline. It is starting to smell in more than one direction. I repeat my comment of a few weeks ago. They will not be satisfied. They are perpetuating the feud - the bad blood between themselves and the Australian steel industry which has stemmed from previous abortive attempts to secure agreements for the supply of natural gas from Bass Strait. The Government is trying to placate both parties but it will not be able to do so because the Australian Gas Light Co., representatives have long memories. They are not prepared to forget and forgive. Further, they see that fortuitously they might be in an even better position because the Government, with its supine attitude, is prepared to allow them to go the full distance and to extend their pipeline from Gidgealpa to Palm Valley. 
This could develop into a major national scandal. There is no other way to describe it. I am reminded of the immortal words of the right honourable member for Higgins  (Mr Gorton)  who compared the Government's attitude to private enterprise with that of a puppy which wanted its tummy tickled. It is prepared to lie on its back and to be suitably tickled. Where is the national interest? The Australian Gas Light Co's interests are talking of the export of natural gas. There may be a case for it, but just what do the people of Australia get? What steps has the Government taken to protect their interests? I refer particularly to the graticular policy. Nine graticules were to be drawn in respect of any discovery of either natural gas or crude oil. Successful explorers would be allowed to take 5 of the graticules, and the Government - the people of Australia - would take the other 4. That plan has gone into the discard. Instead of following the principles that operate in respect of the northern shore whereby a successful explorer gets a development lease of 100 square miles, principalities are handed out in both Bass Strait and the north-west continental shelf areas. 
A Labor government will protect (he national interest. It will provide not merely a pipeline to Palm Valley but also a link in the form of a national pipeline grid that will connect Sydney to Gidgealpa and Palm Valley. Undoubtedly we have the constitutional powers to do it because Palm Valley is on federal territory. We will be taking the gas to federal utilities in and around Sydney and on to Canberra. We will be on perfectly sound constitutional ground and let no-one in this House forget it. We will also provide a link between Sydney and Melbourne and another link to supplement the needs of the Brisbane area where supplies are limited. If and when the full potential  of  the north-west shelf is revealed we will also connect with that area after the legitimate requirements of Western Australia have been established. 
This Government follows a ritualistic policy whenever an election is approaching. Last time a plan for an atomic reactor was trotted out by the Department of National Development as a gimmick for the election then ensuing. On this occasion it is to be an enrichment plant for uranium. In this regard Australia and France are international outlaws. Neither is prepared to sign the nuclear non-proliferation treaty. In the case of Australia, to get nuclear technology we must give appropriate undertakings and be subject to appropriate supervision - international supervision at that. The Government is trying behind the door to get nuclear technology and at the same time not to accept any commitment in respect of renouncing the right to the construction of nuclear weapons. It is typical of the Government to move in that fashion. Again it is rushing in at a bad time and with a rather antiquated process because the gas centrifuge process is well under development and will undoubtedly replace the gas distribution system. 
I address my question to the Prime Minister. Has the right honourable gentleman any intention of honouring his undertaking to the Leader of the Opposition, given last February, that he would introduce for the consideration of the House  a  White Paper on a price control or a prices justification tribunal? Can we anticipate the presentation of this paper prior to the termination of the present Parliamentary sittings? 
The honourable member for Mcpherson  (Mr Barnes)  speaks of course for the rural squirearchy and in the sentiments of the finer minds of the 19th century. This Government, of course, has a vested interest in fermenting, if possible, industrial disturbances. Need I remind the House that not so very long ago a consent agreement between the waterside employers and the Waterside Workers Federation was duly filed in the court and the Government chose to intervene and appeal. The Government has a vested interest, particularly at times of elections, in trying to ferment industrial disputes and industrial disturbances. I will waste no more time on the honourable member. 
Australia is the twelfth biggest trading nation of the world. The figure of $900m a year given by the honourable member for Newcastle  (Mr Charles Jones)  is approximately correct, that figure being the component of our inward and outward freight charges. There is no country in the world - Australia being an island continent - that is more dependent on marine transport. Instead of being one of the common carriers of the Pacific in accordance with the traditions of the nation from which we came, we find that we are at the mercy ot a group of cartels and that this Government, quite deliberately and systematically and by conscious planning over the years, has chosen to accept a situation whereby the producers of Australia have been literally hogtied and exploited. The history of Australian shipping is a roll of dishonour. It goes right back to the sale in the 1920s of the Commonwealth Shipping Line. This Government and its predecessors, in principle if not in title - whatever name conservative governments call themselves by, their principles are the same - have looked upon anything in the form of national enterprise as being a type of economic leprosy and could not and cannot drop it quickly enough. Of course, ever since the sale of that line in the late 1920s we have been at the mercy of the shipping cartels. 
This Bill is a lineal descendant of the Australian Industries Preservation Act passed in the 1930s which enshrined the agreement that was entered into. It is worth quoting a speech of  Senator Paltridge  when he was Minister for Shipping and Transport. He said: 
This Government believes in private enterprise. It has been an open secret for some years that it has been exploiting the possibility of disposing of Commonwealth owned vessels to private enterprise. Having found it not possible to sell the ships on terms satisfactory to itself, it decided they would continue in operation under government ownership. 
Of course, the terms were to literally hogtie what has now emerged as the Australian National Line. The Government agreed - and this is typical of its stupidity and its deliberate economic sabotage - that the Australian National Line would not operate more than 350,000 tons of shipping in coastal and territorial waters. It also undertook that the Australian National Line would not do the booking and handling of its own cargoes but would use the services of the signatory companies in any port where they provided those services. It is this reluctance to take initiatives that would permit the Australian National Line to compete with or replace private enterprise which reached heights of absurdity in Australia. 
Need I remind honourable members of the crowning absurdity of the transport of bauxite from Weipa to Gladstone. The Australian National Line was not allowed to compete. An overseas company was given the contract and then had to hire an Australian National Line ship to transport the bauxite. That sort of thing can happen only in Australia and only under a conservative government such as now holds office. Since the sale of the first Commonwealth line in the late 1920s we have depended almost exclusively on these cartels in respect of the transport of both our imports and exports. These cartels are deliberately structured in such a way that even the weakest and most inefficient of their members are able to show a profit. Of course, if the weakest member of the cartel can show the agreed 8 per cent after inflating the whole of its costs, what are the profits of the major members of the cartel, those bigger members, those which are more efficient and those which provide more ships in the service? in 1956  -  ar.d this is typical of the developments that have occurred - a committee of inquiry was set up to inquire into the stevedoring industry. The members of the committee in their report, which was published in 1 957, stated: 
We find it difficult to avoid the conclusion that the ultimate determining factor in setting the freight rates to and from Australia is what the traffic will bear. 
By that they mean exactly this: The lines will stick the Australian producer and the Australian consumer for just as much as they think they can gouge out of him. In 1965 the Trade Practices Act was introduced. To begin with, in Part XII of the Act the provisions of the Australian Industries Preservation Act were preserved. Here is a crowning example of a legal anomaly - what might be called a legal oxymoron, or a situation where there is an absolute contradiction in terms. Here we have legislation which is allegedly for the purpose of controlling restrictive practices, and to some extent it does so in the rest of its parts. But in the case of Part XII it does exactly the opposite. The Act specifically excludes from that part the operations of sections 35, 36 and 37 dealing with examinable agreements, examinable practices and the various definitions of monopoly and monopoly trading. Equally it excludes the provisions of Part X of the Act which deals with collusive tendering and restrictive bidding. Here, in other words, in an Act which allegedly is to restrict economic abuses, the Government not only condones these abuses but specifically mentions its condonation of them. It has been said that the Trade Practices Act of 1967 and also the Restrictive Trade Practices Act of 1971, and the intervening amendment, were a legal joke in bad taste. 
I come now to the objectives of this Bill, which are two-fold. Firstly the Bill is designed to provide one body - a designated body which the Government tor its own obscure purposes does not choose to name but has said obtusely will be the Australian Shippers Council. Also the Bill seeks to bring into the net individual lines which do not form part of a conference and which have been trading to and from Australia. The Government's decision to enter the overseas trade is worth examining. Nominally, the Government  iS  a member of three of the conferences - that is the groups of lines that take freight between Australia and Europe, between Australia and Japan and between Australia and the east coast of the United States of America and the ports of the Gulf of Mexico. In each case we have a situation where literally the cops have joined the robbers. How can a government which is supposed to hold the ring between rival interests of exporters and importers on the one hand and the very shipping combines on the other be itself a party to, and privy to, the arrangements of these cartels. In justification it was alleged that information would be obtained that otherwise could not be obtained. It would appear though that instead of the initiative coming from the Government, in the first place it came from  Sir Basil  Smallpiece. the spokesman of the Cunard Line. Nothing could be better than to have the Australian Government trapped in a position of this kind because it happened to coincide with the introduction of the container transport system, which to a very large extent is responsible for the marked increases, the escalating increases in freights to this day. These increases are continuing. 
It was a mighty good guarantee and a very astute move on the part of the British shipping interests to trap the Australian Government in this fasion because even now the question of containerisation and its applicability to the various forms of export trade from Australia has not been fully satisfied or fully examined. If proof of that is needed it can be found in the report of the Senate Select Committee on the Container Method of Handling Cargoes which said that a lot of points needed full examination and the containerisation system may not stand up to full scrutiny. To this day there are heated debates within the major shipping companies as to where they are going under containerisation. There are equally heated debates amongst these operators on the relative merits of the Scandia system. The Scandinavians, who were responsible for the introduction of that system, have my respect because I think they know far more about shipping than do their British rivals. The cops having joined the robbers, what could one expect other than the amendment which is now under consideration by the House. 
It boils down to this: The Conference system is literally disintegrating. The Australian Wool Board and the Australian Wool Council have been doing deals overseas, and pretty good deals too. Of course, wool is the prestige cargo. It is the largest item of export from Australia, particularly to Europe, the United Kingdom, the United States of America and Japan. Concessions have been obtained by independent negotiations. As a matter of fact, as the Minister for Trade and Industry  (Mr Anthony)  said in his second reading speech, a very considerable number of various interests in Australian exports have never entered into negotiations with the Conferences. What could be better with the system on the point of collapse and with wool being the most lucrative and highly profitable form of trade? If they lose that trade the Conference system would find itself in a difficult position. Other Australian exporters - those dealing in metals and minerals - have also made their own independent deals. As the Minister has said, quite a number of these exporters, not having entered into agreements wilh the Conferences, have made their private deals and will continue to do so. In the Australian Exporters Council there appear to be about 48 identifiable separate interests which were all capable of entering into agreement when the first move was made to set up this Council but only 23 of them accepted it; 11 rejected it and another 6 looked like rejecting it. Another 4 may join it. The remainder have not replied. The Government can pull them all in and tie them to the Conference system because the Minister has the power to direct once they have entered into agreements with the Conferences. That would suit the Govern ment's book very nicley but it would not suit the respective interests, and there are many of them escaping the net. 
The honourable member for Diamond Valley  (Mr Brown)  also referred to the Minister's powers under section 117 to vet or, by the artifice of the Governor-General in Council, disallow an agreement. I would like to hear from the Minister for Trade and Industry of any agreement which has been disallowed. The Government wants it this way. But there is a position in the world today of acute over-tonnage. In the port of Piraeus less than 2 years ago there were 250 ships tied up and today throughout the world there are plenty of fleets of vessels looking for cargo. It is time we put a little bit of competition into the export trade. It is time also that we spoke in terms of an Australian national overseas shipping line because today the United States is prepared to subsidise and 1 suppose its maritime operating costs are the highest of any country. Another angle which can be put on it is that any nation for its own defence needs an experienced and competent merchant marine. It is Australia's destiny to be the common carrier in the Pacific Ocean and the sooner we knuckle down to that the better for all concerned and the cheaper it will be tor the Australian people, producers and importers. 
Subsidies might have their critics but nevertheless pretty well 50 per cent of the freight charges now going abroad would be staying in Australia if there were subsidies. Whilst at the present time there is some hot money coming into Australia, and some money that is scarcely respectable - 5 am referring to the Euro dollar which is suspect currency - that flow will not be there for all time and when it has stopped we will be back on our beam ends again and will need to save every penny piece we can. If this Government were a government worthy of the name it would be insisting that Australian ships were at least getting half the transport of coal and various minerals to Japan. We are entitled to this but it is the last thing this Government would ever attempt because it is a subservient government. It is a government which will always adopt the low posture because it is not a truly Australian government in spirit, sentiment or behaviour. 
In the coming Federal election there will be 3 major issues and no conservative government has ever been more vulnerable on them than this Government will be when it faces the electors. The first issue will be inflation, with the associated evil of lack of price control; the second will be growing unemployment; and the third will be the question of who owns Australia. Even this Government is showing signs of a death bed repentance. The legislation, for what it is worth - it is insulting, in fact, to the collective intelligence of the Opposition and to the intelligence of the people of Australia - is a mere pale image of Labor's currently announced policy. It is remarkable that the Labor Party announced its policy early in September. Imitation, of course, can be the sincerest form of flattery, but in this case, when one examines the legislation it can be seen that it is without teeth, that it is a policy of humbug. Yet it is the best that this Government can do after 23 years in office. 
I remind the House of the main features of Labor's policy. Firstly, there shall be a secretariat - a statutory body. The secretariat shall identify - 1 want these words well weighed and understood - register and examine all foreign investment, both current and future, in Australia and report to the government accordingly. To begin with we want to cover the whole field and, above all, all nominees. That means nominee companies which hold shares on behalf of people, particularly foreign interests which do not want their proprietory rights disclosed. We will ensure that a full disclosure is made. The Labor Party goes further and in respect of existing foreign investment says: 'The Government will act as necessary to retain and regain maximum Australian ownership and control of industries and resources.' The eggs will need to be unscrambled. 
This legislation, of course, is an electoral gimmick. In the political stud book its sire is 'political expediency' and its dam is 'economic necessity'. It is half-baked legislation from a half-baked Government. It is ramshackle legislation at best. If honourable members want proof of this they should look at clause 3 which, in effect, purports to amend clause 5. From hour to hour we are getting the latest bulletin. The legislation is so ramshackle that already we have for discussion one amendment which can destroy the whole impact of the Bill. I will deal with that in a few minutes. 
I pay special tribute to the honourable member for Berowra  (Mr Hughes)  who is the former Attorney-General. He had the fortitude to stand up and determine the corporation powers of the Government. In an historic decision it was proven once and for all that the National Government of Australia in the Federal Parliament has the power to control foreign corporations and trading and financial corporations operating within Australia. To the extent that there is a legislative sanction, this Government is on sound ground, but the terms of the legislation are beneath contempt. To use a medical term, this legislation is no more than a political placebo. A placebo Ls a quite innocuous medication which is given to people so that they will have a psychosomatic cure. 
Yes. There are more escape runways in this legislation as it stands than there are in a rat's castle. Nevertheless the Prime Minister  (Mr McMahon)  says that it will keep uncertainty to a minimum. The legislation is to operate at a date yet to be proclaimed - not yet, in the words of the celebrated Liberal slogan, and perhaps never. In other words the Government in its alarm is saying to its supporters: 'Do not worry boys. It is not to be proclaimed - not yet; perhaps later. But in the meantime we will put it over the public of Australia. The people are concerned. We have to shut them up and satisfy them that we are doing something'. 
In this legislation reference is made to an instrumentality which is undefined - it does not exist. The Prime Minister referred to a special group of officers. They are yet unnamed. They are claimed to be highly important people. A set of principles yet unstated were referred to. They are to deal with economic penetration - yet undefined - and future penetration, or at least that which dates subsequent to 26th September of this year. But, of course, the damage has been done already. The main criticism of this legislation is that it confines itself to one thing and one thing only; namely takeovers which are of the smash and grab nature, or of the whisper and spring kind. In the Companies Acts of the various States and in part 6a of the Companies Ordinance operating within the Australian Capital Territory, already there is specific legislation in relation to takeovers. The utmost virtue that can be claimed for this legislation is that it includes provisions relating to foreign individuals and foreign corporations. It deals with shares and only with shares. It deals with the rights to exercise the votes to control companies by shares. Today we live in a very sophisticated world, a world of tax evasion, of tax minimising and of company manipulation and it is a very crude, a very passe and very archaic form of control of a company today to come right out into the open and say that you actually have acquired shares that you own. 
This legislation could not be effective without a national companies Act and this Government will never introduce it. This Government is even suppressing the recommendation of a special Senate Committee to that effect. In addition to that there must be a national register of all foreign interests in Australia showing specifically whether the interest takes the form of shares or any other proprietary rights or any con tractual rights. Without both of these this legislation is worthless. Control is the main danger, not ownership. If the House wants the proof of that honourable members should have a look at the Government's own White Paper on Overseas Investment at table 17 as quoted from by the honourable member for Chifley  (Mr Armitage).  That table shows the difference between overseas ownership and overseas control. Take the case of oil. Actual ownership, that is in terms of proved proprietary rights is 62 per cent and the degree of control is 83 per cent which is 21 per cent greater. In the case of industrial and heavy chemicals, 58 per cent is actual overseas ownership and there is 78 per cent control. Today in a sophisticated world it is control that counts. The best brains of the legal and financial professions are already busy devising the necessary escape routes, and there are plenty of them that are readily available. I will refer to just a few of them. 
Before 1 come to that point, has not any government a fundamental right to exercise control over money or investment that has to come within its influence? Surely any national government gives visiting foreigners an entry permit and it wants to know who they are, where they will be living, how long they will be staying in the country and when they propose to leave. Exactly the same function is discharged by a national register. We need to know these things because already serious damage has been done to the Aus tralian economy. For the first time Australia has to stand on its own feet as a sovereign nation, speaking in its own right and in its own interests. It has to say what it will do. Perhaps one of the worst features of the open door for foreign investment in which the Country Party or some of its spokesmen see such virtue is this: Quite deliberately, under the Menzies administration particularly, it was considered that the more foreign investment there was in Australia the more cheaply it could be defended because our great and powerful friends would have to come in and defend their interests. In other words, from the most despicable of motives we gave them maximum control of Australian assets and industries. If they owned us or went near to owning us they must come in to defend us and we sheltered under their wing. We have full national responsibilities from now on and we must exercise them. But this Government is not capable of doing this. 
Let us have a look at some of the escape hatches. To begin with, if an overseas company wants to take control of an Australian company it does not have to buy shares at all. It can make a cash offer and purchase the assets of that company and enter into an agreement as to how it is to be managed. If it does that it is quite in order. If it wants to take it another way there is the device of thin capitalisation. Today, for taxation reasons, overseas companies, when they establish their subsidiaries in Australia, might have something less than the minimum Sim that this legislation is anticipated to cover by way of investment and they will perhaps lend SI 00m and instead of taking out remitted profit in the form of dividends on shares they will take it out in the form of interest - and steep rates of interest - on moneys advanced. Again, how far does this legislation go to control that? 
Let us take a third form of evasion. These are elementary examples that any second-year law student could give. Take the case of convertible debentures. Companies can lend money by way of debentures with the right to convert. Whoever controls the money controls the company. This legislation is a piece of monumental stupidity. It is meant to mislead the people of Australia to save the miserable political hide of this Government. Anyone could drive a 20-ton truck through this legislation, and the Government knows it. But it has the impertinence and the downright hide to put this legislation before the Australian people as its death-bed repentance. The people will not be deceived by it. This Bill will not solve any of the evils - and they are very real evils - because, to quote the words of the former leader of the Country Party, Australia is in fact becoming a quarry and a farm. We will need - and it will be a Labor administration that will do it - to decide that for the first time we will be hardfisted, hardnosed and if necessary hardhearted in our trading transactions with other countries. We are the subject of contempt and not of admiration by these people for being such crass, arrant idiots and fools to allow this set up to continue. 
What chance would there be for Australian capital for example, to get into Japan? What chance is there for Australian capital to get into the United States? Yet we are idiots enough to allow it to come et' Australia under any terras that they choose to nominate. After all, national pride does count for something and for the first time, since say 1941 when we were up against it, and the people of Australia knew it, we are up against it today. We are prepared to fight these people. We are prepared to ensure that they do not put it over us in the future. More than that, we are prepared to ensure that, whilst we will honour our deals in a proper way, they are not going to exploit us in the future as they have done in the past. They will get a fair return on their investment but they will not get the right to dominate and dictate and spoil this country. This legislation is an outrage and it deserves the contempt of every decent, honest Australian. 
At the present time no-one can give an exact assessment of the ultimate impact of the recent devaluations on Western Australian mineral exporters in particular. There are only 3 certainties in life today - death, taxes, and successive, progressive and evermore frequent devaluations of the United States dollar. I will give a considered reply to the honourable member. An infinite variety of contracts which have been negotiated has been denominated in United States dollars, and, worse than that, they extend over a very considerable period of time. However a considered reply will be given to the honourable gentleman as soon as possible. 
'Pursuant to the provisions of the Coal Industry Act 1946-1966 I present the twenty-fifth annual report of the Joint Coal Board for the year ended 30th June 1972 together with the Auditor-General's reports on the accounts of the Board. 
What the honourable member has asked for can be answered only in a long serial. Briefly the situation is this: It is surprising the number of last minute transactions that were approved, not merely in relation to exploration for oil and natural gas but also for uranium by what was a caretaker government. These matters have been very closely examined and I will be in a position to make a statement to the House, I hope, in the next week. 
The honourable member asks quite a comprehensive question. I will give him a more detailed answer at a later date but broadly 3 farm-in applications slipped through during the caretaker period immediately prior to the election campaign. We propose to examine these applications very closely indeed, because the Commonwealth itself may be participating in future in the direct exploration for oil and natural gas. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows:  (1), (2) and (3) Woodsreef Mines Limited has informed me that recent currency changes have resulted in difficulties in arranging finance for the company's expansion program and that without expansion the Barraba operation would no longer be financially, viable. 
The Government hopes that the company, which is opening up a new industry in Australia, will have every opportunity to succeed. 1 understand that the bulk of its production is exported to Japan. I expect to receive a detailed submission from the company within the next few days and 1 have assured the company that the Government will give it close consideration. 
We will proceed to construct a pipeline on a national basis with the utmost expedition. I have in mind the honourable member's interest particularly in the provincial cities of Lithgow, Bathurst and Orange. Their needs will not be overlooked irrespective of what will be the final route of the pipeline. 
When the honourable member for Mallee gives me information on the matters that are of grave concern to him, I will be very pleased to investigate them. 
There are none so blind as those who will not see. For quite a number of years it has been common knowledge that the American dollar was on the downgrade. For a similar period it has been well known that the former government was prepared to adopt a wholly subservient attitude to the United States. As far back as 1959 the First National City Bank was issuing warnings as to the stability of the United States dollar. The Bank of International Settlements was doing exactly the same, as was the International Monetary Fund. The late President Kennedy was gravely concerned about maintaining the amount of the gold reserves of the United States. In 1965 General de Gaulle insisted on getting $4 billion worth of gold from the United States. In 1966 the former Government chose to impose, through the Reserve Bank of Australia, this obligation on quite a number of people. The so-called captains of industry were, in fact, hillbillies, and that goes for quite a number of members of the then Govenment which was supposed to be advising them. 
There is one thing of which the honourable member for Farrer  (Mr Fairbairn)  can be certain. It is that there is in office today a government which will take a truly national viewpoint, which will not grove), which will not play a subordinate role, which knows just where it is going, and which above ali has a policy and will put it into operation. The honourable member for 
Farrer, of all people in this House, should bo very reluctant to criticise. I have here a manual prepared by my Department giving the terms on which off-shore drilling for oil and natural gas is carried out in 50 countries. We rank 49th among them, thanks to the honourable member for Farrer, the former Minister with responsibility in this area. The legislation which was put through during his term of office was administered in the most slovenly possibly fashion by an incompetent, irresponsible government - a so-called government of businessmen. We have heard today a jeremiad from the honourable member, who ought to be ashamed of himself. 
Let me refer to the facts when I came into office, and I came in with a mandate to evaluate and secure the balanced development of Australian mineral resources for posterity. I found that even the slack, slovenly legislation, the Petroleum (Submerged Lands) Act of 1968, had not been properly administered by either the former Minister or the designated authorities. In certain cases 1 even had to threaten to cancel leases to get information to which we were entitled, information that was 3 years in arrears. Wells had been drilled and proven but no information had been given - a nice cosy arrangement in certain cases between some of the States and particular exploration companies. The honourable member for Farrer is the man who is responsible for it, and let him deny it if he can. 
As to the true situation, there is no question of paeans of praise coming from the honourable gentleman. Table J 8 in the Treasury White Paper on Overseas Investment in Australia shows that in 1968 no less than 58 per cent of Australia's minerals were under foreign ownership or control. A reasonable and conservative extrapolation from those figures is that today the proportion is of the order of 62 per cent. We will do something about it. We will see, to begin with, that it does not get any worse. Wo will see also that there is a policy which is in the interests of Australia. 
I found also that, so far from being a businessman's government, the former Government had not done its suras. In Japan we are dealing with one of the most numerate, sophisticated, literate and competent countries in the world, and we need to be just as well geared and just as well prepared for trade as Japan is. Instead of that, what did I find? I found no records at all. There was no idea of business competence on the part of the previous Government. No statistics were kept, beyond those of 1968 that I have just quoted. No records were kept of the export prices obtained. There was no idea whether we were getting world parity prices or somewhere at least close to it in respect of export contracts. No research had been done and no records kept as to what was the denomination of currency payable under export contracts and particularly how many of those contracts were denominated in United States dollars. There was no idea of the period of the contracts and no idea as to whether there were any protection clauses in respect of currency revaluations. This was from a so-called businessman's government. Australia is the twelfth trading nation of the world and I am ashamed that our dollar, which is a good and a strong currency, is not accepted in the bourses of the world. Again, that is due to the then subservient government which was tipped ignominiously and unceremoniously out of office. 
The honourable member for Farrer also referred to the Japanese. I think we have every reason to ask Japan to renegotiate current contracts. As a matter of fact, the advantage to the Japanese is as much as 26 per cent, according to the Smithsonian Institute, because of the December and February revaluations. We have every reason to look them in the eye. When the contracts for iron ore exports had to be renegotiated and Australia was asked by Japan to curtail some of its exports, we agreed to do so and now it is our turn to ask them. Shame on the honourable member for Farrer for suggesting that we should not go along to the Japanese and ask them for a fair deal. One cannot get better iron ore or minerals and better certainty of supply and sanctity of contracts than from Australia, irrespective of which government is in power. 
This Government found it necessary to impose export controls. Because of our archaic Constitution, there was no other way of obtaining data that we needed to enable us to become as sophisticated and well-informed as the Japanese. They know a lot more about our business and mineral industry than we know about them and it is time we improved our performance. We will do it and do it in every field. Let us take the case of the Queensland coal export industry. There we have the rape of resources. The former Government is responsible for it. It gave export permits under leases for open cut coal mines and said: 'You can have them at any price you like'. Far from this Government being criticised for its actions, I have a letter from the  President  of the Queensland Trades and Labour Council in which he informs me that Utah Mining Australia in particular is very glad of the new policy which has been introduced. 
I turn now to offshore oil exploration and refer to the case of the Woodside-Burmah company. It was necessary, under pressure from the former Department of National Development, for my predecessor in office to write to Woodside-Burmah and inform the company that it was time it made some public statement about its recoverable reserves of natural gas and, reluctantly it did so - very reluctantly indeed. My predecessor also stressed that he was afraid of the diminution of their Australian share holdings. The manipulation is still going on. I notice that, in the last couple of days, there has been a further downgrading of the recoverable reserves of WoodsideBurmah. This Government has a very shrewd idea of the reserves of this company and it has an equally shrewd idea of the reserves of oil and natural gas in Bass Strait. Even in the case of Bass Strait, the Government has not been getting the information to which it is entitled, such as information on drilling cores, sections of cores and electric logs. In many cases, weekly, monthly and quarterly reports have not been received. We have had to ask the companies concerned for this information. We have had to threaten drastic action to get them, but get them I will. 
Another matter that the honourable member for Farrer evidently forgot is that today there is a world energy crisis. There was not one word from the honourable member about this matter. Australia in particular will be the subject of the resources diplomacy of both Japan and the United States. Those countries have exhausted their resources of energy and now, through the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development, they are in the process of trying to put Australia through the wringer. But we will have a policy which we will put into operation. It will run along these lines: Just as every well-managed country has an annual financial budget, so we will have an energy budget. But we will have a proper mix as to the various sources of energy and as to what will be made available and what, if any, we can export overseas. The philosophy of the former Government was simple: If it moves, shoot it; if it grows, cut it down; and, if it is in (he ground dig it out and flog it, particularly if it is minerals, for whatever price can be obtained for it. lt is time Australia grew up and took its proper place and it will, under a truly national government. 
The future of the world - there is a world hydro-carbons crisis - will be determined by the possession of coal reserves. No less a person than  Mr Wagner,  the  President  of the Royal Dutch-Shell company, said 6 months ago that, within 40 to 50 years, the whole of the world's hydro-carbon resources would be exhausted. He spoke in terms of crude oil and natural gas. Then, for the future, he said the world would be dependent upon coal resources, uranium and solar energy. The previous Government did nothing in any of those fields. Its policy was rip it out and rape it and sell it for the best price that could be obtained for it. But as for achieving anything constructive, the former Government was the most incompetent government that has ever held office in Aus tralia. 
Our policy on exports is clear; it is a policy of benevolent surveillance. The policy is working well. All applications as and when received are processed and dealt with immediately. There is no reason for complaint. The honourable member for Farrer rushed to the defence of quite a number of his friends who are leaders in the mining world. Some of them are very estimable gentlemen but, in many cases, they are completely unsophisticated. I do not want to betray confidences, but I shudder to think what is the position of some of these major firms at present because they did not have the nous - and nous is the word - to heed warnings which were there for all to read and to hear. I can only repeat my answer to the honourable gentleman's question of last week. It is a simple answer. Since 1958 it has been well-known that the United States dollar was on the downgrade and it has been progressively on the downgrade ever since. Today - I will say this for the Japanese - neither the Japanese nor anyone else in the world knows just where the United States dollar will finish. For that reason, it is difficult to do better than to negotiate short term contracts or to ask for contracts to bc renegotiated and relief obtained on that basis. For the future, there will be firm government. There will be firm dealing and we will be respected for it. If one were to ask some of the governments of the world today what they thought of our predecessor, it would be found that they held them in contempt. The previous Government was weak, slovenly and incompetent. There could not have been a more unbusinesslike administration in world history than the previous Government. 
In conclusion, I should like to make another point. In the future there will be no giveaways of kingdoms, empires or principalities in regard to off-shore mining. We have a mess to clean up and again, it is a mess of the honourable member's making because it was he who made that celebrated deal when the previous Government, which originally favoured the particular system under which Australia would have received some 40 per cent of the take from proven petroleum and natural gas areas, and sold Australia's birthright for a mess of pottage. The honourable member for Farrer actually increased the royalty payments from 10 per cent to Hi per cent in return for abandonment of the graticular system. That was a fair example of a businessman's administration. We reject this discussion of a matter of public importance with contempt - a contempt it deserves. There will be other speakers who will deal with other aspects of what the honourable member for Farrer had to say, particularly with regard to exchange revaluation. 
 I move: 
That the Bill be now read  a  second time. 
The purpose of this Bill is to abolish the full time position of executive member of the Australian Atomic Energy Commission and to substitute a part time position of member. The full time position of executive member was established by amendment of the principal Act in 1958. At that time, each member of the Commission, including the  Chairman,  held office part time. The position of  Chairman  has been occupied on a full time basis for a number of years and it is unnecessary to retain a full time position of executive member. I commend the Bill to the House. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Katter)  adjourned. 
by leave - Clause 13 of the Commonwealth-State Agreement on Offshore Petroleum Resources provides as follows: 
A State government will, when so requested by the Commonwealth Government, ensure that copies of the returns, reports, maps, notifications, logs, records, and the like material and adequate portions of all cores, cuttings and samples that are received by it or its authorities by virtue of the operation of the Common Mining Code in relation to the adjacent area of the State are, as soon as reasonably practicable after receipt, forwarded to the Commonwealth Government. 
A complete flow of information is of course essential for many purposes, not the least of which is to enable the best evaluations by the Commonwealth of new discoveries and extensions to existing discoveries. 
 Shortly after taking office I learnt of deficiencies in the receipt by the Commonwealth of this material, deficiencies long continuing which I regret to say had not previously been remedied by the enforcement of the Commonwealth's right to the information. On 25th November 1968, following the introduction of the offshore petroleum legislation, the Commonwealth forwarded to the States an agreed list of requirements for technical reports and data. It was left to the Designated Authority in each State to decide whether permit holders forwarded information or material for the Commonwealth direct to the Bureau of Mineral Resources, when it was also being sent to him, or whether he should receive 2 copies, etc., including one for transmission to the Bureau. The list of Commonwealth requirements was amended at the second meeting of the Australian Minerals Council on 3rd March 1969. This amended list, incorporating explanatory notes which made the Commonwealth's requirements quite clear, was forwarded to the various State Mines Departments on 21st March 1969. The Mines Department of Western Australia replied on 2nd May 1969 that arrangements would be made for the amended requirements for technical reports and data to be implemented. 
On 3rd November 1969 the Director of the Bureau of Mineral Resources reported that the situation was not satisfactory; on 23rd March 1971 he reported that Western Australia, Queensland and New South Wales were not complying with the terms of the Commonwealth-State Agreement; on 29th March 1972 he reported deficiencies in the flow of information and requested urgent action to ask South Australia and Western Australia for all information and material obtained in accordance with the CommonwealthState Agreement. On 5th April 1972 the Under-Secretary for Mines in Western Australia wrote accordingly to the various companies involved. Nevertheless, a good deal of information was still not received by the Commonwealth and on 18th August 1972 all State Mines Departments were reminded of the Commonwealth's requirements. On 18th December 1972 the Under-Secretary for Mines in Western Australia forwarded for comment a draft letter to oil exploration companies operating in Western Australia concerning the supply of information, to which the Secretary of my Department replied on 11th January 1973. On 18th January 1973 he advised the Under-Secretary of the information which the Director of the Bureau of Mineral Resources had that day reported as not having been received. 
After further exchanges the Under-Secretary wrote to the companies on 1st February 1973 about the deficiencies. On 2nd March 1973 the Acting Director of the Bureau of Mineral Resources reported that there was then no backlog of material from Western Australia in respect of wells or geophysical surveys, that the situation was generally satisfactory in regard to the receipt of current statutory and operational material and that there was still some delay in the receipt of weekly progress reports but action to rectify this had been taken. On 8th March the Director advised that the Bureau's assessment of gas reserves on the north-west shelf should be completed by 1 9th April. 
Honourable members will readily appreciate the importance of evaluating reserves. As I said in this House on 3rd April my predecessor wrote to Woodside-Burmah Oil NL on 26th October 1972 expressing the need, in Australia's interests, for an announcement on reserves.  His  letter, together with the company's reply and the letter of the then Minister for National Development of 30th November I now seek leave to table in association with other papers. I interpose that in the letter referred to, my predecessor,  Sir Reginald  Swartz, drew the attention of the WoodsideBurmah interests to the concern of his Department as to the failure of the company to make an adequate disclosure of public information as to the recoverable, reserves of natural gas which it had discovered. He also expressed concern as to the impact of such nondisclosure on the Australian equity in the shares of that company. The documents which 1 seek leave to table are as follows: 
A- Letter dated 25th November 1968 to State Departments of Mines listing reports and data required by Designated Authorites, to be taken as the Commonwealth's request for technical reports, etc. 
B- Letter dated 21st March 1969 to Slate Departments of Mines seeking their agreement with, and implementation of, revised list of reports and data accepted by tile Australian Minerals Council. 
C - Reply of 2nd May 1969 by Mines Department of Western Australia to letter of 21sl March 1969. 
D - Letter of 5lh April 1972 sent to companies by Mines Department of Western Australia. 
E - Letter of  18th  August 1972 to Slate Mines Departments. 
F - Letter of 18th December 1972 from Mines Department of Western Australia. 
G - Teleprint of 8th January 1973, from Mines Department of Western Australia, advising that Burmah Oil Co. will send reports to Goodwyn No. 2, North Rankin No. 2 and Angel No. 3 immediately. 
H - Teleprint of 11th January 1973 to Mines Department of Western Australia. 
I - Teleprint of 18th January 1973 to Mines Department of Western Australia. 
J - Teleprint of 22nd January 1973 from Mines Department of Western Australia. 
Teleprint of 25th January 1973 to Mines Department of Western Australia. 
L - Telegram of 1st February 1973 to Mines Department of Western Australia. 
M - Teleprint of 2nd February 1973 from Mines Department of Western Australia. 
N - Letter of 1st February 1973 sent to various companies by Mines  Department  of Western Australia. 
O - Letter of 9th March from Burmah Oil Co. of Australia Ltd to Secretary, Department of Minerals and Energy, 
P - Reply of ]9th March 1973 by the Secretary, Department of Minerals and Energy to the letter of 9lh March. 
Q - Note by Secretary, Department of Minerals and Energy of telephone conversation with Burmah Oil Co. of Australia Ltd on 2nd April 1973. 
This compendious list of papers in itself provides a complete summary of the overall position. 
by leave - In his policy speech last November, the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  said that the Australian Labor Party was determined that the Australian people should be restored to their rightful place in their own country, as the owners and keepers of the national estate and the nation's resources, and as fair and equal sharers in the national wealth. The Federal ALP policy adopted at the Launceston conference in 1971, which I have followed throughout in my administration, provides for a comprehensive development, under Government control, of Australia's mineral resources, with emphasis on the need for discovery of new deposits and direct Commonwealth and State participation in oil and mineral search and exploitation throughout Australia's land and off-shore territories. It specifies that there shall be at least a majority Australian control over both equity and policy in resources development, and that we will devise and implement an integrated and co-ordinated national fuel and energy policy. In particular, we will regulate exploration, development, transportation, marketing and use of oil, natural gas and all related hydrocarbons. We will also prevent the pollution of the ecology and the environment by fuel extraction. 
Petroleum, which is a finite mineral resource, is being consumed at an ever increasing rate in modern industrial society. Alternatives are available, but the implications of their extra cost will have serious repercussions on the economic and social pattern of our society. The world availability of petroleum and natural gas as prime sources of energy after a few decades is questionable. In Australia, fortunately, we are able to profit by the technology, the errors and the example of other nations. There is a need in Australia for a fuel and energy budget, providing annually for the most efficient utilisation of our finite resources and for these to be subject to the same careful calculation as the annual financial budget. With our various resources, there is a need for an 'energy-mix' related to the highly variable needs of our respective States. 
Obtaining adequate, dependable and low cost supplies of fuel and energy is becoming the basic objective of major industrial nations. Just as it has been stated that war is much too serious a matter for generals to control, so a Labor Government says that exclusive control of Australia's fuel and energy resources is much too serious to be left to individual companies, whose present status flows from the absence of a true national fuel and energy policy. 
In the Launceston policy there is provision for a national fuel and energy authority. Obviously in Australia there are various existing authorities, such as the Snowy Mountains Hydro-electric Authority, the Joint Coal Board, and the Australian Atomic Energy Commission, which would have representation on such an authority. The National Pipeline Authority, now in the process of establishment, would have similar representation. 
In the field of petroleum search, production, transport and refining, there is an obvious need for a national petroleum and minerals authority which would also be. a constituent part of a national body. In on-shore petroleum exploration, excepting in the Northern Territory, there is only limited Commonwealth influence, as the common code of each State governs internal exploration and exploitation. Here, therefore, the development of a co-ordinated national policy is heavily dependent on the closest Commonwealth-State cooperation. In off-shore petroleum exploration, there is undoubted Commonwealth sovereignty, and I will be asking Government approval for appropriate legislation for the establishment of a national petroleum and mineral authority at an early date. Such an authority would explore, produce, transport and refine petroleum. It would act by: Employing its own personnel and equipment in search; letting out contracts for search; acting in partnership with companies; in appropriate cases, taking up shares in companies; accepting 'farm-ins' to attractive areas; and granting 'farm-outs' from areas it held in its own right. Such an authority could act with great flexibility to deal with specific situations. It would act in concert with the Bureau of Mineral Resources which, I would remind honourable members, was first established by the former Chifley Government, having as one of its functions to explore for petroleum. 
In the formulation of an annual energy budget, the authorities to which I have referred would all make their contributions with advice and statistics based on their individual experience and data obtained from private company sources. Variations in technology from year to year would alter the weighting of the various resource uses, and in this regard, the research work of a special division to be established to deal with the scientific aspects of energy production and sources would be of vital importance. I refer here, of course, to such matters as solar energy. 
It is necessary also to correct current impressions and propaganda relative to the source of total expenditure on petroleum exploration in Australia. To the end of 1971, $843m had been so expended. Of this, $174m has come from oil search subsidy payments by the Federal Government and by other forms of State and Federal government expenditure. But the cost to revenue of taxation concessions to the petroleum industry has not hitherto been published. The estimated cost of the concessions to shareholders under Sections 77a, 77d, 77c and 78 of the Income Tax Assessment Act in respect of the contribution of share capital to petroleum exploration and petroleum mining companies, for the period 1958 to 1971, is $110m. The estimated cost of past and future tax exempt dividends, payable by companies which are currently producing petroleum, following expenditures already incurred, is an additional $43m. The estimated cost of the special deductions allowed in the period 1966 to 1971, and of the entitlement to future deductions for capital expenditure on exploration by companies which have discovered petroleum is $92m. Thus the total to date of taxation concessions granted or available is $245m. Moreover, these figures do not take into account the cost of potential deductions available to those companies which are not yet producing petroleum and natural gas, but will undoubtedly do so. In aggregate, the contribution of public revenue to oil and natural gas exploration to date will be $4 19m - approximately 50 per cent - with more yet to be claimed when companies such as WoodsideBurmah Oil NL enter into production. 
This is a vastly different picture to that presented by the propagandists for the petroleum lobby. With such a huge public contribution, it is staggering to note that no equity has been sought by our predecessors in office in crude oil and natural gas production. It would be impossible to accurately evaluate the assistance given by way of free information from the Bureau of Mineral Resources, to the various exploration companies. Here again, this has been done without thought of granting Commonwealth equity participation equivalent to such aid. 
There is a growing awareness of a world energy crisis, and major industrial nations such as Japan and the United States of America, having depleted seriously their available resources, and being already heavily dependent on imports, particularly of crude oil, are now turning to 'resources diplomacy' to provide for their future needs. They are proposing a pooling of free world energy resources, with a uniform pricing structure. In opposition to them are such organisations as the Organisation of Petroleum Exporting Countries, whose reasoning is that oil is the ultimate 'hedge' in a world trading system that is adrift for want of a standard of value. The countries in this group say that it is better to hold 'black gold' in one's own ground than green paper in someone else's, and that, in these circumstances, it may no longer be in a nation's interest to maximise production of an exhaustible resource, which may be its only counter at the diplomatic game table. 
In Opposition, Labor strongly opposed the Petroleum (Submerged Lands) legislation. We said then, and have maintained continuously, that it was wrong in principle and form, and a: sacrifice of the- natural assets of Australia. If vindication were needed, it has been provided by the Senate Committee, appointed under the former Government to inquire into its own legislation. That Committee found that the constitutional concepts underlying the legislation were inconsistent with what should be the proper constitutional relationship between the Parliament and executive. 
The position of off-shore petroleum exploration today fully vindicates our vehement criticism. The Australian continental shelf, of  li  million square miles, is the world's largest. Exploration under current permits relate to excessively large areas, which are being explored on a non-intensive - and I stress the word 'non-intensive' - basis. With the alleged dichotomy of constitutional powers, there is a lack of effective supervision and co-operation. There also is inadequate  definition  and protection of the national economic interest. The reserved royalties are ludicrous, and the ultimate revenue yield is inadequate. 
In its present form the Petroleum (Submerged Lands) Act can permit the complete depletion of our off-shore resources within a 21 -year period. Some of the world's major international oil companies - there is no need for me to name them - are scuffling with each other to participate in farm-out arrangements with such an objective. We have yet to discover adequate reserves of crude oil. We still import between 28 per cent and 30 per cent of our total petroleum needs. Worse still, natural gas condensate and liquid petroleum gas, capable of being reconstructed into super premium motor spirit, are being exported. There are serious anomalies in the refining and transport of petroleum. 
The Bureau of Mineral Resources estimates that some 70 per cent of off-shore exploration interests are held by overseas companies. There are 3 oil rigs only in the north west shelf, with an area of 140,000 square miles, held under exploration permits by the WoodsideBurmah group. In the North Sea, with a comparable area, some 40 such rigs are operating. Australian seismic search is at its lowest ebb since 1965. There are defective development procedures in use, and the offshore field development pattern is completely inadequate. 
In return for an exploration expenditure of about $843m, the greater part of which has been and will continue to be, borne by the Commonwealth Government, there has been already discovered by exploration in Australia, on-shore and off-shore, some 45 trillion cubic feet of natural gas, over 2 billion barrels of crude oil, which together with condensate and liquid petroleum gas have a gross value of over $14 billion. That is taking natural gas at the on-shore gate valve or well head notional value of 20c per thousand cubic feet - a conservative valuation. In the light of future discovery prospects, particularly on the north west shelf, there has already been a remarkably high rate of potential return on exploration outlay. 
The owners and keepers of the national estate and the nation's resources are the Australian people, and their Government. We are particularly concerned that hitherto no consideration has been given by a company, holding exploration areas beyond its testing potential, as to whether the Commonwealth itself would be interested in their development. It is of paramount importance that Australia should develop and maintain local petroleum expertise, and a research capacity in all aspects of exploration, drilling and recovery of land, and in shallow and deep water alike. I present the following paper: 
Federal Petroleum Search Policy - Ministerial Statement, 12th April 1973.  and move: 
That the House take note of the paper. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
The purpose of this Bill is to amend the Petroleum (Submerged Lands) Act 1967-68 to take account of the new seabed boundaries established under 3 agreements signed with Indonesia in 1971, 1972 and 1973 and thus permit formal ratification of the 3 agreements by the Australian Government. On 22nd February 1973 on the occasion of the visit of the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  to Indonesia, the Prime Minister and  President  Suharto issued a joint communique which referred to Australia's intention to ratify at an early date the 1971 and 1972 Seabed Boundary Agreements. It was stated also that both governments would also ratify the 1973 Agreement as soon as practicable. The Bill provides new descriptions of the areas adjacent to Queensland, the Northern Territory, the Territory of Ashmore and Cartier Islands, the Territory of Papua and the Territory of New Guinea. These descriptions amend those in the Second Schedule to the Petroleum (Submerged Lands) Act 1967-68 and thus formalise the new seabed boundaries established under the 3 agreements. 
The 1971 Agreement, which was signed on 18th May 1971, delimits the seabed between Australia and Indonesia in the Arafura Sea and between Papua New Guinea and Indonesia off the southern and northern coasts of Papua New Guinea. The boundaries relating to Papua New Guinea were approved in 1971 by the Administrator's Executive Council. The 1972 Agreement, which was signed on 9th October 1972, is supplementary to the 1971 Agreement and delimits the seabed between Australia and Indonesia in the Arafura and Timor Seas west of the boundary agreed to in 1971. The 1973 Agreement, which was signed on 12th February 1973 by the Chief Minister of Papua New Guinea,  Mr Somare,  on behalf of the Australian Government, deals with the land boundary of Papua New Guinea, and with the seabed boundary immediately south of Papua New Guinea. The 1973 Agreement provides in addition that the seabed boundary lines shall also serve, so far as necessary, as the lateral boundaries of the territorial seas and exclusive fishing zones of Papua New Guinea and Indonesia. 
The 1973 Agreement has been approved by the Administrator's Executive Council of Papua New Guinea. In addition the Agreement expressly envisages that the approval of the Agreement by the Papua New Guinea House of Assembly is to be obtained before Australian ratification of the Agreement takes place. It is expected that the Agreement will be considered during the next session of the House of Assembly commencing on 21st May 1973. Each of the agreements is subject to ratification in accordance with the constitutional requirements of each country and is to enter into force on the day on which the instruments of ratification are exchanged. The Indonesian Government has in fact already taken the constitutional steps necessary for their ratification of both the 1971 and 1972 Seabed Agreements. 
The seabed boundaries set out in the 3 Agreements differ in some respects from the limits of Australian and Papua New Guinea adjacent areas' described in the Schedules to the Petroleum (Submerged Lands) Act. Some parts of the 'adjacent areas' of the Northern Territory and of the Territory of Ashmore and Cartier Islands project beyond the boundary agreed in 1972. As a result 6 exploration permits in the Ashmore and Cartier Islands adjacent area' and one exploration permit in the Northern Territory 'adjacent area' are reduced in area. The present adjacent area of Queensland lies inside the boundary agreed in 1971, and a small addition to the adjacent area has resulted. In the case of Papua New Guinea, there is a net gain to Papua New Guinea in the seabed area to the south, while in the north some re-adjustment in favour of Indonesia is required. Passage of this amending legislation will allow the Government to ratify the 1971 and 1972 Agreements with Indonesia and ratification of the Third Agreement will follow, subject to the approval of that Agreement by the Papua New Guinea House of Assembly. 
The signing of the Third Agreement with Indonesia in February this year concluded negotiation of the seabed boundaries between Australia and Indonesia. We now have a boundary which extends from an area north of Papua New Guinea through the Arafura and Timor Seas to a point north-west of Australia, incomplete only in the area opposite Portuguese Timor. The Government has been ip. contact with the Portuguese Government in relation to the seabed boundary in this area and we expect that discussions will commence later this year. I suggest to honourable members that the passage of this amending legislation will have 2 very important implications for Australia. Firstly, it will enable the Government to ratify the agreements signed with Indonesia and thereby help to maintain the friendly relations which exist between our 2 countries. Secondly early ratification of the Agreements will allow exploration in areas adjacent to the new boundaries to proceed with certainty as to the extent of Australian jurisdiction. I commend the Bill to the House. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Sinclair)  adjourned. 
My answer is a simple one: I will refer the question to my colleague. It will be examined. The honourable member will be informed of the answer in due course. 
For the information of honourable members, I present Tariff Board reports on: 
Goods wagons (Dumping and Subsidies Act) dated 9 February 1973. 
Digital Clocks- By-law, dated 30 January 1973. 
Grain driers- By-law, dated 23 March 1973. 
I have under consideration a report which has been prepared for the Australian Automobile Association. Personally I am gravely concerned by the marked disparity between the retail prices of petrol in Sydney and Melbourne. This matter will be pursued with vigour and to the full limit of the Government's powers. 
My Department was represented at an environmental impact inquiry which has been concluded under New South Wales legislation. We still await the terms of the Commissioner's recommendations before making our final determination as to what the route will be. I want to allay any fears that the honourable member may have that the provincial cities of Lithgow, Bathurst and Orange will not be adequately served. He may rest assured that, irrespective of the final choice of route, the necessary lateral service lines will be constructed. The legislation in respect of the pipeline will be introduced at a very early date. The remainder of his question will be answered in the course of the debate. 
 I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
This Bill is consequential upon the Seas and Submerged Lands Bill which has just been introduced and I commend it to the House. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Fairbairn)  adjourned. 
Part of the honourable gentleman's question has already been answered by a statement made in this House by the Treasurer. Petroleum search subsidy payments will continue until 30 June next year. In the meantime the position will be reviewed. The Goverment has been extremely generous and tolerant. If we had applied the letter of the law strictly in respect of nominee companies, in many cases we would be asking for retrospective refunds. Be that as it may, there are other aspects to be considered. I refer the honourable gentleman to the statement which 1 made in this House on 12 April last. A very notable contribution has been made by the Government towards petroleum search and exploration in Australia. From memory the total contribution, direct and indirect, including tax concessions has been $419m out of a total search and exploration expenditure of some $843m. In return for that the Government has received precisely nothing by way of equity. 
I move: 
That the 'Bill be now read a second time. 
I introduce this Bill, as announced  by  His Excellency the Governor-General  in  his Speech  at  the opening  of  the current session,  to  remove any doubt about the exclusive right  of  the Commonwealth  to  sovereign control over the resources  of  the seabed  off  the coast  of  Australia and its territories, from the low water mark  to  the outer limits  of  the continental shelf. The Bill,  in  addition, provides the legislative framework  to  govern the exploration and exploitation  of  the mineral resources, other than petroleum,  of  these submerged lands. The history  of  this legislation  is  remarkable enough to dwell upon  it  for a moment. Over three years ago,  on  16th April 1970, the former Government presented its Territorial Sea and Continental Shelf Bill. The then Minister for National Development said, when introducing that Bill  on  behalf  of  the Acting Minister for External Affairs, that  in  the Government's view  it  would serve Australia's national and international interests to have the legal position resolved as soon as practicable. 
One would have thought that the whole House was  in  agreement with that point  of  view. Everybody who spoke  on  that Bill agreed that  it  was urgent and that  it  was  in  the national interest. Indeed we - while  in  Opposition - gave the Bill our full support. But, having introduced that important and significant legislation, the former Government lost its vision and its courage. In spite  of  all our efforts and - let  it  be said - in spite  of  the efforts  of  some gentlemen now sitting  on  the Opposition side, there followed  2)  years  of  stalling and procrastination. In the end that vital Bill was disowned and frustrated  by  the very people who had sponsored  it. 
We now propose to put that matter right. In this we follow the line we have consistently taken in debates on this matter in this House, we follow the principles laid down in the platform and resolutions  of  the Australian 
Labor Party, and we follow the promise, made by the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  in his election speech, for early passage of this legislation. As matters stand now, the question of jurisdiction and ownership in offshore areas is in doubt. With the State governments claiming sovereign rights in some of the same areas as the Commonwealth, we find ourselves in the absurd position of having one of the longest coastlines and most extensive continental shelves of ail littoral nations, without a clear decision on this most important matter. 
There are also a number  of  moves about  to  take place on the international scene which are of great concern to us - the Law of the Sea Conference, determination of the width of the territorial sea, negotiation of sea boundaries with our neighbours. Although the Commonwealth's legal power to negotiate international treaties and to enter into agreements and conventions has not been disputed, an intolerable situation may yet arise if we should have to seek State agreements before ratification. There have, in fact, been instances in the past, when the States have not agreed to the Commonwealth ratifying international conventions or have imposed extreme delay on such action, as was pointed out by the Prime Minister on 18th October last, when he spoke as Leader of the Opposition on the earlier legislation to which I have referred before. 
The natural resources of seabed areas and their exploitation or potential exploitation have become increasingly important in recent years, and with advancing technology that trend, no doubt, will continue at an accelerated pace. In the past, off-shore activities have been dominated by the search for oil, while in respect of most other mineral resources we are only at the beginning of development. Even in respect of the more traditional resources, such as sand and gravel dredged from the sea, new problems arise requiring new methods of handling and control. There is a greater awareness these days of the need for conservation of our resources and preservation of our environment, and there is much more urgency to find and adopt suitable methods to prevent or control pollution. All these aspects require careful consideration - consideration on a uniform national level. Moreover, some of them may require quick and decisive action, as in the case  of  a major pollution threat, with little time for lengthy consultation or for passing  of  special legislation, as has been necessary in the past, for example in the case of the stranding on a reef in our northern waters of the tanker Oceanic Grandeur*. 
The off-shore problems I have indicated are national problems and require national solutions. It is for us - here in the national Parliament  - to  provide the legislative framework which will enable the national Government to exert its sovereign national rights and  to  speak with authority in national terms on these matters. If there are parties - individuals or governments - who would dispute our right to take the course I now propose, let them challenge this legislation in the courts. We take this stance not in an attitude of provocation, but in the confidence of doing what is clearly right and necessary. Where before in Australian constitutional history could a government rely on a pronouncement by the Chief Justice on issues vital to proposed legislation? Where before has there been the backing of one of his brother justices, who fully agreed with bis sentiments? I am referring to the case of Bonser v. La Macchia which has been discussed in detail in this House before. I do not propose to go over the whole ground again, but one brief quotation may be worth repeating. This is what the Chief Justice of Australia then said, in part: 
It is quite clear historically, if one examines the descriptions of the territory placed under governorship, that the territory of the original colony of New South Wales except as to certain islands of the Pacific did not extend beyond low water mark. . . . 
The same can be said of the other Australian colonies. If anyone wishes to take the matter further, there are the views expressed by no less than the former  President  of the International Court of Justice,  Sir Percy  Spender. 
The Bill now before the House differs in one important aspect from the Bill introduced during the previous session of Parliament. This is the inclusion in Part III of the Bill of provisions relating to off-shore mining, which together with the associated Royalty Bill will enable the Commonwealth to exercise control over exploration and mining activities for all minerals other than petroleum on the seabed and in the subsoil of the whole area to which the authority of the Commonwealth extends. The Bill will not affect the existing agreements between the Commonwealth and the States concerning off-shore petroleum however, or the legislation giving effect to those agreements, which will continue to operate for the present time. 
I now turn to some of the specific matters which are set out in this Bill. Part I of the Bill cites its title, states that it shall come into operation on the day on which it receives the royal assent and extends its provisions to all the Territories other than the Territory of Papua and the Territory of New Guinea. Part II of the Bill, which deals with sovereignty over the territorial sea and sovereign rights in respect of the continental shelf, is based largely on the earlier Territorial Sea and Continental Shelf Bill which has been discussed previously in this House at length. I do not propose to go over that whole area again and I suggest leaving until the Committee stage any detailed examination of its various clauses. However, I would like to touch briefly on the main aims this Part is intended to achieve. 
Firstly, the Bill states the law as we understand it exists in  3  areas, so as to remove any possible doubt in this direction. Clause  6  makes it clear that sovereignty over the territorial sea, including the airspace above and the seabed and sub-soil below, is vested in and exercisable by the Crown in right of the Commonwealth. Similarly clause  11  makes it clear that the sovereign rights of Australia in respect of the exploration and exploitation of the natural resources of the continental shelf are vested in and exercisable by the Crown in right of the Commonwealth. And further, clauses  10  and  14,  taken together, make it clear that sovereignty over the internal waters of Australia (including their airspace, bed and subsoil) is also vested in and exercisable by the Crown in right of the Commonwealth, with the  exeption,  however, of those waters which were internal waters of a State at the time of Federation and which still remain within the limits of the State. 
Secondly, the Bill provides, in clause  7,  for the delineation of the territorial sea, including determination of the breadth of the territorial sea and of the baselines from which such breadth is to be measured. This is necessary as the claims made by maritime states regarding the breadth of their respective territorial seas vary enormously and range from  3  miles to  200  miles. The disagreement on this point is so great, in fact, that all attempts for the adoption of a uniform distance for inclusion in international conventions have so far been unsuccessful. Although at present a  12-mile  limit seems to be most widely favoured, Aus tralia still asserts a  3-mile  claim, as do the United Kingdom, the United States and a number of other major countries, and Australia is therefore not bound to recognise wider claims by other states. The territorial sea is measured outwards from baselines along the coast, normally the low water lines. Since most coasts are cut by indentations of varying widths and depths of penetration, however, rules have been established to use as baselines in such cases straight lines drawn from headland to headland along the coast rather than following the twists and turns of the low water mark. The Convention on the Territorial Sea and Contiguous Zone, in Article  4,  lays down that such straight baselines 'must not depart to any appreciable extent from the general direction of the coast'. A copy of the Convention is attached to the Bill as Schedule  1.  Clause  8  of the Bill makes provision for the proclamation of historic bays and other historic waters while clause  9  deals with the issue of official charts. Both these matters are also referred to in the Convention at Schedule  1. 
Thirdly, the Bill contains, in Division  3  of Part II, certain saving provisions to ensure that the assertion of Commonwealth sovereign rights in the territorial sea will not invalidate existing property rights in wharves and other installations or works, nor limit or exclude the operation of any law of the Commonwealth, a Territory or a State in force at the date of commencement of this legislation or coming into force after that date. This exemption will not extend to any State law in so far as it is expressed to vest  any  sovereignty or sovereign rights, or to make these exercisable otherwise than provided in this Bill. These provisions will allow, as already mentioned, the continued operation of the offshore petroleum arrangement between the Commonwealth and the States for the present time. 
Part III of the Bill will apply a mining code to the off-shore areas, in respect of which Part II of the Bill established Commonwealth authority. It will enable us to apply the rules under which off-shore mining titles are to be issued and under which the exploration for and exploitation of minerals, other than petroleum, are to be carried out. 
World-wide in the off-shore scene, petroleum has dominated both exploration and production. There is, however, increasing interest in other mineral resources of the seabed. 
Deposits so far identified include construction materials (sand, gravel, limestone, and so on), detrital minerals (tin, gold, platinum, diamonds) and the beach sand minerals (magnetite, ilmenite, rutile, zircon, monazite) and phosphorite. Deposits of this nature have all been identified on the continental shelves of the world. In addition, on the abyssal floor of the ocean, manganese nodules, which in addition to manganese contain significant amounts of copper and cobalt, also have been found in widely dispersed areas. In Australia there has been a similar trend with increasing interest in off-shore mineral resources and some exploration work already done and continuing. The value of production of minerals recovered from the seabed so far is small when compared with that of oil and natural gas. It is also interesting to note that taken on a world wide basis, the lion's share of this value has been contributed by the least glamorous of the minerals concerned 'sand and gravel' for which there is a growing and increasingly urgent demand in Australia, as onshore sources of such building materials within economic distances of many centres are becoming depleted. 
I must emphasise here that an enormous effort will be required to realise the potential of marine mineral resources of Australia's offshore area. Mineral discovery and development has always been a slow and difficult process, requiring both imagination and courage in prospecting coupled with a willingness to risk large sums of money in exploration and development. Mineral exploration and production have to be based on a foundation of sound knowledge of local geology and geophysics and the development and application of new technology. The need for this as a base for marine operations has been recognised by the Government and to this end the Division of National Mapping of the Department of Minerals and Energy expects to complete a systematic bathymetric survey of the continental shelf by 1980, while the Bureau of Mineral Resources has already undertaken a geophysical survey of the continental slope. 
The mining code under which companies can be granted titles to explore for and exploit minerals other than petroleum in the submerged parts of the Australian continent is bsased to some extent on the principles of the offshore petroleum legislation and the experience gained in its administration. In contrast to that legislation provision has been made, however, to enable the Commonwealth itself to administer the mining code, and allowance also has been made for differences in the technology and in mode of occurrence between offshore petroleum and other offshore minerals. In addition to a mining code, it is of course essential to apply a general body of law to any offshore mining operations, such as an appropriate criminal code, navigational safety regulations, and workers' compensation, provisions. In these respects it is provided in Division 2 of Part III that the laws of the Australian Capital Territory in force from time to time should also apply in the offshore areas. 
Particular attention will be directed towards ensuring the conservation and preservation of our natural resources and of the marine and associated environments. To that end, clause 88 empowers the Minister to cancel any permit or licence if he considers this to be in the interests of the safety of navigation or the conservation of natural resources or otherwise in the public interest. There is a provision that compensation may be sought in the Courts in appropriate cases by the title holders affected. In accordance with modern mining practice the Bill provides for a 2-stage system of titles. An exclusive exploration title, referred to as a 'permit', may be followed by a production title, referred to as a 'licence'. In addition, provision has been made for 2 other, short term, titles. The first is a reconnaissance authority which will allow its holder to explore specified areas for up to 12 months on a non-exclusive basis. The need for such a title is particularly important in the search for minerals in a relatively new and unknown environment. It will enable operators to carry out the necessary preliminary surveys and testing of techniques before deciding whether an area is worth an application for an exclusive exploration title - a permit. This type of non-exclusive title has been used and found to be effective in Canada. The other short-term title is the access authority which will authorise a title holder to have limited access to areas outside his title area if the Minister is satisfied that this is necessary or desirable for the more effective exercise and proper performance of the rights and duties of the title holder. 
Provision is made in clause 33 of the Bill for the Minister either to invite applications for exploration permits or to issue permits without invitation. If an application is received other than in response to an invitation the Minister can grant a permit on such application, or he can reject and publicly invite permit applications. Such a  permit  grants its holder an exclusive right  to explore  for specified minerals in an area not exceeding SOO blocks, that is an area of approximately 575 square miles. The initial permit term is 2 years, and there is provision for renewals, for periods of 2 years each, subject to the permittee's compliance with the permit conditions and the legislation. Upon each renewal the permittee must relinquish at least one-quarter of the area previously held. 
 No, progressively. He would still have a residue. It is a matter of compounding in reverse. Because of the many unknown factors in off-shore mineral technology and different environmental aspects it is not possible to specify precise permit conditions in this Bill. The Minister will therefore need to determine the conditions of each permit according to the circumstances of the case. 
Upon discovery of a mineral deposit, a permittee may apply for a production licence, covering no more than 50 blocks, that is an area of approximately 58 square miles, of his previous permit area, as stated in clause 42. If the permittee has complied with the permit conditions and the legislative provisions he has a right to a licence with an initial term of 21 years. Thereafter renewals may be granted at the discretion of the Minister for periods each not exceeding 21 years. It is a requirement of production that a holder shall annually expend on exploration or recovery operations an amount calculated at $2,000 per block,, that is, for a maximum licence area of 50 blocks a total of $100,000 must be spent each year. If minerals are recovered in the licence area in any one year, the value of the minerals recovered is offset against the required expenditure for that licence area for the succeeding year. Any short-faR in the required expenditure or production value is a debt due to the. Crown and is recoverable at law. It is to be noted that under part 4 of clause 51, the Minister may grant an exemption, in whole or in part, from this provision. There is a diversity of minerals and the mode  of  occurrence of marine mineral resources, and it could eventuate that in some circum stances the level of expenditure required by clause 51 is too high. This is recognised by part 4 of clause 51. I emphasise, however, that this clause requires the Minister to be satisfied that special circumstances exist to justify his doing so' before he exercises this power of exemption. 
It is an important feature of this Bill that applicants, permittees and licensees will be required to provide adequate information and reports to the Commonwealth. Applicants for the grant or renewal of permits and licences and applications for registration of agreements which create new interests in a title will be required to provide information on Australian equity participation and the involvement of Australian management in the venture. Permittees and licensees will have to make available to the Government proper and regular reports on exploration and production activities and adequate portions of cores, cuttings and samples of the seabed obtained during such activities. The overall geological knowledge of the seabed obtained is important to the Government in its systematic assessment of mineral resources. This store of knowledge is also important to all explorers in that it will avoid the need to duplicate surveys previously carried out. Clause 90 gives the Minister certain discretions regarding the release of information furnished to him. I would point out that the provisions concerning the release of information apply to basic information only and that interpretative data can be released only with the consent of the permittee or licensee concerned. 
In accordance with Article 5 of the Convention on the Continental Shelf there is a provision in this Bill - clause 84  -  for the Minister to consent to mineral exploration in the course of scientific investigations. Such a consent will be subject to such conditions as the Minister thinks fit. Clause 85 is another example of the way in which the Bill ensures that Australia's obligations under the Convention are properly observed. Article 5 of the Convention requires that operations on the continental shelf must not result in any unnecessary interference with navigation, fishing or the conservation of the resources of the sea and seabed. 
Included in the Bill, in clause 111, are provisions for the making of operating and safety regulations. The art and technology of off-shore minerals exploration and exploitation are comparatively new and still developing. It is not intended to promulgate regulations immediately because the Government desires to draw on any experience gained in off-shore operations before preparing the proposed regulations in detail. Some companies have already had practical experience in offshore minerals activities, and the Government feels that such industry experience could contribute materially to the content of the proposed regulations. 
Pending the promulgation of regulations, the Bill, as does the petroleum legislation, gives the Minister the power under clause 74 to issue directions on any matters with respect to which regulations may be made. The Minister will be required, however, to table in Parliament any 'direction' given by him which is inconsistent with the regulations. A further requirement set out in clause 110, is the preparation and tabling in Parliament of an annual report, on a calendar basis, on the administration of this legislation. 
Included in this Bill are transitional provisions which enable holders of certain current State or Territory off-shore titles to apply for comparable titles under this legislation. The grant of such a title by the Commonwealth will be subject to such conditions as the Minister thinks fit but it is intended to match as far as possible the conditions of the current titles for the unexpired portions of their terms. As the conditions attached to permits following transition could be somewhat different from those envisaged in the mining code of this Bill, such permits will not be renewed, but after expiry of the remainder of their current term an application may be made for a new title under this legislation. 
The Bill provides for the normal requirements associated with mining administration such as keeping a register, the appointment of inspectors, and for courts of competent jurisdiction for the prosecution of offences and other proceedings. There, are also the usual provisions in the Bill for the variation, suspension of, or exemption from conditions of a title, and for the surrender and cancellation of titles. 
I would now like to touch briefly on some financial aspects of this Bill and its associated royalty Bill. It is our aim to encourage, under Commonwealth control, off-shore minerals exploration and exploitation. We realise that these are costly operations and therefore intend to keep fees for such activities at a reasonably low level. Application fees only will be payable and there will be no annual fees on any titles granted under this legislation. This will also simplify its administration. Application fees for reconnaissance or access authorities will be $100 each, while $1,000 will be required for a permit, a licence or a renewal thereof. Because of the wide variety of minerals, their value and mode of occurrence it has been necessary to provide for a range of royalty rates. The royalty Bill accompanying this measure therefore lays down that the royalty to be paid to the Commonwealth is to be at a rate to be determined by the Minister and specified in the production licence. Such rate is to be not less than 1 per cent or more than 10 per cent of the value as agreed by the licensee and the Minister or determined by the Minister, usually the gross or mine-head value, and will be subject to redetermination upon renewal of a licence, in the light of the legislative provisions at the time of renewal. 
I would like to say that we believe this  Bill  to be an effective and workable piece of legislation. (Extension of time granted). We believe that it incorporates the most important features of a mining code, which are that the rules should be fair, that they should be as explicit as possible, that they should be consistent without being inflexible and that they should be such as to encourage exploration for and exploitation of off-shore minerals under Commonwealth control and supervision. To that end we are endeavouring to enact a code in which the basic parameters are clearly set out. We realise, however, that the art and technology of off-shore minerals exploration and exploitation are still comparatively new and at a stage of development. We will not hesitate, therefore, to submit amending legislation for consideration by Parliament if we are satisfied that changes or improvements need to be made. Our main aim will continue to be that this legislation shall encourage efficient and adequate exploration and exploitation of our off-shore resources and at the same time control operations in such a way as to ensure the conservation of our natural resources and the preservation of our marine environment to the common good. 
I commend this Bill to the House. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Fairbairn)  adjourned. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
The Governor-General's Speech foreshadowed that, in pursuit of its policy for maximising Australian ownership, control, use and development of Australian resources, the Government would introduce legislation to establish a Pipeline Authority. This concept of a national pipeline system also takes account of wider issues - of defence, of decentralisation, of population growth, of national development, of the importance of interconnected supplies to meet increasing long term demands, emergency situations and the exhaustion of particular regional energy sources, and the possible export of liquefied natural gas. 
This Bill seeks to establish the Authority for the transmission of petroleum, natural gas and other hydrocarbons, by interstate ringmain pipeline systems. With the aim of ensuring continuity of supplies and uniformity of price, the Authority will have trading rights to buy and sell hydrocarbons. In addition to its role of being a common carrier, the Authority naturally will sell for reticulation to appropriate authorities and corporations. 
In establishing the Authority the Government is following the well established and highly successful precedent of the former Labor Government which created the Snowy Mountains hydro-electric scheme. This will be a project of at least equal magnitude. The project provides for the linking by a continental pipeline of the city of Sydney with the Gidgealpa natural gas fields in the Cooper Basin in South Australia, with an early extension through Wagga to Albury and Wodonga with later extensions to Melbourne and the Bass Strait reserves. 
From Gidgealpa the pipeline will be linked to the Palm Valley field in the Amadeus Basin of the Northern Territory. From there it will continue to Dampier on the north-west coast of Australia where the resources of the North-west Shelf will be available. The proposed pipeline route will also traverse and serve the Pilbara region of Western Australia. There will also be a spurline to serve the Northern Territory. The first stage of the project will be from Sydney to Gidgealpa ensuring that there will be no delay in planned supplies of natural gas for Sydney under the long standing city of Sydney gas franchise legislation. Extensions will also be built to the Newcastle and Wollongong-Port Kembla areas. 
Because of the lack of indigenous on-shore fuel supplies in Western Australia, a pipeline link between Palm Valley and the Kalgoorlie mineral province and Perth will be an early priority. The Commonwealth and the Western Australian Governments have already agreed to a feasibility study on this section of the project. In view of the limited reserves of the Moonie field, an additional spurline wil be built between Sydney and Brisbane with extensions to coastal Queensland cities. The total concept will provide a completely interconnected grid system, ensuring back-up supplies in case of interruption by natural calamities or exhaustion of supply from an individual source. 
I should mention that the construction and operation by East Australian Pipeline Corporation Ltd of the Gidgealpa to Sydney pipeline would have pre-empted the Government's concept of, and decision for, a national pipeline system. In taking over responsibility for that pipeline and to obviate unnecessary delays, the Government has undertaken that it will stand in the shoes of the pipeline company; observe contractual commitments entered into by it, including the retention of the project managers already retained by the company; and reimburse expenditure already undertaken and committed on the project. The Government will enter into a contract with the Australian Gas Light Co. Ltd to carry the gas for the company and, in general terms, it is the Government's intention that the replacement of the company's proposed pipeline by the national pipeline system will not disadvantage the company in respect of the transmission of the gas which it has contracted to purchase from the South Australian field. Arrangements with the company are continuing. 
The Bill is not a complex one. It is simple and has the clear and definite purpose to set up an authority with adequate powers to construct and operate a major public utility having the responsibility of making one of our greatest natural resources available to the Australian people. The Authority will consist of 5 persons: a part-time Chairman; 3 parttime members, one of whom would represent the trade unions and another will be, exofficio, the Secretary of my Department; and a full-time executive member. Members other than the Secretary will be appointed' for periods not exceeding 7 years but will be eligible for re-appointment. The Authority will be required to submit a report with appropriate financial statements annually to the Minister for presentation to the Parliament. I commend the Bill to the House. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Fairbairn)  adjourned. 
 in reply - 1 thank the Opposition speakers for their concurrence with the terms of this measure. The honourable member for Parramatta  (Mr N. H. Bowen)  in particular is entitled to take any vicarious credit that he likes to take for the groundwork that he put into the original arrangements. As he rightly said, there has needed to be a variation of the boundaries of certain permits. There has been no alternative but to do that. In due course the holders of the permits at least will have a measure of certainty that they did not possess before and will be treated as fairly as possible whenever renewals come up for consideration. I remind the honourable member for Parramatta that it is within the competence of the Government to negotiate treaties with foreign powers and that it will be a matter for the individual States under the terms of the non-justiciable agreement - I stress the words 'non-justiciable agreement' - as to whether they pass mirror legislation. Our attitude in relation to sovereign rights over the continental shelf is somewhat different from that of our predecessors in office. Be that as it may, I do not have any doubt that mirror legislation can and will follow in the fullness of time. I am not going to enter into any controversy as to Portuguese Timor. No doubt there will be in due course a delineation of an acceptable boundary line. There has. been a reference to grandstanding. At least it can be said that for the first time in the last 23 years there has been a clear, positive and continuous foreign policy line for everyone to follow in Australia. We have no reason to bc ashamed of the attitudes that we have taken in this regard. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. 
 The amendment is not acceptable to the Government. In point of fact, the definition of petroleum as being any hydrocarbon in solid, liquid or gaseous form is taken in toto from the Government's own measure, the Petroleum (Submerged Lands) Act. It is the usual definition. Coal was never contemplated, nor could it adequately be transported in a pipeline of this description. 
I thank the honourable member for Hawker for his interest in this matter. One of the main characteristics of the former Government was the introduction of election gimmicks for its political preservation. In the 1969 election campaign it proposed the Jervis Bay reactor. Of course, that was to be an obsolescent type of reactor which was to produce plutonium for the dirty bomb. In 1972 the gimmick was to offer each of the States in turn the possibility of providing a site on which could be established a uranium enrichment plant. Let us have a look at the general question of uranium enrichment. In the world today the only known and viable method of uranium enrichment is gaseout diffusion. It is semi-obsolescent and costly. Such an enrichment plant would cost $ 1,500m. We should wait to have a look at the alternative, the gas centrifuge, which can be bought for a fraction of the cost and which would be much more suited to Australian needs. We have plenty of time to wait. 
On the general question of uranium I would say this: In a fuel-hungry world Australia is in a very happy position. We possess possibly 40 per cent of the free world's uranium reserves outside those which are held by the United States of America. Nevertheless, some of that is not recoverable with certainty. We have been confronted with approval for some 6 contracts which were entered into by the former government within a month of the 1972 election. Those contracts in total represent some 11,000 tons of uranium. The contracts are written, of course, in terms of United States dollars. 
For the information of the House I may say that a ton of uranium in a fast breeder reactor has an energy equivalent of 2 million tons of black coal. We are now confronted with a further proposal for the export of some 9,760 tons of uranium. This export is to commence mostly in 1976. Again, most of the uranium is to be sold under contracts written in terms of United States dollars. We want to be fair in this situation. We understand the financial problems of some of the uranium miners. But by the same token we have to consult Australia's total interests. There is a very real need, in a world which is approaching a period of energy diplomacy, resources diplomacy, for Australia to ensure that it is not short-changed in its transactions. We will be pressed very shortly by some of the major powers which have chosen to dissipate their energy resources. We want to match them in equal bargaining terms. 
The Opposition in the course of this debate has been rather embarrassed. It could not oppose the concept of a national pipeline system, but it had to drag in the usual set of shibboleths and the usual number of straw men to knock over. The hard fact remains that only the national Government could conceive this measure; only the national Government could put it through; and only the national Government could act in the best interests of the people of Australia. Let me stress that the Australian Labor Party's policy clearly provides, and has for the past 3 years, that it will provide natural gas by a ring main system throughout Australia, at an equal price and with certainty and continuity of supply. That being so, we have nothing to be ashamed of. I am indebted to the right honourable member for Higgins  (Mr Gorton)  for the comments that he made, because he, alone of the speakers for the Opposition, could adopt a truly national approach. 
As for fair treatment, the Australian Gas Light Co. is getting it and getting it to the letter. We have told the company, in respect of its contract for the transmission of gas, that we will transmit the gas through the pipeline. We will stand in the shoes of its subsidiary company, East Australian Pipeline Corporation Ltd, which we will be acquiring. 
The purpose of the particular power provided in the Bill is to acquire all 5 shares in that company which are held by the Australian Gas Light Co. In so doing, we are able to obtain the benefit of the feasibility studies and the other contracts that have been entered into. As to handling the matter expeditiously, we will do it strictly in accordance with our undertakings. The Government of Australia has never welshed on a contract, and that goes for the Labor Government, too. 
With regard to the other qualms that have been expressed, how else could the problem of the distribution of natural gas have been tackled in Australia? It is well within our competence. In the. United States of America there are 170,000 miles of pipeline to serve 205 million people. The comparable mileage in Australia would be 10,000 to 11,000 miles of pipeline. We will be able to do it with much less pipeline than that. Unfortunately, but to keep to the letter of our agreement with the Australian Gas Light Co., we will take the Japanese pipe. We have already accepted delivery of 2 shipments of it and the remainder of it will be accepted in due course. We are paying for it. It might cover 650 miles. As for the rest of the pipeline, when the route of the pipeline is finally determined the pipes will be good Australian pipes built by Australian workmen and we will have reason to be proud of the project. This is a truly national concept and it is only the little Australians who would oppose it and drag in the side issues. Shame on those who are prepared to take that attitude towards it. It is a good concept. In the final days of a previous Labor administration, it brought in the Snowy Mountains scheme. At its opening it was boycotted by the people who today are not prepared to come straight out and oppose the present proposal but who want to quibble and niggle and throw sprags. The Government will complete this project and it will redound to the credit of Australia throughout the world just as the Snowy Mountains scheme has. 
I am amazed at the Country Party's attitude to this proposal, because if anyone has mouthed decentralisation over the years it has been that Party. What better way is there to achieve it than by what the Government proposes? We will be wholesaling natural gas. 
Individual members of the Country Party have made personal representations to me on this subject. Natural gas will be provided in cities such as Dubbo, Tarn worth, Armidale, Orange of course and Lithgow and Bathurst. I am indebted to the State Minister for Mines, who is a good Australian, for his co-operation. The pipeline will be going south in a proper way where it ought to have gone long ago. If there had not been such purblind parochialism on the part of the former Government - I include the honourable member for Farrer in my strictures - the pipeline would have been built years ago. But it could not have been built because of parochialism. However, we will build it and we will develop it despite the honourable member for Farrer. The honourable member for Farrer notwithstanding, a 20-inch pipeline will go there - and it will go through to Melbourne too. People in Melbourne are breaking their necks to have the pipeline there because they will be able to feed into the system too. This is a national concept and we will go through with it, the Opposition notwithstanding. 
Question put: 
That the words proposed to be omitted  (Mr Fairbairn's amendment)  stand part of the question. 
 I move: 
That the Bill be now read a  second time. . 
The purpose of the Bill now before the House is twofold. First, it replaces the Bill previously introduced into the Parliament to extend the bounty until such time as the Government had considered the Tariff Board report. Second, it provides legislation necessary to implement the Board's recommendations which have been accepted by the Government. The Government announced its acceptance of the Tariff Board's report on 3rd May and the extension of the provisions of the original Act will terminate on that date. The new provisions, following the Tariff Board recommendations, will be effective from 4th May 1973 and continue to 31st December 1976. 
In the new schedule of rates of bounty, consideration has been given to all the disadvantages suffered by local manufacturers including severe competition from overseas manufacturers, and it is considered that, as locally produced tractors do not yet have the capacity to satisfy the home market, bounty is the better method of assisting the industry. Protection by way of customs duty would force up the price of these tractors which cannot be locally supplied. The Bill also includes provision for the registration of premises of new manufacturers similar to those provided in the Metal Working Machine Tools Bounty Act 1972, which was approved by the previous Parliament. Honourable members will also note that all references to the power output of tractors are expressed in metric terms in conformity with the move to total metrication of our weights and measures. I commend the Bill to honourable members. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Chipp)  adjourned. 
Sitting suspended from 6.14 to  8  p.m. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The Commonwealth Statistician has supplied the following information: 
Details of the production of contraceptives are not recorded separately; 
The only forms of contraceptives for which imports are recorded separately are prophylactics, details of which are as follows: 
I move: 
 Mr Speaker,  pursuant to statute I present the report of the Special Advisory Authority on industrial type plastic coated knitted gloves. 
Ordered that the report be printed. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
No. However, it is one of the requirements of the control recently introduced by the Government on the export of minerals that copies of contracts should be forwarded to my Department and this is still in process. 
See answer to (1) above. 
See answer to (1) above. The additional information sought is not readily available and would require considerable research effort. 
The effect of recent changes in currency rates between Australia and other countries on export income will vary considerably for the various minerals. There will be no loss for those minerals which are sold overseas on an Australian dollar basis; for some minerals the loss will depend on the levels at which the world market prices settle as the market re-establishes itself following the world currency realignments; for others it will depend on the contractual arrangements and in particular whether these arrangements include an appropriate currency protection clause or whether the exporters can renegotiate prices to compensate for the currency changes. I have supported our industry's efforts to renegotiate prices and to this end I discussed the question of revaluation with the Japanese Ambassador in Canberra on 15 February last Following my discussion companies are negotiating with their customers individually. 
A number of companies have made representations to the Government following the changes in exchange rates and their submissions are being considered. 
See answer to (5) above. 
No. It would have been quite improper for the Government to have discussed its exchange rate intentions with other Governments prior to revaluation of the Australian dollar on 23 December 1972. 
I have previously expressed concern at the prices which are being obtained for some mineral exports from Australia in relation to those from other countries. As a result of the export control on minerals the Government will be in a much better position to judge the adequacy of prices received and to ensure that our resources are sold at fair world prices in the future. 
The Government's decision to revalue the Australian dollar on 23 December was taken in the overall national interest. 
This will have a most undesirable impact on certain sections of the world metals market. We are doing our best to minimise the impact. With regard to energy sources, I gravely doubt whether there will be any release by the United States. As a matter of fact, at present the United States has a debit of about $US10 billion a year in imports of energy and it is anticipated that by the year 1980 that figure will have escalated to between $US30 billion and$US35 billion. That being so, I do not think the honourable gentleman need have the slightest concern about such imports. But the release of the stockpile of certain strategic materials will undoubtedly have a most unfavourable impact and we have already been taking what steps we can to minimise the situation. 
I certainly have noted the intervention of  Mr Balfour,  the Victorian Minister for Fuel and Power, in the debate. Quite a remarkable concatenation of conservative intervention has occurred this week in connection with this Bill. I have received a 3- page dissertation from  Mr Balfour  giving full details of his apprehension as to what would happen in the sovereign State of Victoria. I can assure him that both the ecology and the environment will be fully observed, if and when we get to that point. We have been good citizens in New South Wales; we have no reason not to be good citizens elsewhere. There is an old saying that the bottom of Diogenes' tub would not bear inspection and I would suggest to the gentleman that he might well examine his own economic conscience and, in particular, the legacy of the former Premier of Victoria,  Sir Henry  Bolte, who left a quite remarkable legacy. At present the gas producing interests in Victoria are literally breaking their necks to try to supply us with gas at a figure substantially below that which is operating in Victoria. We will be very happy to deal with them in due course. In the meantime the Victorian Minister might well consider whether he can make a better deal on behalf of consumers in his State. 
The price arrangements are very satisfactory indeed. The whole matter arose from the failure of certain of the iron ore companies to anticipate the vagaries of the United States dollar in terms of international parity. In the course of negotiations I clearly indicated to the Japanese representatives that it was the wish of the Australian Government to have their currency recognised as a world currency, and it is. It is a good, hard currency. It is sound and well managed and will continue to be so. For those reasons I suggested to the Japanese representatives that in future appropriate adjustments would be made in respect of the existing contracts in the event of any further variations of the parities between the Australian dollar and the United States dollar. I also suggested to the iron ore companies that in future they might take advantage of their former errors and see that their future contracts were suitably denominated in terms of payment. 
It is a matter of public knowledge that the reports of the Senate proceedings have been circulated. 
I move: 
That the Senate amendment No. 2 be disagreed to. 
Senate amendment No. 2 relates to the insertion of the proposed new clause 16a, which is referred to as the common carrier clause. In my own case, I stated that the Pipeline Authority would be in the position of a common carrier. I should have added that that would be in relation to a special contractual arrangement with the Australian Gas 
Light Co. Ltd and for no other. That is the very essence of the arrangement which was entered into and which we will honour to the letter. The agreement has yet to be finalised, but it will be a matter of about 20 to 25 per cent of the capacity of the pipeline being allocated to the transmission of gas the property of the Australian Gas Light Co. Ltd. 
I move: 
That the committee's reasons be adopted. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Motion (by  Mr Connor)  agreed to: 
That, in the message returning the Bill to the Senate, the Senate be requested to reconsider the Bill in respect of the amendment made by the House of Representatives to clause 13. 
Before dealing with the Senate's amendments I propose to amend clause 13, which reads in part: 
Clause 13. 
Subject to sub-section (2), the functions of the Authority are - 
to construct pipelines for the conveyance of petroleum recovered from Australian petroleum pools to centres of population and points of export with a view to the establishment of national integrated system of such pipelines, and to maintain and operate those pipelines; 
to convey, through the pipes operated by the Authority, petroleum belonging to the Authority or to other persons; and 
to buy and sell petroleum, whether in Australia or elsewhere, and the Authority shall carry on business for the purposes of performing those functions. 
I move: 
In sub-clause (1), after paragraph (c) insert the following paragraphs: 
to ensure continuity of supplies of natural gas, that is free from impurities; 
to ensure that natural gas supplied by the Authority is available at a gate-valve delivery price that is, at all times, uniform throughout Australia, after making due allowances for differences in the calorific values of natural gas obtained from different sources; (0  to ensure that condensate, petroleum gas and other substances derived from natural gas are retained and processed in Australia in order that they may be available to augment supplies of motor spirit and similar fuels obtained from indigenous sources; and 
to secure, control and retain reserves of petroleum adequate to meet the long term needs of the Australian people. 
The Government wishes to spell out in the greatest clarity, for the information of the Senate on the return of this Bill to it, the full range and scope of the functions of the Pipeline Authority. Amendments contained in clause 16A as inserted by the Senate would reduce the Authority to the basis of a common carrier and in fact substitute public investment for what would have been substantial private investment in a pipeline. 
The policy of the Government, as established by its Party conference in 1971 is for the 'transmission of natural gas by an interstate ring main to ensure continuity of supplies and uniformity of price'. A national authority must think and act in national terms. There is already uniformity of motor spirit pricing in the major capital cities of Australia. The larger States have similarly introduced uniformity of bulk electricity charges to county councils and local government corporations throughout their terms. To match uniformity of energy charges, our objective is to ensure uniformity of heat and fuel prices. This has particular relevance to the future development of inland provincial cities and major and medium sized country towns located within economic service distances of the proposed trunk line system, and which the Authority will supply at uniform prices. This objective is of equal importance to the decentralised cities which we propose to establish or expand. 
Honourable members may not realise that there is considerable disparity in the calorific value of natural gas, and also the percentage of impurities which it may contain. The BTU - British thermal unit - content of natural gas ranges from 1050 to 1320 per cubic foot in the major producing areas which will be linked by the pipeline grid. To permit, without regulation at the well head gate valve, the entry of natural gas with any of its undesirable associated gases such as carbon dioxide and nitrogen would produce chaos in the system. Each producer, in the rights of using  a  common carrier, could set  a rival  and excessive pricing structure according to its whim and belief as to what the market would stand. Only by purchase by the Authority could the pipeline truly function. Again the Pipeline Authority would need to insist upon freedom from impurities, of which the most noticeable is carbon dioxide, and ranges up to 40 per cent in certain of the Gidgealpa consortium field output. 
Another feature unknown to honourable members is the quantities of liquid condensate and petroleum gas and other similar derivatives of hydrocarbons which need to be separated from natural gas, and again vary vastly as between producing centres. These elements are contained in 'wet' gas and can range as high as 70 barrels or more per million cubic feet. These condensates and gases are commercially 'stripped' and retailed separately. These constituents are capable of being restructured in suitable refining processes, known as isomerisation and alkylation, into high grade motor spirit, of 100 octane rating, without the need for any anti-knock additives. 
I have been informed by the Hydrocarbons Branch of my Department that, in aggregate from the proved and possible reserves, and at a conversion factor into motor spirit of 65 per cent, they would yield 1,620 million barrels. By comparison, in the refining of Bass Strait crude, the volume of motor spirit obtained is 51.5 per cent of the volume of crude oil. Applying this conversion factor to the total Australian reserves of crude oil, the motor spirit equivalent of these crude oil reserves at present available is 1,280 million barrels. From this it will be seen that there is here a source of additional motor spirit which exceeds by 25 per cent the much vaunted Bass Strait potential. Only 65 per cent of the present crude through-put of Australian refineries comes from Australian reserves, the residue is imported. On this basis, our recoverable Australian crude oil will be exhausted in 12 years. The potential from restructuring of these hydrocarbons into motor spirit would provide an additional 15 years supply. Suitable refining facilities can be provided by a new refinery or modification of an existing plant. Implicit in the Senate amendment is the- 
I move: 
That Senate amendment No. 1 be disagreed to. 
The Government policy opposes this amendment, which states that no pipeline work exceeding $2m in cost can be undertaken until it has been referred to the Public Works Committee. In the Senate debate it was acknowledged that the works of other statutory corporations were not liable to be considered by the Public Works Committee. The immediate objective of the Bill, in setting up a Pipeline Authority is to enable it to acquire the 5 ordinary shares of the East Australia PipelineCorporation Ltd, which are wholly owned by Australian Gas Light Co. Full feasibility studies have already been completed by overseas consultants on behalf of East Australian Pipeline Corporation Ltd. A survey was made of a chosen route and environmental impact studies provided to the New South Wales Government in respect of 3 distinct routes linking Gidgealpa and Sydney. 
A major order for 206,000 tons of 34 inch pipes has been placed with Japanese suppliers by the same company with the intention of its constructing a pipeline and being ready to take delivery of gas supplies within  2$  years from the dedication of the gas supplies by the Gidgealpa consortium. The pipe specifications were to the X65 specification of the Battelle Institute (USA) and its notch-test requirements. Under the terms of the arrangement entered into between the Commonwealth and Australian Gas Light Co. and East Australian Pipeline Corporation Ltd, the Commonwealth acquires the benefits of the feasibility study, technology and planning work already done, and in turn accepts responsibility for the various commitments of those companies. In all respects it will stand in the shoes of East Australian Pipeline Corporation Ltd by acquiring its company structure. The staffs of East Australian Pipeline Corporation Limited and those of  Mr James  Donald, the executive officer of the Authority, are working continuously in exchange of information. The EAPC staff will be given the right, to transfer to the service of the Authority. 
Five shipments of Japanese pipes, being of 34 inch diameter, have already arrived in Australia. Property in all pipes has been transferred to the Commonwealth and payment has been made by the Commonwealth on shipment. They are being located at Newcastle, Sydney and Adelaide in accordance with transport proximity to various sectors of the pipelines, and tenders have been called for the supply of necessary gate valves. The continued employment of 600 foundry workers in Melbourne and Ballarat is dependent on the valve contracts. 
The nine producing companies of the Gidgealpa consortium, with the special need for refining equipment to remove the impurities I have mentioned in the debate on clauses 13 (1) (d) and 13 (1) (c), are in a most difficult financial position. Their commitment over the 25 years of their contract for such equipment will be approximately $320m, of which $133m must be invested between now and the end of 1976. Only three of these companies which have the Adelaide gas supply contract have paid any dividends. Their profits have not been adequate to service the exploration effort and short term loans have had to be obtained to make up the deficiency. Between them the consortium companies can provide only $33m of the commitment until the end of 1976, and the other $10Om must come from bank accommodation. Stringent requirements are being imposed on them by their respective bankers. 
The first gas processing plant will require 20 to 22 months to complete and finance will be available from the bankers only when they are satisfied on the broader aspects of the Cooper Basin development project. All of these companies are carrying on with borrowed funds and have been seriously embarrassed by the 5 months delay during the New South Wales environmental impact inquiry and consideration of the Commissioner's report and findings, which have not yet been published. EAPC will be in a position to call tenders within 3 weeks of publication, award a contract within 15 weeks, commence construction in 27 weeks, and finish the main line of the central route in 85 weeks. If the southern route is adopted an additional 25 weeks will be involved. In a project of this type, large contracts provide for continuity of production, economies of scale and continuity of employment, preventing the loss of skilled and experienced mcn. 
The Sydney-Gidgealpa project has already been thoroughly costed under the terms of the feasibility study obtained and adopted by the Australian Gas Light Co., which is the oldest and most experienced company in gas production in Australia, lt has hard fisted administration and whatever may be the merits of a Public Works Committee investigation, there can only be delay, difficulties and financial losses to the Authority and all other participating interests if further examined. In the United States of America there are 170,000 miles of natural gas mains to serve 210 million people. On a proportionate basis 11,000 miles would be economically practicable for Australia's 13 million inhabitants. The proposed national grid system would be less than 5,000 miles in length. The Government rejects the Senate amendment in clause 13  a. 
In reply to the honourable members for Farrer  (Mr Fairbairn)  and Wakefield  (Mr Kelly),  let me state the position briefly: As the honourable member for Wakefield said, the Gidgealpa to Sydney pipeline concept has been well assessed, but it so happens that even the proven reserves in Gidgealpa are not sufficient to meet the fully contracted obligations of the consortium. I have a letter from the Santos company, dated 25 May, in which it points out that the reserves are deficient in aggregate in view of the commitment to South Australia of 1.3 trillion cubic feet of gas. The logical corollary of this situation is for the company to extend the pipeline to Palm Valley, which was precisely what the Australian Gas Light Co. had in mind. As to the quibble about particular rights of the Public Works Committee, I refer honourable members to clause 25 of the Bill, which states: 
The Authority may, with the approval of the Treasurer, borrow moneys . . . The Treasurer may, out of moneys appropriated by the Parliament for the purposes of this Act, make advances to the Authority of such amounts and on such terms as the Treasurer determines. 
What more do you want than that? 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Mr Berinson)  - Order! The honourable member for Mackellar will cease interjecting. 
The DEPUTY CHAIRMAN - Order! 
It is quite simple. The matter must come before the Parliament on appropriation and there will be annual reports by the Authority to the Minister. In turn those reports will be tabled. There is to be a complete, adequate and even utter supervision by the Parliament of all the activities of the Authority. We are not prepared to accept any further amendment. 
Amendment disagreed to. 
Briefly, in reply, I refer honourable members to paragraph (b) of sub-clause (1) of clause 13 which provides power to convey through the pipes operated by the Authority petroleum belonging to the Authority or to other persons. I think that is an adequate protection. Without reducing the Authority to the status of being a common carrier, it would enable any producer who felt he was being unfairly discriminated against to take the Authority to court by way of writ of mandamus to see he received a proper service. It is far better to have it that way than to have an arbitrary declaration of the pipeline as a common carrier as a matter of primacy. As for the rest of the argument, it becomes nothing more than a bare-faced attempt to grab a public enterprise for the purposes of private profit. I move: 
That the question be now put. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Mr Berinson)  - Order! The honourable member for Mackellar will resume his seat. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN  - Order! The honourable member for Mackellar will not intervene. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Amendment disagreed to. 
 I move: 
In Senate amendment No. 3, omit the words 'a Magistrate's warrant for the purpose', insert the words 'a warrant from a Justice of the Peace authorizing him to enter upon the land, being a warrant granted after the Justice has been satisfied, by information on oath, that it is impracticable so to notify the occupier of the land within a reasonable time'. 
My purpose in moving this amendment  to the  Senate's amendment is that as it stands 'Magistrate', being spelt with a capital 'M means that only a stipendary magistrate, which is a superior rank of the magistracy, can be approached for the purpose mentioned in the provision. This would cause intolerable delays because stipendary magistrates are located only in major centres of population throughout Australia. The amendment is designed to facilitate the Senate's amendment and to allow a reasonable application to be made on oath and by information to a justice of the peace and the necessary warrant for entry to be sworn and taken out. 
On behalf of the Committee appointed to draw up the reasons for the House disagreeing to Senate amendments Nos 1 and 2, I present those reasons. They have been circulated to honourable members and, with the concurrence of the House, I incorporate them in Hansard. (The reasons read as follows) - 
Reason for disagreeing to Senate Amendment No.  1 
Because: 
The Australian Gas Light Company has entered into a Letter of Agreement, operative from October 1972, with a consortium of natural gas producing companies at Gidgealpa in the Cooper Basin of South Australia to purchase supplies for its use under its statutory franchise at Sydney. To transmit the gas it established a subsidiary company. East Aust. Pipeline Corporation Limited, whose share capital it wholly owns, and which has already obtained the necessary feasibility study and technical advice and costing to pursue the construction of the pipeline, and has entered into various contracts for that purpose. The said company also entered into a contract with Mitsubishi (Australia) Pty Ltd for the supply of 206,000 tons of 34 inch diameter pipes for the construction of the pipeline. The said company has assigned to the Commonwealth of Australia the benefit of its pipe contract and a substantial proportion of the pipes have been delivered to the custody of the Commonwealth of Australia, and a sum of about $7m paid by it for them. 
To permit of the construction of the first stage of its national pipeline project, and to also supply to Australian Gas Light Company its natural gas from the Gidgealpa consortium, the Commonwealth of Australia is acquiring the shares of East Aust. Pipeline Corporation Limited, so that it may assume the responsibilities and receive the benefits of that company's contractual arrangements, feasibility studies and technology. 
The Commonwealth is also entering into an appropriate contract with Australian Gas Light Company to transmit by the proposed pipeline its contracted supplies of gas from the Gidgealpa consortium. 
Under the terms of its contract with the Gidgealpa consortium, Australian Gas Light Company is obliged to complete construction of the pipeline and accept delivery of gas for transmission within 2i years from the date of the contract. The nine members of the Gidgealpa consortium will be committed to the expenditure of S330m for the necessary refining and processing plant, of which $130m must be spent to synchronise with the completion of the pipeline. $ loom of this money must be obtained by bank accommodation on stringent terms, contingent on the early commencement and completion of the pipeline. 
Completion of construction has been already delayed for four months, pending completion of an Environmental Impact Inquiry constituted by the Government of Nev/ South Wales, and consideration by that Government of its recommendations. 
Members of the Gidgealpa consortium are being increasingly obliged to continue operations on borrowed funds, at high rates of interest, pending completion of the pipeline. 
Tenders have already been called for the supply of the necessary pipeline gate valves, and the continued employment of 600 men in foundries at Melbourne and Ballarat are dependent on the allocation of the contract to them. 

 Mr James Donald, who will be the Executive Member of the Pipeline Authority, is in a position to call tenders within three weeks of publication of the recommendations of the Environmental Impact Inquiry, and can award the necessary contract within fifteen weeks thereafter, and commence construction in 27 weeks. The completion of the construction will be either 85 or 110 weeks, dependent on the final route recommended by the Environmental Impact Inquiry. 
The Australian Gas Light Company is the oldest and most experienced company in gas production and pipeline engineering in Australia, and, prior to the arrangement with the Commonwealth was proceeding to construction in accordance with the feasibility study and the cost estimates associated therewith. Consequently the construction involves the substitution of the Commonwealth as constructing authority for the project, taking over from Australian Gas Light Company through ownership of East Australia Pipeline Corporation Limited, under an arrangement whereby the Commonwealth would stand in the shoes of Australian Gas Light Company Limited, who would not be disadvantaged by the Commonwealth assumption of responsibility. 
In these circumstances, the proposed investigation by the Public Works Committee would result in delay and serious financial loss to all parties concerned, and would only confirm the already established economic and commercial viability of the project. 
No other statutory authority, constituted and functioning under Commonwealth legislation, has been subjected to the provisions of the Public Works Committee Act, as would result under the terms of the Senate amendment. 
Reason for disagreeing to Senate Amendment No. % 
Because: 
Clause 16a would reduce the Pipeline Authority to the status of a common carrier, and substitute public investment for what would otherwise be a substantial private obligation to invest in its own pipeline. 
The Senate amendment, imposing the obligation on the Authority to accept petroleum at any point on Its pipelines, for delivery to any other point on such pipelines, would completely frustrate operation of the pipeline by the Pipeline Authority, and in particular its powers under Clause 13 to buy and sell natural gas on its own account. 
The objective of the Government is to establish a national pipeline grid for the transmission of natural gas at a uniform price, and ensuring continuity of supply. 
Each Australian producer of natural gas claiming its rights from the Pipeline Authority as a common carrier could set up a rival and excessive pricing structure, according to its whim and belief as to what maximum return it could obtain. 
In its conduct of the pipeline, the Authority would need to regulate most carefully the British thermal content of the natural gas which varies greatly from the different Australian production basins. 
The entry of natural gas into the pipeline without power to enforce the removal of undesirable associated gases would also produce chaos in the system. With the unregulated commingling of natural gas on a common carrier basis, rival producers would seek to pass through the pipeline gas with such a wide variety of impurities that it would be impossible to ascertain and enforce a common pricing structure, and uniformity of quality for consumers. 
The Minister for Customs and Excise has provided the following information in answer to the honourable member's question: 
Since 1923 the Customs (Prohibited Exports) Regulations have provided that the export of the skin of the kangaroo is prohibited without the consent of the Minister for Customs and Excise. The inclusion in the Regulation of a provision of this kind was a clear indication that restraints were intended to apply to the export of kangaroo skins. Despite this, successive Ministers for Customs have permitted the export of kangaroo skins at a rate of something in excess of 800,000 per annum. Moreover, goods manufactured from kangaroo skins were also being exported in considerable volume. 
I accept, as does the Select Committee on Wildlife Conservation and I would hope most responsible members of the Australian community, that the interests of the kangaroo industry should be subservient to those of conservation. Moreover, 1 am completely satisfied that I would not be serving the interests of conservation and the will of the Australain public, if I were to follow the practice of previous Ministers by giving automatic consent to waive the policy of the law in relation to exports of kangaroo skins. 
In coming to this conclusion I was influenced by a great many factors including: 
the public concern in relation to the kangaroo exhibited by more than 80 petitions to Parliament; 
similar concern expressed by national and international organisations interested in conservation; 
the knowledge that hundreds of thousands of kangaroos were being slaughtered to satisfy, an almost insatiable commercial export demand; 
the views expressed by persons such as  Mr E.  B. Baysinger of the United States Department of Interior, and 
the absence of acceptable scientific data gathering and control measures which would ensure the survival of the kangaroo. 
Because of the long standing attitude in relation to the export of kangaroo skins I gave some three months warning to commercial interests that I intended to enforce the relevant provisions of the Customs (Prohibited Exports) Regulations. I adopted a similar attitude when these provisions were extended to cover kangaroo products and manufactures. I have no knowledge of the rate at which kangaroos are now being destroyed. 
I refer the honourable member to the report of the meeting of the Australian Fauna Authorities Conference now tabled in the Parliament. 
The Minister for Customs and Excise has provided the following information in answer to the honourable member's question: 
Yes. 
The number of buildings not owned by the Commonwealth, in which the Department of Customs and Excise occupies space, in each State, are as follows: 
Australian Capital Territory  -  2. Floor area 7,100 square feet. 
New South Wales- 6. Floor area 28,079 square feet. 
Victoria  -  1. Floor area 280 square feet. 
Queensland  -  3. Floor area 11,620 square feet 
South Australia  -  6. Floor area 9,992 square feet. 
Western Australia- 2. Floor area 1,180 square feet. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) Yes. In relation to the remainder of the question, the Commissioner of Taxation has advised- 
These concessions apply in respect of exploration and mining in Australia and Papua New Guinea. 
Australian and international companies are not distinguished in company income tax statistics. The only relevant classification available is resident or non-resident status. The companies which issued shares qualifying for deductions under sections 77A, 77D, 77C and 78 that were included in the latest survey on which the estimated cost of the concessions was based were resident companies. It should be pointed out, however, that for income tax purposes resident companies include companies incorporated in Australia, irrespective of their degree of foreign ownership. 
It is understood that the United States tax law permits deductions in United States tax assessments for expenditure incurred by a United States company in exploring for oil in Australia. However, the United States tax law does not contain provisions similar to sections 77A, 77C, 77D and 78. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
I ) No. I have received from the National Coal Research Advisory Committee a statement of the current status of the technology in the manufacture of oil from coal. The Committee concludes that no new process has yet been demonstrated on a commercial scale to be more economic than the existing Sasol oil-from-coal process in South Africa. The Coal Utilisation Research Advisory Committee in 1961 investigated the Sasol process for its applicability to Australian conditions, and concluded tht it would be grossly uneconomic at that time, with a requirement for continuous Government subsidy on a large scale. There has been no change in economic conditions which would alter this conclusion at the present time. However, I am having the position in regard to overseas developments observed continuously. That overseas interest in oil from coal is substantial is indicated by the current activity of international oil companies seeking rights to the black coal deposits in Australia. 
In regard to oil shale, the motor spirit produced at the Glen Davis plant in N.S.W. was costing 53c per gallon to produce at the time of its closure in 1 952. In addition, the reserves of shale, and also the thickness of seams being worked, were both so low as to give no encouragement for consideration of larger scale operations which could reduce costs. A prospect at Julia Creek in North Queensland has been under investigation for several years, particularly in regard to its potential to produce a significant co-product of vanadium. So far the group of companies concerned have given no indication as to when they might be able to mount an economic operation. 
) In the six months to 3 1 March 1973- 
33.3 percent. 
66.7 percent. 
Community use of School Buildings  (Question No. 643) 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes. 
I am advised that the following premises are rented by Commonwealth authorities associated with my Department: 
 in reply - I do not propose to trespass further on the time of the House. I merely say that the last 2 speakers are as far back in their thinking as the present Act is. I do not reflect on the capacity or services of the individual members of the National Radiation Advisory Committee. But around this measure there is - and I am speaking of the parent measure; the Atomic Energy Act 1953  -  a strong flavour of the Oak Ridge mentality when it was presumed by one world power that it had a complete monopoly and would be able to retain a complete monopoly of atomic energy and its application to explosives. Accordingly we will be having a very good look at the whole measure not just merely the trifling matter of an extra appointment as suggested by the honourable member for Farrer  (Mr Fairbairn). 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. 
 The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
to (5) Strip mining refers to open cut mining in which a body of valuable material, usually coal, is exposed and mined along the body of the strike. While strip mining is usually associated with the mining of coal other minerals are also mined in this way. 
The supervision and control over mining operations is a matter for the Mines Department in each State. The detailed information sought in respect of each mining venture would be available in the individual State Mines Departments. 
 The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
On the assumption that 'sand mining' refers to mineral sands operations the companies currently producing mineral sands in Australia are as follows: 
 I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
This Bill, which is consequential upon the Seas and Submerged Lands Bill 1973 (No. 2), was also introduced into the House on 10 May and passed on 17 May and has since been frustrated in another place. I now introduce the Bill again and commend it to the House. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Gorton)  adjourned. 
 I move: 
That  the  Bill  be now read a second time.  In introducing this Bill I remind all honourable members that it is completely identical in all respects with the measure which was introduced by me in this chamber on 10 May 1973 and which was carried in this House by vote on decision without amendment on 17 May 1973. It was introduced into the Senate on 22 May 1973 and its consideration was there adjourned, by vote on division of the Senate, until after the first day of sitting of the Senate after 1 August 1973. As an interval of over 3 months has new elapsed, during which the Senate has failed to pass this measure under the terms of section 57 of the Constitution, the Bill is being introduced so that it may be again passed by this House without amendment, and returned to the Senate for its further consideration. 
The objective of the Bill, as announced by His Excellency the Governor-General in his Speech at the opening of the Twenty-eighth Parliament is to remove any doubt about the exclusive right of the Commonwealth to sovereign control over the resources of the sea bed, off the coast of Australia and its territories, from low water mark to the outer limits of the continental shelf. The Bill, in addition, provides the legislative framework to govern the exploration and exploitation of the mineral resources, other than petroleum, of these submerged lands. By the reintroduction of the Bill, the Government demonstrates its determination to adhere to its policies, as announced before the last election, and to which the Australian people gave their stamp of approval on 2 December last. I do not propose to explain further the provisions of the Bill, as these have been fully covered in my second reading speech delivered in this House on .10 May last. The current stalemate over this Bill has resulted in a truly Gilbertian situation, in which members of the former Government have frustrated and delayed the passage of legislation which virtually in all respects repeats their own proposals of 1970. 
The announced support of the Liberal Party Conference for Parts I and II of the Bill is not acceptable to the Government. It is merely a repetition of the tactics used in 1970 when the Bill as introduced, without a mining code, would have been merely declaratory without imposing obligations or providing for their enforcement. The States and other bodies, interested in the preservation of the present stalemate would merely stifle a metaphorical yawn and" state how interesting the academic situation was, and continue unimpeded their present conduct. Honourable members of all parties will recall that the Government when in Opposition gave full support to the Territorial Seas and Continental Shelf Bill introduced by the former Government in 1970. Despite that support the former Government, after debating the measure, deliberately moved and secured an adjournment of the debate. It lacked the courage and foresight to pass this vital legislation. The Government's views on the matter can hardly be better expressed than by the speech of the former Minister for National Development who, when introducing the Territorial Seas and Continental Shelf Bill in April 1970, on behalf of the Acting Minister for External Affairs said: 
The Government's view is that it would serve Australia's national and international interests to have the legal position resolved as soon as practicable. 
If the Opposition had the courage of its convictions it would support this legislation instead of conniving with certain of the States to frustrate the Government's wishes in this most important matter. Passage of the Bill will open the way for any doubts or issues to be challenged. This is precisely the Government's intention, as stated by me in my second reading speech on 10 May last, when I said: 
If there are parties - individuals or governments - who would dispute our right to take the course I now propose, let them challenge this legislation in the Australian courts. 
I repeat the invitation and the challenge. With the advances of marine exploration technology, there have been amazingly rapid developments in the capacity to search and exploit offshore resources to depths which were considered impossible, in the terms of the United Nations Convention on the Continental Shelf. Already there is a drilling vessel off our coast, capable of operating in water to a depth of over 1,500 feet.  Major exploration  interests are already preparing to drill in depths of 4,000 to 6,000 feet. The Australian Government negotiates and ratifies treaties with adjoining national states. It is responsible for the bathymetric survey of the continental shelf. It has the undoubted responsibility for the defence of the superjacent waters, the control of navigation and the apprehension of smugglers and wrongdoers in these waters. 
The conspiracy, based on petty parochialism to frustrate consideration by the highest tribunal of our land of these matters is the measure of the backwardness and the foolishness of our little Australians. The present situation is an intolerable one, where certain sovereign States claim the right to prevent Australia's own High Court from adjudicating in Australia on an issue of sovereignty which is the sole concern of the Australian people and their nation. I commend the Bill to the House. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Gorton)  adjourned. 
The honourable member for Farrer  (Mr Fairbairn),  with his best patrician accent, has chosen to attempt to heap coals of fire upon the head of the Government. Abuse is no argument. Of course, hell hath no fury like a minister Who has lost his portfolio, particularly a minister who has to his eternal discredit the give-away of the offshore oil reserves of Australia. That was the biggest, wealthiest and most important sellout of minerals in Australia's history. Let him inspect the bottom of his own tub and see the mess that is in it. So much for the honourable member; I would not waste further words on him. 
This, today, is the position: Instead of talking in terms of the loss to Australia we might very well talk of the gain. For example, there is record production in minerals both in volume and in value. There is a record export of minerals in volume and value. There is record production of iron ore and coal. Paraburdoo is out of wraps. There is record production of bauxite and alumina. 
Shut up, you young pup. 
The question asked by the Leader of the Opposition is a piece of humbug. 
All right. When the interjections are finished- 
 This is the reduction to absurdity of the processes of the national Parliament. I do not know of an instance in parliamentary history where there has been an absurd manoeuvre- 
You withdraw that.  Mr Speaker,  I ask for a withdrawal. It was an unprincipled comment. 
Unreservedly,  Sir. 
He has not withdrawn his remark. I ask for the remark to be withdrawn unreservedly. 
 Mr Speaker,  the whole matter is as simple as this - and I will quote from the Hansard report of last night's proceedings. The honourable member for Blaxland  (Mr Keating)  last night, according to page 1283 of Hansard, quoted from a speech made by the right honourable member for Higgins  (Mr Gorton)  as follows: 
As to off-shore minerals other than petroleum, the Commonwealth is of the view that it should proceed on the footing that it enjoys total rights outside the 3-mile limit. It proposes to legislate in pursuance of this section. 
The honourable member for Blaxland quoted verbatim from the Hansard record of 15 May 1970, when the right honourable member for Higgins uttered precisely those words. The honourable member for Blaxland is reported at page 1283 of Hansard as having said last night that the right honourable member for Higgins told the then Minister: 
Eliminate from any proposed letter any suggestion that the Commonwealth will not legislate unilaterally until after the completion of full and frank discussions with the States on this matter. 
At page 2243 of Hansard of 15 May 1970 the right honourable member for Higgins is reported as saying: 
For this reason I would prefer that you eliminate from your proposed letter the suggestion that the Commonwealth will not legislate unilaterally until after the completion of full and frank discussions with the States on this matter. 
On that basis, in their desperate, foolish attempt at mock heroics on a silly issue, honourable members opposite, including the honourable member for Moreton  (Mr Killen)  of all people, rushed in. .Was there ever a more absurd situation in this House than that a select committee be set up to investigate what is already in Hansard? It is humbug. As for the rest of this nonsense, I repeat what I said before: It is here and it is available for anyone to read. Any honourable member can come along to my office and see it. There is nothing to be ashamed of in it. The minute is dated 29 December 1972. 
It is not a Cabinet minute at all. It is a report from  Mr Livermore,  the First Assistant Secretary, to the Secretary of the Department. It is not a Cabinet minute. 
I am quite happy to table it. It says: 
As requested, attached are the following papers: 
The Minerals- (Submerged Lands) Bill 1970; 
The draft of a second reading speech-- 
That is the complete document. May I explain for a moment? Everyone else has had a go. I quoted from a minute dated 29 December 1972 on the Minerals (Submerged Lands) Bill. I mentioned that it was from  Mr Livermore,  the First Assistant Secretary, to the Secretary of the Department. I was proceeding to quote from it when I was interrupted so foolishly. (Extension of time granted) I do not want to take up the time of the House unduly. The document starts in this fashion: 
As requested, attached are the following papers: 
The Minerals (Submerged Lands) Bill 1970; 
The draft of a second reading speech which had been prepared in September 1970 for possible use - 
I stress the words 'for possible use' - by the then Minister for National Development. 
No work has been carried out on these papers since 1970. I will read out the rest of the document if the House wishes me to do so, but I have tabled the document. 
Pursuant to section 32b of the Snowy Mountains Hydro-Electric Power Act 1949-1966, 1 present the twentyfourth annual report of the Snowy Mountains Hydro-Electric Authority for the year ended 30 June 1973 together with financial statements and the report of the Auditor-General on those statements. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
and (2) The Pipeline Authority will esablish formulae which will provide a uniform basis of pricing. The main factors in these formulae will be gas price at the inlet valve, transmission costs and amortisation of capital costs, including, on a present value basis, the installation of compressors at a later date. 
No. 
Yes. 
Yes. 
United States of America: Immigration Inquiries at Australian Government Offices (Question No. 782) 
 The honourable member for Wannon  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  as usual has a proclivity for backing losers. He might with elementary courtesy have asked me what the facts were. He did not choose to do so for the very obvious reason, of course, that he thought he could walk in and swing a punch with devastating effect. The facts of this case are simple - they are so simple that even the honourable member for Wannon could understand them. I repeat, the facts are very simple indeed. I have never at any time been approached by any representative of the trade unions in this matter. 
I have never been approached. Last Saturday, at a quarter past 12- 
I listened to the honourable member for Wannon in courtesy, but I do not think that he is capable of it. At a quarter past 12, I was telephoned by one of the engineers from the Snowy Mountains Hydroelectric Authority and told that the Blowering Dam was overflowing. I was told the facts of the case and asked what should be done. I told him that I thought he should point out the position to the trade unions concerned. He did so. 
I came to Canberra on Sunday afternoon especially to meet the officers of the Authority and to establish what was the position. The position was reported to me and these are the facts: A special meeting of the Snowy Mountains Council was convened on Monday of last week to discuss the problem of the overflow from the Blowering Dam. The meeting was held this morning at which it was decided that they would go into the whole question of the future of the overflow. 
If you listen, you will learn. If you do not want to listen, get outside. I repeat that a special meeting was held this morning which considered the question of the control of water in the lower Tumut River below the Blowering Reservoir. As I said, it was convened a week ago because the responsible officers then foresaw the situation that would arise. That situation has arisen because of the filling of the Blowering Dam by the consistently high energy demands from the Electricity Commission of New South Wales over the past several months. 
The position had been reached where water was spilling from the reservoir at the rate of 1,800 cubic feet per second and flow limitations leading to flooding in the lower Tumut River were becoming a serious restraint on the flexibility of the scheme and its capacity to meet further energy demands from New South Wales. Since Saturday, approximately 11,800 acre feet of water have been spilled from Blowering Dam since it commenced to overflow. Responsible management of water at Blowering Dam has required the curtailment of energy production from the upper and lower generating stations of the Tumut power system. At an overflow rate of 3,200 cubic feet per second, flooding would occur at the poplar plantation section of the lower Tumut River. At a discharge of 3,700 cubic feet per second, the second flood prone area would commence to be inundated. These discharge rates will be reached this week if appropriate action is not taken. 
At its meeting today, the Snowy Mountains Council decided to set down operation guidelines which will have the effect of curtailing power production from the Tumut stations so as to prevent flooding in the Tumut River below the Blowering Dam, except in situations where natural inflows by rainfall in the Blowering valley cannot be fully controlled by the water storages of the system. The excessive demands on electricity generation are such that in the  4i  months of the planning year, which commenced last May, the New South Wales Electricity Commission has used 70 per cent of its total yearly allocation of water for purposes of power generation. 
Water of course cannot run uphill, as even the honourable member for Wannon would know. At the present time Lake Eucumbene is 50 per cent empty. It has a capacity of 7 times the water content of Sydney Harbour. Blowering Dam is the main reservoir at the lowest level of the Snowy Mountains Scheme, where generative water has been trapped from the Tumut power stations for subsequent release for irrigation. As I said earlier, it is overflowing at the rate of 1,800 cubic feet per second at a time when it should reasonably still be capable of receiving water from continued power generation. 
For the replenishment of the depleted resources of Lake Eucumbene, we will this year lack the normal run-off from the melted snow because of the phenomenally low snowfall. It is to be hoped that unusually high rainfall will curtail the deficiency and safeguard our food needs. If the honourable member for Wannon listens he will learn. The Snowy Mountains Council has clearly outlined the flooding dangers of the lower reaches of the Tumut River. The main irrigation season is from December to May. The rate of wastage with the Blowering Dam overflow is equal to 40 million gallons per hour and 972 million gallons per day. Each day water is spilling uselessly over its walls- 
Oh, dry up. Each day, I repeat, water is spilling uselessly over its walls at a rate which would fully irrigate 44,000 acres of land. The choice that faces the Snowy Mountains Council has been between maintaining adequate water supplies for Australia's main food bowl in the Mumimbidgee Irrigation area and generation of power beyond the excess safe capacity of the Snowy Mountains scheme, with the added embarrassment of Tumut valley flooding. 
In his political bias, the honourable member for Wannon, who with his rural interests should have been one of the chief advocates of prudent curtailment of power generation, has rushed in, to his own embarrassment. It is ironical indeed that on the very day when the Government is moving to legislate for a referendum to curb prices the honourable member for Wannon, this laird of broad acres, wants to deny the irrigation area its essential needs and create still higher prices due to inadequate production with water limitations. No member of this House ever rushed so eagerly and so stupidly into an ambush. 
I move: 
That the question be now put 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Martin)Order! The point of order is without foundation. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Martin)Order! That is not a point of order; it is a point of debate. 
Motion (by  Mr Daly)  put: 
That the business of the day be called on. 
Yes, certainly. There is no reason why I should not. I will go further than that. I will table and in fact I can inform the House now of the minutes of the meeting of the Council which was held on 14 August, and in which this is stated: 
Generation at the present high rates beyond September would cause flooding in the lower Tumut and the electricity commissions' planned entitlement would be exceeded. The electricity commissions stated that the high rates of generation would be required in September although for the SEVC lower than August.  Mr Raddock  agreed that to avoid flooding pre-releases from Blowering Reservoir would need to commence within a week. 
I was contacted by  Mr Douglas  by telephone on Saturday at a quarter past twelve. He told me of the facts in relation to the commencement at that stage of the overflow of the Blowering. He told me of industrial requests that had been made. That was the first time I had knowledge of them. I told him that he ought to immediately contact - 
I am answering the question. I told him that he ought to contact the union and tell it that the operation was most complex. I told him that he should also contact the Victorian electricity authorities. I told him that I would be again in touch with him in Canberra on the Sunday afternoon. I was. 
I can quote from a minute which I received yesterday. 
Yes, I will be very pleased to table it, too. It is from  Mr Reiher,  the  Deputy Chairman  of the Snowy Mountains Council, acting in the absence overseas of  Sir Lenox  Hewitt. This is what he said - 
It is dated 26 September. He said: 
A special meeting of the Snowy Mountains Council was held this morning in Canberra, and it considered the question of control of water in the .Lower Tumut below Blowering Reservoir. 
This meeting was convened at short notice last week, because of a situation which had arisen with the filling of Blowering Reservoir by, consistently high energy demands from the Electricity Commission of New South Wales over the past several months. 
The position has been reached when water is spilling from the reservoir and flow limitations in the Lower Tumut River were becoming a serious restraint on the flexibility of the scheme and its capacity to meet further energy demands from New  Souh  Wales. Approximately 11,800 acre feet of water have been spilled from the reservoir since it commenced to overflow last Saturday. 
That is the answer to the honourable member's question. The minute continues: 
Irrespective of the industrial action directed at the Tumut Power Stations of the Snowy Mountains system by the hydroplant operators of the Electricity Commission of New South Wales during the past several days, responsible management of water at Blowering Reservoir required curtailment of energy production from the Tumut system. 
At its meeting today, the Council set down operational guidelines which will have the effect of curtailing power production from the Tumut stations, so as to prevent flooding from the Tumut River below Blowering Reservoir except in situations where natural inflows cannot be fully controlled by the water storages of the system. 
I repeat my answer that the demands did not matter in the context of the overall operation. 
When honourable members opposite are quiet I will continue. The union demands did not matter in the overall context of the balancing of the output, or I should say, the release of water. They were within themselves reasonable. Nor did I want the Snowy Mountains Hydro-electric Authority to be put in a position where it would be the meat in the sandwich when  Sir Robert  Askin tolerates exactly the same situation in New South Wales, nor did I intend to have professional engineers from the Electricity Commission of New South Wales brought as agents provocateurs into a federal undertaking. 
 We have listened with great interest to the speech of the honourable member for McMillan  (Mr Hewson)  and we do not disagree with its substantial content. In fact at a later stage I will move an addendum oy way of amendment to the terms of his motion which 1 think will put matters in their true perspective. We give the honourable member due credit for what he has done in the interests of his constituents. Of course, he has every reason to do so because, representing the major portion of the Latrobe Valley and such areas as Morwell and Yallourn, the retrogression of Victorian Government interest in the brown coal deposits of that area is a matter of immediate concern to him and his constituents. 
As he correctly said, he made certain undertakings in his campaign. So did other people and, in particular, a very talented and able group of Victorian parliamentarians who formulated a proposal in a document entitled Labor's Blueprint for the Latrobe Valley' which was put out just before the last federal election. The co-authors were the parliamentarians  Mr D.  Amos,  Mr Frank  Mountford, the honourable Eric Kent,  Mr Robert  Fordham and Councillor Bartholomews. In compiling the document, they included matters of Federal and State policy and said: 
Commonwealth and State Government Co-operation Rule National Fuel and Energy Commission - The Latrobe Valley contains the largest resources of accessible brown coal, anywhere in the world. Labor will establish a Joint fuel and energy commission to devise and implement an integrated and co-ordinated national fuel and energy policy. The regional office of this Commission would be sited in the Latrobe Valley. 
We have heard nothing from the honourable member for McMillan on that point. They go on to detail the functions of the proposed commission in exploration, development, transport and marketing. National fuel policy is the next item of interest. The document states: 
The place of the Latrobe Valley brown coal reserves in Australia's total energy requirements must be determined, bearing in mind the present and future depletion rates of other fuels needed to match Aus,tralia's requirements in chemical processing, general industry and national development. 
The next heading is 'Brown Coal Research'. This of course is where the Victorian State 
Government has seriously tapered off its interest since 1963. They said this in their document: 
The Commission would establish a research centre in the Latrobe Valley, attached to the BIAE (Gippsland Institute of Advanced Education). At present the only research into alternative use of brown coal is being carried out at Melbourne University. The development of the char industry is just one example of the sorts of industries that might result from this research. Feasibility studies into the economics cf the production of petrol from brown coal would be given top priority. 
There has been a considerable slackening of economic activity within the honourable member's electorate since the introduction of natural gas at exorbitantly high prices, thanks to the machinations of former Premier Bolte. Victoria now has the worst of both worlds with the cessation of the production of coal gas under the Lurgi process and the alternative choice of natural gas at exorbitant prices. I note also that even the sale of briquettes made from the brown coal in the honourable member's electorate is declining. 
I also note from the latest statistics available from the Joint Coal Board of New South Wales that natural gas has made only a 9 per cent impact on the total Victorian fuel market when it ought reasonably to have been between 20 per cent and 30 per cent. Again, that is directly attributable to the exorbitant price which has been imposed upon it. Of course, the companies are hanging on. At the present time the Esso-BHP people are simply hoist with their own petard. They want a top price but they cannot get the volume to make it a going proposition. They have yet to learn a fundamental economic proposition which is that it is volume that counts and a competitive price. Victoria has neither and that is a matter to which the honourable member for McMillan might properly address himself in his future activities in this House. 
It has been done in the State Parliament by the Labor representatives. As recently as this week, certain questions were asked in the Victorian Parliament which are readily available in the reports of the Victorian Legislative Assembly where they- can be perused and duly noted. Of course, the honourable member for McMillan has a further difficulty. He was elected with the preferences of the Democratic Labor Party, and to that extent he must dance to their tune. The Demo cratic Labor Party's obsessions are defence and intrigue. Imitation is the sincerest form of flattery and the honourable member for McMillan, wittingly or unwittingly, has flattered those Victorian Labor members of Parliament who have been so active in this matter. 
We are of course thoroughly aware of the total brown coal resources of the Latrobe Valley. I want to pay my tribute to  Dr Andrews  for the work that he did, to the various Victorian State governmental authorities for the work they have done in the generation of power from brown coal which is, at best, a medium quality fuel and also to what was done with the production of gas under the Lurgi system. We look upon the brown coal resources of the Latrobe Valley as the ultimate or the final resource of Australia in terms of its energy needs. As I informed the House in a policy statement some S months ago, we intend to have an energy budget under which we will assess annually Australia's energy needs and how they can best be met by the present recoverable resources. They can vary from time to time, according to market impact. 
In addition to the valuable deposits in the Latrobe Valley there are also equally valuable deposits, particularly for purposes of gasification and hydrogenation, in the South Maitland area of New South Wales. The hydrogenation of those deposits can be easily used for the extraction of motor spirit from the Greta seam coal. But, as the honourable member for Farrer  (Mr Fairbairn)  said, an attempt was made by Hitler to conquer the world and he had to depend very heavily on the hydrogenation of coal. Only last year the  Chairman  of the Royal Dutch Shell Petroleum group said that the future of the world's energy needs lay with coal. Not only is research being carried on in other parts of the world by the major oil companies, but also in Australia attempts are being made to acquire blocks of black coal for the purpose of hydrogenation. 
By the multinationals. I have had occasion to interview some of their representatives and I have told them that, whilst the granting of leases is a matter for the respective State governments, by the same token if there is any question of hydrogenation and they are seeking to export those products they will not be able to do so because the immediately available reserves, of coal suitable for easy hydrogenation will need to be kept in Australia. Australia's needs come first so far as an Australian national government is concerned. 
Reference has been made to the rising price of crude, and this is a matter of concern to me. At the present time Liberia is pushing the price of crude up to $4.90 a barrel and it is going higher with the policies and the combinations of the Organisations of Petroleum Exporting Countries. Our light Australian crudes are notably deficient in residuals which are suitable for furnace fuel development. For that reason I suggest to the honourable member for McMillan that probably the first efforts that should be made in black coal and brown coal research and development are for the extraction of a furnace oil. Only last week I had the pleasure of interviewing a  Mr Lyon  from the South Maitland coal-fields. He reminded me of the work that he and his brother had done in this field some 30 or 40 years ago. The price of crude will go higher and it will go to a point at which it will have a crippling effect on Australian industry. 
Obviously, the need is to use alternatives. We must minimise our imports of crude oil and particularly the heavy crudes from which the residual fuel can be extracted. For that reason we will maximise the use of natural gas as a furnace fuel and considerably reduce imports. As for the irreducible requirements that will still remain, a thick coal oil will be the obvious substitute for the present fuel oil which is obtained from imported crudes. So the honourable member can be assured that the Government has this problem well in mind. 
For the future, we will be very pleased to co-operate with the Victorian Government in our planning for the transcontinental natural gas pipeline. We know that in the ultimate and when the point comes when Australia's reserves of natural gas are finally depleted, it will be to the brown coal gasification of the Latrobe Valley and the black coal gasification of the Hunter Valley that Australia will look for its ultimate means of industrial subsistence. We are following very closely the developments overseas in research into synthetic natural gas. The United States of America in particular has been forced to seek an alternative to its seriously depleted natural gas reserves and is seeking to obtain by hydrogenation synthetic natural gas which will be of approximately 800 to 850 British thermal units to the cubic foot as compared with 450 for ordinary coal gas and 1,050 or 1,100 for natural gas. That will probably be the first and the best means by which we will ultimately gasify both the brown coal and the black coal for Australia's needs. My time is approaching its end, so 1 move: 
That the following words be added to the motion: and congratulates the members of the Victorian Branch of the Australian Labor Party, who were responsible for the compilation and publication of the document " Labor's Blueprint for the Latrobe Valley ", from which this motion is derived'. 

 - Mr Speaker, at the present time within the State of New South Wales, which is under the control of a Liberal Government, certain restrictions are operating in respect of the generation of power. There is no member of any of the unions associated with the operation of those stations on strike. It is a situation which is tolerated by the Liberal Government of New South Wales. It is being suggested by the Opposition that some alternative action ought to have been taken in respect of the operations of the Snowy Mountains scheme. That is the precise situation. For some sordid, stupid, foolish political advantage it is being suggested that we in some way should have led with our chin and allowed the officers of the State Electricity Commission to come in and ensure industrial turmoil that would have resulted in the complete closure of the Snowy Mountains hydro-electric generating scheme. That precisely is the situation on the industrial side. 
I acted with the advice of my responsible officers to whom I posed the question as to what would be the alternatives. I consulted with my responsible officers on Sunday afternoon and acted on their advice, which was that they could see no reason why the Snowy scheme should not be operated on the same basis - no better and no worse than in New South Wales. The overriding consideration, and the main one which has been under consideration by the Snowy Mountains Council since 14 August last, was the excessive drawing of water from the Snowy for power generating purposes by the State Electricity Commission of New South Wales. 
At the present time Blowering Dam is running just at flood point. There are 1,400 cusecs going through the generator. There are 1,700 cusecs going over the top of the dam. At a total nf 3,200 cusecs there is flooding in the poplar plantation near Tumut, and at 3,700 cusecs more occurs. For miserable, paltry, political advantage, that would occur. 
Yes. I gave the direction as coverage for the responsible officers; of course I would. But it was not the major consideration, as I pointed out this morning, in the context of the total situation. Lake Eucumbene is half empty and Blowering Dam is overflowing when it should not be overflowing. I acted quite deliberately, and if a situation arises where there will be flooding I will terminate the generation of power until the situation can be corrected. When I gave the instructions to my officers I told them that it would be completely at their discretion as to how the water was operated and regulated as between the respective storages and that under no circumstances was any officer or any other person to come on to the premises. No other person was to come on to the premises as provocateurs or for the purpose of usurping the functions that they were bound to exercise. 
If it suits New South Wales to tolerate this situation we could not do otherwise, but again, as I pointed out this morning 
As I pointed out this morning, it was not the primary consideration - 
There was no alternative but to act in that fashion. I acted wisely and I take the responsibility for it. 
 Mr Speaker,  so much for the melodrama; now for the facts. These might have been made available on the last evening on which the Parliament sat had it not been for the turbulence and behaviour of the Opposition which resulted in the sitting of the House being abruptly terminated. (Opposition members interjecting) - 
 Mr Speaker,  members of the Opposition are interjecting. The Opposition spokesman, the honourable member for Wannon  (Mr Malcolm Fraser),  was heard in silence and I expect the same courtesy to be extended to me. 
Having bitterly opposed the Chifley Government's Snowy Mountains hydro-electric scheme and having boycotted its inauguration, it is consistent for the Opposition to again abuse that undertaking for political purposes. Power politics are being played in New South Wales by a Liberal Government in the present power dispute. It is a sure-fire vote winner for the Askin Government to pull a major industrial upheaval correctly timed for the coming State election based on these emotional issues. The present target date is 17 November. Not to be outdone, the Opposition has sought to involve this Government in the dispute. As a bonus, of course, the honourable member for Wannon seeks to big note himself against his rivals, the honourable members for Flinders  (Mr Lynch),  Kooyong  (Mr Peacock)  and Hotham  (Mr Chipp),  who are prepared to knife one another in turn, and then their present incompetent leader. I reject with contempt the censure motion as despicable and emanating from a Party which would stop at nothing and stoop to anything to achieve its political objectives. 
The impasse in Snowy power generation which I forecast at our last sitting week has now arrived. The New South Wales Government is in a desperate position, having exhausted 80 per cent of its yearly allocation of Snowy Mountains waters for electricity generation in 5 months, with only 20 per cent remaining to meet its requirements during peak demands in the remainder of the planning year, namely to 30 April 1974. 
The Electricity Commission of New South Wales advised at 1700 hours on Friday, 28 September, that it would be limiting its draw on the Snowy to conserve water so that its further requirements could stay within the limits of its yearly allocation, even though this might lead to load shedding. The 35-Hour Week Committee controls were lifted on 29 September 1973. The 200 megawatt control was renewed yesterday. The intensification of the New South Wales blackouts is a direct result of the New South Wales 35-Hour Week Committee dispute, as lamely admitted by Fuel and Power Minister Fife. The Askin Government has in no case taken disciplinary action against State Electricity Commission employees, not one of whom is on strike and none of whom have been suspended. Instead it has to date carefully avoided full confrontation with these men knowing that a major industrial dispute would cripple New South Wales. The time to pull it, I repeat, has not yet arrived. Nevertheless, it has been quite prepared through its representatives on the Snowy Mountains Council to provoke such an industrial flare-up amongst its State Electricity Commission employees who work on the Snowy Mountains hydro-power stations. 
The honourable member for Wannon would, of course, be delighted if I had not chosen the wise and responsible course. I was- not prepared to place the Snowy Mountains power system in a worse situation than that operated by Premier Askin. The Opposition asked for the tabling of all documents relevant to this issue. I gladly table them, fo its embarrassment, and not singly to be quoted out of context, as occurred last Thursday week, tout in proper association. The first document is an address by  Mr D.  W. Douglas, Operations Engineer of the Snowy Mountains Council, given to the New South Wales Electricity Commission engineers at Carlingford, Sydney. I quote: 
The purpose of the Snowy Mountains scheme is to collect, regulate and use the waters of the southwardflowing Snowy River plus other streams in the Snowy Mountains to serve two prime objectives. The first is to augment the flow of the westward-flowing Murray and Mumimbidgee Rivers to permit largescale expansion of primary production by irrigation of the dry fertile plains of the Murray and Mumimbidgee valleys. The second is to generate large quantities of peak load power for New South Wales, Victoria and the A.C.T. 
It might be interesting in passing to note that although this is merely an off-peak system, it has been used as a base load system for some months by the New South Wales Electricity Commission. That Commission and the Premier and Government of that State were not prepared to face up to the industrial realities. I now table - 
 May I have some silence? 
I now table the draft provisional minutes of the Snowy Mountains Council meeting held on 14 August last which noted a report from Operations Engineer Douglas that power generation at the then current high rate beyond September could cause flooding in the lower Tumut River and that the New South Wales and Victorian Electricity Commissions' planned entitlements of generating water would be exceeded. The New South Wales representative agreed that, to avoid flooding, pre-releases from Blowering reservoir would need to commence within a week. The functions of Blowering reservoir are well known. It is owned and operated by the New South Wales Government. Its planned function is to trap all water discharged from power generation during the winter and to store that water for release during the warmer months to the Murrumbidgee Irrigation Area. Normally at this early stage it is filled only to about 85 per cent of its capacity. In the 10 days from 22 September to 2 October 24,000 acre feet of water were lost - sufficient to irrigate an area large enough to feed 400,000 people. 
On 28 August operations engineer Douglas, with growing alarm, called together the Operations Engineers Committee, comprising the operations engineers from the New South Wales and Victorian electricity commissions. The water liaison officers of the New South Wales and Victorian irrigation commissions also attended. 1 now table  Mr Douglas's  notes of that meeting and also a letter dated 5 September sent by the Secretary,  Mr Gleeson,  at the direction of the  Chairman  of the Council to all its members, requiring their comments on  Mr Douglas's  notes as a matter of urgency. It is clear from these notes that the New South Wales generation requirements from the Snowy scheme, during September were likely to be such as to cause flooding in the lower Tumut. The notes also show that if power generation were restricted to the extent necessary to avoid flooding the Snowy scheme could not meet demands and load shedding could become necessary in New South Wales. 
On 18 September  Mr Douglas  sent a teleprinter message to the Secretary of the Council,  Mr Gleeson,  advising him that Blowering reservoir was at spillage point and that the system control engineer from the New South Wales Electricity Commission had confirmed that the alternative to meeting generation schedules which at that date would cause spillage at Blowering reservoir was to shed load. He further advised the Snowy Mountains Coucil that until it had considered the situation the Operations Engineers Committee itself had decided to adopt some policy. The policy was: 
Provided the only alternative to generation from the Tumut system which will induce spill from Blowering is load shedding, generation from the Tumut system will be such as to endeavour to restrict the release. . . . 
I table the text of that teleprinter message. On Friday, 21 September, a meeting of the Snowy Mountains Council was convened for Tuesday, 25 September. I table the text of that teleprinter message. In the event, the date of this meeting was altered to the morning of 26 September. I table the text of the further notice. 
On Saturday, 22 September, Blowering Dam commenced to overflow, and  Mr Douglas  received advice that the operators of the Tumut stations intended to limit generation from those stations in accordance with determinations by the 35-Hour Week Committee.  Mr Douglas  telephoned me at Wollongong at midday on Saturday, 22 September. This was my first knowledge of the situation. At no time and at no stage during the whole of this situation have I been approached by the trade unions or the 35- Hour Week Committee to implement their policy. I requested  Mr Douglas  to telephone the leaders of the 35-Hour Week Committee in Sydney, so that he could explain to them the overall situation and the difficulties of operating a complex system which required maximum flexibility and control, and to report to me on the following day as to the results of his discussion. On Saturday night, 22 September a request not to operate the Tumut No 3 power station was acceded to. I did not authorise that, but I can understand the growing concern of  Mr Douglas  which impelled him to act as he did. 
On Sunday morning, 23 September, I received a telephone message from  Mr Hunter,  a departmental officer and a  deputy  member of the Council, who told me of further union demands. I instructed him to get the Federal officers together for me to confer with them at Parliament House on late Sunday afternoon. I drove to Canberra for that purpose. Shortly after my arrival at Parliament House I was telephoned by  Mr Reiner, Deputy Chairman  of the Snowy Mountains Council and Australian Director-General of Works, who informed me that he had been in consultation by telephone with the State representatives on the Snowy Mountains Council earlier that day. I table his 'Note for File' of 28 September 1973 which gives the exact details of what happened on that Sunday prior to his telephone message to me. I quote: 
Industrial Action by E.CNJS.W. Hydro Operators of the Tumut Power Station 
The attached resolutions of the EC.N.S.W. hydro operators of the Tumut power stations of the Snowy 
Mountains Scheme were brought to my notice by the Operations Engineer of the Snowy Mountains Council by telephone during Saturday 22 September 1973. At 6 p.m. on Saturday, 22 September, demand was placed on the Operations Engineer by the Co-ordinator of the New South Wales 35-hour Week Committee through nominated representatives in the Tumut power stations, not to operate Tumut 3 power station from 6 p.m. Saturday, 22 September, to midnight the same day. 
This demand and a subsequent demand not to operate Tumut 3 until  4  p.m. Sunday, 23 September, were acceded to. The officers controlling power supply from the Snowy were not advised by the E.C.N.S.W. of any adverse effect on their system imposed by the Snowy scheme during this period. 
On Sunday morning, 23 September 1973, a further demand was placed on the Operations Engineer to limit power generation from the combined Tumut nations to 200 MW from 12.37 p.m. on 23 September 1973 until 6 a.m. on Monday, 24 September 1973. New South Wales power requirements from the Snowy were met within this limit of generation from the Tumut Stations during the afternoon of Sunday 23 September 1973. 
However, as this limitation was expected to lead to load shedding in New South Wales during the evening peak ... I sought the views of members of the Snowy Mountains Council as to whether in the circumstances, E.C.N.S.W. hydro operators who refused to follow the directions of the Snowy Mountains Council's Operations Engineer, should in their view be stood down and replaced by E.C.N..S.W. engineers who had volunteered to man the stations and who had been moved to the Tumut area by the - (Extension of tune granted) I take it,  Mr Speaker,  that I will have the same period of time as was granted to the Opposition spokesman on this matter. 
 He happened to have a further advantage of 5 minutes.  Mr Reiher's  minute continues: 
It was impracticable to call a formal meeting of the Council at such short notice and with the Snowy Mountains Authority member of Council,  Mr P.  G. Collins and with  Mr Hunter,  ... I sought the views of other Council members in turn by telephone . . . 
The consensus of view of the Council and in particular of the New South Wales and Victorian State Government members of the Council, was that E.C.N.S.W. hydro operators in the Tumut power stations of the Snowy Mountains Scheme who were not prepared to follow the directions of the Operations Engineer of the Council, should be stood down, and that the operations tasks should be performed by alternative manning forces, provided by the E.C.N.S.W. 
S. Reiher Deputy Chairman. 28 September 1973 
You will note,  Mr Speaker,  the role played by the representatives of the New South Wales and Victorian State governments who were members of the Council. They were quite prepared to precipitate an industrial stoppage on the Snowy Mountains scheme and to introduce professional engineers to replace those men who ceased duties - action which the New South Wales State Government was not prepared to take in New South Wales. I told  Mr Reiher  I was not prepared to accept the consensus of view of the Council which would place the Snowy Mountains hydro-electric scheme in a worse position than that of the New South Wales power stations. Two union demands had been met before I had any knowledge of them. Later that afternoon I met at Parliament House with Messrs Reiher. Douglas and Collins. Also present were Messrs Townsend and Hunter of my Department. Refusal to comply with the request of the operators would have resulted in a complete stoppage of generation and the introduction of strike-breaking engineers and this action could have provoked a general upheaval among the Snowy Mountains Authority's own employees. 
During the course of my discussion with my officers I said we were faced with 2 stark situations: Further wastage of- irrigation water through the Blowering and the depletion of Lake Eucumbene which was already half empty, and also with a general industrial upheaval. We would have the worst of both worlds. I said that in the circumstances it would be preferable to conform to the requirements of the 35-hour Week Committee which would at least provide some relief to the system rather than to accept the decisions of the New South Wales and Victorian representatives on the Council which would have led to an even worse situation. I was concerned to ensure that only the hydro-electric plant operators normally employed on the stations be allowed on the premises and that the safety of both men and plant should be ensured. I also considered it entirely unacceptable that the Snowy undertaking should be placed in a worse situation than that which operated in stations in New South Wales and be discriminated against by any outside body or persons. I specially stressed that management and control of the stations was to remain in the hands of the Council. It was pointed out to me that because of the views of the New South Wales and Victorian Council members expressed in telephone conversations earlier that day it would be necessary for me to issue a ministerial directive in writing. I instructed  Mr Reiher  that as no typist was available, he should prepare an appropriate directive and on the following day it was sent to me by courier from my Department. I table a copy of that letter. 
It is dated Monday, 24 September. My decision was an honest and responsible one. Only one formal advice to the Snowy Mountains Council control centre from the Electricity Commission of New South Wales that shedding was to occur due to failure of the Snowy to meet its demands was received. That was at 1703 hours on Sunday, 23 September. I also asked to be provided with daily reports of both the restricted power outputs and their effect on the water conservation system. I am particularly concerned about the storage position of Lake Eucumbene which is at present 54 per cent full. Its full capacity is 3.9 million acre feet; it contains 7 times as much water as Sydney Harbour. This is the second lowest level of Lake Eucumbene since the completion of the total system. It was at its lowest on 31 August, a month earlier, at 51 per cent. Normally it is partly replenished by the melting of snow. The Spencer's Creek readings show that at the end of September 1973 there was 21 inches of snow at that point containing a water yield of 10 inches. The annual average depth of snow at this time at Spencer's Creek is 67 inches, containing 30 inches of water. This is equivalent to a drop in rainfall of 20 inches for the year. Even if the whole of the water from the melting snow flows into Lake Eucumbene it will add100,000 acre feet less to its storage than the average. 
On 26 September - the Wednesday - the Snowy Mountains Council met in Canberra. I table a copy of its draft provisional minutes. The Tumut system had reached a critical situation resulting from the filling of the Blowering reservoir by consistently high energy demands from the Electricity Commission of New South Wales over the past several months. The position had been reached where water was spilling from the Blowering reservoir and flow limitations of the lower Tumut River were becoming a serious constraint on the flexibility of the scheme and its capacity to meet further energy demands. The operational guidelines which are contained in the draft provisional demands were strictly adhered to. I also refer honourable members to a minute of the  Deputy Chairman  on 26 September which was tabled by me in Parliament on 27 September. It was conveniently ignored by the Opposition. I especially refer honourable members to the paragraph which says: 
Irrespective of the industrial action directed at the Tumut power stations of the Snowy Mountains scheme by the hydro plant operators of the Electricity Commission of New South Wales during the past several days, responsible management of water at Blowering Reservoir required curtailment of energy production from the Tumut system. At its meeting today, the Council set down operational guidelines which will have the effect of curtailing power production. . . . 
I also table for the information of honourable members a copy of a Press statement by  Mr Macbean  of the 35-hour Week Committee in which he said: 
At no time have I or any other members of the 35-hour week committee asked  Mr Connor  to reduce regular output of the Snowy Mountains hydro-electric system. 
I thank the House. I continue  Mr Macbean's  statement: 
The New South Wales Liberal Government has made it clear that it will not use professional engineers to take over jobs of men engaged in industrial action, nor has it suspended employees for operating at reduced loads. The decision not to use employees of the Snowy Authority to take over operations is precisely in line with the way the Askin Government has been managing the dispute in New South Wales. To attack  Mr Connor  the way Messrs Fraser and Anthony have is ridiculous,  Mr Connor  has no more assisted the unions in the management of their campaign than has the New South Wales Premier, SirRobert Askin . . . 
The only metropolitan journal in New South Wales and Victoria which published the full text of  Mr Macbean's  statement was 'The Australian.' The other journals conveniently omitted the major references which I have just quoted. 
I also express my contempt - I repeat, my contempt - for the attack made by the honourable member for Wannon on  Mr Reiher  following the publication of an interview, in the Melbourne 'Age' of 29 
September, in which a representative of that paper telephoned him for comment and in which he was reported as saying: 

 Mr Connor made a responsible decision. If &gt;Snowy had been the subject of a full scale industrial dispute, the whole system could have been jeopardised .  . 
On the following day, the honourable member for Wannon again burst forth in the Press, suggesting that I had asked  Mr Reiher  to make a public statement. I certainly did not do so, nor did I have any knowledge of the newspaper article until it was drawn to my attention by my staff. The honourable member for Wannon, of course, would not spoil a good story for the matter of a few facts. If he has any decency he will apologise unreservedly to a competent and responsible senior public servant who cannot and will not involve himself in public political controversy. The present situation is exactly as I anticipated. New South Wales, with only 20 per cent of its water generating power quota left, has to conserve it for peak hour production. My actions have been in the best interests of the proper and efficient operation of Australia's greatest engineering feat - a Labor dream which became a reality. 
The honourable member still believes in fairy tales. It is a question of just what are the realities. The honourable member is incorrect in his calculations of the cost of bringing natural gas ashore. It will cost either $21 Om or $212m. That is the measure of the disparity between the estimates of Woodside-Burmah and those of the Department's hydrocarbons branch. 
Just wait for a moment. As for the rest, we are not very interested in exports. This is where the Woodside-Burmah people have been at issue with us in the past. They want to rip out and to rape, over a period of 21 years, the whole of the resources of the north-west shelf, to export them and to maximise their cash return, giving minimum protection in that way to the needs of Australian industry. As for cryogenic tankers, compression plant and the like, I know of 5 or 6 overseas firms any one of which would provide the whole of that equipment and pay an on-shore price for the delivery of the gas. They will do the rest, so forget about the fairy tales, and the rest you will get in due course on Tuesday next when your Party will be misguided enough to move another censure motion. 
The answer is a simple one. The present proposal that has been under consideration - that is, the desulphurising of overseas heavy crude - falls down very quickly. In view of the world trend in prices due to the activities of the OPEC - the Organisation of Petroleum Exporting Countries - group one would be giving hostages to fortune to commit oneself to such a refinery. It would be designed and structured merely for the purpose of dealing with a specialised type of crude. 
All right. That is the first point. The second point, which I have made repeatedly, is that we have only 8 years supply of crude. We need to supplement it. That can be best done by the restructuring of the liquids that are derivable from natural gas - in the case of the north-west shelf, in the order of about 40 barrels per million cubic feet. If we do that we will find that we probably can double our supplies of motor spirit. 
Restructuring can take place by methanation, alkylation or a straight cracking procedure. In any event, the petro-chemical plant would strip from the liquids ethane which would be the feed stock for the whole process. In the case of Western Australia there is a very obvious example of what can be done. In the Dampier region and also in the Port Hedland region there are extensive salt farms. That salt can be combined with chloride, which in turn will provide caustic soda, which is one of the essential chemicals for the use of the alumina industry. There is no doubt whatever that it is economically viable. We would prefer to have - and we believe that we can have - quite a number of Australian companies in a consortium. I think we will be taking more than a sporting interest ourselves through the structure of the Australian Industry Development Corporation. 
-There will be no need for the Japanese to come in. They are our very good friends and our very good customers and we will be very happy to sell them what they may need. 
The answer is a very simple one. 
I will try for your benefit. The cost of the Sydney-Gidgealpa pipeline- 
Just listen to me, please, and you will learn. 
Very well. I stand corrected. The cost of the Sydney-Gidgealpa pipeline will be between $190m and $200m. We will need to go beyond Gidgealpa to Palm Valley and that will cost, with a liquids line, which will be necessary, another $190m. 
And excellent security for it. The reasons are simple. At present the dedicated reserves of Gidgealpa are doubtful and it is considered that they will not cover for more than 12 to 14 years the present commitment to supply the city of Sydney. In the case of Adelaide, unfortunately a very heavy commitment has been made to the use of natural gas for the generation of electricity. Natural gas is a high premium fuel and we have to face the situation as it is. There is also a project for the establishment of a petro-chemical industry at Redcliffs. To provide the necessary backup for the short fall from Gidgealpa, there is no alternative but to go through to Palm Valley. If the Commonwealth had not come into the picture it would have been beyond the financial competence of the Australian Gas Light Company to provide the necessary facilities. 
The Leader of the Opposition can be very certain that the Government is most familiar with the current world prices for uranium. At the present time the prices are inadequate. 
This is not a dialogue. I want to answer the right honourable gentleman's question. I cite the advice of the Australian Atomic Energy Commission which is of the considered opinion that until 1980 there will not be a true market for uranium. Contracts that were entered into prior to the recent election will be fully honoured - the interested parties have been told that - despite the fact that in some cases there was what might be termed a death bed repentence. One contract was approved 2 days before polling day, another 7 days before and the oldest of them about 3 months before. 
The prices are unsatisfactory. The best of those prices was $US7.25, which is worth about $A5 today. The United States of America is desperately seeking to obtain more uranium. It does not want to import it for that reason. In the last 3 years it has spent more than $100m searching for uranium within its own boundaries. It anticipates a shortfall of approximately 850,000 tons by 1985. The true market will arise between 1980 and 1985. In the meantime, when the Opposition's censure motion is moved next Tuesday the Government will be giving the further details of the proposals it has to give relief to Mary Kathleen Uranium Ltd and to the other associated producers in respect of the preelection contracts, which the Government will honour. 
The question asked by the Leader of the Australian Country Party is based on entirely misleading premises. Yesterday I said to him in reply to a question that there would be 2 Australian companies which will be quit-, capable of organising and running the refinery. My words to him yesterday were that we would probably as a government take a . more than sporting interest in it through the Australian Industry Development Corporation. The honourable member's question is mischievous in the highest degree. It is typical of the member concerned to suggest that there is a prohibition on Japanese investment. 
Of course he is. 
Mir SPEAKER-Order! I ask honourable members to cease interjecting. 
It is correct that I have disallowed quite a number of farm-ins in respect of the North West Shelf, and for the very best of reasons - namely, that the North West Shelf happens 'to be the property of the people of Australia. For too long the practice has prevailed that individual companies have acquired areas beyond their capacity to explore adequately; and then, having done as much as possible and having nearly reached the point pf surrender, it has been their practice to farm out to some other company and get the odds to nothing - in race course parlance - from another company which will undertake the whole expense of the drilling and will share the yield with the original company in respect of half at least and in some cases two-thirds. If the company holding the exploration permit is not able to cover by exploration the whole area in the terms of its permit, it should return that to the Commonwealth of Australia which in turn will let it out, if necessary, and in appropriate cases may even explore in its own right. 
 Mr Speaker,  I wish to make a personal explanation. 
I do. In the 'Australian' newspaper of last Saturday, 13 October, was a statement by the honourable member for Farrer  (Mr Fairbairn)  that I had misled the House on 4 separate occasions. I should like to explain the facts. In the first case he said that my claim was that the cost of bringing natural gas to shore from the North West Shelf fields would be between $2 10m and $212m. He ridiculed this as being ridiculous. I have here, and I will table it if the shadow Minister of the Opposition will agree, an estimate of the costs of bringing natural gas ashore. This estimate was made jointly by officers of my Department's Hydrocarbons Branch and representatives of the Woodside-Burmah company. It provides for the drilling of 3 proving wells and of 24 production wells, the construction of 2 production platforms and the laying of 76 miles of submarine pipeline. I table this document. 
The honourable member for Farrer further said that I knew that all existing contracts approved for export were in Australian dollars. They were not. In fact there are 3,380 tons in contracts denominated in Australian dollars and 8,300 tons denominated in United States dollars. In respect of pricing the honourable member for Farrer said that the prices ranged from US$8.10 to US$10.82. In fact with a weighted average of the first year deliveries of uranium oxide under all approved contracts the price was US$7.02, which is equivalent to $A4.72. 
The answer to the right honourable member's question is as follows: 
In the course of my statement on 12 April 1973 concerning 'Federal Petroleum Search Policy' I indicated that $4 19m was the estimated contribution of public revenue to oil and gas exploration to the end of 1971. Of this$174m has come from oil search subsidy payments by the Australian Government and by other forms of State and Australian Government expenditure. This included approximately$111m from oil search subsidy payments, but does not allow for almost $1m which has been refunded because of commercial discoveries and other adjustments. It is not possible to give an accurate figure for amounts to be paid back in future as these will depend on the extent to which existing discoveries become commercial. 
I am advised that the Commissioner of Taxation estimated the total of the taxation concessions ($245m) in the following way. The cost of company concessions and the exemption of dividends was based on information extracted from company income tax returns and had regard to deductions actually allowed and deductions shown as being available for allowance in later years. The estimate in respect of the special share-holder concessions was based on amounts declared by petroleum exploration and mining companies. 
(3)- 
My statement of 12 April indicated that the estimated cost of the special deductions allowed in the period 1966 to 1971 and of the entitlement to future deductions for capital expenditure on exploration by companies which have discovered petroleum is $92m. Of this, an amount of $80m has been allowed in assessments and an amount of $12m represents an entitlement as at 1971 to future deductions. 
The figures quoted in 3 (a) were derived from an examination of income tax returns of companies which have discovered petroleum in commercial quantities. The figures do not include the cost of potential deductions available to those companies which are not yet petroleum producers. 
(a) and (b) Section 77d was introduced in 1969 and the Commissioner of Taxation has estimated that the costs to revenue of this concession in respect of petroleumexploration and mining in the three years ended 30 June 1970, 1971 and 1972 were $14m, $10m and $9m respectively making a total of $33m. No figures are available for 1972-73. 
A forerunner to that Section (77a) provided a similar concession for petroleum exploration and mining companies from 1959 to 1969. The Commissioner of Taxation estimates that the cost to revenue of that concession was $82m over the period. 
 Mr Speaker,  I seek leave to make a statement. 
I welcome this question from the honourable member for Macquarie. It is time that the true position was stated clearly in view of the Press propaganda of  Sir William  Pettingell on behalf of the Australian Gas Light Co. The pipes for the pipeline are the property of the Commonwealth of Australia. It is a piece of impertinence on his part to suggest that an Act of the Commonwealth Parliament is invalid and that the onus of proof is on the Commonwealth Government. In point of fact the Act is perfectly valid. We have had an opinion to this effect not only from our own legal officers but also from outside eminent counsel. Regarding the exact position of the Pipeline Authority I quote from, and will table, a copy of a telex which was sent by  Mr Donald,  the Executive Member of the Authority, to  Mr Butters  of East Australian Pipelines Corporation which has been used, by agreement, as the intermediary for construction. In relation to a statement that was made that it had let a contract for the lining of the pipes, for their proofing, for some SI 4m which, of course, would be paid for by the Commonwealth, the telex read: 
I am sorry that our request for an announcement agreed on between your Company and the Authority has been disregarded, but it is a much more serious matter that before obtaining the consent of this Authority you have informed the tenderers that they would be awarded the above contracts. 
The pipes are the property of the Australian Government and under its custody and control. The Pipeline Authority will proceed with the construction of the pipeline strictly in conformity with the requirements of the Pipeline Authority Act. 
Therefore, it will be necessary to inform the successful tenderers that: 
That is, the tenderers for the lining of the pipes - 
The pipes are, as stated above, the property of the Australian Government and are in the Authority's custody and at its disposal. 
There was a television program last night to the contrary - 
Deliveries of pipes will be made under the supervision of the Pipeline Authority and under the terms of its Act. 
The necessary access will be given by the servants of the Pipeline Authority to successful tenderers so that work may proceed without delay. 
The pipes will be released progressively by the Authority as required for laying along a route approved by the Authority. 
The Authority is prepared to allow that contracts be entered into and proceed provided that: 
Tenderers are informed as above. 
A clause is incorporated in each contract between your company and the successful tenderers clearly stating that the pipes are the property of the Australian Government. 
The telex continues: 
The contract documents contain a clause to the effect that the contract may be assigned . . . 
The contracts as finally drawn have our approval . . . 
Payment . . . will be made by the Australian Government through the Pipeline Authority in accordance with the approved contracts. 
I table a copy of the telex. 
The Government has appointed and sent abroad an ambassadoratlarge to the Arab countries so that we can preserve the best possible relations with them, particularly in relation to the availability of crude oil supplies. As honourable members are well aware, one-third of the Australian refinery through-put comes from heavy crude imported particularly from the Middle East As I outlined in a speech I made on Tuesday night, we will have our problems. It is for that reason that I included within the Pipline Authority Bill special provision for the retention of all liquids from natural gas. We will use our best endeavours to supplement Australia's oil reserves. As I pointed out to the House on Tuesday night, in particular we also will ensure that natural gas will be used to replace heavy furnace crude wherever possible. We will use the best technical advice that we have. We will conserve and, above all, we will budget for our energy reserves in the terms that I announced to this House some months ago. 
The right honourable gentleman's question is based on entirely wrong premises. There is no conflict between myself and my colleagues who have an interest in the uranium affairs of the Northern Territory. I have made my position very clear and that is that I want to see the uranium mined. Other colleagues of mine within their respective administrations have similar problems to consider and resolve and will do so. I cite in particular the case of, shall we say, the Minister designate for the Northern Territory who has returned only today from overseas and who no doubt will be directing his attention to this particular problem. The actual exercise is a matter of  Mr Milner  wearing 2 hats and deciding that as the  Chairman  of Kathleen Investments he will launch an attack on himself as  Chairman  of Queensland Mines, in respect of which Kathleen Investments holds a half interest and also to which it has loaned some money. It is purely an exercise in journalistic arm twisting. It is foolish and it is futile because in fact, as I pointed out in a telex message to  Mr Milner,  on 5 October, I fully support their being granted the leases. I have no reason to believe that my colleagues would refuse to give it their approval. In particular, Queensland Mines found the Nabarlek deposits and it is entitled to develop them in a proper way, at a proper time and on conditions that will be decided. But to suggest, as the Opposition attempts to do, that we will not renew those leases is a piece of political humbug. 
I thank the honourable member for Port Adelaide for his question. I have investigated in particular the ownership situation of the Australian Mining Industry Council. As has been stated in debates in the last fortnight, it is quite a common thing for overseas interests naturally to assume an Australian name, and their operations proceed from there. The Australian Mining Industry 
Council comprises some 92 affiliated companies. Of those, 29 are either wholly or substantially Australian. I make no imputation in respect of them. They are well behaved and go about their business in a proper way. But in respect of the 63 others 'I seek leave to have incorporated in Hansard the full details of research made by my responsible officers as to their ownership overseas. The document is a revelation in itself. 
Yes, I will be very happy to table the opinions as received. 
May I inform the honourable member that my attitude is neither obstructive nor doctrinaire? I share the desire of the South Australian Government to see that a substantial petro-chemical undertaking is established at Redcliffs. However, I am charged with certain national responsibilities. 
In particular I want to see that there is the maximum yield of motor spirit from the reconstitution of the liquids that will come down the liquids line to that refinery from Gidgealpa. Naturally, in accordance with the federal policy of my Party I also wish to see at least a51 per cent Australian equity. Those objectives are capable of achievement. 
I intend to see that they are achieved. 
Such a letter was signed by  Mr Smith,  but there were other qualifications in it as to the price to be obtained and other conditions. Let me say this to the honourable member: There is no need for undue haste in the whole matter. The contracts that are available provide for delivery to commence in 1976 and run on for an extensive period beyond that. In view of the answer given by the Prime Minister last Thursday to the Leader of the Country Party, the matter can well be left in abeyance. I do not see that there is the slightest need for agonising on the part of any of the companies concerned or the arm twisting tactics that they are attempting to follow. 
In reply to the member for Farrer  (Mr Fairbairn)  - I would not call him 'honourable'- 
For the information of honourable members I present the fifteenth annual report of the Snowy Mountains Council for the year ended 30 June 1973. 
Pursuant to section 31 of the Atomic Energy Act 1953-1966, I present the twenty-first annual report of the Australian Atomic Energy Commission for the year ended 30 June 1973 together with financial statements and the Auditor-General's report on those statements. 
 Mr Speaker,  I wish to make a personal explanation. 
I commend the honourable member for Grey for his diligence and close attention to the welfare of his constituency. 
The concept of the iron triangle development within his constituency is one which I have already indicated to the House that I fully approve and support. In point of fact, -we have given very great assistance to the South Australian Government and will continue to do so, Press publicity notwithstanding. The honourable member has consulted with me on this matter and last night I also met the various Labor members from the State of South Australia. I have assured them that every possible assistance will be given to see that the petro-chemical project there is fully implemented at the earliest possible date. The Australian Industries Development Corporation has played a very notable part in mobilising a possible consortium. The legitimate developmental aspirations of the South Australian Government can be co-ordinated with the national policy which I have already outlined in this House. I believe that by the appointment of a special liaison officer who can be located in Adelaide and who will deal with the daily problems that may arise in communication, we will be able further to expedite the conclusion of this project. 
I have no information on the facts relating to the particular firms mentioned by the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition. I will investigate them. But I would say this: There is a particular inducement because of the restrictions which were imposed some time ago by the British Government on the repatriation of money invested in Australian shares and because of the reserve requirements on investments that were originally imposed. The Australian stock market generally is particularly thin at present and it does not truly reflect the value, either in terms of assets backing or potential, of any of the companies concerned. My advice to the average Australian shareholder, both in the mining industry and in respect of reputable shares, would be to hold on to them, as they are good security, and not to be stampeded by the stupid panic propaganda of the Opposition. 
 From an Opposition which has never had a fuel and energy policy, which when in government never had a Minister with that specific responsibility in a portfolio, we now have suggestions as to how Australia is to evolve a fuel and energy policy. In its form as outlined by the Leader of the Australian Country Party  (Mr Anthony)  it is not acceptable to the Government, particularly when that gentleman has himself been stamping up and down the countryside suggesting that the Egyptian wheat deal should be abrogated - one of the worst possible ways I could conceive to win friends and influence people. If there is any way certain to put a cat amongst the pigeons in relation to oil supplies, that is precisely the best way to do so. Yet that same gentleman on behalf of his minority party comes forward with this suggestion. 
There is no need to create panic. There is no need to press the panic button. As a matter of fact the Opposition wanted to jump on to what it sees as being a political bandwagon. We are not prepared to allow the Opposition to do so. It never had a policy when in govern ment other than to create panic. Just before I left on my recent visit to Japan a very long winded telegram came from the Premier of Queensland suggesting an urgent and immediate conference of the Premiers. The reply - it was a public one; it was also sent to the Queensland Premier - was simply that at that stage we were in daily contact with the authorised spokesman for the various major oil companies in Australia,  Mr Kruizenga,  who assured us that there was no need for concern. To that I would add as a supplement that the general position which was outlined then still holds good except that whereas there was then no indication that any interruption in oil supplies was likely to occur, the latest advice from that same gentleman is that some reduction in Middle East oil availabilities is expected but at this point the extent of the reduction is not known. If and when the expected reductions are quantified the industry and the Government will be in a position to consider what course of action may be required. We will not create panic and we will not allow the Opposition to do so, but people of Australia will be fully informed if - and I stress 'if - such a situation arises. But as has already been said, Australia produces 70 per cent of its crude oil needs, and for the rest we have an Ambassador at large to the Arab countries,  Mr Haig,  who is our main means of contact with them - something which would be beyond the comprehension or the planning of the Opposition. 
I have just returned from Japan and I have been helping that country and its leaders with their energy problems. I find that in Australia we are in a very fortunate position. Australia is one of the few countries that can face the future with reasonable equanimity. I speak in terms of the aggregate availability of hydrocarbons, because crude oil, natural gas, liquid petroleum gas, black coal and brown coal are chemical cousins and they can be converted from one form into another. That is precisely the thinking of the major industrial countries of the world today and it is precisely the thinking of the major oil companies, which themselves are endeavouring to acquire in Australia blocks of black coal specifically for the purpose of the hydrogenation of that commodity for the production of oil and the other hydrocarbon derivatives. That is the position. As a matter of fact the Japanese Minister for International Trade and Industry,  Mr Nakasone,  has agreed to my suggestion that there should be an immediate and comprehensive joint examination of the feasibility in Australia of establishing such a project with appropriate technology contributed by the experts of the 2 countries and at the same time experts examining the potentiality of solar energy. That is how far we have taken the matter. 
We have an Opposition which comes forward, tongue in cheek, with suggestions, an Opposition which has bitterly opposed, sidetracked and emasculated the Seas and Submerged Lands Bill, an Opposition which opposed the Pipeline Authority Bill and which, when we bring forward a Bill now being drafted - the Petroleum and Minerals Authority Bill - will undoubtedly oppose it and oppose it viciously. This is the Opposition which in government presided over one of the worst giveaways in the world in the Bass Strait, which has allowed a situation to develop where overseas shareholders controlled 85 per cent of the assets of the North West Shelf. Now the Opposition comes along to us suggesting that we should listen to it. It would be dangerous; it would almost be criminal lunacy to do it. The Opposition suggests what ought to be done. Last April in this House I made a statement on the question of the world energy crisis. Of course, it was ridiculed by the knowalls of the Opposition. As a matter of fact some associate of theirs in the Treasury issued ;a White Paper. Is his face red now. What is the situation today? Throughout the world the major industrial nations are realising that crude oil is scarcer, it is dearer, it is more difficult to find, and the far seeing nations realise that by the year 1980 crude oil will be up round the $10 a barrel mark. It will be then quite possible within existing technology, not to mention the improvements that will occur, to turn to black coal as the alternative. 
The Opposition suggests that we might do something about providing for Australia's energy needs. Let me briefly inform the House what we have in fact done. We have introduced the Pipeline Authority Act and for the first time we have made sure that Australia will have first right to the use of its own natural gas. If there is a surplus there are others, particularly Japan, which will undoubtedly need it. We introduced the Seas and Submerged Lands Act, which was opposed by the people who now talk in terms of energy planning. We introduced other legislation that the Opposition has bitterly opposed. We have insisted that the liquids be stripped from natural gas. They will yield 40 barrels per million cubic feet - a very substantial reserve to augment our supplies, which are of 8 years duration only. We intend to explore. On 27th of this month I hope to be meeting the world authority,  Mr Lewis  Weeks - the man who advised Esso-BHP exactly what to do and where  to look  in the young sediments off-shore in Bass Strait. We are seeking his advice in respect of the North West Shelf and beyond, because my information is that the real crude oil deposits will be in still deeper water than the water of a depth of up to 600 feet which constitutes the continental shelf. Some of the major oil companies are seeking permission to drill in that area. We are not neglecting the matter. We are insisting in respect of the Redcliffs refinery that there be the maximum yield of hydrocarbons and that there be the maximum yield of motor spirit. A good profit will be still remaining with ethane as the building block for a petro-chemical industry. 
As I have already informed this House, we will need  to  reduce our dependence upon imported crude oil against the event of our not being able to find what we need. Might I stress at this stage that my advice, from good authority, is that the oil is off-shore and not on-shore. A lot of the figures quoted by the Leader of the Australian Country Party were in respect of drilling rigs capable of drilling on-shore. There may be some oil on-shore, but we are looking at where we believe there is the most chance of finding it. We propose to replace with natural gas the furnace fuel which at the present time has to be imported from the Persian Gulf to the extent of onethird of the refinery throughput. Who amongst the Opposition objects to that? The Opposition had never thought of it. 
There has been a tremendous amount of criticism from the Australian Petroleum Exploration Association and a certain  Mr Wittwer,  who is the  President  of that body. At the present time, thanks to the former Government, the APEA is exporting no less than 8i million barrels a year of liquid petroleum gas, which in itself is a direct fuel for internal combustion engines. The APEA is exporting it at ridiculous prices. In one case it is exporting it at about $16 a ton. The Japanese have just been advised that they will have to pay the American major oil companies $60 a ton for such gas. Again, that was the responsibility of the previous Government, which could not have cared less. It had no foresight and no knowledge. So far as it was concerned Australia was for sale at bargain basement prices. We have, as I said earlier, an ambassador-at-large. He is keeping us fully informed and will continue to do so. We will be in constant contact with him. Japan is also interested at this stage. It is in a desperate position. As Japan is our major trading partner we want to do all we can to help it. But we have to consider our own needs first. Japan is even considering the use of ordinary coal gas and a synthetic natural gas. Above all - it is universal throughout the world today - the world will go back. It was the  President  of Royal Dutch Petroleum,  Mr Wagner,  who said that for the next couple of generations the world will depend on black coal and uranium. That is the world of the future. 
As for the figures quoted by the Leader of the Australian Country Party, 2 years, on his estimate, of what needs to be spent on exploration would provide the necessary hydrogenation plant. Do honourable members want to know where the coal is? It is in the Hunter Valley. It is to be found particularly in the Greta seam. Most of the collieries there have been abandoned. It is some of the best gas making coal in Australia and it is coal that is ideally suited for hydrogenation purposes. Its use will be a tremendous boost to that area. Beyond, up to Singleton and Muswellbrook, is much the same type of coal. Other types of bituminous coals can be similarly adapted. As a matter of fact one of the major petroleum companies informed me less than 3 weeks ago that it already has the capacity to produce motor spirit and crude at $10.50 a barrel. So in the year 1980 or a little earlier we will be coming to that remarkable point. 
Another move the Government has made to cope with Australia's needs is the setting up of a joint committee to study all brown coal resources and their use. We are also carrying out a feasibility study in respect to the final route of the trans-continental pipeline in the Western Australia area. In my own Department, of course, forecasts are constantly being made of the long range energy needs.  (Extension of time granted.)  I said last April and I repeat that we will have an energy budget, that the various authorities that we set up will be charged with the responsibility of quantifying and forecasting Australia's needs on a yearly basis and that in addition to that they will have the responsibility of forward planning. Among those authorities will foe, naturally, the Australian Atomic Energy Commission, the Snowy Mountains Hydro-Electric Authority, the Joint Coal Board and its counterpart in Victoria, the National Pipeline Authority and the Petroleum and Minerals Authority. They will be the authorities which will be charged with the responsibility. 
I turn to the suggestion that the States might be able to help. If and when the necessity arises, we will be very happy to inform them as to what is needed and obtain their recommendations. But, in the meantime, the Australian Government is well able to control the situation. I stress again in conclusion that we will at all costs ensure that no one will be pressing the panic button. Australia is in a very tidy position. There is a need for further intensified research and we will certainly do it with respect to hydrogenation. There is a need for search - and proper search. It distresses me greatly that during the currency of the present petroleum search and subsidy legislation, which will continue until 30 June next year, I will have the responsibility of authorising the payment of very substantial cheques to major oil companies operating in Australia which could well afford to search on their own. That would allow some of the smaller companies about which the Opposition is shedding crocodile tears to be able to come in and get some of the money that is going to those who do not need it. I repeat that we do not accept the Opposition's suggestion and we will oppose it by every means within our power. 
 The problems associated with the establishment of a petro-chemical refinery at Redcliffs in South Australia are now very close to solution. Yesterday I received a telegram from the Premier of South Australia indicating that a choice would be made as to the consortium, which will comprise ICI Australia Ltd, Alcoa of Australia Ltd and Mitsubishi. Associated with these companies will be CSR Ltd and Ampol Petroleum Ltd. In certain aspects the choice of consortium will be subject to the approval of the Federal Government, which will be readily given because the final arrangement will be for a 51 per cent Australian equity. In addition, an assurance will be given that the maximum amount of motor spirit will be extracted and that the necessary environmental precautions will be taken. Also there will need to be an appropriate indenture of agreement executed between the sovereign government of South Australia and the respective members of the consortium. 
 The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
No. On 20 September 1973, my colleague, the Prime Minister, informed the right honourable gentleman in reply to a Question Without Notice about interdepartmental committees that, if he wished to know the composition and function of any particular interdepartmental committee, and for what period of time it had been active, the Prime Minister would be happy to provide him with that information. 
If the right honourable gentleman wishes to have information about a particular committee on which my Department is represented, I will assist him as far as possible having regard to the Prime Minister's answer to Question Nos 964 and 1057. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
No. It is suggested that this question be directed to the Minister for Overseas Trade. 
A private enterprise company. 
Legislation for the establishment of the Petroleum and Minerals Authority will be introduced into the Parliament during the present session. 
No. 
There is a world hydrocarbons crisis. The extent to which the various forms of energy sources are inter-related is not generally realised. Life itself is an equation in hydrocarbons, and whether we derive our energy from crude oil, natural gas, liquefied petroleum gas or from coal we are more than ever dependent upon the efforts of chemical engineers. A point is quickly being reached - it is in fact being intensified by the present crisis precipitated in the Arab countries in respect of pricing - when it will be as economical to extract oil, petroleum and other derivatives from suitable coal types as to produce them from the ground by drilling. That point will quickly be reached. It is one that I have foreseen, and it is one to which the policies of the present Government have been directed. As for the suggestion that we should have a further examination of the shale potentialities of the Glen Davis-Newnes area, I believe that we in this country can afford to neglect no possible source of energy. 1 will be very pleased to have further inquiries made as to the potentalities of that area, and also to have appropriate tests made. Undoubtedly very rich oil producing shale is there. Other problems that are involved may be capable of solution. I will certainly be happy to cooperate. 
The detailed information of the increased tax and royalty payments to each Middle East country is not yet available. From the latest information received we expect the increase to be an average of $US1.20 a barrel. In equivalent Australian currency, that is about 80c a barrel. As approximately one third of the refinery throughput consists of imported crude that, in turn, would mean an increase of approximately 26 2/3c a barrel of crude. Of course, it will depend on the refinery procedures in the individual refineries as to what the cracking finally yields, lt could be taken as a fair sample, that in respect of motor spirit in the heavy Middle East crude, there will be a yield of about 15 or 16 gallons from a 35-gallon barrel of crude. From that the quick calculation can be made to show that the increase in the price of motor spirit would be minimal only. 
The Government is keeping a close watch on the whole matter because kites are being flown. I noted one being flown this morning in a responsible financial journal. The oil companies, of course, are not above trying to get in for their cut before the situation exists and doing a little preliminary softening up of the consuming public. With regard to imports generally, we are importing approximately 198,000 barrels of crude a day. The rise in costs over an 8-month period would be a matter of $3 8m. It is not possible to allocate the costs exactly to individual products for reasons that -I have already stated, but I would say that the impact will fall most heavily upon the consumers of fuel oil. The consumption of fuel oil is of course the paramount reason for the importation of crude from the Middle East. I might stress also that contrary to the panic propaganda some 27 or 28 per cent of the imported crude does not come from the Organisation of the Petroleum Exporting Countries at all. That is another factor which has to be taken into account. We are watching the whole position very closely and I will be very pleased to institute any possible economies of consumption that can be reasonably introduced. I will act for that purpose. At the same time I am determined to see that no reduction occurs in the productive capacity of Australia and that the minimum inconvenience is caused to the people and particularly to the motoring public. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
and (2) Yes. I have recently provided the honourable member with the papers requested. 
The honourable member for Farrer  (Mr Fairbairn)  raised the question of the iron ore development at Marandoo and asked just what the legal position is. It is a simple one. There has never at any stage in relation to the Marandoo project been any question of the transfer of shares. Two distinct groups of companies have met in a partnership arrangement, and that arrangement is outside the scope of the Companies (Foreign Takeovers) Act. That is the position. There was never any question of share transfers involved. 
With regard to oil search - 'and much has been said on this score - the latest figures are particularly interesting. For the year ended 30 June 1973 these figures are only approximate - the expenditure off-shore for oil exploration was $79m. The figures for the previous year were precisely the same. The amount paid in subsidy was approximately the same - $2m - in each year. On-shore there was a drop from $24m for the year 1971-72 to $13m for the year 1972-73. That is part of a fairly general world-wide phenomenon, because it is generally recognised that the main sources of oil today are off-shore. They are more remote, they are more difficult of access, and the money is going in that direction. 
Much has been said about the harsh deal handed out to Woodside-Burmah. Much has been said about the discouragement of overseas enterprise in searching for oil in Australia. This is the position: The Broken Hill Pty Co. Ltd, which has a half interest in the consortium for extracting the oil deposits in Bass Strait, is 83 per cent Australian owned. Therefore, because it has a 50-50 consortium arrangement with Esso the Australian equity in Bass Strait is 4H per cent. The other major source of hydrocarbon is the North West Shelf. The Australian equity in this case is 15 per cent. Crocodile tears are being shed, and by allegedly patriotic Australians. We are in a strong position thanks to the policy of the new national Government. We have ended the section 77 rackets. It has been a matter of distaste to me to have to sign approvals for petroleum search subsidy payments to be made to major oil companies which frankly do not need them. Nevertheless they are in respect of contracts which were entered into by the former Government and which we will honour until the expiry of the Act on 30 June next year. Other smaller explorers which might have had the benefit of subvention from that Act have been denied it. 
As for the future - this was made very clear at the time by both the Treasurer  (Mr Crean)  and myself - the moneys that would normally have gone to the racketeers under section 77 will be recycled through the petroleum and minerals authority. It will be very interesting to see whether the members of the Opposition will line up enthusiastically to support that measure, because there our main effort will be directed towards helping the middle group of adventurers in the minerals field. In all cases - and there are quite a number of them - they are people who have discovered something worth while - so good, in fact, that hardboiled, hard-nosed overseas mining interests want to come in with them to acquire a minority holding. We will instead provide them with assist ance. It may take the form of a cash loan, acquisition of shares, the guarantee of a bank overdraft or a partnership. But whatever it is we will ensure that worthwhile mineral projects are kept within Australia and are developed by Australians and for the benefit of Australia. 
The Leader of the Australian. Country Party  (Mr Anthony)  laid great stress on the need not to convert liquid petroleum gas into motor spirit. He said that it was a doubtful proposal. Let me refer him to recent comments made by the United States Director of Fuel Resources who particularly categorised the liquids available from natural gas and their conversion as being one of the more readily available forms of motor spirit. In my responsibilities I am playing for time because, on present projections, we have merely 8 years' supply of crude oil. More will be discovered. But, knowing where extra motor spirit can be obtained, naturally I want to get it. In the case of the Redcliffs project we can obtain it and at the same time leave quite a reasonable profit for the good and powerful consortium which has been formed. I believe that we can obtain as much as 12,000 barrels a day of motor spirit from it. Might I mention - this has been ignored conveniently by the Opposition - the little matter of about 24,000 barrels a day of liquid petroleum gas that is being exported from Australia. It is being done in pursuance of contracts. If the crunch ever came and by any chance Australia ever needed those extra hydro-carbons the boom would very quickly be dropped. But that would be only in an emergency - and a grave emergency. My objective is to obtain every extra barrel of motor spirit I can for Australia and for the needs of Australian industry, Australian transport and the private motorists. 
Apart from the possible impact on the Australian motorists, in terms of pricing, there has been no general appreciation of the new world situation which we are now entering following the developing world energy crisis. In the last 50 years mankind has consumed more energy than in the whole of recorded prior history. In the emerging world, nations will be ranked by their energy reserve ratings and efficiency of utilisation rather than on population, gross national product or any of the traditional criteria. All the national energy systems have been a combination of fossil fuel resources - of coal, oil and gas. Electricity has been generated from them and distributed by a national grid system. Because of the convenience, liquid petroleum and natural gas have supplied a share of the world's energy market disproportionate to their relative position in overall energy reserves. 
If one looks at the estimates of the recoverable reserves of energy in any of the major countries having these deposits, one will find that coal still bulks very large. As a matter of fact coal has been exploited only to the extent of 2 per cent of the world's total recoverable resources. This has been due to a number of factors. Oil has been more convenient; it has been cleaner; at a certain stage it was a little cheaper. But today the industrial nations of the world are facing a period of rising prices for both liquid petroleum and natural gas. The obvious symptoms were plain for all to see in the United States at least 12 months ago prior to the decision of the Organisation of Petroleum Exporting Countries to restrict crude oil supplies. The United States, with 6 per cent of the world's population, uses 35 per cent of the world's energy. The plight of the major industrial nations today is a direct result of the over dependence on an attractive liquid fuel, which provides 70 per cent of the freight carried on the world's oceans, it was  President  Wilson who said that the Allies in World War I 'floated to victory on a torrent of oil'. Control of oil supplies was the major strategic objective in World War II. 
Oil is becoming scarcer, dearer and more difficult to find. The transference of oil search to the remoter depths of the ocean is the measure of man's frantic search for this limited resource. It is generally forgotten that oil, natural gas and coal are chemical cousins. They are all variable equations of hydrocarbons and they can be transmuted from one to the other. As I said last week, we depend for transmutation on the chemical engineers. The natural consequence of the growing scarcity of oil and its depletion is that prices will continue to rise. The technocrats believe that within 5 years the price of imported crude oil delivered to any major industrial nation will be more than that of oil and its derivatives derived from the economic conversion of coal and other carbonaceous materials into liquid and gaseous fuels. 
In Australia we have every reason to be thankful. It would appear I am quoting the broad figures of the Joint Coal Board - that in New South Wales there is approximately 100,000 million tons of black coal. There is a similar amount in Queensland. It is not all recoverable. It is not all of the same quality. The recovery factor is generally reckoned to be 5C per cent. In Victoria there would appear to be an equal tonnage of brown coal. That is our greatest national asset, combined with the natural gas which we can derive from our off-shore fields. Our fuel and energy policy has been conditioned by our known limitations of indigenous crude. Although we hope by systematic organisation to augment our 8-year reserves, our energy planning has been built increasingly around our available reserves of coal. Natural gas, particularly from the northwest shelf, is a wet gas. In aggregate and by the restructuring of the liquids - that does not merely mean liquid petroleum gas; it means also the condensates - we can probably obtain a yield, spread over a considerable time, of motor spirit products equal to our present reserves of crude oil. 
On several occasions I have informed the House that the Government will establish a national fuel and energy commission to devise and implement an integrated and co-ordinated national fuel and energy policy. The commission will prepare an annual energy budget based upon Australia's needs and available resources, having regard to variations in the location and availability of such resources. The commission will regulate the exploration, development, transportation, pricing and marketing and use of oil, natural gas, coal, fissionable materials and hydro-electricity. It will prevent the depletion of the fuel and energy resources needed to match Australia's requirements and, of course, will guard the ecology and environment from pollution. 
Obvious constituent representatives of such an authority will be the Australian Atomic Energy Commission, the Snowy Mountains Hydro-electric Authority, the Pipeline Authority, the Joint Coal Board and the Gas and Fuel Corporation of Victoria. Added to these, of course, will be the petroleum and minerals authority that is to be established under the legislation to which I have just referred. One of the key utilities for the use of this commission will be the trans-continental pipeline for the distribution of natural gas by the inter-connection of Australia's resources in Bass Strait, Gidgealpa-Moomba, Palm Valley and the north west shelf. At a later stage  -  I stress that it will be considerably later - when depletion of our resources ultimately occurs the same concept of a pipeline will be available for the transmission of synthesised natural gas from black and brown coal or, in the even remoter future, hydrogen gas associated with the utilisation of solar energy. 
One of the outstanding features of my recent visit to Japan was the ready agreement of  Mr Nakasone,  the Japanese Minister for International Trade and Industry, to join Japanese technologists with Australians in a feasibility study for the hydrogenation of coal into liquid motor spirit and other derivatives. He also agreed to a study being made of Australia's unique resources of solar energy, due to our record hours of sunshine and the relative aridity of portions of our continent. I also refer especially to the energy problems of Japan, our principal trading partner. On my recent visit to Japan I at all times conveyed to the various leaders of the Japanese Government and industry Australia's guarantee that we would make available to them energy resources of all kinds that are surplus to our national needs. The coal hydrogenation project is the first step in the implementation of these objectives. 
In the utilisation of Australia's worldranking reserves of uranium we also know that there must be a special relationship between Australia and Japan in enrichment technology. We have the necessary uranium not only to supply our own and Japan's foreseeable needs but also to make provision for other major trading partners, such as West Germany and Italy. The control of Australia's energy resources will, in the terms of the Tokyo statement by the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam),  remain in Australian hands with the certainty of long term supply contracts to those of our trading partners to whom we can give from our abundance. 
There is one other matter - it will be dealt with tonight in another place - to which I should make reference, that is, the inquisition - I will characterise it as that - into the construction of the pipeline. In the arrangements that we entered into with the Australian Gas Light Company it was quite clear that we would stand in its shoes; that we would take over - we have in fact done so - the liability for its contracts; and that we would acquire, and we have, the pipes imported from Japan. I might say that they are pipes of a very special character. They were constructed only after exhaustive computer studies and repre sent the acme of metallurgical excellence in their field. We have used the Australian Gas Light Company's consultants. We have used the intermediary of its designing, that is, the East Aust. Pipeline Corporation. We have worked closely in conjunction with it. I pay a tribute to both  Mr Donald,  the Executive Member of the Pipeline Authority, and  Mr Butters  for their co-operation. Tenders for the first sector of the pipeline have closed. They are now being examined. As for the allegations which have been made that there is no notion as to the cost of the pipeline, we have in all respects proceeded on the basis of the estimates - the very sound estimates - of the Australian Gas Light Company. I challenge anyone in this chamber or in the other place to fault them in any way. That is what we have done and that is what we intend to do. 
It also should be said that there is an urgent need for the city of Sydney to get its supplies of natural gas. Frankly, had the Australian Government not come into the picture, there could have been considerable financial problems for the original company and its concept. A transmission agreement is in the process of being negotiated. That company will be treated fairly. The undertaking was given - signed by myself and  Sir William  Pettingell- that in no respect would the Australian Gas Light Company be disadvantaged as a result of the transference of the project. That undertaking will be strictly adhered to. 
I also want to stress that even with the known recoverable reserves of natural gas at Gidgealpa, and having regard to the known needs or the dedicated needs of Adelaide for natural gas and of the proposed petro-chemical project at Redcliffs, as well as of Sydney itself, there is still a shortfall of, I would say, between 0.8 and 0.9 of a trillion cubic feet. It will be necessary for us therefore to proceed with all expedition not only to complete the construction of the pipeline but also to go beyond it to Palm Valley to provide the necessary backup from the very substantial reserves which have been proven there. In that way the future of industry and commerce as well as the domestic requirements will be assured in both Adelaide and Sydney. It is time that the sniping and the nit-picking ended because we are in business and we mean business. We have the authority under the Act. The Australian Gas Light Company will find, and has found, that we are good people to deal with. I move: That  the question be now put. 
Question put. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
In my statement of 23 February 1973 announcing that the Australian Government had imposed export controls on all minerals, I emphasised that the contracts and related information provided to the Government by exporters of minerals would be treated in the strictest confidence. I am therefore unable to provide the honourable member with the information from the contracts held by my Department. However, I would refer the honourable member to the chapter on iron ore in the Australian Mineral Industry 1971 Review issued earlier this year by the Bureau of Mineral Resources. Table 5 (pp. 176, 177) of that chapter provides details taken from published reports of Australian iron ore and iron ore pellet contracts with overseas steel mills. 
and (3) Most of the long term contracts for Australian iron ore and pellets contain provision for periodic review of prices. Where the provision was for a price review this year, negotiations have already been completed or have commenced. I would also refer the honourable member to my statement of 29 May 1973 in which I announced that the Australian iron ore producers had reached agreement with the Japanese steel industry for an increase in prices which would provide substantial relief for the affected companies who had sought compensation from the Japanese steel industry following devaluation of the United States dollar. 
The proposal is no figment of my imagination. As a matter of fact, a very substantial proposal has been advanced by the Kanematsu-Gosho organisation on precisely this project. The details of it have been closely examined. It is not an acceptable project based on imported Arabian crude at everescalating world prices, but the same concept will be applied and implemented by the Australian national government at the right time, integrated with the full program for the development of the resources of the north west shelf. 
The subject matter to which the honourable member for Kalgoorlie has referred is contained in the text of a television interview in August last in which  Sir Charles  Court participated. He discussed with certain university gentlemen the desirability of secession by Western Australia. While paying lip service to the integrity of Australia as a nation, he persistently advanced the concept of a trade-off of Australia's mineral resources in return for some hypothetical defence gains. In Western Australia there is emerging a pressure group whose spiritual home is Rhodesia. It is an authoritarian group whose loyalties are, firstly, to its own pocket and not to Australia and its national sovereignty and integrity. I know of no more disgraceful arguments than those which were advanced on that occasion. 
If honourable members want to have a real look at Western Australia and the extent to which foreign investment is in control there, I refer them to the history of the former Liberal Administration. Honourable members will find that there was only a IS per cent Australian equity in the natural gas of the North West Shelf. I ask honourable members to examine the position, with the notable exception of Mount Newman, in relation to the ownership of iron ore. I ask honourable members to go right through the whole list, the whole gamut, of mineral development in Western Australia. They will find planning at the bottom of the list this same junta whose loyalties, I repeat, are to its pocket and not to Australia. Those people will be held in contempt by all good Australians. We will ensure that by implementing Labor Party policies on foreign investment in minerals, and doing it in conjunction with the Western Australian Labor Government, there will be no further incursions into Australia's national heritage in respect of mineral development and, above all, we will ensure that in Australia which is unique in history - we are one people with a common tongue, a common culture and a common parliamentary tradition, in possession of a whole continent - we will develop our birthright for the benefit of Australians as a whole and not for this particular group. 
 The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
and (2) The Government intends to promote the scientific development of all energy sources and the means by which this will be done are being considered. 
 The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
During the afternoon of Sunday, 23 September 1973 the  Deputy Chairman  of the Snowy Mountains Council sought the views of State Government representatives on the Council in turn by telephone about the circumstances then existing at the Tumut Power Stations. This was not a formal meeting of the Council. The  Deputy Chairman  referred to his telephone conversations and the antecedent circumstances in a 'Note for File' dated 28 September 1973, a copy of which I tabled in the House on 9 October 1973. For the most part, the text of that document appears in Hansard for 9 October 1973 at pages 1725 and 1726. I have supplied the honourable member with a copy of the document. 
I would say that there is the need for acute concern on the part of all Australians at the prospects for acquisition by overseas interests of further substantial blocks of Australia's mineral wealth. There is a very substantial degree of irresponsibility, particularly in Queensland. It is a matter of grave concern to me that blocks of black coal are being made available beyond the capacity of that State for normal development and where they are obviously being acquired, admittedly so, by major overseas oil companies which have the specific objective of using that coal for hydrogenation and the derivation of motor spirit. With regard to the actual publication which I have had the opportunity of examining, I gravely doubt whether the technology referred to would be applicable to the present day hydrogenation. Nevertheless, I will get in touch with  Mr Camm.  I am always interested in seeing anything better than what we know to be the current and acceptable forms. I might add - and I strike this note of warning - that there is in Australia no more than 8 years known recoverable reserves of crude oil. I am greatly concerned to ensure that there is exploration - not exploration of the type which results in only 15 per cent Australian equity or only 43 per cent as in the case of Bass Strait but real Australian equity. There will be legislation introduced for that purpose in the very near future and I will be very happy to hear the present vociferous critics supporting that legislation in the best interests of the Australian nation. 
 I will treat the question as being on notice and give the honourable member an exact reply. 
 I move: 
That the amendment be agreed to. 
As the matter stands, Part III of the Bill has been rejected by the Senate, but we are mainly interested in the declaration of sovereignty. 
We have heard all this before, but that is typical of the honourable member for Farrer  (Mr Fairbairn).  He referred to petroleum search exploration. The figures supplied to me by the Bureau of Mineral Resources to the end of June this year show that the amount expended for off-shore exploration was $79m and for the previous year it was exactly the same amount - $79m. The Government subsidy was increased. The amount for on-shore private drilling dropped from $24m to $13m. There is a very sound reason for that. 

 Mr Fairbairn  What about 
Oh, dry up. 
He would not be capable of it. Australia is the oldest of the continents, geologically. The prospects of finding substantial flow oil on-shore are limited. The mass of figures quoted by the honourable member for Farrer were in respect of on-shore exploration. Offshore, where the young sediments are and where the oil is, the success record has been remarkable. In the case of Woodside-Burmah Oil NL the ratio has been 1 : 3.2 - one of the best in the world. The normal average world ratio is 1 successful hole in 16. In respect of Bass Strait, similarly, Esso-BHP went straight in and got it - and in big quantities. The honourable member for Farrer has the gall to read a sermon to the Government on what should be done with relation to oil exploration, but he is the guilty man. As a matter of fact, today in Australia natural gas supplies only 5.6 per cent of the total black coal equivalent in the energy market. It ought to be supplying 20 per cent as that is the world average figure, excluding the Soviet Union and China. If it were supplying 20 per cent, there would not be the present strain upon hydrocarbons, particularly upon crude oil. As for what is available, I shall quote no less a person than  Mr Wittwer,  who happens to wear 2 hats. He not only is the  president  of the Australian Petroleum Exploration Association but also is in charge of hydrocarbons for the Broken Hill Pty Co. Ltd. In an address this year  Mr Wittwer  had this to say: 
In the absence of further oil discoveries within Australia in the next 10 years we could find ourselves once again virtually dependent upon imports for our crude oil supplies. 

 Mr Wittwer has every reason to be reticent about it because, thanks again to the mismanagement of the honourable member for Farrer when he was the Minister holding this portfolio, his company will keep mum as to what it really has until it can re-negotiate the price for Bass Strait crude oil. As for the nitpicking- 
I am alleging business canniness, and the honourable member would do the same. On-shore the position is not good; but off-shore it is good, and we are going about it in the right way. In future there will not be any handouts or overseas farmouts similar to what was attempted in respect of the Woodside-Burmah company. The typical Woodside-Burmah farmout was this: It holds more than it could ever hope to explore and test and it would farm it out to someone else with a 50-50 split of the profits. In the case of the Shell Company, it was 66§ per cent to Woodside-Burmah and 33i to Shell. When the Petroleum and Minerals Authority commences operation we will not be rushing into these vast expenditures of money. Plenty of overseas firms will be prepared to come in on a proper basis so that the equity of the Australian people is protected. I have never heard such a dirge, such a jeremiad, on behalf of overseas interests. 
Let us look at the record of the honourable member for Farrer. As a result of the Petroleum (Submerged Lands) Act, what is the position on the north west shelf? lt is that only 15 per cent is owned by Australia. It is an absolute disgrace, and the honourable member for Farrer is the guilty man. In respect of Bass Strait, 83 per cent of BHP shares are owned in Australia and that company has a 50 per cent interest in it. So, there is a 41 per cent Australian interest. This is what he wants to continue - giving resources away. In addition, he wants to jump on the bandwagon with respect to coal hydrogenation. Life is an equation in hydrocarbons. It is a matter of transmuting one to the other, and we are in the hands of the chemical engineers on it. I refer to an instance of nitpicking for which the motivation was a letter from a  Mr Condon  of the Hartogen firm. The honourable member chose to try to twist it around. If the oil recoverable in Australia is a total figure and one divides that by the present consumption of what is produced in Australia, one gets what is the recoverable amount for a period. Anyone with an elementary knowledge of oil technology would know that it would vary according to the pressure. However, this is the other side to it: We will take every possible step to conserve all hydrocarbons in Australia. 
I remind the House that section 13 of the Pipeline Authority Act states specifically that all - I emphasise 'all' - liquids associated with natural gas will be retained in Australia and restructured into motor spirit. What will they be? In the case of the Redcliffs refinery they should be of the order of 12,000 to 15,000 barrels a day. In the case of the north west shelf, where they will come ashore in 1978, I would say that they will be in the order of at least 50,000 barrels a day, because that is a particularly wet gas. On this matter I have had the advice of no less a person than  Dr Lewis  Weeks, who is the world authority. I saw him yesterday, and we will be acting on his advice as to what we should do. Even the honourable member for Farrer would not be able to tell me anyone better in the world to go to than  Dr Weeks.  We shall accept that advice and act on it strictly and for the benefit of the people of Australia and not for the benefit of foreign shareholders and the local friends of the honourable member. He is the man who made the deal with  Sir Henry  Bolte. Australia today is stuck with that deal, under which only 5.6 per cent of the Australian fuel market is supplied by natural gas when it ought to be 20 per cent. Yet the honourable member has the gall - I repeat, the gall - to stand up here and attack the Government because it is not finding the necessary amount of oil on the methods that he suggests.  His  methods have proved to be incompetent and the honourable member has proved to be incompetent. He is the tragedy of all time in respect of his administration and its consequences. 
 Exactly, and the honourable member for Farrer would continue to do so and so would his Party. This is the man who was responsible for the present Act and for a situation whereby, out of $841m spent on petroleum exploration, $4 19m will go, either by cash payments by the State and Federal governments or by taxation concessions into the pockets of the overseas oil companies and not one red cent, not one share, will be retained for Australia. Nevertheless, he has the impertinence to stand up here and attack this Government. Shame on him. As I stated quite recently in Parliament, there is a very real need for quite a number of industries in Australia to give thought to the future. We need to conserve oil and to conserve natural gas. There is also a real need for industries which at present are using imported fuel oil for their boilers and heat treatments to move over to natural gas where it is available. Similarly, there is a very real need - although not quite so urgent - for some of the domestic consumers in the colder climates to give thought to using electric power, of which there is plenty in Australia, thank God and thank the Labor governments in New South Wales and Queensland which achieved a plentiful supply of electricity generated from coal. 
It was done when I was a member of the New South Wales Parliament, and I am proud of it. We were in office in Queensland until 19S6 and the infrastructure of the Queensland electricity system is the result of the efforts of the Labor Government there. Oil is becoming scarcer and dearer. The crucial year will be 1980, by which time we will find that there will be a considerable depletion in oil reserves throughout the world. Even at present there is an oil crisis. Of course, the Opposition would prefer to see Australia embarrassed in terms of oil supplies, provided it could tip the Government out of office. However, it would not have a hope and, more than that, it would not know how. 
In 1980, and possibly even 2 years before that, it will be found that the price of crude oil will be beyond the cost of extracting by hydrogenation motor spirit and the other derivatives from coal. As I have told this House before - and I hate to have to repeat it even for the dim intelligence of the honourable member for Farrer - we will undertake a crash program in coal hydrogenation research. This is necessary because coal will be the bridge to the future - the bridge between the rapidly dwindling oil supplies and the ultimate world energy sources which will be uranium and solar energy. Coal will be the bridge. 
He would not know what a coal mine was if he saw one. 
In all prudence, we will take every possible action which may be necessary. We are most tolerant. At present about 24,000 barrels of liquid petroleum gas is being exported each day from Australia. 
Yes, at shocking prices. It is being exported as the result of another deal made by the former Government on behalf of its friends. If it is necessary - and in a grave crisis it could be - we will give serious thought to using that liquid petroleum gas in Australia. Who would say what the future holds in terms of our imports of oil? But I repeat that only in a grave crisis would we take that action. We will honour contracts where it is possible to do so. But, in a grave crisis, we would need to give consideration to using those exports ourselves. In terms of heat equivalent those exports amount to a great deal more than 24,000 barrels a day. That would be an addition of about IS per cent to Australia's output of crude as - and again the honourable member for Farrer chooses to ignore this fact - in terms of the oil allocation agreement for Bass Strait crude both liquid petroleum gas and condensate are treated as crude oil. The honourable member for Farrer would not admit that, but that is the truth and he well knows it. It is for that reason that we will enforce the agreement strictly to the letter, if the emergency arises. I hope that it will not. It would be thanks only to the subversive activities of the Opposition that our imported supplies of crude could possibly be interrupted. 
 I do not know whether I have been listening to a debate or a morality play. A lot of people are patting themselves on the back and drawing very peculiar inferences from a political manoeuvre. Apparently the Opposition seeks to obtain some exiguous advantage from having rejected a mining code which it had drafted and which was available for introduction. In point of fact the Opposition is merely, as usual, 4 years behind the times. It has accepted in toto, reluctantly and in a laggardly fashion, the Gorton Bill which it was not prepared to put through in 1 970. If the Opposition can see any political advantage in that or if it can get any political kudos from it I miss my guess and the Opposition misses its objective. 
Clause 12 of the Bill as returned by the Senate is the key. In that clause is a declara tion that the sovereign rights of Australia as a coastal State in respect of the continental shelf for the purpose of exploring it and exploiting its natural resources are vested in and exercisable by the crown in the right of the Commonwealth. We will be doing precisely that. As for logic in the Senate, there was not any. The only logic there was the logic of numbers, for what they were worth. If the Senate is to continue its path of flouting the will of the duly elected Government, the Constitutional government, it has only got - 
It is miles behind the times. You were heard in silence and with courtesy. The Senate is merely playing a partisan role. We are happy for it to do so, to put the noose right around its neck and we will hang it in due course, and it deserves it. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Dr Jenkins)Order!  The honourable member for Kooyong was heard in silence during his contribution and the Minister should be given the same courtesy. 
Extreme courtesy but that would be beyond the Opposition. There will be no courtesy in the future activities of the Government in relation to asserting the sovereign rights of the Australian people. 
There will be no courtesy needed nor is it deserved on the part of people who can seek to glorify themselves for having thwarted the will of the electors as expressed 12 months ago. The battle will go on and you all know it will go on. You can flap your wings and blow your bags and if your halo is a little tight, enjoy tonight because there will be another battle to come. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Resolution reported; report adopted. 
The honourable member's question is a mass of irrelevancies and non sequiturs. In point of fact the shortage of ethylene dichloride is pretty world wide. At the present time the Redcliffs project is getting under way, and that will provide a very substantial surplus - so great a surplus, in fact, that it was necessary to bring in a Japanese company as a member of the consortium to absorb the anticipated surplus. 
There has been no reduction in the amount of bunkering fuel available in Australian ports. However, there has been in aggregate throughout the world as a result of the bans by the Organisation of Petroleum Exporting Countries a reduction of 20 per cent in bunkering fuel. That, of course, is associated with the overall cut of 20 per cent in petroleum available. Consequently, a number of approaches by overseas shipping firms have been made to Australia to make avail able additional supplies of bunkering fuel. Our first obligation is, naturally, to the Australian coastal shipping requirements and that obligation will be fulfilled to the letter. 
There is general consternation in shipping circles throughout the world at the present situation. Those who have secured their supplies by reason of contract or by practice and tradition are putting up their freight rates - in many cases to quite extortionate levels. In other cases shipping companies are refusing to accept charter parties until the position is further clarified. The matter is being very closely watched by me and we are in almost daily communication with the spokesman for the various petroleum interests. This afternoon in order to discuss this matter and other matters, I will be meeting Messrs Kruizenga and Froggatt who are the accredited spokesmen of the Australian petroleum industry. 
Regarding solar energy,  Mr Nakasone,  the Japanese Minister for International Trade and Industry, agreed with me that Japanese and Australian technologists would meet at an early date to discuss joint action in this matter. Undoubtedly Australia is eminently endowed with special attributes of latitude, paucity of rainfall, and maximum hours of sunshine that would qualify it in certain areas for this purpose. However, there is much bluesky thinking, too, and we need to keep our feet well and truly on the ground. Whilst the research can continue, the real bridge spanning the growing shortage of fuel oil is coal, then to nuclear energy, and ultimately to solar energy. The methods that can be used are well understood, but the cost is still astronomical. I am also being approached, in fact, besieged, by numerous academics each of whom wants to decamp with his own little bag of money and get all the honour and glory of the research for himself. I have in mind that the Atomic Energy Commission might be given the responsibility of conducting and co-ordinating the necessary research. 
Pursuant to the provisions of the Coal Industry Act 1946-1966 I present the 26th annual report of the Joint Coal Board for the year ended 30 June 1973, together with the Auditor-General's report on the accounts of the Board. 
 I move: 
That the Bill be  now read a second time. 
By this Bill, Parliament is being asked to (authorise government entry into petroleum and minerals search and production, through the creation of the Petroleum and Minerals Authority. The decision is based on the policy of the Government as enunciated first by the 1971 Launceston Conference of the Australian Labor Party, namely, the comprehensive development under government control of Australia's mineral resources, with emphasis on the need for discovery of new deposits, and direct Commonwealth and State participation in oil and mineral search and exploitation throughout Australia's land and off-shore territories. I spoke of this Authority in the House on 12 April this year in my statement on federal petroleum search policy. 
The functions of the Petroleum and Minerals Authority will be to explore for and develop our petroleum and mineral resources and to assist in implementing the Government's policy of promoting Australian ownership and control of our natural resources and resource industries. The world energy crisis highlights major world reliance on oil and natural gas for its energy needs. On current economic growth rates, there will probably be a doubling in world demand for energy by 1985.  Mr G.  A. Wagner, Senior Managing Director of the Royal Dutch/ Shell Group of Companies, says that 70 per cent of this should come from oil and natural gas. 
Oil and natural gas currently provide about 50 per cent of Australia's energy needs, and there is every indication that this figure will increase. Our recoverable reserves of natural gas are 38 trillion cubic feet. Assuming its ready availability throughout the country, this would be sufficient to meet the demands for natural gas for about 30 years. But, of course, the demands for gas as a source of energy will vary depending upon a variety of factors. In bil, the situation is not so encouraging. Our own oil fields meet approximately 67 per cent of our needs. We are importing the remainder, particularly those heavy ends which are absent from the light crude oils produced in this country, but we cannot maintain that degree of self-sufficiency on a rising market; furthermore, the recoveries from existing fields will reduce markedly from about 1980 on. 
The recent Middle Eastern conflict has at least served the purpose of awakening us all to the difficult energy situations which lie in the future for all major industrial nations. With complacent reliance on unlimited oil supplies, nations have ignored research and development of alternative energy sources, such as natural gas, coal and, ultimately, uranium and solar energy. Oil and natural gas will, however, remain major energy sources. There is no greater testimonial to the significance of oil in a nation's business than the number of nations which now participate directly in the oil business. 
The British Government, of course, has for long been a major shareholder in the British Petroleum Company Ltd. It was for many years the majority shareholder and today, I understand, holds a little short of 50 per cent of the shares of that company. There is direct participation by the governments also in France, Italy, Norway, Canada, Argentine, Brazil, Mexico, South Africa, Iran, Iraq, India, Japan, Indonesia and New Zealand, to name only some of the governments which have interests in oil. Recently, the Philippines Government created a government agency to promote exploration and development of oil resources, thus ensuring stable supplies to be ensured. Indeed, it is questionable, with the degree of government participation throughout the world in the business of oil, whether the interests of our nation can properly be represented other than through an agency of the Government. 
There is, of course, as honourable members will know, nothing new about government parpicipation in commercial enterprise. The Commonwealth Banking Corporation, the Australian National Airlines Commission, which operates Trans-Australia Airlines and Qantas Airways Ltd are 3 outstanding examples, and there are many others. There is indeed nothing novel about the Australian Government engaging in the oil business. In 1920, the Hughes Government and the presently-named British Petroleum Company agreed to form, with a Government holding of one share more than 50 per cent, the Commonwealth Oil Refineries, for the purposes of constructing a refinery and arranging a suitable supply of crude oil. Interestingly enough, under the agreement, the crude oil to be supplied was reducible by any Australian discoveries. The Commonwealth share of that company was sold over the objections of the Opposition 32 years later, in 1952, by the Menzies Government. The Bureau of Mineral Resources, too, was at one stage in the late forties authorised to drill for oil, and purchased a large rig for this purpose; that rig was subsequently sold to Wapet in 1954 by a decision of the Menzies Government of that day. 
It was the policy of our predecessors to make their contribution to the search for and development of our petroleum resources by a variety of indirect means including payment of subsidies and special tax arrangements, and to accept the abuses necessarily associated with such a system. Our policy is direct contribution by a Petroleum and Minerals Authority, the subject of this Bill. The Government has already announced the termination of the petroleum search subsidy scheme, as from the end of June 1974 and the withdrawal, with effect from early in May of this year, of the income tax concessions provided by section 77c, 77d and 78 of the Income Tax Assessment Act. Matching finance will flow through the activities of the new Authority. 
Energy is, of course, derived from other minerals than oil and natural gas. I have spoken in the House at length on previous occasions about the hydrogenation of coal and about future developments in uranium. These are but two of the minerals in which our nation is rich. There are many others. We are, for example, amongst the world's 5 main producers of bauxite, iron ore, tin, silver, lead, zinc and manganese, and we have significant deposits of other minerals. 
The Bill vests in the Petroleum and Minerals Authority the same functions and powers in relation to these other minerals as it does in relation to petroleum. There are other provisions in the Bill designed specifically to promote Australian ownership and control of our natural resources by requiring the Authority to assist mining undertakings to get off the ground and thereby help them to remain Australian and save them from falling into foreign hands. In his policy speech last November, the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  said that the Australian Labor Party was determined that the Australian people should be restored to their rightful place in their own country, as the owners and keepers of the national estate, and the nation's resources, and as fair and equal sharers in the national wealth. 
The Government believes that Australian ownership and control of the nation's assets is no longer a matter of debate, but an objective shared by the great mass of the Australian public of all political persuasions. But this is not an objective to be achieved by usurping the rights of those overseas organisations which have a majority control today of our resources. It is an objective to be achieved by other means, not the least of which is by direct government contribution to exploration and development. In this respect, the creation of the Petroleum and Minerals Authority has great significance. 
Australians have played a tremendous part in the discovery of our mineral resources, but as a nation we have not been conscious of our obligation to undertake ourselves the development of those resources. Our predecessors in office certainly sought development of our resources. The great difference between them and us was their policies, which exposed Australian initiatives to overseas acquisition and control. We believe this policy resulted from a misunderstanding of the national interest, ignorance of the effects of internationalisation, neglect of the real needs of the Australian community, under-confidence in the capacity of their fellow Australians, and fear of the consequence of failure. Their reaction to reality in late 1972 was too little and too late. 
The Australian Government accepts its responsibilities. We are not unmindful of the contributions by overseas companies to our development, in particular cases, by the provision of capital, technology and commercial opportunity, but Australia will be the primary partner in such enterprises henceforth. The Government's aims and objectives in these matters reflect the view of the great mass of the Australian electorate. They will be well understood and even sympathised with overseas, by both government and commerce. Indeed, we believe our attitude will engender a new respect for our Australian nation. Whilst we shall be the primary partner we still, under the appropriate conditions, welcome the continued participation and assistance of overseas companies, who will find us not unappreciative of their problems and needs. I want to make it clear, as the Prime Minister has said, that our polices are not 'anti' anyone. Instead, they are 'for' Australia. 
I must emphasise too, that these measures concern only the question of ownership and control of our mineral resources and resource industries. They do not affect supplies under existing contracts, which will be honoured to the full; nor do they have implications for the future supply of minerals from this country. The products of our resources will be as readily available to our trading partners as they have been in the past. We shall be aiming at greater processing of our mineral exports, and so move from being primarily an exporter of raw materials to becoming a substantial exporter of semi-processed and processed materials. 
In the field of energy resources particularly, we are naturally bound to look to our own needs first, but we shall export what we reasonably can. We shall, of course, insist upon fair and reasonable returns based upon world market prices for our exports, and we will need to ensure that neither the buyer nor the seller will suffer wind-fall losses or enjoy wind-fall gains as a result of movements in currency exchange rates. And we will not favour fixed prices for deliveries in the long term. 
On 7 November 1973, after the Prime Minister's return from his recent visit to Japan and China, he spoke in the House about those visits and tabled certain documents relating to them. One of those documents was titled Foreign Investment in Australia'. Whilst this statement was prepared for our discussions with Japanese Ministers, it contains the latest statement of the Government's policy in relation to foreign investment. They will be the policies which will guide the Petroleum and Minerals Authority in the execution of those responsibilities relating to foreign investment vested in it by the Bill before the House. I quote the relevant parts of that statement omitting the specific references to Japanese investment: 
My Government has the firm policy objective of promoting Australian control of Australian resources and industries. We also want to achieve the highest possible level of Australian ownership of our resources and industries. By the phrase the highest possible level of Australian ownership' we mean the highest Australian equity that can be achieved in negotiations, project by project, that are fair and reasonable to both parties and are within the capacity of our own savings to support. However in some special energy cases, which I shall mention shortly, we do have a particular objective of 100 per cent Australian ownership. 
This policy is being applied in a pragmatic way and all cases will be considered on their merits. This already applies in our examination of proposals under the Companies (Foreign Take-overs) Act. We aim to make our judgments taking into account the full circumstances of each new project or proposal, including such factors as the size and location of the proposed project, the use made of advanced technology, marketing arrangements, environmental aspects, labour relations and Aboriginal interests. 
There are certain industries where we regard Australian ownership and control of particular importance. These relate especially to sources of energy where growing world shortages and other factors make this essential. Uranium is one of these energy sources and we have an objective of full Australian ownership in development projects involving uranium. We also regard this as a desirable objective in oil, natural gas and black coal. 
We recognise however that Australia's resources of capital and technology are relatively limited, that the size of the projects to be undertaken is often very great and that we shall need to call upon overseas expertise, technology and capital to contribute to the proper development of these vital energy resources. Thus, while we seek to require equity in new projects involving these four minerals to be in Australian hands, we do look for overseas participation in some ways: through access to technology, loans and especially long term contracts. 
The Australian Industry Development Corporation - AIDC - is a basic means by which the Government will seek to ensure Australian equity and control and there are important areas in which the AIDC will be able to work, both with overseas companies and Australian investors. Proposed increases in the percentage of foreign equity in existing projects which already have high overseas equity may well be subject to particularly close scrutiny. Our general object is to moderate such holdings in these projects. 
For other minerals our approach is more flexible. We desire partnership between Australian and foreign equity capital. I want to make it quite clear that there is no proscription of foreign equity participation in mining. 
The nature of the partnership between Australian and foreign equity, capital that is appropriate in each case will need to be assessed on its merits. In some circumstances it may be acceptable for foreign investors to participate significantly in decision-making in a project. The size of the project, the amounts involved, and the type of mineral are all factors to be taken into account. In pursuing our objectives we shall be flexible and guided by the practical needs of particular cases. 
It is not our aim to have a different set of criteria for overseas participation in mineral exploration from those for participation in the development of proven mineral deposits. 
In the uranium field in particular, and desirably also in oil, we aim to adopt the same sort of approach in exploration as I have already outlined for development of these minerals. However, in order to maintain a desirable level of exploration activity, we would, if necessary, accept a lower level of Australian ownership in exploration. 
Given the limited Australian capital resources available and the higher risks usually involved in exploration, there is, however, much to be said for concentrating Australian equity at the production stage. 
As I have said, the creationof the Petroleum and Minerals Authority, and the other measures the Government has taken, will all assist the Government in the pursuit of this important policy objective. But the States too, at the moment, have an important part to play in this area in exercising their internal licensing powers. The Government will be seeking the co-operation of the States in the promotion of its policy on Australian ownership and control of the nation's resources and resource industries while it is giving consideration to the additional measures which will be necessary. The exercise of State internal licensing powers without due regard to the Australian Government's export control powers could place the licensee companies in a wholly unreasonable and unfair position, when the national Government is impelled, by policy, to act in the national interest. The Government would feel itself under no obligations in these circumstances. One last matter - I must emphasise that the measures of which I have been speaking in relation to Australian ownership and control concern that question and that question alone. 
Turning specifically to the Petroleum and Minerals Authority Bill, there are a number of provisions to which I wish to draw the attention of the House. First, in Part I, clause 3, honourable members will see a reference to the Australian Continental Land Mass'. The 1958 Convention on the Continental Shelf defines the continental shelf as the sea bed and subsoil of the submarine areas extending to a depth of 200 metres and beyond to the limit of exploitability. In 1969, in a case involving boundaries in the North Sea, the International Court of Justice emphasised what is known as the morphological concept. This concept is that the continental shelf is the natural prolongation under the sea of the land mass of the coastal state, out to the lower edges of the margin, where it slopes down to and merges in the deep ocean floor or abyssal plain. 
The Government has adopted this concept as the area over which it exercises jurisdiction, and expounds that policy in this Bill. Part II of the Bill deals with the establishment, functions and powers of the Authority. Clauses 6, 7 and 8 of Part II of the Bill describe the functions of the Authority. Firstly, clauses 6 and 7 will authorise the Authority to undertake activities appropriate to a petroleum and mining business and, in association with the powers conferred upon the Authority under clauses 1 1 and 12, to undertake these functions in the same way as companies engaged in these fields of activities do. 
In my statement to the House on 12 April 1973,I gave examples of the methods by which the Authority would work when I said, referring specifically at that time to petroleum, that, the Authority would act by employing its own personnel and equipment in search, letting out contracts lor search, acting in partnership with companies - I stress, acting in partnership with companies - in appropriate cases taking up shares in companies, accepting 'farm-ins* to attractive areas, and granting 'farm-outs' to areas held in its own right. As I also said at that time, the Petroleum and Minerals Authority will be one of those authorities which will be making a contribution to the formulation of an annual energy budget to be administered by a national fuel and energy body. 
Clause 8 (a) of the Bill is primarily directed at those Australian mining ventures which, having discovered a mineral resource that appears to have potential, are unable to finance the further exploration and development necessary to demonstrate the viability of its discovery. These companies would normally look to a larger operating company for the necessary help, but local Australian companies have a limited capacity to take on new ventures of this type and, therefore, they find themselves turning to overseas companies which thereby secure an interest in our natural resources. To replace them the Government has decided that the Petroleum and Minerals Authority will be authorised to assist these ventures. The decisions of the Authority will be based upon the merits of the proposal which is brought before it. 
Clause 10 of the Bill refers to the duties of the Authority. It will be required to conduct its operations in a proper and workmanlike manner and, in accordance with good industrial practices, to look after the safety, health and welfare of persons engaged in its operation, to interfere as little as possible with navigation, to have regard to conservation of the reserves of the sea and the sea bed, to have regard to operations being carried on by other persons engaged in similar activities and to consider in the exercise of its functions, factors connected with the ecology and the environment. It will be required also in exercising its functions to have regard to the possibility of short-falls of petroleum and minerals from time to time caused by the action of exporting countries. 
Part III of the Bill deals with the constitution and meetings of the Petroleum and Minerals Authority. It follows generally the provisions of the Pipeline Authority Act, which was before the Parliament in its last session. The Authority will consist of 5 members, including the Permanent Head of the Depart ment of Minerals and Energy and the executive member. One of the other 3 part-time members will be a representative of the trade unions. Part IV of the Bill provides independence for the Authority in the employment of its staff and in the determination of conditions of service, in accordance with the usual practice of the Government in relation to authorities which are primarily engaged in business. 
Similarly, Part V of the Bill, relating to finance, is based upon similar provisions in Acts governing other statutory corporations primarily engaged in business. The only other provision to which I wish to draw the attention of the House at this stage is clause 43 in Part VI of the Bill which provides for a declaration by the Authority, published in the Gazette, of an area in which it intends to explore for or carry on operations for the recovery of petroleum or minerals. 
The Government believes that the creation of the Petroleum and Minerals Authority for the purposes I have outlined reflects the will of the Australian people and will be applauded by them. The Government believes, furthermore, that it is a move which will be welcomed by the more responsible and enlightened members of the Australian business community. The Government has been accused of holding-up and delaying the search for petroleum and minerals and the development of these resources while it refined its attitude on these questions. If there be any substance in these claims the passage of this Bill should be swift. I commend the Bill to the House. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Street)  adjourned. 
On 13 November 1973,  Mr Luchetti  asked a question without notice about fuel resources. I said I would have further inquiries made as to the shale potentialities  of  the Glen Davis-Newnes area. I am advised that: 
The question of production of oil from shale in the Glen Davis-Newnes area would rest upon the establishment of a commercially significant level of reserves of shale which could be won at an economic cost. The question of retorting techniques is of little significance until such reserves are established. 
Production at Glen Davis ceased in 1952 becauseof the thin seams of shale and the high cost of mining. At that time it was costing approximately 52 cents per gallon to produce motor spirit at the plant, which was not operating at design capacity because of the inability of the mine to provide shale in sufficient quantity. 
Retorting techniques at Glen Davis operated at a high level of efficiency and provided some of the best yields of oil from shale ever achieved on a commercial basis. This is because of the high quality of Glen Davis oil shale, some seams of which are reputed to be the highest known grade in the world. However, these seams are thin and diffuse, with a maximum thickness of about 50 inches. This is in contrast to seams of between 500 and 1,000 feet thick in the U.S.A., which are the subject of current investigation in that country. 
I also said I would have appropriate tests made and this I will do when the economic prospects for production of oil from shale at Glen Davis appear more favourable. My Department is in close touch with developments in the state of the art. 
I owe the honourable member for North Sydney an apology. The information has been ready for some time and should have been transmitted to him. I will get it to him today. 
There has been no disallowance of the type raised by the honourable member. There have been record exports of coal from Queensland and I have every reason to believe that they will continue. I will be very happy to support this provided that proper prices are being obtained. In point of fact, as a result of the introduction of export controls administered for this purpose, very substantial gains have been made that would not otherwise have been made. 
No. As to what would be an acceptable policy in terms of foreign equity, I point out by way of contrast the position in New South Wales where the Australian equity in the black coal industry is of the order of 85 per cent, compared with 20 per cent in Queensland. I think that is the answer to the question. 
Pursuant to section 12 of the Petroleum Search Subsidy Act 1959- 1969, I present the fourteenth annual statement of the operation of the Act and the payment of subsidy during the year ended 30 June 1973. 
The answer to the right honourable member's question is as follows: 
I refer the right honourable gentleman to the answer I gave on 13 November (Hansard, page 3278) and to the Prime Minister's answer to his Question Without Notice on 15 November 1973 (Hansard, pages 3373-4). 
The answer to the right honourable member's question is as follows: 
My understanding is that the consortium management will reflect the varied interests of the member companies. 
 The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
In a survey of Motor Vehicle Usage for the twelve months ended 30 September 1971, the Commonwealth Statistician reported that for all vehicles (except buses) 46 per cent of annual mileage is for private purposes. Using data from this survey, it is estimated that in 1971-72 the proportion of total energy consumption in Australia, which was used by private vehicles, was approximately 7 per cent. 
Department of the Special Minister of State: Interdepartmental Committees  (Question No. 1463) 
The answer to the right honourable member's question is as follows: 
This plant is the responsibility of the Cooper Basin Producers Consortium and any questions about it should therefore be directed to the Consortium. 
As this will be determined in part by the price paid to the producers for LPG and condensate, which price has still to be negotiated, production cost of motor spirit is not yet available. 
Dependent on an assured supply of feedstock and production processes yet to befinally settled, up to 157,000 tonnes per year. 
The answer to the right honourable member's question is as follows: 
Because Australia is notably deficient in crude oil reserves having only about 8 years' supply.Motor spirit derived from natural gas is expected broadly to double our reserves and give Australia further time in which to explore for more crude oil. 
The answer to the right honourable member's question is as follows: 
and (2) Products and annual production are not yet firm but assuming a steady flow of 380,000 tonnes per annum of ethane the following indicative information was provided by the petrochemical Consortium of South Australia in October: 
The answer to the right honourable member's question is as follows: 
None. I add however that this year's allocation of $lm is only the first instalment of a larger long term program to be conducted in association with New South Wales and Queensland and necessarily involving preliminary planning and negotiation. 
and (3) See answer to (1). 
The present position is, briefly, that we have a total of about 110 million tons of exports from Australia each year. Of that, 90 million tons is represented by iron ore and coal exported to Japan. Almost the whole of the exports to Japan have been carried in ships which were bunkered in Japan. At the present time we are being beseiged by various Japanese firms with requests that we should make available fuel for the return voyage. In point of fact, at no time, in the absence of a substantial Australian merchant marine, have we provided more than about 10 per cent of the total requirements for bunkering fuel for ships trading to and from Australia. I have suggested to the Japanese Government that it might very well rationalise its present purchases of iron ore and coal. For example, in respect of voyages to Brazil, Japan can transport only one-third of the iron ore that it could transport by purchasing that iron ore in Australia, and in respect of South Africa, the figure is about one-half. If Japan chooses to rationalise its purchases and if we are in a position to supply the extra, Japan can carry on quite comfortably without any fuel oil being supplied by Australia. 
As regards the rest of our exports, the position is, briefly, that we are wholly dependent upon imported crude oil from which we extract the residual fuel oil that is available for bunkers, and the allocation of that oil is the subject of consideration by a committtee of my colleagues, including the Minister for Transport, the Minister for Primary Industry, the Minister for Secondary Industry and the Minister for Overseas Trade. We will be examining this matter very closely and we will make further reports. 
Current world developments on the pricing of uranium oxide fully vindicate the stand that has been taken by the Government on the advice of the Australian Atomic Energy Commission. In point of fact it ridicules and shows just how pathetic and paltry were the prices that were obtained in respect of contracts that were approved by the previous Government immediately before the election. The proof of it is this: The Tennessee Valley Authority of the United States of America recently invited tenders from 53 firms for the supply of 81 million lb of uranium oxide. The Authority received replies from three only. The remainder chose to hold on to their uranium. Of the 3 tenders that were received, the prices varied from US$12 to US$16. There were also substantial escalation clauses attached to those tenders. Those prices are at least 60 per cent above the prices that were the subject of the contracts to which I referred in respect of the former Government. 
The point is this: We have been besieged by certain interests in Australia who want to flog off Australia's uranium as quickly as they can without thought for the future. We are prepared to honour those contracts despite their unsatisfactory nature. By so doing there will be quite a substantial cash flow made available to the shareholders of the respective companies which should at least keep them quiet until the true market is reached. It is considered that with escalation uranium can go as high as $25 or $26 in the United States. This is a good time to wait; it is a good time in Australia's interests to just have a look at the market. I want to be on the side of the 50 firms that chose not to tender and not on the side of the 3 firms that did. The present Administration will handle the sale of Australia's minerals in a proper and business-like way and arm twisting will not count with this Government. 
The position is briefly that, in respect of the adjustments that were negotiated for iron ore exports to Japan, those relating to exports since July of this year have been paid. By reason of problems arising from administrative law within Japan it has not been possible to pay the early amounts. An amount of some $ 17.5m is involved and the liability is spread over most of the major exporters. I am indebted at the same time to the co-operation of the Ambassador for Japan in arranging for a satisfactory solution of this problem. I understand that the payments probably will be finalised early next month. 
 The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: (1), (2) and (3) The following table shows the proportions of Australia's energy requirements met from various fuels, including those nominated by the honourable member, in the decade ended 1971-72 together with estimates for the years 1972-73 and 1973-74: 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
and (2) There have been no commercial imports into, or exports of natural gas from Australia. The following table shows f.o.b. values for petroleum imports and exports as requested. The 1972 figures are preliminary 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
and (2) According to a press report last July, drilling by Utah Development Company in the Lake Phillipson area had indicated the presence of medium to low-grade steam coal. The report also indicated that considerable work was necessary before the economic significance of the find could be assessed but early indications suggested that total tonnage could exceed 500 million tons of a higher quality than the coal being mined at Leigh Creek. 
The 1972-73 Annual Report of the Electricity Trust of South Australia dated 3 September 1973 says in respect of the Lake Phillipson coal deposit: 
Interest has recently been revised in a coal deposit near Lake Phillipson (about 340 miles northwest of Port Augusta) because the proposed new railway from Tarcoola to Alice Springs will intersect the area. An exploration licence has been issued to Utah Development Company which has carried out some exploratory drilling. The Trust is obtaining information on this deposit to see whether it could be of value for future power generation.' The Annual Report also indicates that proven reserves of Leigh Creek coal suitable for open-cut production will be appreciably higher than previous estimates and that ample coal is therefore available for the Playford Power Station at Port Augusta. 
I move: 
That a message be sent to the Senate requesting the Senate to resume consideration of the Bill intituled "A Bill for an Act to establish a Petroleum and Minerals Authority", which was transmitted to the Senate for its concurrence during the last Session of the Parliament, the proceedings on such Bill having been interrupted by the Prorogation of the Parliament. 
The Government attaches great importance to this measure which is the key to the future mineral development of Australia both onshore and off-shore. The Government is resentful of the fact that it has been held up in a cavalier fashion by the Senate. The Government wants the matter dealt with. It is criticised by the Opposition because of lack of exploration in certain fields in Australia. This is criticism which the Opposition cannot justify and which, in fact, the Government can more than correct by the activities of the proposed petroleum and minerals authority. 
The Government is concerned also that there is an ever-increasing development of overseas ownership and control of Australia's minerals. In the case of off-shore deposits in Bass Strait there is 41.S per cent Australian ownership. In the North West Shelf it is a little more than 15 per cent. This is a position which is entirely unacceptable to the Government. In the case of minerals as a whole, foreign ownership and control is of the order of 62 per cent. The Government wants to correct that situation. It proposes to recycle the money which formerly was going to the wrong people by way of concessions under section 77 of the Income Tax Assessment Act and also the money which has been going to subsidise petroleum search and, in the majority of cases, into the hands of the major oil companies which would be the least entitled to it. 
In the future the Government will determine, and so will the people of Australia, the sincerity of the Opposition by their attitude to this measure. The Government has been grossly misrepresented. It seeks nothing more than to enter into partnership, particularly offshore and in respect of the relinquished areas. Of course, misrepresentation is nothing new to our political opponents. Having said that, I ask that the motion be accepted by the House and, above all, that it be given urgency in the Senate. I particularly ask that the Opposition look at this Bill in the interests of Australia and not from the viewpoint of narrow party political advantage. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
With the exception of Canada, Australia happens to be the only country in which a person can drive to a bowser and get a fill of either motor spirit or distillate. It so happens that the commercial contract - a very positive one - entered into by the former Government provided for a price which was excessive. It was far in excess of the price that was fixed for Australian indigenous crude and far in excess of the world parity. Events have changed that situation. We expect and believe that the producers of such oil will adhere to the contract. I have no reason to doubt that they will. I remind honourable members of the recent report released by  Mr McNeill  on behalf of Broken Hill Pty Co. Ltd indicating that profits - profits, I stress - from oil production of BHP increased by 43 per cent. Is it suggested that they should be further increased? 
The honourable member might have saved himself a lot of embarrassment by addressing that question to me prior to the sitting of the House. In point of fact, the report referred to was first sought by his Government. He should be well aware of its contents. It is based upon a percentage calculated not merely on production but also on mineral processing.  Mr Noakes,  who was responsible for the report, will be shown, when I produce it and table it in this House, to have agreed that probably the ownership and control overseas of Australian assets is in excess of the 62 per cent that was quoted. 
The answer is a brief one: The report is incorrect. 
There is no doubt that double-price Doug had to come in blustering to try to put the best front on a monumental political gaffe. Perhaps he had better ride herd on some of his own Party members. He suggested that I was incompetent, but perhaps he should have a word with the honourable member for Gwydir  (Mr Hunt),  who sent a telegram to me on 14 January. He said this: 
Delighted that you were able to negotiate what appeared to be satisfactory arrangements with the oil companies to ensure sufficient bunkering fuel to allow export Australian wheat. From unofficial reports it would appear that you deserve our congratulations. 
It has a lot. At the present time, thanks to the policy and activities of this Government, the primary producers of Australia are certain of being able to ship away the whole of their produce. That is more than some other countries in the world can possibly say. More than that, the primary producer today can get his distillate and get it in full. He can drive up to a bowser in a rural area and be assured of getting it. We have even been able to help the farmers in New Zealand with their autumn ploughing. The suggestion that I entered into some arrangement with the Shell Company is untrue. At no time have I contacted the company or made any arrangements with the company. A young cub reporter published that in the 'Australian Financial Review'. It was beneath contempt to answer it. It was untrue. 
The policy is that the Prices Justification Tribunal will decide. Beyond that, today Australia is the only country in the world with the exception of Canada where a person can drive up to a bowser and get his fill of motor spirit. 
Thanks to this Government. Australia todays enjoys one of the cheapest crude oils in the world. The profits that are being made by the major oil companies which are refining that crude are also amongst the highest in the world. That again is thanks to whom? If one deducts excise duty from the retail prices of petrol that prevailed throughout the major countries of the world, one will find that in Australia top price was being paid. 'If we have the cheapest crude in the world and our true retail price is comparable with the highest in the world, that is a measure of the profits that are being made. There will be no increase in the price of Australian indigenous crude, nor is there the. slightest justification for it. Unnecessary hardship would be imposed not only on a quarter of a million farmers but also on a little matter of about 4.25 million Australian motorists, over one million truck and van operators and a quarter of a million motor cyclists. 
As was said by the Minister for Labour  (Mr Clyde Cameron),  an increase in the price of Australian crude of SI per barrel would increase the profits of 'Esso-BHP in a year by $81m. Let us look at profits. For the last 2 full years, 1972 and 1973, oil profits at these allegedly appallingly low prices represented one-half of the total profit of Broken Hill Pty Co. Ltd. This year a half yearly report shows that the same pattern holds good - exactly one-half. Is it to be suggested that BHP is entitled to something beyond that? At the present time it is getting a 20.9 per cent return on the capital it has invested. More than that, its profits are tax free at this stage, and honourable members of the Opposition are well aware of it. 'It happens to have the largest percentage of profit in the world in any section of the oil industry - 20.9 per cent. I ask honourable members opposite to look at the March issue of the 'Rydges Business Journal'. It recommends investment in BHP shares at the present prices, and also it agrees with the policy of this Government. Strange but true. 
There are no companies in Australia losing money today, because for the last 15 months business has never been better in Australia, and the Opposition well knows it. As a further attempt to cover up, the Leader of the Australian Country Party  (Mr Anthony)  tried in some way to link oil prices with exploration - again a complete fallacy and furphy. The hard truth is that for some time certain of the oil explorers have been foxing and the 54 wells they will be drilling off-shore are wells they are bound to drill and ought to have drilled long ago but have not because certain overseas interests have wanted to buy the shares before they told the people of Australia the truth. 
Let me come to the question of farming out. That is where BHP came into the picture. It actually farmed out to Esso, which put in the risk capital. The honourable member for Farrer of ali people would deny that right to the Australian Government. We said to the explorers on the North West Shelf: 'If you cannot handle and adequately drill the whole of the 142,000 square miles you hold, hand it back to the people of Australia'. Instead of that, the Opposition wants the best of both worlds. It wants the odds to nothing. The Government says that they should hand it back to the Australian Government and let the Australian Government in turn farm it out so we can participate on that basis. Throughout the world today every major country with off-shore oil deposits is entitled to, and claims, at least 51 per cent of the total, and that is exactly what we will do. But any Government participation is anathema to the Opposition. It so happens that for the year ended 30 June 1972 oil exploration expenditure was exactly as it was for the previous year. WoodsideBurmah has drilled 41 wells, and 9 of its first 31 wells were successful. That is a success ratio of one in 3.5. The world ratio is one in fifteen. 
Dry up, please. You, a gentleman! 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
No - for example, we are very substantially dependent upon imports of lubricating oil, fuel oil and bitumen and no change in this situation is foreseen. 
Yes. 
It has sought to establish the Petroleum and Minerals Authority which, acting in partnership in a variety of ways with companies engaged in oil search operations, would stimulate the activities of such companies. 
I am not prepared to announce policy in response to a question (see Standing Order No. 144) 
No. 
The arithmetic of the honourable member for Farrer is very different to mine. The average Australian barrel of crude oil yields about 50 per cent to 55 per cent of motor spirit. Its price is $2.08 a barrel. The suggestion which was pretty openly canvassed was that the price of Australian crude oil should rise to the same level as Arabian crude oil. 
It was well and truly canvassed. If one takes into account all the factors involved in the production, costing and treatment of crude oil, the statement that I made will be seen to be very close to being correct. An increase of $1 a barrel in the price of Australian crude oil would represent a gift of $161m a year. The suggestion was that its price should be increased by $6 a barrel above that level. That would involve an amount of $966m. This should be divided by the 2,500 million gallons of motor spirit which are annually consumed. I will leave the answer to the mental arithmetic of honourable members. As to the latter part of the honourable member's question, he knows as well as I do that until the Broken Hill Proprietary Co. Ltd has fully recouped its capital expenditure, its income from motor spirit and crude oil in general is tax deductible. 
In the development of the Bass Strait - 
I will proceed in due course. The question asked - 
by leave - In accordance with my undertaking to the honourable member for Farrer  (Mr Fairbairn)  when answering his question on 12 March, I now table the following documents: 
Photocopy of a letter of 11 February 1974 from  Mr Noakes  of the Bureau of Mineral Resources, Geology and Geophysics, forwarded to my then Press secretary,  Mr Sorby. 
A photocopy of a discussion paper referred to in  Mr Noakes'  letter and entitled 'Discussion on Australian Equity within the Mineral Industry'. 
A 'restricted' table of Australian equity in the mineral industry in terms of value added for 1972. 
I draw the attention of the House to the comment in  Mr Noakes'  letter in which he said: 
In 1972, the BMR produced an internal paper, principally written by himself for discussion with officers of that Department and the ABS and, on a restricted basis, with some officers outside the service with particular interest in equity. 
A copy of this paper had apparently found its way to the Press last year and, as  Mr Noakes  said, the way in which it had been used, rather than the paper itself, had caused embarrassment. 
Honourable members will note that no article on equity had been published because the BMR was not yet satisfied with its figures. 
Honourable members will also note that the concepts used by  Mr Noakes  were based not exclusively on the value of minerals as mined but also on value added in subsequent processing, and that his statistics referred to selected minerals as examples and did not include the whole mineral industry, excluding petroleum. I especially draw attention to  Mr Noakes'  comment in the section of his discussion paper dealing with Australian ownership in terms of value of output as follows: 
Similar compilations for later years - meaning after 1968- are not yet available, but the level of Australian equity in these terms would be expected to have fallen rather than risen since 1968. 
I also table for the information of honourable members figures taken from report No. 4 of 1968 by the Commonwealth Bureau of Census and Statistics relating to overseas participation in the Australian mining industry. A photocopy of table 6 on page 29 entitled 'Overseas Control Mining Statistics' shows that the value of total mining production by the establishments of direct overseas investment companies had increased as follows: 1964, 39.1 per cent; 1965, 44.6 per cent; 1966, 49.8 per cent; 1967, 52.9 per cent; 1968, 58.1 per cent. This item was discontinued after 1968. In a conservative extrapolation in 1973 the figure was quoted as 62 per cent, being a not unreasonable assessment following the deterioration of 19 per cent in the 4 successive years. I present the following paper: 
 Mr Deputy Speaker- 
I did not move that the House take note of the paper; the Leader of the House  (Mr Daly)  did. The then Government, when the Bureau of Census and Statistics in 1968 directed its attention to certain aspects of foreign investment in Australia and foreign control of the minerals industry, received a very rude shock. The information that it received showed - I quote from table 6 at page 29 of the report headed Overseas Control of Mining: Statistics' showing the value of total mining production by establishments of direct overseas investment companies - that the increases were from 39 per cent in 1964 to 58 per cent in 1968. The position became so alarming that the government of the day decided to put a damper on it all and the keeping of statistics was abandoned after then. I have pleasure in informing the House that I have here a copy of a letter from the Acting Commonwealth 
Statistician dated 1 April 1974 and addressed to the Treasurer  (Mr Crean).  The Acting Commonwealth Statistician states: 
This was said by  Mr Noakes  himself. He is the gentleman whose discussion paper - mark you, a discussion paper and not a report - is being advanced as a prop by those advocates of foreign investment and foreign control. The whole exercise is a phoney one. It is completely phoney from beginning to end. I do not wish to indulge in backbiting and name-calling; I will leave that to  Colonel Blimp  from Farrer. 
On the question of overseas control and its dangers, let me quote from the report by  Mr Fitzgerald.  He stated: 
The Australian Mining Industry Council implies that mere 25 per cent holdings represent a substantial part of the companies designated by the Statistician as being under overseas control. In fact that is not so. In the Statistician's last bulletin on overseas participation covering the period to 1968 he recorded that the total value of Australian mineral production by his definition was $597m. Of this, $347m or 58 per cent was under a degree of overseas control. Of the $347m no less than $328m represented overseas holdings of &lt;0 per cent or more in the mining companies. Only $19m of the $347m was represented by holdings of less than 50 per cent. It seems rather disingenous to make much play on a 25 per cent figure when the information I have mentioned is clearly set out in the Statistician's bulletin. 
I might mention that no less a person than a former Prime Minister introduced legislation to ensure that takeovers of shares by foreign interests that exceeded IS per cent of the share holdings in a company were to be examined by a special committee. The Commonwealth Statistician has been quite modest and quite tolerant in using the figure of 25 per cent. What answer does the Opposition have to that? It does not have any. I seek permission to have incorporated in Hansard the total report of  Mr Fitzgerald.  I will make make it available to the Opposition. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Berinson)Order! Is leave granted? 
In addition to that- 
I did give that advice and I would continue to advise them both so to do. 
The answer to the honourable member is no. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
By this Bill Parliament is again being asked to create the Petroleum and Minerals Authority. The functions of the Petroleum and Minerals Authority will be to explore for and develop our petroleum and mineral resources and to assist in implementing the Government's policy of promoting Australian owner ship and control of our natural resources and resource industries. 
The Bill was first introduced into the House of Representatives on 4 December 1973 and into the Senate on 13 December 1973. The Senate refused to read the Bill a second time on 2 April 1974. This is a measure to which the Government attaches the greatest importance. The Government's policy in relation to this matter was completely vindicated by the events last year prior to the introduction of the Bill into the House of Representatives on 4 December 1973. Events since that announcement have strengthened the arguments for the creation of a Petroleum and Minerals Authority. There is additional evidence too in the proposed actions of other Governments. Since the preparation of our legislation the United Kingdom Government has announced proposals for the establishment of a Government authority and  Mr Trudeau,  the Canadian Prime Minister, is planning to introduce legislation shortly to create a national petroleum corporation whose objectives are remarkably similar to those in relation to petroleum proposed for the Petroleum and Minerals Authority. 
It is through the Petroleum and Minerals Authority that the Government plans to recycle the savings from the withdrawal of the section 77 and section 78 taxation concessions and the cessation of the petroleum search subsidy scheme. We plan to use these funds initially to promote the search for petroleum under arrangements to be determined. In addition, and of no less importance, they will be available to further our policy of ensuring that future on-shore mining development is at least predominantly Australian owned and controlled. We will consider assistance to the many small companies and syndicates which have used up their capital on exploration and have discovered worthwhile mineralisations so attractive that, in default of obtaining internal Australian capital, they fall into the hands of foreign companies before they have a chance of getting off the ground as Australian concerns. The Government's action in introducing this Bill today is evidence of the great urgency which it attaches to this proposal and to the tasks for which the Petroleum and Minerals Authority is being created. The Government intends that the measure should be dealt with by the House immediately and that it should be sent forthwith to the Senate for its approval. 
The Federal Liberal Party's proposed new policy statement, as published in today's Press, after emphasising that Australian ownership is preferable' states that 'where this is not possible, carefully monitored participation by overseas interests or by Government is acceptable in the nation's best interest'. Equal Government participation is precisely the objective of this measure. In the case of off-shore petroleum exploration it will be in partnership with competent and experienced petroleum search companies, which will be providing the major risk capital and equipment. In respect of on-shore exploration, Government participation will take the form of either equity acquisition, loan, partnership or guarantee. All these projects will be financed by the recycling of the $50m to $60m hitherto paid to undeserving companies without in most cases an effective return and certainly without any interest accruing to the Australian people. The Government has a mandate for this proposal, the nation has a need for it, and the measure of our sincerity is the existence in this country today of Government corporations co-operating with and competing effectively with private enterprise. 
Earlier in my speech I referred to the policy as drawn up and circulated to its State branches by the Liberal Party of Australia. It is a most interesting document. I think I should refer briefly to it. It is worth quoting, for example, from the section headed 'General Principles'. Immitation is, of course, the sincerest form of flattery. It has been characteristic of the whole history of Australian politics in national development that Labor has always blazed the trail and advanced the principles. It has been blackguarded by the Conservatives" or the Liberals, by whatever name they might be called, but ultimately they have stolen about half of it and incorporated it in their own policy. I repeat that it is quite remarkable to see the change in policy emphasis between this document and the concepts which dominated the thinking of the Liberal Party prior to the last Federation election. Item 5 of the section headed 'General Principles' states: 
The Liberal Party will seek the maximum attainable Australian ownership and participation in management by Australians in the mineral and energy resource industries and to this end give priority to enterprises with maximum Australian equity participation. 
That is precisely what we intend to do and what we are in the process of doing. I repeat that imitation is the sincerest form of flattery. 
Item 7 states: 
The Liberal Party will encourage the bona ride small Australian prospector, -company and minerals and energy service organisations to continue as a means of increasing Australia's expertise and equity in its resources. 
That also is what we are in the process of doing. The former Government introduced the Companies (Foreign Take-overs) Act. The committee under the terms of that legislation, applying the 15 per cent equity rule, has held up some 45 similar cases. They can only be helped, they can only be released, by the enactment of this legislation. In those cases small exploration companies have found uranium, gold, silver, copper, lead and zinc. You name the mineral; they have found it. They have been undercapitalised. They have found something that is worthwhile. We have had the economic viability of these companies checked by the Bureau of Minerals Resources and other competent authorities and they are ready to get moving, but the only finance that they can get short of assistance from the proposed Petroleum and Minerals Authority is by taking into partnership or selling equity shares to overseas companies. Hard nosed, shrewd, hard fisted overseas companies want to come in but we will not let them. Instead of that we intend to recycle the money that has hitherto gone to the racketeers in the market place - on the stock exchanges. 
One of the characteristics of the minerals boom and the share market mining boom that finished with Minsec and Tasminex was the number of mushroom companies which sprang up, which claimed every possible concession under the terms of over-generous company taxation legislation, which successfully gulled the public into investing in their shares and which never even sunk a drill into their holdings. Of course the directors had a very fine time while the money lasted, and it was used for many purposes other than those for which their memorandums and articles of association were designed. But in the upshot we - by 'we' I mean the taxpayers - were being mulcted for nearly $50m a year. That will end next June. For the last 16 months I have had the disagreeable task of having to sign approvals for applications under the Petroleum Search Subsidy Act by major oil companies. Some of the largest of them - from Hematite downwards; Shell, Esso, one can go through the whole range of them - have lined up for assistance to drill in Australia. To date not one share, not one skerrick of equity, has been placed in the possession of the Australian Government as a result of the dispersal of all this money - and Si Om per annum has 'been set aside for that purpose. We have heard wails, we have heard moans, we have heard jeremiads from the Opposition as to the need for exploration, particularly in respect of petroleum but also in respect of the other minerals. There will be anything up to $60m a year available for that purpose. The Opposition, which in one situation wants to attack the Government, has completely changed its attitude and refused to allow the legislation through because of the pathetic, paltry pretence that it is socialism. It is nothing more than common, ordinary state capitalism and enterprise. 
Let us take the matter a stage further. Item 10 of the 'General Principles' states: 
Ensure a reasonable return to the Australian people from the development of mineral and energy resources, both through the domestic commodity price and by either the payment of royalties and taxes or production sharing. 
We will certainly see that there is a reasonable return to the Australian people from the development of minerals and energy resources. Of course we will. At the present time Australian crude happens to be the cheapest in the world. It also happens to be a very profitable form of activity not only to the companies which are. holding the production leases in Bass Strait but also to the various major oil companies which are refining the products from it and selling them at net prices which are comparable to those in the advanced industrial countries of the world. There is very cheap oil on the one hand and top retail prices on the other. To give an instance of what the setup is today, in certain cases Government contract prices are 17c a gallon for motor spirit. To that one should add the 22.3c a gallon in excise duty. That makes it 39.3c. In this city the retail price, I understand, is 56c or 58c a gallon. There is a further margin - of course there is the initial margin of 17c - of about another 17c a gallon on top of the 40.2c in the resale price through the petrol pump. 
Is it any wonder that we would establish a royal commission to probe, precisely these rackets? Is it any wonder that half the profits at the present time of the Broken Hill Pty Company Ltd are coming from oil production? fs it any wonder that we find the members of the Australian Country Party, of all people, boodling and wanting a handout? They are paying lip service to the needs of the farmer and at the same time are wanting to get as close as they can to the major oil producers so that they can get money for electoral handouts. They talk in terms that there ought to be parity with the prices being paid for oil from overseas. The Australian price is $2.06 a barrel. I understand that the major oil companies are being invoiced at $8.40 a barrel. There is a differential in round figures of $6 a barrel. The production, of oil in Australia per annum is 161 million barrels. An increase of even $1 a barrel would be a bonus of $161m to people who do not need it. The specious pretext that is being advanced is that it will help oil production. It will do nothing of the sort. We will see that the profits from oil are used properly. They will be used for the development of Australia. They will be used for the development of a proper Australian oil industry. For too long, the wealth of Australia has been ripped and raped by foreign companies. I quote again from the draft policy of the Liberal Party under the heading 'Specific Objectives of Energy Policy'. It states: 
These objectives will be advanced through: 
The recognition that Australian free enterprise ownership and development of energy sources is always preferable but where the capital, expertise or initiative are unavailable within Australia, carefully monitored participation by overseas interests or by government is acceptable in the nation's best interests. 
We will be doing precisely that through the Petroleum and Minerals Authority. There have been endless hours of misrepresentation and many lies told about how we are somehow going to buy a dozen drilling ships and rush into the oil exploration business on our own account. We will be doing nothing of the sort. But we will be doing what is done by every other state in the world which has a littoral beneath which off-shore oil may be found. We will be seeking and obtaining the co-operation of the major companies which are experienced in this work. For the first time, we will ensure that the production leases are in the joint names of the Commonwealth of Australia and these companies so that we will get what every other country gets, namely, 50 per cent of the total profit. We will get it and we are entitled to it. It is the Opposition which wants to deny it to us. 
For some time it has been necessary to hold up farm-outs or farm-ins, whatever one chooses to call them - and for the best of reasons. One company is holding 142,000 square miles of off-shore territory under the terms of an exploration permit. Neither this company nor any other company in the world today, npt even Exxon, could adequately drill and test that area. That company has sought to farm this area out to others on the basis that it would cost it nothing by way of risk capital, that another partner would come in with the necessary equipment, and that if anything was found the company farming-out the 'lease would receive half of it. We have said, and our attitude has been correct: If you cannot drill, explore and exploit it yourself, hand it back to the people of Australia who will then, through their Government, cany out the necessary operation and ensure that half of the proceeds will go to the people of Australia. 
Apart from that, new drilling techniques are available for drilling off-shore, well beyond the continental shelf and out into depths of 3,000 and 4,000 feet.  Major oil  companies are lined up wanting to enter into partnership with the Commonwealth Government for the purpose of drilling and exploiting these areas. That is where the greatest oil wealth 'lies. My information is that the major resource on the continental shelf is natural gas. Associated with that are the liquids which we will be transmuting into motor spirit. But beyond that and in the remotest depths of the continental plateau - not the shelf - is where the major reserves of crude oil are. We know exactly what we want to do. We also know the motives of the Opposition. Members opposite are dyed in the wool advocates of private enterprise. They are in the pockets of the oil companies. They will stop at nothing and they will stoop to anything to achieve their objectives. It is for that reason that we are seeking that this legislation should go across to the Senate. We know that the Senate will reject it and we will fight them on this matter when the double dissolution is called. 
The position in relation to supplies of liquefied petroleum gas is rather complex. To begin with, the main shortages are in New South Wales and certain parts of Queensland which have depended for their supplies on refineries in Sydney and Brisbane. Quite adequate supplies are at Westernport but there are problems associated with cost. To be very frank, I suggest that any honourable member and particularly those from country constituencies - there are many which are in a very grievous plight at present - ought to refer to pages 70 to 78 and pages 85 to 88 of the report of the Prices Justification Tribunal where it is stated quite clearly that the application of the Shell Company of Australia Ltd for an increase in LPG prices from $28 to $5 a ton would be rejected and that the company would be allowed an increase of $14 only on the grounds that it was possible to produce the whole of Australia's LPG requirements within Australia. In a rather mutinous fashion the company indicated at the time that it may not continue to do so. 
The alternative fuel that was also the subject of an application for a price increase was fuel oil. As a result of the determination of the Tribunal the retail price of fuel oil represents a $6 per ton greater profit for the oil companies than does the production of LPG. I can quote here from correspondence received by my Department from Total Australia Ltd, as a case in point, in which it stated that the current selling prices for LPG indicate use of LPG as a refinery fuel and gasoline blending component thereby reducing saleable volumes of LPG and increasing the output of fuel and motor spirit. Mobil Oil Australia Ltd advised: due to recent decisions of the Prices Justification Tribunal we may not be able to maintain this position (output not reduced) indefinitely due to under recovery of increased imported feed stock costs. . . . Most of our LPG volume is associated with commercial contracts which we will continue to honour. 
I mention that in the case of Armidale its contract with the Shell Co. of Australia Ltd expired on 30 June and supplies were promptly terminated. The obligation is on the different major oil companies in Australia to conform with the exact and correct determination of the Prices Justification Tribunal. 
In point of fact, there are further obligations on the companies in respect of section 18(6) and section 1 8 (7) of the Prices Justification Tribunal Act. The necessary telegram has been sent to the Prices Justification Tribunal to see what remedies are available. We will not accept, nor will we tolerate, inconvenience to hundreds of thousands of consumers of LPG in Australia and particularly to municipal corporations and to persons in isolated positions for the matter of a paltry $6 per ton extra profit by the sale of fuel oil. At present LPG that ought to be made available to consumers is being burned as a fuel in refineries. 
 I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
For the third time the Parliament is being asked to create the Petroleum and Minerals Authority. The functions of this Authority will be to explore for and develop our petroleum and mineral resources, and to assist in implementing the Government's policy of promoting maximum Australian ownership and control of our natural resources and resource industries. 
This was one of the 6 Bills satisfying the conditions upon which the Governor-General dissolved the House of Representatives and the Senate simultaneously. The proposal to create the Petroleum and Minerals Authority was given great prominence during the campaign following the dissolution of the Parliament. No Australian government has ever had a clearer mandate for its legislation. In accordance with the provisions of the Constitution, the Houses of this Parliament are again being given an opportunity to enact this Bill. 
I have explained this measure clearly in my prior second reading speeches. The Petroleum and Minerals Authority will provide the final link in the chain of organisations, to which I referred in my speech on federal petroleum search policy on 12 April 1973, for the formulation of national annual energy budgets. I repeat that the Government's policy is to expand the search for and facilitate the development of the nation's resources of hydrocarbons, particularly crude oil, and also of other minerals. We plan participation in this task through the Petroleum and Minerals Authority, a truly national instrumentality, both operating itself and also in partnership with technologically qualified private enterprise. Australia's import bill for crude oil. which constitutes 30 per cent of our total consumption, will rise from $US285m for the year which ended on 30 June 1973 to almost $US900m- roughly two-thirds of the value of current wool production. 
Honourable members will realise the significance of the role of the Australian transcontinental natural gas pipeline which can raise Australia's usage of natural gas as a fuel, in substitution for this imported crude oil, from 6 per cent to the industrialised world average of 21 per cent. This can be achieved by a systematic process of simple conversion which will, in itself, reduce our anticipated crude oil import bill by at least two-thirds. 
Throughout the world today the major nations, and above all the multinational oil companies, are realising the inter-relationship of crude oil, black and brown coal, natural gas and its hydrocarbon liquids.  Major oil  companies view their future as being major energy suppliers in all this range of hydrocarbons, and also uranium - both as 'yellowcake' and enriched.  Major oil  companies are accordingly already busy in the acquisition of large blocks of Australian black coal for immediate entry into the coal export trade, and, with achieved cash flow, in establishing coal hydrogenation plants in Australia for the production of motor spirit and associated derivatives. The pricing of Arab crude oil, in excess of SUS10 per barrel, has been stated recently by  Mr 
Froggatt of the Shell Company of Australia to be the financial cross-over point at which coal hydrogenation is economically viable as a substitute for imported crude oil. 
Honourable members may recall my remarks of April 1973 that 'Arab nations considered oil reserves kept in the ground as good as money in the bank'. Recent comment by Sheik Yamani, the Saudi Arabian Minister for Minerals and Energy was that they would not produce in excess of the cash flow which they would need to develop their own country and beyond that they did not choose to be paid in currency of doubtful value and certainly not in special drawing rights from the International Monetary Fund. 
With this expose of world energy pricing, honourable members will clearly understand the implacable resolve of the first truly independent Australian national Government to promote and protect Australian ownership and control of our natural energy and mineral resources. Apart from Government participation in exploration and development, which I have outlined, there is a distinct need to assist smaller Australian mining ventures to develop their discoveries, without sacrificing control and even ownership to overseas interests. 
Sitting suspended from 6.15 to 8 p.m. 

 - Mr Acting Speaker, I resume my second reading speech on the Petroleum and Minerals Authority Bill. In energy reserves the Prime Minister has clearly stated, both in Japan and Australia, that the Australian Government's policy is to ensure that these energy reserves are, to the maximum, under Australian ownership and control in the long term interests of the Australian people. It is through the Petroleum and Minerals Authority that the Government plans to recycle the savings from the withdrawal of taxation concessions under section 77 and section 78 of the Income Tax Assessment Act and the cessation of the petroleum search subsidy scheme. We plan to use these funds initially to promote the search for petroleum under arrangements to be determined. In addition, and of no less importance, they will be available to further our policy of ensuring that further onshore mining development is at least predominantly Australian-owned and controlled. We will consider assistance to the many small companies and syndicates which have used up their capital on exploration and have discovered worthwhile mineralisations so attractive that, in default of obtaining internal Australian capital, they will fall into the hands of foreign companies before they have a chance of getting off the ground as Australian concerns. The authority will be able to assist these companies by making loans, by joint ventures, by equity participation or in other ways provided by clause 12 of the Bill. 
It is a disgrace that the natural resources of this nation are substantially controlled by overseas interests. I have previously spoken of the very substantial financial assistance acorded the petroleum and minerals industries in this country in the form of taxation concessions and direct subsidies. The Federal Government has, in addition, provided invaluable assistance in the search for minerals, including oil, through the Bureau of Mineral Resources. The Opposition parties, when they were in government, facilitated in every way the opportunities for foreign interests to dominate the exploration for and the exploitation of our natural resources, without serious thought of any obligation on their part to preserve the national identity. Some 70 per cent of offshore exploration interests are held by overseas companies. The Federal and State governments have hitherto leased excessive areas offshore for exploration on a non-intensive basis. The Woodside-Burmah group for example holds an area of 140,000 square miles of the prospective north-west shelf of Australia. In leasing such a vast area the governments concerned abandoned their responsibilties to manage effectively the nation's resources and thereby sacrificed the public interest. It is almost as if the test of Federal/State perform?ance in offshore petroleum exploration was to get as quickly as possible to the point where the whole of the offshore areas were leased, and therefore exposed to exploitation without regard to the long-term needs of the nation. Over 60 per cent of the exploitation areas of our continental shelf has been leased for nonintensive exploration. 
One of the reasons no doubt for failure to manage effectively the offshore resources of the nation was the pre-occupation of the Federal and State governments in patching over their differences about the vital question of sovereignty of the offshore areas. The real task of effective management was submerged in their futile attempt to solve the problem by fellow travelling with the States. That dispute should have been resolved, as one of their Liberal Prime Ministers wanted it resolved and as it will now be resolved with the challenges by six of the States to our Seas and Submerged Lands Act. We welcome the challenge and we are confident that we will win. Today we in this Government axe faced with the formidable task of asserting our entry into a business dominated by foreign multinational companies under policies decided in overseas board rooms. Furthermore, it was not until Labor came to power that the real nature of the energy situation was identified, and the mistakes of the Liberal-Country Party governments revealed. 
Not even the world's greatest major oil company could adequately explore, with the required intensity of drilling, the vast area of the north-west shelf. The policy of the Government has been a simple one regarding suggested farm-outs. If the holder of an exploration permit is incapable of fully exploring the area held, the surplus should be returned to the Australian government in the interests of the Australian people, so that the Australian Government can, itself, participate on at least a 50/50 basis with the new farminee. whose obligation is to provide the necessary risk capital and technology to match the proprietary rights of the Australian nation. Otherwise, the original permit holder had, in racing parlance, the odds to nothing with at least 50 per cent of future discoveries in areas it could not test. Hence, the cumulative Opposition criticism on declining oil search, and the certainty of its intensification under the new Authority on behalf of the Australian nation. For the first time Australian offshore areas will be intensively drilled and explored according to a prescribed pattern. The Opposition has opposed the Government's plan to attempt to rectify the situation by adopting the only practical course open to the Government - to create a public instrumentality to engage in the petroleum and minerals business. I sympathise with the nation's difficulty in understanding the Opposition's definition of the public interest. What can possibly be the objection to an Australian government stake in the business of exploration for and exploitation of Australia's own resources? The United Kingdom has it, and so too do the governments of France, Italy, Norway, Canada, Brazil, Argentina, Mexico, South Africa, Iran, Iraq, India, Japan, Indonesia, New Zealand and the Philippines, to name only some of the governments which have thought it desirable to have government participation in this industry. The troglodytes of the Opposition are still squirming under the impact of Victorian Premier Hamer's statement last Thursday, in London, when he said that he did not think we would ever see the day again when there was foreign investment in any part of Australia on an unrestricted basis.  His  further comment is even more humiliating for the Opposition. He said: 
As far as the Federal Government is concerned, they have indicated that their policy in the energy field is 100 per cent Australian ownership. That indicates it is unlikely they would permit the importation of foreign capital to exploit energy resources anywhere in Australia. That's that. We would not want it any different either. . . . 
Whilst the Opposition in this Parliament is frustrating the Government's endeavours to restore the Australian people to their rightful place in their own country, as the owners and keepers of the national estate and the nation's resources, and as fair and equal sharers in the national wealth, the foreign interests who dominate our energy business are continuing to acquire, through the State governments, control over some of the best and most accessible coal resources of the nation. In Queensland, for example, where coal activities are already 80 per cent dominated by overseas interests, including 60 per cent by one such company, the Shell Company of Australia Ltd is now acquiring rights to explore for coal and rights over proven reserves of coal for the purpose of developing in due course installations for the liquefaction of coal. It is almost as though there is some sort of conspiracy to ignore the past, to ignore the rightful place of the Australian people in the national estate, and to deny the opportunities to our own citizens which these developments present. Starting from where we must now start it is a great challenge, but the interest1! of the Australian people are paramount. In the Government's view the creation of this Authority will be of great and permanent advantage to the Australian people. It will be serving a national purpose in gaining for the Australian people a proper place in their own country and in the resources of the nation. It will enable the Australian Government and the Australian nation to be better informed on these important industries and allow the Government through the participation of the Authority to plan and accomplish the development of these industries in the public interest. I commend the Bill to the House. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Sinclair)  adjourned. 
I move: 
That the  Bill  be now read a second time. 
This Bill which is consequential upon the Minerals (Submerged Lands) Bill 1974 was also introduced into the House on 10 May 1973, under the title Seas and Submerged Lands (Royalty on Minerals) Bill 1973. It was carried without amendment on 17 May 1973, introduced into. the Senate on 22 May 1973 and there adjourned. Together with the Seas and Submerged Lands Bill it was reintroduced into the House for the second time on 1 1 September 1973, again passed without amendment on 19 September, reintroduced into the Senate on 25 September and failed to pass when Part III of the Seas and Submerged Lands Bill containing the mining code was deleted from that Bill. I now introduce the Bill again under the title Minerals (Submerged Lands) (Royalty) Bill 1974 and commend it to the House. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Killen)  adjourned. 
 I move:  That the Bill be now read a second time. 
This Bill provides a Mining Code being the legal framework for the exploration and exploitation of the offshore mineral resources in exercise of the Australian Government's sovereignty as proclaimed through the Seas and Submerged Lands Act 1973. Honourable members will recall that the former Government clearly foreshadowed the introduction of a mining code on 16 April 1970. This code was not introduced. The Seas and Submerged Lands Act Parts I and II are almost identical with the. Bill introduced in 1970. The mining code in this Bill follows the text of that to which the then Minister for National Development referred. 
The Bill now before the House constituted' Part III of the Seas and Submerged Lands Bill 1973 when it was first introduced on 10 May 1973. That Bill was carired without amendment on 17 May 1973 and introduced' into the Senate on 22 May 1973. The Senate adjourned debate by vote on division until after 1 August 1973. However, when the Senate failed to resume debate I reintroduced the Bill into this House for the second time on 1 1 September 1973 and it was again passed without amendment on 19 September 1973. It was reintroduced in the Senate on 25 September 1973 and the Senate subsequently passed it with amendment on 27 November 1973, the amendment being the deletion of Part III of the Bill. 
In accepting the amendment deleting the mining code, I said that the battle would go on. The Bill now before the House covers that part of the Seas and Submerged Lands Bill 1973 which was rejected by the Senate. In this respect there will be early proclamations under the Seas and Submerged Lands Act 1973, of baselines in parts of the New South Wales and Tasmanian Coasts, from which the Australian territorial seas should be measured. Many of the salient features of this Bill and the associated Minerals (Submerged Lands) (Royalty) Bill were outlined in my second reading speech on the Seas and Submerged Lands Bill on 10 May 1973 and I see no point in covering the same ground again. The mining code embodied in the Bill will establish rules governing the exploration and exploitation of our offshore mineral resources and the issue of the related titles. The passage of this Bill will be a further significant stage in the exercise of the Government's sovereignty in respect of the offshore mining industry. I commend the Bill to the House. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Killen)  adjourned. 
I do not agree with the honourable member's logic or his statistics. In point of fact, the decision of the Government was taken long before the honourable member graced the House with his presence. When we first took office we entered into the concept of a construction of a trans-national pipeline. In so doing we were following the best of all precedents, that of  Sir William  Pettingell. I will produce to the House for its information, collectively as well as for that of the honourable member, a record of the conversation between  Sir William  and  Dr McFadyen,  the then head of the Fuels Branch.  Sir William  pointed out the resounding financial advantages not only to Australia but also to his company - the Australian Gas Light Co. - of the construction of such a pipeline. The present position is that at Gidgealpa there are about 3.5 trillion cubic feet of proven recoverable reserves. The dedication for the requirements of Adelaide and South Australia plus the contractual obligations of the consortium to the Australian Gas Light Co. is of the order of 4.4 trillion cubic feet. We believe that the extra gas can be found at Gidgealpa. In any event, it is our intention to proceed beyond Gidgealpa to Palm Valley where there are definitely between another 7 trillion cubic feet and 8 trillion cubic feet. 
It has nothing to do with pre-school funds. The position should be understood clearly. Australia's energy requirements are met to the extent of only 6 per cent by the use of natural gas. The figure for the advanced Western industrial democracies is of the order of 21 per cent. We propose to increase the Australian figure accordingly. In so doing we will as an offset reduce the imports of crude oil from overseas which now supply a very substantial part of Australia's fuel requirements. The price increases by the Organisation of Petroleum Exporting Countries are of the order of $400m for a full year. If we increase the consumption of natural gas as we propose by IS per cent, in terms of our total fuel requirements we will save $200m a year. We will pay for the cost of the pipeline in just that manner. As for the honourable member's equating the expenditure on the pipeline with pre-school education, it is a complete fallacy both in logic and in finance. 
I will be tabling today the Fitzgerald report to which the honourable member for Evans has referred. I invite the Opposition to come out of its stunned silence which was so obvious in the course of the election campaign and debate the report. The Opposition will be afforded every opportunity to do so. 
Yes, with the greatest pleasure. 
With the greatest pleasure. The 2 reports are distinctively complementary. In the course of the election campaign the Opposition thought discretion the better part of valour and the word went out to the faithful and to the candidates that under no consideration were they to refer to this report. Certain of them were quite prepared to traduce the author of the report,  Mr Torn  Fitzgerald, who is one of the best and most respected economic journalists in Australia. They are to be ashamed of themselves for what they did in that regard. With the tabling in the Senate - 
For the information of honourable members I present a report entitled 'The Contribution of the Mineral Industry to Australian Welfare'. 
The present shortages of liquid petroleum gas in particular and, to a lesser extent, of fuel oil are matters that give me great concern. I state positively that contrary to current conventional wisdom and fallacies there are adequate supplies of LPG available at Westernport in Victoria at the price of $42 a tonne fixed by the Prices Justification Tribunal. The problems are those of distribution allied with an attempt by the major oil companies to overturn the 20 per cent reduction in the pricing structure of crude oil derivatives as contained in their submission to the Prices Justification Tribunal. 
I refer honourable members, and the honourable member for Eden Monaro in particular, to pages 86 and 87 of the report of the Prices Justification Tribunal of 3 May in which it stated its dissatisfaction with the statistics as given to it by the applicant, the Shell Company. It decided, as a result of its dissatisfaction, to cut by 20 per cent the proposed price structure. By so doing it meant that there was a price differential in favour of fuel oil of about $6 a tonne. Consequently the major oil companies decided to take a new approach in the processing and handling of LPG. In reply to representations that the Government has made to them we have had replies of this type: The Total company, in reply to our request for adequate supplies to be made available, said: . . . current prices selling of LPG indicate that the use of LPG as a refinery fuel and gasoline blending component thereby reducing salable volumes of LPG and increasing output of fuel and motor spirit. 
The Mobil company advised: 
Due to recent decisions of the Prices Justification Tribunal we may not be able to maintain production of LPG indefinitely. Most of our LPG volume is associated with commercial contracts which we will continue to honour. 
.They have not honoured quite a number. It so happens that the responsibility for the supply of LPG for New South Wales and Queensland comes from the refineries located in Sydney and Brisbane, and quite deliberately and systematically to offset the 20 per cent profit reduction imposed by the Prices Justification Tribunal they have diverted LPG to other uses. What they are doing is contrary to the spirit, at least, and possibly to the letter of the Prices Justification Act. I would invite Opposition members in particular, if it is necessary for us to put further teeth into the legislation, to join in so doing. For the future, the big problem is that LPG is not easy to handle in terms of transport. 
That has nothing whatever to do with this. LPG is costly to handle in terms of transport. At the present time we are examining a project by which we can arrange for its transportation by rail tanker, because it will be a considerable time - at least 2 years - before natural gas will be available in New South Wales. 
Canberra is in no better or no worse position than anywhere else. 
I present, pursuant to an undertaking given by me to the honourable member for Bradfield  (Mr Connolly),  the minutes, dated 30 June 1972, from  Dr W.  T. McFadyen of my Department, of an interview with  Sir William  Pettingell relative to Palm Valley natural gas. 

 - Mr Chairman, honourable senators and honourable members, I support the motion as stated. No Australian Government was ever in a stronger position in the introduction of its legislation than we are on this occasion. We have the specific mandate of the electors of Australia, who returned this Government to power, following a double dissolution election in which this legislation was a major issue. The Senate Opposition, entrenched in its 'House of Obstruction', continues to flout the clear electoral verdict deliberately, systematically and provocatively. Its actions strike at the fundamental concepts of parliamentary democracy. Having once pushed the Australian Government to an election by double dissolution, the opposition has immediately threatened to repeat its behavior. It is a supreme example of little Australians, narrow and biased in their approach, exhibiting uncompromising opposition to the legitimate Australian Government. The House of Representatives is the House where governments are made and unmade. 
In succession, this Bill was passed by the House of Representatives on 12 December 1 973; failed to pass the Senate on 13 December 1973; was refused a second reading by the Senate on 2 April 1974; was re-enacted by the House of Representatives on 8 April 1974; was refused a second reading by the Senate for the second time on 10 April 1974; was re-enacted by the House of Representatives on 1 1 July 1974; and again was refused a second reading by the Senate on 24 July 1974. 
This legislation proposes the creation of a Petroleum and Minerals Authority whose functions will be to explore for, and to develop, Australia's petroleum and mineral resources, and to assist in implementing the Government's policies of promoting Australian ownership and control of our natural resources and resource industries. In today's world, the ever growing energy crisis highlights the world reliance on oil and natural gas for energy needs. It is in no small measure due to the quadrupling of oil prices that a threat is posed to the economic viability and foreign exchange reserves of some of the world's major industrial powers, which have complacently relied on unlimited cheap oil imports, and have ignored research and development of alternative energy sources, such as natural gas, coal, and ultimately uranium and solar energy. 
I first spoke of this Authority in the House of Representatives on 12 April 1973 in my statement on 'Australian Petroleum Search Policy'. I then foreshadowed an Australian annual energy budget, based on the advice of a group of statutory bodies and authorities, which will include the authority created by this measure. Energy can, of course, be derived from sources other than oil and natural gas. Petroleum equivalent derivatives can be obtained from the hydrogenation of coal, from natural gas and its liquids. There is also the enrichment of uranium. We have yet to determine fully in Australia our reserves of these energy resources, without forfeiting national ownership and participation, and 
I stress the words 'national ownership and participation'. These are but three of the energy . resources which we possess and in which we are rich. We are, for example, amongst the world's 5 major producers of bauxite, iron ore, tin, silver, lead, zinc and manganese. In addition to world ranking deposits of uranium, we have significant deposits of other minerals. The Bill vests in the Petroleum and Minerals Authority the same functions and powers, in relation to these other minerals, as it does in relation to petroleum. Other provisions in the Bill are designed specifically to promote Australian ownership and control of our natural resources, by requiring the Authority to assist weaker mining undertakings to get off the ground, and achieve cash-flow, thereby helping them to remain Australian, and saving them from falling into foreign hands. 
Australian ownership is not an objective to be achieved by usurping the reasonable interests of overseas organisations, which today have majority control of certain sectors of our mineral and energy resources. It is an objective to be achieved by other means, not the least of which are by Australian national partnership participation. As a nation we have not hitherto been conscious of our obligation to ourselves to undertake the development of our mineral resources. Our predecessors in office certainly sought such development. The great difference between them and us has been their policies, which exposed Australian initiatives to overseas acquisition and control. We believe that these policies resulted from a misunderstanding of the national interest, ignorance of the effects of the real operations of multi-national corporations and, above all, underconfidence in the capacity of their fellow Australians, and fear of the consequences of failure. 
The Australian Government accepts its responsibilities. We are not unmindful of the contributions of overseas companies by development in particular cases, by the provision of capital, technology, and commercial opportunities, but in future Australia will be the primary partner in such enterprises. These objectives are well understood overseas by both governments and commerce. Whilst we shall be primary partners, we still, under appropriate conditions, welcome continued participation and assistance of overseas companies. The Prime Minister has said that our policies are not 'anti' anyone: They are 'for' Australia. I emphasise that these measures concern ownership and control of our mineral resources and resource industries. They do not affect supplies under existing contracts which will be honoured to the full, nor do they have adverse implications for the future supply of minerals from this country. The products of our Australian resources will be as readily available to our trading partners as they have been in the past. We shall be aiming at the greater processing of our mineral exports, and so moving from being primarily an exporter of raw materials, to being substantially an exporter of semi-processed and fully processed materials. In the field of energy resources we are naturally looking to our own needs first, particularly to ensure full independence in liquid hydro-carbons, and their equivalents. We have insisted, of course, upon fair and reasonable returns, based upon world market prices for our exports, ensuring that neither the buyer, nor the seller, will suffer windfall losses, nor enjoy windfall gains by currency exchange rate movement, and long term contracts. We are specially aware of the energy needs of Japan as our major trading partner, and our continuing obligations to meet Japan in complementary trading relations. 
The Prime Minister has already said, with great clarity, in documents tabled on 7 November last, that in special energy cases we have the particular objective of 100 per cent Australian ownership. The specific cases are uranium, crude oil, natural gas and black coal. Soaring crude oil prices can reach a point well before 1980, where alternative production of petroleum derivatives by the hydrogenation of coal can be cheaper than continued oil consumption. The Petroleum and Minerals Authority will also participate in this field. In his 1972 policy speech the Prime Minister said that the Australian Labor Party was determined that the Australian people should be restored to their rightful place in their own country, as the owners and keepers of the national estate, and the nation's resources, and as fair and reasonable sharers in the national wealth. The Government believes that Australian ownership and control of the nation's assets is no longer a matter of debate, but an objective to be shared by the great mass of the Australian people of all political persuasions. Approximately 62 per cent of Australian minerals are under foreign ownership and/or control. In the case of crude oil and natural gas it well exceeds 70 per cent. The Australian Government is determined that these figures will not rise, and will work to ensure their progressive reduction. 
Lacking a comprehensive minerals policy, our predecessors allowed conflicting policies to originate in the various Australian States, which have embarked on conscious policies of foolish competition to attract mining companies to their areas. The competitive granting of mineral exploration rights on absurd terms in the name of progress has resulted in the States, in many cases, being allowed to usurp national functions. In the State of Queensland for example, 80 per cent of its black coal resources are in the hands of overseas ownership. One foreign company dominates 60 per cent of the black coal production in that State. There is only IS per cent Australian equity in the consortium holding off-shore exploration rights on the North West Continental Shelf of Western Australia, where 142,000 square miles of one of the world 's largest potential natural gas areas are held by it- an area beyond the full capacity of even the largest company to intensively explore. We have refused applications from it to agree to the transfer of its obligations by 'farm-out' to other companies on a 50-50 basis, ignoring the rights of Australian sovereignty. We have refused such 'farm-outs', stating that areas which cannot be explored by existing permit holders should be returned to the Australian Government to be let out by it on a participating basis, ensuring at least a 50 per cent direct return to the Australian people. 
About 25 per cent of Australia 's export income is derived from minerals. We seek to follow the lead of other nations, which now participate directly in petroleum and minerals search and production. The British Government, of course, is a major shareholder in the British Petroleum Co. Ltd. There is direct participation in mineral production by national governments in France, Italy, Norway, Canada, Argentina, Brazil, Mexico, South Africa, Iran, Iraq, India, Japan, Indonesia and New Zealand, to name only some of the governments thus participating. Indeed it is questionable whether, with the degree of government participation throughout the world in these fields, the interests of our nation can be properly represented other than through an agency of the government. Without government to government initiatives, Australia today would neither have unrationed access to liquid fuels, nor the ability to continue to export its high tonnage production. 
It was the policy of our predecessors to make their contribution to search for petroleum resources by a variety of indirect means, including payment of subsidies and special tax arrangements, and to accept the abuses necessarily associated with such a system. Our policy is direct contribution by a Petroleum and Minerals Authority, the subject of this Bill. Last year the Treasurer  (Mr Crean)  and I announced the termination of the income tax concessions provided by sections 77c, 77d and 78 of the Income Tax 
Assessment Act. Matching replacement finance will flow through the activities of the new agency. 
The celebrated Fitzgerald report on these matters showed that only about 27 per cent of the funds raised by typical companies of the section 77 claiming class were in fact being devoted to genuine mineral exploration or mines and plant, and the remainder to company share speculation and other colourable practices. It has been backed in great detail by the Rae Committee's report, with particular reference to the notable abuses in the share market transactions of the crashed Minsec Company. These will be fully covered by other Government speakers. The Fitzgerald report disclosures of the paltry contributions by major overseas mineral companies to Australian tax revenues, utilising the excessively generous tax concessions our predecessors allowed, were greeted with stunned silence by the Opposition during the recent May election campaign. Direct subsidies for oil search and available taxation concessions up to the end of 1971 showed that of $843m spent on petroleum exploration in Australia $4 19m, or almost exactly one-half, represented either direct Commonwealth subsidy or taxation concessions available to participating companies. In return the Australian Government, and the Australian people, have not received even a single dollar equity share. Of this sum $ 134m has been disbursed under the Petroleum Search Subsidy Act which expired on 30 June last. A considerable proportion of this money has been paid to the subsidiaries of overseas major oil companies, who have had least need of assistance. We are assailed by demands for ever-increasing government expenditure on oil search. It will be forthcoming, but with tight protection for proper returns to the Australian nation, without the fecklessness and folly of our predecessors. 
The Petroleum and Minerals Authority will function efficiently by partnership and farm-out in the case of off-shore oil and gas exploration, and by partnership, equity holdings, loan and guarantee in the case of on-shore mineral explortion. The normal pattern operating in so many comparable countries will be observed by a partnership between the national Government providing natural resources and experienced explorers providing the risk capital, technology and expertise. In the case of small mining companies and syndicates which had discovered substantial mineral resources, and were unable to obtain Australian developmental finance, we were confronted with a situation where astute overseas investors were prepared to take over major interests in such deposits. There is a considerable number of such small companies and syndicates held up by the operation of the Companies (Foreign Takeovers) Act who will benefit immediately by assistance from the Petroleum and Minerals Authority. 
Contrary to Opposition propaganda and distortion in successive debates on this Bill, foreign investors are not going to be frightened away merely because the Australian Government wishes to play a greater role in the exploration for, and development of, our resources. They live with much tougher conditions elsewhere in the world than Labor is establishing. The taxation concessions which became blatant tax ramps would have been terminated years ago in such countries. It has been asserted by the Opposition that public funds will be placed at hazard in supporting irresponsible ventures. It conveniently forgets the discreditable minerals exploration boom of the late 1960s and early 1970s and its consequences. There is clear evidence that the design and intention of the Senate Opposition in relation to this Bill has been to seek every opportunity and pretext for delay. In debating this measure in both Houses there has been deliberate and persistent misinterpretation of its provisions. It has been suggested that property can be seized without compensation, that the interests of the States of Australia have been completely ignored, and that genuine assistance is not available to the smaller companies, despite the specific provisions of the Bill supplemented by the Lands Acquisition Act and the Australian Constitution. 
The legislation in relation to the States onshore minerals stands on the basic constitutional powers of the Australian Parliament to regulate overseas trade and interstate trade, and also, at appropriate times, the general powers for the defence of Australia. We are determined to ensure that the transition in the United States will not be repeated in Australia, under which major petroleum companies are announcing that they have broadened their activities and objectives to become major energy companies. A point has been reached in the United States where top oil companies own 53 per cent of United States coal production and, through a maze of subsidiaries, control nearly two-thirds of the commercial coal market. A similar situation exists in relation to uranium. This Bill will be Australia's certain insurance policy against such a situation developing in Australia in respect of the petroleum and mineral resources which are the birthright of the Australian people. It is a matter for serious national concern that we are confronted with a situation such as now exists in relation to Australia's natural resources. We will present a barrier to further overseas exploitation. Companies which are here will get fair and reasonable treatment but, for the furture, the interests of the Australian people in preserving their birthright will come first. 

 - Mr Chairman, honourable senators and honourable members, I support the motion as stated. No Australian Government was ever in a stronger position in the introduction of its legislation than we are on this occasion. We have the specific mandate of the electors of Australia, who returned this Government to power, following a double dissolution election in which this legislation was a major issue. The Senate Opposition, entrenched in its 'House of Obstruction', continues to flout the clear electoral verdict deliberately, systematically and provocatively. Its actions strike at the fundamental concepts of parliamentary democracy. Having once pushed the Australian Government to an election by double dissolution, the opposition has immediately threatened to repeat its behavior. It is a supreme example of Little Australians, narrow and biased in their approach, exhibiting uncompromising opposition to the legitimate Australian Government. The House of Representatives is the House where governments are made and unmade. 
In succession, this Bill was passed by the House of Representatives on 12 December 1973; failed to pass the Senate on 13 December 1973; was refused a second reading by the Senate on 2 April 1974; was re-enacted by the House of Representatives on 8 April 1974; was refused a second reading by the Senate for the second time on 10 April 1974; was re-enacted by the House of Representatives on 11 July 1974; and again was refused a second reading by the Senate on 24 July 1974. 
This legislation proposes the creation of a Petroleum and Minerals Authority whose functions will be to explore for, and to develop, Australia's petroleum and mineral resources, and to assist in implementing the Government's policies of promoting Australian ownership and control of our natural resources and resource industries. In today's world, the ever growing energy crisis highlights the world reliance on oil and natural gas for energy needs. It is in no small measure due to the quadrupling of oil prices that a threat is posed to the economic viability and foreign exchange reserves of some of the world's major industrial powers, which have complacently relied on unlimited cheap oil imports, and have ignored research and development of alternative energy sources, such as natural gas, coal, and ultimately uranium and solar energy. 
I first spoke of this Authority in the House of Representatives on 12 April 1973 in my statement on 'Australian Petroleum Search Policy'. I then foreshadowed an Australian annual energy budget, based on the advice of a group of statutory bodies and authorities, which will include the authority created by this measure. Energy can, of course, be derived from sources other than oil and natural gas. Petroleum equivalent derivatives can be obtained from the hydrogenation of coal, from natural gas and its liquids. There is also the enrichment of uranium. We have yet to determine fully in Australia our reserves of these energy resources, without forfeiting national ownership and participation, and 
I stress the words 'national ownership and participation'. These are but three of the energy resources which we possess and in which we are rich. We are, for example, amongst the world's 5 major producers of bauxite, iron ore, tin, silver, lead, zinc and manganese. In addition to world ranking deposits of uranium, we have significant deposits of other minerals. The Bill vests in the Petroleum and Minerals Authority the same functions and powers, in relation to these other minerals, as it does in relation to petroleum. Other provisions in the Bill are designed specifically to promote Australian ownership and control of our natural resources, by requiring the Authority to assist weaker mining undertakings to get off the ground, and achieve cash-flow, thereby helping  them to remain  Australian, and saving them from falling into foreign hands. 
Australian ownership is not an objective to be achieved by usurping the reasonable interests of overseas organisations, which today have majority control of certain sectors of our mineral and energy resources. It is an objective to be achieved by other means, not the least of which are by Australian national partnership participation. As a nation we have not hitherto been conscious of our obligation to ourselves to undertake the development of our mineral resources. Our predecessors in office certainly sought such development. The great difference between them and us has been their policies, which exposed Australian initiatives to overseas acquisition and control. We believe that these policies resulted from a misunderstanding of the national interest, ignorance of the effects of the real operations of multi-national corporations and, above all, underconfidence in the capacity of their fellow Australians, and fear of the consequences of failure. 
The Australian Government accepts its responsibilities. We are not unmindful of the contributions of overseas companies by development in particular cases, by the provision of capital, technology, and commercial opportunities, but in future Australia will be the primary partner in such enterprises. These objectives are well understood overseas by both governments and commerce. Whilst we shall be primary partners, we still, under appropriate conditions, welcome continued participation and assistance of overseas companies. The Prime Minister has said that our policies are not 'anti' anyone: They are 'for' Australia. I emphasise that these measures concern ownership and control of our mineral resources and resource industries. They do not affect supplies under existing contracts which will be honoured to the full, nor do they have adverse implications for the future supply of minerals from this country. The products of our Australian resources will be as readily available to our trading partners as they have been in the past. We shall be aiming at the greater processing of our mineral exports, and so moving from being primarily an exporter of raw materials, to being substantially an exporter of semi-processed and fully processed materials. In the field of energy resources we are naturally looking to our own needs first, particularly to ensure full independence in liquid hydro-carbons, and their equivalents. We have insisted, of course, upon fair and reasonable returns, based upon world market prices for our exports, ensuring that neither the buyer, nor the seller, will suffer windfall losses, nor enjoy windfall gains by currency exchange rate movement, and long term contracts. We are specially aware of the energy needs of Japan as our major trading partner, and our continuing obligations to meet Japan in complementary trading relations. 
The Prime Minister has already said, with great clarity, in documents tabled on 7 November last, that in special energy cases we have the particular objective of 100 per cent Australian ownership. The specific cases are uranium, crude oil, natural gas and black coal. Soaring crude oil prices can reach a point well before 1980, where alternative production of petroleum derivatives by the hydrogenation of coal can be cheaper than continued oU consumption. The Petroleum and Minerals Authority will also participate in this field. In his 1972 policy speech the Prime Minister said that the Australian Labor Party was determined that the Australian people should be restored to their rightful place in their own country, as the owners and keepers of the national estate, and the nation's resources, and as fair and reasonable sharers in the national wealth. The Government believes that Australian ownership and control of the nation's assets is no longer a matter of debate, but an objective to be shared by the great mass of the Australian people of all political persuasions. Approximately 62 per cent of Australian minerals are under foreign ownership and /or control. In the case of crude oil and natural gas it well exceeds 70 per cent. The Australian Government is determined that these figures will not rise, and will work to ensure their progressive reduction. 
Lacking a comprehensive minerals policy, our predecessors allowed conflicting policies to originate in the various Australian States, which have embarked on conscious policies of foolish competition to attract mining companies to their areas. The competitive granting of mineral exploration rights on absurd terms in the name of progress has resulted in the States, in many cases, being allowed to usurp national functions. In the State of Queensland for example, 80 per cent of its black coal resources are in the hands of overseas ownership. One foreign company dominates 60 per cent of" the black coal production in that State. There is only 15 per cent Australian equity in the consortium holding off-shore exploration rights on the North West Continental Shelf of Western Australia, where 142,000 square miles of one of the world 's largest potential natural gas areas are held by it- an area beyond the full capacity of even the largest company to intensively explore. We have refused applications from it to agree to the transfer of its obligations by 'farm-out' to other companies on a 50-50 basis, ignoring the rights of Australian sovereignty. We have refused such 'farm-outs', stating that areas which cannot be explored by existing permit holders should be returned to the Australian Government to be let out by it on a participating basis, ensuring at least a 50 per cent direct return to the Australian people. 
About 25 per cent of Australia's export income is derived from minerals. We seek to follow the lead of other nations, which now participate directly in petroleum and minerals search and production. The British Government, of course, is a major shareholder in the British Petroleum Co. Ltd. There is direct participation in mineral production by national governments in France, Italy, Norway, Canada, Argentina, Brazil, Mexico, South Africa, Iran, Iraq, India, Japan, Indonesia and New Zealand, to name only some of the governments thus participating. Indeed it is questionable whether, with the degree of government participation throughout the world in these fields, the interests of our nation can be properly represented other than through an agency of the government. Without government to government initiatives, Australia today would neither have unrationed access to liquid fuels, nor the ability to continue to export its high tonnage production. 
It was the policy of our predecessors to make their contribution to search for petroleum resources by a variety of indirect means, including payment of subsidies and special tax arrangements, and to accept the abuses necessarily associated with such a system. Our policy is direct contribution by a Petroleum and Minerals Authority, the subject of this Bill. Last year the Treasurer  (Mr Crean)  and I announced the termination of the income tax concessions provided by sections 77c, 77d and 78 of the Income Tax 
Assessment Act. Matching replacement finance will flow through the activities of the new agency. 
The celebrated Fitzgerald report on these matters showed that only about 27 per cent of the funds raised by typical companies of the section 77 claiming class were in fact being devoted to genuine mineral exploration or mines and plant, and the remainder to company share speculation and other colourable practices. It has been backed in great detail by the Rae Committee's report, with particular reference to the notable abuses in the share market transactions of the crashed Minsec Company. These will be fully covered by other Government speakers. The Fitzgerald report disclosures of the paltry contributions by major overseas mineral companies to Australian tax revenues, utilising the excessively generous tax concessions our predecessors allowed, were greeted with stunned silence by the Opposition during the recent May election campaign. Direct subsidies for oil search and available taxation concessions up to the end of 1971 showed that of $843 m spent on petroleum exploration in Australia $4 19m, or almost exactly one-half, represented either direct Commonwealth subsidy or taxation concessions available to participating companies. In return the Australian Government, and the Australian people, have not received even a single dollar equity share. Of this sum $ 1 34m has been disbursed under the Petroleum Search Subsidy Act which expired on 30 June last. A considerable proportion of this money has been paid to the subsidiaries of overseas major oil companies, who have had least need of assistance. We are assailed by demands for ever-increasing government expenditure on oil search. It will be forthcoming, but with tight protection for proper returns to the Australian nation, without the fecklessness and folly of our predecessors. 
The Petroleum and Minerals Authority will function efficiently by partnership and farm-out in the case of off-shore oil and gas exploration, and by partnership, equity holdings, loan and guarantee in the case of on-shore mineral eplortion. The normal pattern operating in so many comparable countries will be observed by a partnership between the national Government providing natural resources and experienced explorers providing the risk capital, technology and expertise. In the case of small mining companies and syndicates which had discovered substantial mineral resources, and were unable to obtain Australian developmental finance, we were confronted with a situation where astute overseas investors were prepared to take over major interests in such deposits. There is a considerable number of such small companies and syndicates held up by the operation of the Companies (Foreign Takeovers) Act who will benefit immediately by assistance from the Petroleum and Minerals Authority. 
Contrary to Opposition propaganda and distortion in successive debates on this Bill, foreign investors are not going to be frightened away merely because the Australian Government wishes to play a greater role in the exploration for, and development of, our resources. They live with much tougher conditions elsewhere in the world than Labor is establishing. The taxation concessions which became blatant tax ramps would have been terminated years ago in such countries. It has been asserted by the Opposition that public funds will be placed at hazard in supporting irresponsible ventures. It conveniently forgets the discreditable minerals exploration boom of the late 1960s and early 1970s and its consequences. There is clear evidence that the design and intention of the Senate Opposition in relation to this Bill has been to seek every opportunity and pretext for delay. In debating this measure in both Houses there has been deliberate and persistent misinterpretation of its provisions. It has been suggested that property can be seized without compensation, that the interests of the States of Australia have been completely ignored, and that genuine assistance is not available to the smaller companies, despite the specific provisions of the Bill supplemented by the Lands Acquisition Act and the Austraiian Constitution. 
The legislation in relation to the States onshore minerals stands on the basic constitutional powers of the Australian Parliament to regulate overseas trade and interstate trade, and also, at appropriate times, the general powers for the defence of Australia. We are determined to ensure that the transition in the United States will not be repeated in Australia, under which major petroleum companies are announcing that they have broadened their activities and objectives to become major energy companies. A point has been reached in the United States where top oil companies own 53 per cent of United States coal production and, through a maze of subsidiaries, control nearly two-thirds of the commercial coal market. A similar situation exists in relation to uranium. This Bill will be Australia's certain insurance policy against such a situation developing in Australia in respect of the petroleum and mineral resources which are the birthright of the Austraiian people. It is a matter for serious national concern that we are confronted with a situation such as now exists in relation to Australia's natural resources. We will present a barrier to further overseas exploitation. Companies which are here will get fair and reasonable treatment but, for the furture, the interests of the Australian people in preserving their birthright will come first. 
The answer to the right honourable member's question is as follows: 
21. 
Geologist, Class 3; Surveyor, Class 2; Executive Officer, Class 9; Graduate Clerk; Clerk, Class 2/3; Clerk, Class 1; Third Division. Clerical Assistant, Grade 3, Fourth Division. 
19. 
Department of Social Security: Training in Financial or Auditing Procedures  (Question No. 334) 
The answer to the right honourable member's question is as follows: 
None. 
None. 
Nil.See(l)and(2). 
The answer to the right honourable member's question is as follows: 
No overall assessment of Australia's limestone resources has been carried out. It is generally accepted that they are very large. 
New South Wales. The largest deposits form two elongated zones, one from north of Wellington southwards to near Cowra and the other from Mudgee south to near Lithgow and thence to near Bombala. Other deposits occur at Marulan, Kandos, Portland, Attunga, Yass, Tumut, Taree, Kempsey, Inverell and north of Broken Hill. 
Victoria. At Lilydale, Buchan, Traralgon between Sale and Rosedale and in the Geelong area. 
Queensland. The cays and reefs of the Great Barrier Reef contain enormous quantities of limestone. Deposits also occur at Moreton Bay, near Warwick, in the Gladstone area, at Rockhampton, in the Cloncurry-Mt Isa region and in the Townsville area. 
South Australia. At Rapid Bay, Klein Point, Angaston, Wardang Island, Coffin Bay and Mount Gambier. 
Western Australia. From the Shark Bay area to Esperance. At South Coogee, Spearwood, Rottnest Island, Denmark, Dongara, Bunbury, Southern Cross, south of Wiluna, near Lake Austin, in the Kimberley region, the Exmouth Gulf area and in the Nullabor Plain. 
Tasmania. At Ida Bay, Maydena, Railton, Pulbeena, Flowery Gully, Mole Creek, Melrose, Gordon River and Queenstown. 
Northern Territory. Coral reef deposits occur northeast of Darwin and calcareous beach sands in the Darwin area. Travertine is found near Alice Springs and sedimentary limestone near Katherine. 
10,778,000 tonnes in 1973. 
) 540,750 tonnes in 1973. 
and (6) See answer to ( 1 ). The proportion of deposits occurring in national parks is not known. State authorities may be able to provide information on deposits in particular national parks. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Restrictions may be applied under the Mining Acts of the States. Specific restrictions may apply in relation to mining in particular areas or circumstances such as mining in national parks. When a lease or permit to mine is granted covenants peculiar to that franchise may be inserted by the issuing authority. 
Approximately 10m tonnes per year. 
Re-afforestation Projects  (Question No. 351) 
The answer to the right honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) Grants for coal research from appropriation Division 350/3/01: 
Grants by the Australian Atomic Energy Commission to the Australian Institute of Nuclear Science and Engineering (AINSE) 
The answer to the right honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) There has been no communication from the company to the Government on this matter. 'The Australian Miner' on 27 September 1973 reported the  President  of International Nickel Australia Limited (a subsidiary of Inco) as saying that press reports that the company was closing down its Australian exploration and development branches were distorted and that the company was not pulling out of Australia. 
The company has been principally involved in investigation of a lateritic nickel deposit about 50 kilometres north of Rockhampton, Queensland, and of a sulphide nickel deposit at Widgiemooltha, Western Australia. 
The 1973 Annual Report of B.H.P., which is associated with Inco in these projects, stated: 'An extensive programme of testing of the lateritic nickel deposits near Rockhampton in Queensland was completed during the year. Studies indicate that commercial development will not be possible at current price levels which were adversely affected by currency changes. 
At Widgiemooltha in Western Australia the exploration shaft in the sulphide deposit was placed on a care and maintenance basis. Again the currency realignments have affected the possibility of early development, but the situation is being kept under review and markets are being sought. International Nickel Company of Canada Ltd. is associated with the Company in both projects. ' 
The answer to the right honourable member's question is as follows: (1), (2) and (3) Please refer to the answer given by the Prime Minister to Question No. 97 on Page 625 of Hansard of 24 July 1974. 

 - Mr Deputy Speaker, it is the business of the Opposition in a case such as this when it has proposed a matter for discussion to keep the numbers in the House. I listened with a great deal of interest to the case put forward by the Leader of the Country Party. There are reasonable points in it- quite reasonable indeed. Of course, we can discount the usual union baiting and union hating that is generally associated with speeches that emanate from him and from his Party. 
The hard facts are these: The royal commission to which he referred has already been asked to investigate precisely the matters that he has raised. We are far from satisfied with the distribution in Australia of every form of motor spirit and derivatives of crude oil. We have reason to be. One of the worst examples is that there are only two major refineries in Sydney. These are the Shell refinery at Clyde and the Caltex refinery at Kurnell. The product swapping which takes place would reveal to the ordinary motorist the fact that the products of oil companies are all the same despite the much vaunted advertising. 
This matter does concern us greatly. One of the instructions that has been given to the counsel representing the Commonwealth at the royal commission is that he should ask that the production by refineries be shared. In the recent troubles that have occurred in Sydney we had complaints in one case that a rival refinery from Queensland which had won a contract for the supply of Transport Commission fuel requirements in New South Wales found that, because of a temporary shortage, the swapping arrangement did not operate. The refinery involved made sure that its own customers were served first. There must be sharing by refineries. There is one refinery in Sydney which is notorious for its provocative treatment of the trade union movement. We want no more of the general trouble that has existed between the management of that refinery and the trade union movement. We do not intend to have any more of it. A very good suggestion has come from the association representing service station owners. This is that the different oil companies ought to keep tanks at service stations sealed and filled. 
This is a common thing and it ought to be done. But the refineries want cash on the nail. In most cases, service station proprietors do not have the financial capacity to meet this requirement. It is beyond them. The refineries see to that. 
What the Opposition argues is not the root cause of it at all. It is refreshing indeed to hear from the Leader of the Country Party that in fact there are adequate fuel supplies in Australia. I have heard bis jeremiads time and again that Australia is going to run short of fuel. The position today is nothing of the sort. In Australia there is more recoverable fuel than ever before in terms of crude, oil and liquids associated with crude oil. The annual throughput of the refineries in Australia is 220 million barrels a year. Australia has at the moment reserves of 3,300 million barrels. That is the position up to date. It is quite remarkable that recently the Esso-BHP organisation estimated that it had an extra 22 per cent of reserves. So,' I do not want to hear any more nonsense from' 'the Opposition about what the fuel position is. At present day consumption rates Australia has. 15 years of fuel supply in reserve. If honourable members divide 3,300 million barrels of reserves by the annual consumption of 220 million barrels, they should obtain the answer that Australia ;has 15 years in fuel reserves. Plenty of time should' be available for us to follow the other alternatives that present themselves to us. If we want to- know the exact position with regard to fuel and- oil supplies in Australia as the question has been raised about the adequency of supplies, I have mentioned it and my colleague, the Minister for Labor and Immigration  (Mr Clyde Cameron)  will be dealing with the industrial aspects. 
-To illustrate the exact position, I quote from the head of the Esso company, the main oil company in Australia in terms of throughput. I speak of  Mr Kruizenga,  who pointed out: . . . Australia is not one of the countries with cause for anxiety on the energy score. 
Coal reserves are more than ample for the country's needs. It looks as though there is plenty of natural gas for the foreseeable future. Uranium supplies are available for internal use and export. The only potential problem is on the crude oil side. If you go back you will see the track record has not been too encouraging for oil exploration. The only really successful area has been in the Gippsland Basin. 
But even without further major discoveries, it is feasible for Australia to be reasonably self-sufficient by coupling existing resources to new technology ... In a world of expensive energy and supply difficulties that's a pretty good position for a country to be in. 
Today Australia is one of the few countries- let us forget temporary disruptions caused by industrial disputes- where one can roll up one '-s truck or one's car and get fuel supplies. It is the one country, with the exception of the Arab countries, where one can buy one 's fuel supplies at the cheapest rate possible. We have kept the price down, and we intend to continue to do so, the propaganda of the friends of Broken Hill Proprietary notwithstanding. There again, the arch culprit is the Leader of the Country Party. 
On the subject of oil prices, let this also be clearly understood: The cost of Australian crude today does not vary very much from the cost of crude from the East. The reason is that the biggest part of the cost of imported crude, which is landed today at $7.25 a barrel, consists of tax. When you deduct that tax, which is taken by the respective producing countries, you will find that the crude is just about on a par with the Aus.tralian product because we have not chosen to flog the consumer and we do not intend to do so. The farmers in Australia today can buy their fuel, their petrol and distillate, cheaper than it can be bought in any other industrialised country in the world. 
On the question of LPG- and very little was said about this by the  Deputy  Leader of the Country Party- I quote from a report from the Hydro-Carbons Branch of my Department. It states: 
The LPG from refineries is distributed mainly by road wagons or rail tank cars. The volume of storage for this product is low partly because the cost of storage tanks is high. Estimates vary from $500 to $1,000 per ton of product capacity . . . 
In all States the production of LPG in refineries is less than the consumption and the shortfall is met by imports of LPG from Westernport. During 1973 the refinery and petrochemical production of LPG was 338,000 tons and the usage of Bass Strait LPG in Australia was 42,000 tons, out of over 1 million tons production. 
Do honourable members opposite want to learn,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  or do they just want to be the louts that they are? 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Scholes)Order! The Minister Will resume his seat. The Leader of the Country Party was heard in comparative silence. The only interjections were from his own side of the House. 
-The report continues: 
LPG produced from Bass Strait at Longford is transported to Long Island Point by pipeline and there separated to propane and butane. The great bulk is shipped to Japan, but smaller quantities are shipped to New South Wales, Queensland and other States in small foreign tankers. These tankers vary in capacity from 300-900 tons: larger vessels cannot be used because of the lack of storage capacity already referred to. A particular example of this is the fact that when shipments are made to Sydney they have to be unloaded from the ship into road and rail wagons for transfer to storages. This means that the ship is held up for a much longer period than necessary, which adds to the cost of the shipment 
LPG is also moved from Bass Strait by road and rail for supply to country centres in Victoria and New South Wales. There is at present no properly fitted siding for loading LPG into rail cars at Long Island Point and the procedure adopted is to carry LPG by road wagon to the siding at Bittern and transfer it there into the rail car. An additional problem for rail supply to New South Wales is the change of gauge at Albury, necessitating bogie change. 
There are both physical and economic problems in supplying LPG to centres in New South Wales and Queensland from Westernport. The physical problems are the shortages of storage, snipping, and of road wagons and rail cars. The shortage sets a ceiling to the amount that can be transferred in this manner. We have been informed by several of the companies that they have road and rail wagons on order but the shortage of steel and other problems have delayed the delivery long beyond the promised date. 
In regard to shipment by sea, reference has already been made to the problem of storage capacity to receive shipments, resulting in the available LPG tanker capacity being inadequate to meet the demand during the winter months . . . 
The economic problem of bringing LPG from Westernport is the transport cost involved, for example the freight by coastal tanker from Westernport to Sydney is $30 per ton and the cost of carriage by road is similar. Esso quoted $30 per ton for road transport to Wagga Wagga, although the Wagga Council Gas Supply undertaking, by purchasing and operating their own road tank wagon at a cost of $60,000 claim to have reduced the cost to half of this amount. The rail freight ... for transport from Bittern to Sydney is $34.55 per ton but there is also the cost of road transfer .. . 
In fact, the major oil companies have been thumbing their noses at the price findings of the Prices Justification Tribunal. They sought a price of $57 a ton and were awarded a price of $42 a ton. They then said that they would prefer to burn the LPG as fuel in refineries and, alternatively, to convert it into motor spirit. You can have that at a price, and it is the responsibility of the major oil companies, who have access to the cheapest crude oil in the world today, to provide a reasonable distribution system. We intend to see that they provide it. More than that, we have referred to the Attorney-General the question of whether prosecutions should not in fact issue in respect of the flouting of the recommendations of the Prices Justification Tribunal. We believe the powers are there under section 1 8 of the Act and we intend to use them. We will also ensure that by this time next year there will be no shortage, and these people will face up to their responsibilities. They have made fantastic profits in Australia. It is their responsibility to see that LPG is provided, particularly to the country consumers. 
Pursuant to section 32 of the Hydro-Electric Power Act 1949-73 I present for the information of honourable members the 25th Annual Report of the Snowy Mountains Hydro-Electric Authority. 
-The development of uranium will be conducted in Australia's best interests. There have been a lot of very short sighted and narrow minded people- their apologists are in the Opposition- who have wanted to get their hot sweaty little hands on uranium at bargain basement prices. (Opposition supporters interjecting) - 
The uranium industry is undoubtedly suffering from the bloody-mindedness of the Senate. On 29 March last the necessary regulations under the Atomic Energy Act which would permit a constructive program of development were gazetted. We had to wait, of course, first for the Woodward Report which was presented early in May. A spokesman in the Senate, for his own objectives, chose to move for disallowance. He waited for the maximum statutory time to expire. It did last week. Having been delayed for nearly 6 months by the Senate I do not intend to wait for a further period of 6 months for the purpose of resubmitting those regulations. There are adequate powers under the Atomic Energy Act which we will use for that purpose. My submission to Cabinet can now go forward, the Senate having made its decision, and on wrong premises. I will be recommending to Cabinet that the Australian Atomic Energy Commission should establish its own milling plant in the Northern Territory, and we will proceed on a government to government basis in respect of the sale of uranium. 
We are in a position, from existing stockpiles of milled uranium oxide to meet the full commitments from the Northern Territory of uranium oxide exports to Japan up until 1980. Recently one major company there was ill advised enough to attempt, as an arm screwing operation, to suggest that it should invoke force majeure. We informed the Japanese Government that there was absolutely no need for it. In addition, we have taken steps to revive the undertaking at Mary Kathleen, where there are some 10,700 short tons of uranium with certain existing contracts. We will be coming in as underwriters there and we will be in a position to ensure that the revival of the Mary Kathleen mine will produce a further 1,050 tons a year, which will again be available for export. We are in the process also of renegotiating the existing contracts for that mine. The authority of our choice in the terms of the underwriting agreement will be the Australian Atomic Energy Commission, which will be operating under its existing statutory powers. The forthcoming report of the Atomic Energy Commission will show that we have in Australia, recoverable and reasonably recoverable, and adding the recent Pancontinental Mining Ltd discoveries, some 300,000 short tons of uranium. Unenriched it is worth very close to $7 billion gross and enriched it will be worth between $35 billion and $40 billion gross. By waiting for the past 1 8 months, we have already doubled the recoverable price. In the case of the Ranger deposit alone this will add $1 billion at least to the value. We will be proceeding to establish a milling plant which will also give about 3,500 tons a year, and this plant should be in operation in  Vh  years' time. We will then be in a position to have a very adequate stockpile and we can take advantage of the then market situation. In addition, the present doubts as to the relative efficiencies of the gaseous diffusion and the gas centrifuge methods of enrichment will have been resolved and we will frame our policy accordingly. 
-I will amplify my reply of last week as much as is possible consistent with the submission which is yet to be considered by the Cabinet. To commence, let me stress one fact: By section 35 of the Atomic Energy Act the title to all uranium in the Northern Territory is vested in the Commonwealth of Australia. That was done by legislation of the former Liberal-Country Party government under the leadership of  Sir Robert  Menzies. It was supported by the Labor Opposition and it remains on the statute book. We intend to exercise that power and in the right of our ownership. In addition, we have control over uranium in the States by virtue of the defence power. There again our overriding consideration, of course, will be to ensure that uranium, when exported, will go only to countries which are fully accessories to and have signed the Nuclear Non-Proliferation Treaty. The uranium being the property of the Commonwealth, naturally the Commonwealth- if my recommendation is accepted- will establish its own milling plant. I mentioned a figure the other day. No matter what figure is mentioned, it will be criticised immediately. It will be related to the demand which will develop. The figure which I quoted happened to be the figure which was also quoted by Ranger Uranium Mines Pty Ltd. It is in the best interests of uranium that it be milled through one plant; otherwise we would have three or four smaller and relatively inefficient plants in operation. 
In addition, I stress the fact that the total expenditure to date on exploration in the Northern Territory by the 4 major companies has been less than $12m. The value of the product involved is more than $7 billion. I note that the metropolitan Press of Australia passed over that figure. It did not want to accept its importance. As a matter of fact, the royalty which is payable under the mineral ordinances of the Northern Territory is of the order of 1  lA%.  We will not be accepting that either. We will phase our development of milling to correspond with the market. We are anxious to sell. We are anticipating doing business with the Prime Minister of Japan when he comes here next month. Also we are interested in the remarks made by the Shah of Iran, with which we agree, that in matters of major trading importance we should deal on a nation to nation basis. We will proceed with all expedition to establish that milling plant. It will be operated and controlled by the Australian Atomic Energy Commission, which has every possible ability to do so. 
Good progress is being made. As at 23 September the following work had been finished: Cleaning and grading of 118 miles of the route; trenching of 81 miles; hauling and stringing of 75 miles; welding of 53 miles; and backfilling of 35 miles. The sector that is the responsibility of the Pipeline Authority- from the Cooper Basin to Wilton- should be ready in a matter of about 104 weeks from now. That will be in accordance with the timetable. This work is of the utmost importance. 
If honourable members refer to a minute that I tabled on 1 August of a discussion between  Sir William  Pettingell and  Dr McFadyen,  the head of the Fuels Branch of my Department, they will find set out the whole of the economics of the pipeline proposal. Far from being a pipedream, it is a very necessary job for the economy of the Commonwealth today. In fact, the cost of the whole transcontinental pipeline will just about equal the import cost of fuels. Australia at present is dependent to the extent of only about 7 per cent on natural gas as an energy source. For comparable countries the figure is 21 per cent. We can achieve that with the construction of the pipeline. In so doing we will reduce by over $400m the total cost of the imported fuels. 
We, on taking office, assured Japan that we would honour contracts entered into right to within a couple of months of the election despite the fact that the contracts were made at excessively low prices. Demands have been made since by Queensland Mines in particular to try to panic the Japanese. We have assured them that delivery will be made, that we have the stocks to make these deliveries, and the stocks are at Lucas Heights at the present time. We can provide all commitments up to 1980 out of those stocks. 
I am not very interested in answering melodrama. This is a specious matter of public importance in which the Opposition seeks to criticise delay which is of its own making. But it conveniently forgets that until 7 May last Judge Woodward as a royal commissioner had not delivered his report in relation to the Nabarlek uranium deposits. Do members of the Opposition suggest that we should not have waited for that report which was delivered on 7 May? There happened to be an election as well which again was precipitated by the Opposition. We in fact were ready on 29 March. We had then gazetted regulations under the Atomic Energy Act. At the very first opportunity when the Senate resumed- action was taken in that place because the Opposition would dare not do it in this House- a notice of motion was given for the disallowance of those regulations. That notice of motion was dealt with only less than a fortnight ago. Now the Opposition seeks to take advantage of its delays. Members of the Opposition have the gall to come into this House and accuse us of delays. 
I have already said that we have lost 6 good months in the development of uranium. I have already said to the House this week that we did not propose to temporise any further, that we would use the residual powers which we undoubtedly have under the Atomic Energy Act, and that we will use them to the limit. The powers that we have are based on legislation introduced by the Menzies coalition Government in 1953, which with the support of the Labor Party passed the Atomic Energy Act which is still the law of the land. In the debate on that legislation the then  Mr Casey  said: 
The purpose of the Atomic Energy Act is the establishment of an Atomic Energy Commission to control all aspects of atomic energy in Australia from the mining of uranium to the final disposal of the fissionable material. The Commission will supervise the prospecting for and the mining of ore, the concentrating of the ore, its transportation, research into methods of ore dressing and the exporting of the final product and the use of the product. 
And the Leader of the Australian Country Party  (Mr Anthony)  talks about policy - 
-It was 1953. Section 35 of the Atomic Energy Act clearly states that uranium and kindred substances on land in a territory of the Commonwealth, whether alienated from the Crown or not and, if alienated, whether alienated before or after the commencement of the Act are declared to become the property of the Commonwealth. And the property they are. The Opposition in the Senate is not prepared to accept regulations based on its own legislation. Public opinion polls reflect the public resentment of this deliberate frustration of the Australian Government. 
The Atomic Energy Commission complies with my directions in relation to the performance of its functions and the exercise of its power. We have lost 6 months already through the bloodymindedness of the Senate and I do not propose to wait further. The Opposition would be well advised, if it wants policy, to consider sections 17, 18, 19, 34, 35, 36, 37, 39, 40 and 41 of the Atomic Energy Act. Section 35, of course, clearly vests title. The Leader of the Country Party should have had a look at the Act before having the impertinence to come into the House and try to tell us what the law is. 
Over 70 per cent of Australia's recoverable reserves of uranium are in the Northern Territory. The Australian Atomic Energy Commission advised me last July that in its next annual report it will show that the total reserves of uranium reasonably assured and estimated up to a price category of $15 would be 270,000 tons. We can add another 28,000 tons to that with the recent Pan Continental discoveries. The gross values of  these reserves at the currently conservative valuation of $A10 per ton is $6,000m unenriched. Enriched, the amount can be five to six times that figure. Honourable members opposite should go and ask Professor Messel who would give them the details. We heard a diatribe from the Leader of the Country Party about Government delays and Government restraints in regard to uranium. But that was precisely what the former Government did and what the present Opposition would like to continue to do. 
Before the Leader of the Country Party commence to speak I gave him a copy of a letter which was sent by  Mr Proud  of Peko-Wallsend EZ to the then Minister for National Development in which he said: 
Thus there is no urgent need to bring into production new uranium sources within the next decade. 
And mark this,  Sir- 
The cost of establishing uranium production relative to the sale value of the product is possibly the lowest of any mineral so that two matters follow: 
That to develop its own uranium resources is comfortably within the capacity of Australia's domestic capital resources. 
On the other hand to overdevelop the milling side of this industry in its infancy would place undue stress on the borrowing credibility of the emergent Australian producers. 
That letter is dated 21 August 1972. That is the type of thing that we inherited from the former Government. Is the Leader of the Country Party prepared to allow me to incorporate these in Hansard- yes, or no? 

 Sir Reginald Swartz, 
Minister for National Development, 
Parliament House, 
Canberra, A.C.T., 2600 
Dear  Sir Reginald, 
URANIUM MARKETING AND THE CURRENT BELIEF THAT A NEED EXISTS FOR A NATIONAL URANIUM POLICY 
The principles enunciated in this letter were raised in Sydney on 7 August when the Secretary of your Department and other officers together with the Secretary of the Department of the Interior were good enough to meet with potential uranium producers to discuss matters of common interest. 
One such matter which particularly affects the Department of the Interior is referred to in a letter of today's date addressed to  Mr Hunt,  a copy of which is attached for your information. 
There are two specific matters which the industry wishes to place before you which are now stated under the respective heads of marketing policy and uranium resource policy. More particularly these are as follow- 
MARKETING POLICY 
The Australian Government has asked the Australian producers to come to an arrangement which will ensure orderly marketing of uranium and will maintain the price of uranium at a reasonable level during the market surplus. 
The six companies which presently intend to produce uranium in Australia (Peko-Wallsend, E Z Industries, Noranda Australia Limited, Queeensland Mines Limited. Mary Kathleen Uranium Limited, and Western Mining Corporation Limited ) are now parties to an arrangement which would meet the Government's wishes. 
The world uranium market will be in substantial oversupply until the early 1980s. It is believed that the demand/ supply situation will be in balance in the mid-1980s and that there might be a shortage of uranium towards the end of the 1980s. 
The greatest danger to maintaining the world marketing arrangement while there is a market surplus is that further substantial uranium deposits may be discovered and brought into production (or come under consumer control) by companies not a party to the arrangement. 
If this happens, the total market available before, say, 1980, will be insufficient to accomodate such new producers. The orderly marketing arrangements may then prove unworkable. 
As the Government has expressed its strong wish to have orderly marketing of uranium, the Government might consider whether it should be prepared to take action to prevent new discoveries from upsetting such an arrangement. 
The previously named producers will be able to meet Australia 's share of the world market well into the 1 980s. 
The minimum position would be for the Federal Government to decide that it will not grant export permits for uranium to other than the previously named producers from already known deposits, until such time as the world market situation improves. 
In the Northern Territory the Federal Government could also refuse to issue any further exploration licences for uranium until the market situation improves. The Commonwealth Government cannot prevent the issue of exploration tenements in the States, but would probably influence the States by taking this action. 
The operation of the existing Northern Territory exploration licence ordinance requires that an exploration licensee may explore the entire area granted to him for a maximum period of only two dry seasons, thereafter reducing by half to a maximum retention for any part of the original area for a total of five years. 
In these circumstances, farm-ins for parts of such important resource areas as those held by Queensland Mines (4,000 square miles) and E.Z.-Peko (2,720 square miles) are being sought by a number of interests which are not panics to the world producer arrangements. 
URANIUM RESOURCES POLICY 
The uranium discoveries in Northern Territory and Western Australia in recent years have given Australia world ranking as a potential producer of uranium. There is little doubt that further discoveries will be made. 
The markets for Australia's uranium are overseas. Because of uranium's strategic importance as the main source of energy in the future, all consuming countries are dealing with uranium on a national policy level. 
Producing countries, specifically Canada, are recognising the need for a national policy regarding uranium and in this respect we attach a letter of 22 June 1972 from  Mr O.  J. C. Runnalls, Senior Adviser, Uranium and Nuclear Energy to the Government of Canada, setting out the position in that country. 
We believe Australia should also have a national policy regarding uranium. Uranium is expected to be an increasingly important fuel resource of the future and in view of the Canadian experience of overseas ownership of its mineral resources and indeed our Australian experience in the alienation of our major mineral resources to overseas ownership and control, there is yet time to follow the Canadian example of securing to Australian ownership and control this new important energy source. 
Such a policy could be considered on two levels: 
Australia 's position in world markets, 
Uranium as a strategic mineral. 
The Commonwealth Government could enforce such a policy by announcing that export permits for uranium will not be granted to any future projects with less than the requisite major Australian equity. 
The Government may also wish to place limits on foreign ownership of Australian deposits for stategic reasons. In this connection exploration for uranium is being undertaken by a number of overseas companies, none of which is a party to the world producers arrangements. 
It would appear reasonable for the Government to decide that all future uranium finds in Australia should be under Australian control, i.e. at least a majority equity interest. In this connection the policy established by the Canadian Government is of particular interest. 
Overseas companies holding exploration areas before the new policy is effected could be encouraged to follow the example of Moranda Australia Limited and to plan for at least SO per cent Australian ownership in any finds that may be made on their areas. 
The best estimate of the uncommitted uranium market through to 1980 is 75,000 tons U308 and for sales emerging in the 1980s there is already in Australia adequate proven uranium to maintain Australia's competitive position with the world suppliers. Thus there is no urgent need to bring into production new uranium sources within the next decade. 
1. The cost of establishing uranium production relative to the sale value of the product is possibly the lowest of any mineral so that two matters follow: - 
That to develop its own uranium resources is comfortably within the capacity of Australia's domestic capital resources, 
On the other hand to overdevelop the milling side of this industry in its infancy would would place undue stress on the borrowing credibility of the emergent Australian producers. 
The above is submitted as matters which it is believed merit serious Government consideration and in view of the splendid relationship which is emerging between Government and the uranium industry we are encouraged to believe that such consideration will be generously given. 
Yours sincerely, 
JOHNS. PROUD Chairman of Directors. 21 August 1972 
The  Hon.  Ralph J. Hunt, Minister for the Interior, Parliament House, Canberra, A.C.T. 2600 
The honourable member for Henty is correct in the import of her question. In fact, remarkable excess quantities of Avtur are being taken by international airlines. The case in point that I have is that of Pan Am. One recent Pan Am flight picked up 1 1,000 gallons of Avtur for a flight from Sydney to Auckland, which would normally have taken 5,000 gallons. We from time to time in my Department authorise the quantities of Avtur that are to be picked up by these airlines. We receive monthly returns. It would appear on the present trend that some 250,000 gallons of Avtur are being taken up each month in excess of proper requirements. It is a matter which we have raised with those concerned and it is a matter which we will pursue. The motivation for this action by the international airlines is a simple one. They pay less than half in Australia for Avtur than they would pay for Avtur for, say, trans-Atlantic flights. They have every incentive literally to stuff themselves with Avtur in Australia and to abuse our trust and confidence in them. There is a long standing arrangement amongst the various international airlines as to the quantity which ought to be provided and the terms on which it is provided. 
This debate of course is part of Operation Cover-up. It is one more chapter in the confused approach of the Leader of the Australian Country Party  (Mr 
Anthony). Last week the Opposition was very busy on an exercise which attempted to discredit me and the Government. It completely failed. It blew up in its face. Today the Opposition is pursuing ' Operation cover up '. 
There is another angle to this. The backers of the Australian Country Party in particular, and they are noted pork barrellers are getting a little toey because the results are not being achieved and no matter what false issue is raised - 
This, of course, is part of a deliberate tactic that always occurs. A matter of public importance is raised and then there are constant interruptions when I rise to reply. It is typical. 
Opposition members interjecting - 
I am not going to be frustrated in this fashion. I am entitled to my full 15 minutes of speaking time. I know,  Sir, that  you will do your best for me. But if any more interruptions are made during my speech I will move that the question be put. I am entitled to silence. I give courtesy and I expect it, not that I am likely to get it from some of the louts of the Opposition. Their behaviour,  Sir, is  loutish. 
-First, let me answer and debunk the arguments of the Leader of the Country Party. The White Paper was prepared, and prepared in good time. On the question of the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development, my answer to the unwarranted criticism of the examiners was circulated to all sections of the Australian Press early last week. They chose to ignore it. In respect of oil exploration, I would refer the Leader of the Country Party to a publication issued last January by no less a company than the Broken Hill Pty Co. Ltd. In it BHP, in revealing its activities over the previous year, gave details of the hydrocarbons available in Australia. BHP gave the figure of 3,700 million barrels of hydrocarbons and stated that at present rates of consumption this represents 15 years supply. The Leader of the Country Party should have a look at this publication. I will make it available to him for his information. 
You are a very confused young man; you choose to be confused. With regard to the Burmah delay, major leaders of the oil industry have told me that they are just about sick of the Opposition frustration. The fundamental issue is the control of the north-west shelf. Here we have a company with a 1 5 per cent Australian equity in possession 142,000 square miles. The company has tested one corner of this area, a remote area up at Scott's Reef- a matter of about five or six per cent of the total area. Renewals are now being proposed. Our policy right through from the time we took office consistently has been to tell companies which submit farm out applications to us that if they cannot drill an area themselves, they should hand it back to the Australian Government- hand it back to the people of Australia so that they can in turn farm it out on a 50-50 basis. It is 50-50 that we want and 50-50 that we are entitled to get. All of this manoeuvring and successive urgency motions have only one purpose, and that is somehow to persuade the people of Australia that we are holding up oil drilling. We are doing nothing of the sort. 
The Opposition has chosen to challenge its own Act, the Seas and Submerged Lands Act, which asserts the principle of Australian sovereignty off-shore, on the surface, in the water and in the air. That is the fundamental issue. We are determined that once and for all the principle of sovereignty off shore will be decided by the High Court. We will win, and the Opposition knows it. The best that the Opposition can put up is a rear guard action. We have already lined up major companies which want to go in and take a share of the farm outs that will arise. We are also determined to ensure that the individual States cannot renew under the present terms what is retained by the respective companies with exploration permits. 
We want a more intensive drilling pattern. The former arrangement was too loose. Whatever areas are made available will be those related to geoseismic surveys and an intensified, and properly intensified, drilling pattern. In future we will not give away Australia's assets but we will see that the principles that operate throughout the world in respect of off-shore oil exploration are applied and operate in Australia. Two major oil companies want to come in and drill for oil at places on the continental plateau where there are prospects of getting it in very deep water. As I have said, we are awaiting a High Court decision in this respect. The Opposition's attitude of this matter is another example of the humbug and frustration which is its stock in trade and particularly the stock in trade of the Leader of the Country Party. 
I would like to give honourable members the latest figures in regard to off-shore drilling. In exploration drilling off-shore, a total of 88,000 metres was drilled for the year ending 30 June 1973. For the year ending 30 June 1974 this figure increased to 90,000 metres. A total of 24 exploration wells were sunk for the year ending 30 June 1973 and 26 wells were sunk for the year ending 30 June 1974. I invite honourable members opposite to answer these facts if they can, but they cannot. They have tried to mislead the House. We do not yet have figures on expenditure, but they will be comparable to the footages drilled. So much for the falsity of the figures that have been advanced by members of the Opposition. The action taken by them in this respect is typical of their behaviour. 
I would now like to have a look at the broader aspects of this matter. Progressively with a little pressure we have had greater admissions in respect of the actual position in Bass Strait. The Leader of the Country Party should have a red face after his gaffe during the last election campaign when he wanted the price of crude oil increased. At that time he was talking in terms of another $5 or $6 a barrel for Esso-Hematite group. This is the position, and never forget it: If we subtract US$6.50 royalties and tax from the price of imported heavy crude from the Arab States we find that the residual price is comparable with the price of Australian crude. Again the Opposition always quotes the Australian dollar. Until recently the price of $2.08 a barrel Australian was the equivalent of US$3. 1 would suggest that all members of the Opposition might well have a look at an article which appeared in the 'Australian 'on Saturday last. In that article it was clearly stated by no less a person than  Mr Kruizenga,  who is the head, and respected head, of the Esso corporation in Australia, that Australia was in a very comfortable position in respect of energy resources. He said that in addition to quite substantial reserves of crude oil there were major reserves of natural gas, even greater reserves of coal and of course uranium in abundance. He said that that is not a bad position for any country to be in. Yet we have these wails, these jeremiads and this deliberate and calculated misrepresentation from the Opposition to humbug and mislead the people of Australia. When we win the High Court case there will be a real drilling program on the north west shelf. It will be seen that on a 50/50 basis the people of Australia are in a position to participate equally and in the national interest with competent and proper overseas explorers. As to the people who are entitled to renewals, they will get as much as they are fairly entitled to demand and to exploit. They will get no more and no less. They will get a fair deal, and so will the people of Australia. 
Quite apart from the matters over which the Leader of the Australian Country Party skimmed there are others to which I need to draw the attention of the House because the terms for this discussion of a matter of public importance have not been properly advanced. He refers to the confusion which has arisen from a lack of publicly stated minerals and energy policies. But, of course, he would not want to touch on that in the light of what I said on television last Thursday night. Australia is getting a record income from minerals and that will continue. It will offset the export income drops which unfortunately will occur in respect of wool and meat. For the future Australia will not be riding on the sheep's back; it will be riding in the coal truck. We expect on the basis of negotiated contracts to get $ 1,440m for our coal exports next year. That is an increase of $6 16m on what we got last year. It will be a record for a single individual export item. 
Let me refer to iron ore. Mention has been made of the alleged policy of keeping our assets in the ground. In respect of iron ore we will get $1,1 70m, which will be an increase of $2 90m on the previous year. Additionally, beyond 1975 there will be further increases. They will be planned and co-ordinated with the Japanese because they are our best trading partners. We will do what we can to help them. We will keep them in the ring fighting, and they will need all the help that we can give. Mark my words, it will be the yield that we will get from minerals export income which will offset the decline that may occur, through no fault of the rural interests, in those other sectors of our economy on which we have relied so heavily in the past for export income. We have nothing to be ashamed of. We have a lot to be proud of I challenge any member of the Opposition to get up and contradict the figures that I have given. 
In respect of non-ferrous metals such as lead, copper, zinc, tin, bauxite and beach minerals, they have all had record exports and they will continue. In order to minimise imports of crude oil we are expediting the construction of the trans-national pipeline system. There, again, what is considered to be a smart business proposition when it is advanced by the Australian Gaslight Company becomes allegedly a pipe dream when it is in the hands of the national Government. Again this is typical of the deliberate obfuscation of certain sectors of the Press. I would recommend that every Australian should look at the paper which I tabled on 1 August last giving the details of the proposals of the Australian Gaslight Company and its manager,  Sir William  Pettingell, for the export of gas overseas and what they hope to profit by it. As their spokesmen in this House are trying to justify their existence, it is very true to say that the Country Party is a pork-barrelling party. It has always been the party most interested in getting cash subventions on which it exists. It is a minority party which is dependent upon the sale of support in return for funds. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Scholes)Order! The Minister's time has expired. 
-There is whatever consultation may be necessary, as and when and if required. As to the administration of my Department in respect of matters of immediate concern to me, the proper basis of consultation is always as between myself and the Minister for Foreign Affairs who, when interviewed on his return from overseas, in no uncertain terms expressed his appreciation of my administration. 
The percentage of overseas investment in the black coal industry in New South Wales is of the order of 15 per cent, leaving an Australian ownership and/or control of 85 per cent. In respect of Queensland, the position is much the reverse. There, foreign ownership is approximately 78 per cent and Australian ownership is 22 per cent. It is a matter which has concerned the Government greatly. We are moving actively to ensure that at least there will be no further deterioration of the position. We face further problems in Queensland in relation to foreign companies whose interests have to be sold. I have in mind the case of the Peabody interests in the Thiess-Peabody-Mitsui consortium. The American Anti-Trust Enforcement Agency gave a direction to Kennecott, the copper combine, that it should divest itself of its different mineral interests. In so doing, that combine has chosen to offer on a package basis the whole of its coal interests throughout the world. We take the view- I am supported in this by my colleague, the Treasurer- that in such a situation Kennecott has a 58 per cent interest in TPM- an offer should be made to Australian interests to take over that combine's interest in TPM. For that reason, my colleague, the Treasurer, has given directions that the matter should go before the Committee on Foreign Takeovers. 
With regard to the prospects for the future, we are in close touch with the Japanese coal consuming interests. They have indicated to us clearly what their future requirements will be. We anticipate that by the year 1980 there should be exports of steaming coal of the order of 10 million tons a year, and in respect of metallurgical coking coal we expect that exports will be of the order of at least 40 million tons a year. In addition to that, we are receiving a substantial number of inquiries from countries such as Sweden, West Germany, Italy and Romania. In other words, the prospects for the coal industry in Australia in terms of the export market were never better. 
-I am afraid that the honourable member has been completely misinformed. One of the major functions of the Petroleum and Minerals Authority will be to give assistance to precisely this type of mining enterprise. As a matter of fact, satisfactory mineralisation has been proved in regard to some 40 smallish enterprises by the Bureau of Mineral Resources. The major part of the $50m that will be allocated to the Petroleum and Minerals Authority will be available for that purpose. 
The honourable member can have the list if he wants it. In all these cases something of real mineral value has been discovered. We are interested in helping these people and in keeping them out of the clutches of overseas combines. In the process of doing this, such people can have their choice- either of equity participation by the Petroleum and Minerals Authority alone or on the basis of a guarantee given by an appropriate financial organisation. 
Apart from the assistance that will be given to small mineral enterprises, our funds will not be used, contrary to the furphies which have been spread by our political critics, for off-shore drilling. In respect of off-shore drilling we will be farming out any area which cannot be intensively drilled. We consider that, as we will be providing the national resource, the risk capital and the technology will probably come from the farminee. Accordingly, drilling onshore in respect of petroleum will be conducted by the Petroleum and Minerals Authority. We have 2 spots in mind for that purpose. The honourable member can be certain that in respect of off-shore operations we will be following the practice which prevails in every off-shore country of any substance throughout the world. 
In answer to the honourable member for Farrer, there is one fourth certainty, and that is his political demise at the next election. There is a gentleman after his seat. As for the future, I think the Australian currency in the long term will be more than comparable with that of any other currency and it would well behove the Opposition, instead of spreading panic and dissention and endeavouring in every possible way to denigrate the Australian economy to be loyal Australians for a change. 
-Our proposals have been outlined already. As a matter of fact I met Ambassador Yoshida last Tuesday week at his request and I gave him details of our proposals. Prior to that I had discussed the matter with  Mr 
Nakasone in Japan. Coal hydrogenation is a matter of the utmost importance, particularly with pricing trends. We have reached a crossover point when the cost of producing motor spirit and other derivatives from coal is on an even keel with the cost of production from imported crude. For hydrogenation one needs a highly volatile fuel. There are 2 distinct areas that I might mention. One is the Hunter Valley and the Greta seam. The other area is the coal deposits on the Darling Downs. 
-For the edification of the honourable member who just interjected I might remind him that he will find there a collection of the choicest multinationals which have been granted excessively large areas of black coal. Today we no longer have major oil companies. They are major energy companies. In the United States they have acquired 65 per cent of the black coal. They are controlling about 50 per cent of their uranium but that is just by the way. There is quite a concatenation of these overseas firms in the areas I have mentioned. We have told them in turn that, whilst the Queensland Goverment may give them leases, they will not be able to export because in the interim, of course, just to improve the shining hour, they all want to export coal. Our main concern is to ensure that we can supplement our limited shortfalls and in addition, that Japan, which is by far our major trading partner, will come into collaboration with us. We propose joint investigations into the latest and most modem methods of coal hydrogenation. Coal is the key to the future and it is the key to the energy of the future. Australia has it in abundance and we will use it accordingly. 
-The Leader of the Australian Country Party can have his reply here and now. The reply is a simple one: In his letter to me the Leader of the Australian Country Party made an apology for the lack of common courtesy in not first asking my consent. I have to spend far too much of my time dealing with the rubbish that is circulated in the Press in relation to myself and the administration of my portfolio and in dealing with foolish and stupid urgency motions that are put forward. In due course the Leader of the Australian Country Party will get his reply. He well knows what the reply will be. With the proper courteous approach to me he will certainly get the services of a suitable officer. 
The conversion of the liquids associated with natural gas are of the utmost importance to Australia's future supplies of motor spirit and other petroleum derivatives. I will quote from an official publication of the Broken Hill Pty Co. Ltd called 'BHP Today' which was issued in January last. It said that in total our resources of liquid hydrocarbons- by that is meant crude oil- and condensated liquid petroleum gas is approximately 4,000 million barrels. For the doubting Thomases on the Opposition side, I suggest that they look at pages 22 and 23 of that document, where they will see it. 
Even more convenient is this: Subsequent to the date of that publication the Esso-Hematite group has announced the upgrading of the reserves available in Bass Strait. It is not convenient. It is not adventitious. It is correct. No one would be better able to inform Australia than the BHP group, because it holds the major share of the reserves. By alkylation, motor spirit can be converted from the liquids. The motor spirit will be one that will gladden the heart of the ecologist because there will be no need for tetraethyl lead to be added to control knocking. In addition, the motor spirit will have a 100 octane rating. The split-up between the two- my official figures are of the order of 3,700 million barrels- is approximately 50/50. When we start production from the north-west shelf in particular there will be a major petrochemical refinery that will be structured for that purpose because we will depend heavily on it for our future needs of automobile fuel and other petroleum derivatives. We can look forward to the future with confidence. I repeat the words of  Mr Kruizenga,  the head of the Esso company in Australia. He was reported in a very authentic journal, the 'Petroleum News', about 6 months ago to have said that Australia was in a very, very comfortable position energy-wise. 
The answer to the right honourable member's question is as follows: 
3 August 1973. 
Departmental officers and employees located in Hobart Place, Canberra City. 
126. 
Building evacuation. 
Yes. 
-The answer to the right honourable member's question is as follows: 
Estimated Proved and Probable Gas Reserves are: 
(Cunninham-Minister for Minerals and Energy)- Pursuant to section 3 1 of the Atomic Energy Act 1953-1973 I present for the information of honourable members the 22nd annual report of the Australian Atomic Energy Commission. 
The honourable member for Gellibrand raises a matter of national importance. Quite frankly, natural gas is a high premium fuel. It is a matter for regret that in a State such as Victoria, where an outstanding job is being done in the utilisation of its brown coal reserves- mark you, that utilisation was carried out under the auspices of a State government without the intervention of private enterprisethe State should, for some reason best known to itself, turn to the use on a major scale of natural gas for the generation of electricity. Not only is it a tragedy but also, in terms of economics, it is criminal to do so. Brown coal is in Victoria in tremendous quantities. It is possibly the largest deposit of lignite in the world. A brilliant technology has been developed over the years in that State that could be well used for that purpose. 
While I am speaking I shall digress to make reference also the grandiose schemes for the reduction of iron ore in Western Australia by the utilisation of natural gas. If the steel were to be produced by these methods it would be the dearest steel in the world in terms of fuel cost. Natural gas has its use- a very real one- not only for domestic purposes but for general industry as well. In Australia, where our imports of crude oil will have risen in cost to between $680m and $750m this year, it is essential that natural gas should be utilised very carefully and specifically for the purpose of improving our energy usage by from 7 per cent to 21 per cent. Unfortunately we have no direct control over the State of Victoria, but whatever can be done by moral suasion and by reasoning with these people will be done for that purpose. 
The Royal Commission's urgent special report on the petroleum position in north-west New South Wales and southern Queensland needs urgent consideration. For that purpose we believe that the various sectors of the petroleum industry- the major oil companies and the trade unions associated with marine and land transport- should be brought together so that we can get a co-ordination of effort, and goodwill and understanding. 
Australia's fuel demand is supplied essentially by local industry. There is a very small margin; there would not be more at any time than 14 days supply of petrol and the various distillates which are required. A further distorting factor is that the major oil refineries are located in Victoria and the major consumption is in New South Wales. Further problems arise from the fact that particular refineries are structured to deal with particular types of crude. So, industrial trouble, the shortage of tankers or even other matters such as bad weather can have a very serious and quick impact. 
There is a need for a greater storage capacity. There is a need for a better transport system. In particular, there is an urgent need for a greater number of rail transport cars for this purpose. In addition to that, there is a need for more careful co-ordination. Let me deal with the attitude of particular companies. I might cite here the example of the Transport Commission of New South 
Wales which called for tenders. The Ampol company was the successful tenderer. Under the products swapping arrangement the Commission was to get its supplies from Caltex. I had complaints- I think there was some substance in them- that Caltex in a period of shortage was more interested in supplying its own customers than those to whom it had obligations under the terms of the product-swap arrangement. 
This is a matter which transcends matters of mere political advantage. It is essential that we should secure the fullest co-operation of all sectors of industry associated with the gathering of the crop and soil cultivation. We will take the same energetic steps to ensure that the situation is adequately covered as we did in December of last year and January of this year when we were able to solve the bunkering fuel shortage. Our action then enabled us to export successfully the Australian wheat crop. 
The honourable member is either deaf or he does not want to hear. I suggested that precisely such a committee would be set up, and set up immediately. I also refer the honourable member to the full text of the urgency report which has been received from the Royal Commission where the remedial measures that would be taken are clearly outlined. They are quite adequate and there for the first time in that report is a complete, factual and unbiased analysis of the combination of reasons which have created the situation. 
-You will get it. 
-I am indebted to the honourable member for her question. There is a very urgent need to relate an increase in the labour force in the coal industry not merely to our prospects but also to the certainty of substantial increases in the export of coal. For that purpose there are 3 alternative avenues. The first is to induce men who are trained and experienced miners to return to the industry. The second one obviously is to recruit young men to come into the industry, to upgrade it and to give them the certainty of a career. The third one, of course, in default of a sufficient number being available from either of those sources would be to recruit from overseas skilled miners from the traditional mining counties in the north of the United Kingdom. In respect of the first group, I have already approached the Miners Federation and put the position to it. I have removed for all time the fundamental fear that it has had of a redundancy of labour. We have had information from the Japanese as to their exact requirements. We will step by step and in close co-ordination with them expand production from our existing mines and, where necessary, we will open new ones. 
We need to attract to the industry men who normally could be going into other trades. We need to explain to them that there are excellent opportunities in what will be the most important industry in Australia. Let me remind the House that during World War I men who were skilled coal miners were brought back from the trenches. Today, more than ever, we depend heavily in Australia: - 
The answer to the right honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) The level of crude oil stocks at a refinery varies from day to day due to the steady consumption at the refinery and the intermittent arrival of fresh stocks by tanker or pipeline. 
Crude oil stocks held by refineries in Australia average about 5,750,000 barrels, or the equivalent of 10 days consumption. 
Some refineries are connected to oil fields by pipelines. In these cases, the entire recoverable contents of the oil field can be regarded as refinery stocks, to be fed into the refinery as required. 
For those countries completely dependent on imported oil, the OECD is striving to ensure that 90 days storage of crude plus products is held at all times. However, Australia, because two-thirds of its crude supplies are indigenous, does not need this amount. Ninety days reserve of Bass Strait crude at the fixed price of $2.08 per barrel would involve $1 14m tied up in stocks plus approximately $250m capital cost of tankage at present construction costs. 
Yes. 
Answer contained in ( 1 ). 
Yes. At the present time the liquid hydrocarbons available would be of the order of 1,900 million barrels. In addition to what is available in liquid hydrocarbons, that is to say, crude oil, we have- here I repeat my answer to a question last week- a matter of 1 5 years supply at the present rate of consumption. 
-I am indebted to the honourable member for Melbourne for his question. It would be a wise man indeed who would assign at the present time a value to natural gas to be produced on the North West Shelf. But this much can be said: It would appear that the end value of the product would be of the order of about 140 times the amount which has actually been expended to date. The success ratio there has also been remarkable. To the end of 1973 when 37 wells had been drilled, it was of the order of 1 to 3.5. The world average is one to fifteen I repeat, one to fifteen. 
I am not speaking about - 
For the first time we have had presented to us- it was on the 17th of this month- the proposals of the Woodside-Burmah group for the construction of a production platform. Under the terms of section 13 of the Act, we take delivery at that point. The ultimate planning of the recovery lines has not yet been finalised. We are entitled to know what they will be. May I say this also: This company which is holding 142,000 square miles of offshore land has drilled 53 wells, an average of one to every 2,800 square miles. 
They are also concentrated in the southern sector - 
We are interested in getting a proper intensity of drilling, a proper drilling pattern.  .Mr Sinclair-  Oh! You stopped it! 
For that reason, we are very concerned with the present position with regard to renewals and relinquishments which are about to occur, and particularly the actions taken by all six of the Australian States to challenge the appropriate legislation which confers sovereignty on the Commonwealth. 
Again, we intend to expedite the hearing of that litigation and we have no doubt as to what the ultimate result will be . 
-Then, for the first time, we will be able to avail ourselves of offers which have been received from some of the major oil companies to come in and also to drill and to participate there. 
-The intensity and the drilling pattern at the present time- 
The intensity of the drilling pattern is unsatisfactory in relation to the areas that are held. Equally, it is unsatisfactory to contemplate a renewal of exploration rights on 72,000 square miles for which the present Petroleum (Submerged Lands) Act provides. In respect of renewals- 

 -Mr Speaker - 

 -Mr Speaker, thank you for your ruling. The matter would have been finalised 5 minutes ago if it were not for the interruptions, which are a disgrace to this House. I repeat - 
-Sir, it is grossly - 
-Sir, it is grossly - 
Motion (by  Mr Lionel  Bowen) proposed: 
That the right honourable member for Richmond be suspended from the service of the House. 
Government supporters- Aye. 
Opposition members- No. 
It is grossly unsatisfactory to the Government to have a situation where a designated authority is in a position to renew an exploration permit on terms suitable to him without considering the overriding national interest. We are examining the situation and intend to take appropriate action. As for the ultimate determination of what will be the price of natural gas which will not be produced until  1978,  at the proper time and by proper methods we will give the necessary indications. The second part of the honourable member's question. related to our on-shore activities. I want to refer briefly here to the proposed acquisition by the Petroleum and Minerals Authority of interests in the Wambo Coal Company which was under threat of being taken over by the Anglo-American Corporation, which is a subsidiary of a major South African group. As a result of our participation in the equity of this company we will be able to finish up with a situation where there will be merely a  4  per cent overseas interest in lieu of a  S3  per cent interest. This is typical of the true functions of the Petroleum and Minerals Authority. We are not muscling in but coming in as a responsible body to help out a group which has holdings over  13  square miles of coal with reserves of over  73  million tons and with reputed reserves far in excess of that quantity. We will have appropriate representation on the board of the company. We have acted on the advice of the Joint Coal Board and of every other responsible authority under Commonwealth control. The Commonwealth of Australia will be a good partner for organisations such as this. There will be more of it. Some  40  small organisations have been in a similar plight under the threat of overseas takeovers. In such circumstances the Commonwealth for small amounts of money will be involved by equity participation, partnership or other forms of assistance such as guarantees. I repeat: Contrary to the deliberate misrepresentation by the Opposition  of the  functions of the Petroleum and Minerals Authority, it will be active on shore. It will be farming out surrendered off-shore areas on a  50/50  basis. Four of the major oil companies at present are lined up waiting to participate with us on that basis. In the interim we need to wait for the decision of the High Court. 
-I am completely at a loss to understand the concern expressed by  Mr Hildebrand  of the Australian Anglo American Ltd as to some alleged discourtesy on failure to inform him of the action proposed by the Petroleum and Minerals Authority to acquire a 49 per cent interest in the Wambo Coal Corporation. In point of fact he was notified by telephone at 1 1.50 a.m. yesterday by  Mr Sharah  of the Department of the Treasury, with whom he has been in contact. 
I commend the royal commission for the exhaustive, accurate and impartial analysis that it made in its recently tabled report on the shortage of petrol and distillate in certain of the rural areas of Queensland and New South Wales. The shortages do not arise from any question of oil exploration. It is a matter of mal-distribution. This is a matter that we propose to correct by getting the various supply authorities together to ensure that there is a better co-ordination of supplies and their availability in the respective areas. 
The recent discoveries in Queensland of rock phosphate are most heartening and of great economic value to Australia and to Australian primary industry. The deposits are located at Lady Jane, Lady Annie and Duchess and are of the order of 2,700 million tons of 17 per cent rock phosphate. That would be 480 million tons of  P2O5,  which would be the equivalent of about 160 years of current consumption of phosphate in Australia. We are fortunate in that we already have guaranteed supplies from Christmas Island of some 2 million tons a year, where we have a contractual arrangement with New Zealand for the operation there, and there is a similar arrangement for a much lesser amount in respect of Nauru. The deposits at Ocean Island, of course, are being rapidly depleted. We have been doing everything possible that we can to help BH South in this regard. The planning at the present time is to achieve in 12 months time a production rate of about one million tons a year. The rock will be transported initially by road. A rail extension of about 70 kilometres will be constructed by the Queensland State Government so that the rock may be taken to Townsville where it will be crushed, beneficiated and brought up to a percentage of about 31. 
The question then arises as to how the product can be integrated with supplies that we have at present. Here again it is at least heartening to compare Australia's position with that of overseas consumers. Morocco, one of the leading world suppliers, is marketing the product at an f.o.b. price of $67. We will do considerably better than that. My colleague the Minister for Agriculture and I in consultation with other interested Ministers will be having a look at what can be done in respect of tying in with Australia's future requirements the development of our phosphate rock deposits because I am certain that in the future Australia will have an increasingly large role to play in respect of expanded grain production and pasture improvement. I commend the honourable member for Eden-Monaro for his interest in these fields and his assiduous attention to the needs of his electorate. 
When this Government took office, 62 per cent of Australia's minerals were under overseas ownership and control. There was a state of relative chaos in the coal industry where we had different coal producers more interested in fighting each other and the States of Australia more interested in some foolish parochial rivalries than they were in taking a lesson from the Japanese, which this Government did. I admire the Japanese for thennational sentiment, their ability to organise, their ability to co-ordinate and their ability to act and to think in the national interest. It was no strange thing for a new government- the first truly Australian national Government, the first Government of Australia which controlled an independent nation; a nation sharing a common Queen with a parent country- to act in similar terms. The Japanese are literate. They are numerate. 
They are sophisticated. They work together. For the first time we have existing today the situation that I have described. 
The outstanding example is the Australian coal industry. I repeat my words of last week: In Australia today we no longer ride on the sheep's back; we ride on the coal truck. There is the future. For the first time we find that coal is the prime source of export income. It is no coincidence that right through the world today countries are turning back to fossil fuels. When all is said and done, crude oil itself is a fossil fuel; it is of vegetable and animal origin. For the same reason, we have been able for the first time to know the true picture of Australia's exports, the profits of companies, their methods of operation, and we are able to help. We had no statistics previously. But now we are thoroughly informed by reason of the co-ordination of export contracts of coal and other minerals. As the honourable member for Blaxland  (Mr Keating)  said, on the matter of the Wambo coal mine, it was  Sir Edward  Warren himself who fully agreed with the actions that we took. The Japanese do not adopt a low posture. They are prepared to stand up. The trouble with Australia for the last 20 years has been that we have been low in posture. We have been afraid to stand up for what is the true national interest. We have had rival deputations going up to Tokyo and being treated with contempt- and deservedly so- because they could not speak, think and act together and, what is more, to do so as Australians. 
To continue the story of coal, let me illustrate a standing disgrace. I hold up for the Committee to see a map. The coloured sectors show the coal deposits of the Darling Downs in Queensland. They run northwards from Toowoomba for about 250 miles and a little to the north of Roma. In that area is the best coal with a very high hydrocarbon content available for coal hydrogenation. As a matter of fact, it is of the order of 6.8 per cent. Coal is generally between 3 and 4 per cent and when there is a content of 14 per cent there is fluidisation and a liquid hydrocarbon. In the legend to this map- I invite every member of the Opposition to come to my office to see itthere can be seen a choice collection of the major coal and energy interests of the world in there ready because the cross-over point has practically been reached with the prices that are being asked by the Arabs for crude oil on the export market. There, sir, is the answer. One of the major matters of worldwide interest is coal hydrogenation. Last year Japan spent US$6 billion on imports of crude oil and this year it will spend US$9 billion. Last year Australia spent 
US$1 90m and this year it will be of the order of US$740m. We need and they need, and we will be in this together because their need is the same as ours and coal hydrogenation is the order of the day - 
MrBungey-When? 

 - Mr Chairman, could I have a little decorum just for a change? 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Dr Jenkins)Order!  The honourable member will remain silent. 
-I have paid Opposition members the courtesy of listening to them in silence and I am at least entitled to the same. I repeat that coal hydrogenation is of the utmost importance. In respect of hydrocarbons generally and in respect of the North- West Shelf the situation is that a responsible Minister of the Crown,  Sir Reginald  Swartz, wrote to the WoodsideBurmah company and entreated it at least to disclose the reserves of natural gas it had discovered because he was afraid that even the then 15 per cent Australian equity would be further diluted and the investors of Australia would not know the true position. Since the Labor Party took office it has had a fixed policy which it will carry out right to the end. There will be no farmouts of an excessive area- an area that is in fact a principality in size. There will be no farm-outs by one foreign-dominated company to others. If there are to be farm-outs in respect of residual areas they will be done by the Australian national government. The challenge is on, the High Court will hear it and we will win. The challenge is to Australian national sovereignty. 
What an absurd state of affairs it is when we are expected to negotiate with other nations in respect of treaties and yet when it comes to the operations of drilling off-shore we are supposed to be subordinate to the States of Australia. The States will get a very fair go and they have been told so. We are certainly not interested in depriving them of royalties; we are not interested in their fisheries rights; we are not interested in the off-shore operations of their civil and criminal codes; but we are very much interested in making sure that, for the first time, there will be really intensive drilling on the North- West Shelf which covers 142,000 square miles and is one of the best and richest resources of natural gas in the world today. We will see that at least 50 per cent of it comes to Australians. By the same tokenthis, of course, is conveniently ignored by the Opposition- the yield of liquids, of condensate and liquid petroleum gas from the natural gas which will come from the North- West Shelf will, after proper treatment in a major petro-chemical plant, provide at least half of Australia's motor spirit and other petroleum derivative requirements. 
There is a lot of talk about a pipe dream- the construction of a trans-continental pipeline system. We are following precisely the same pattern as Australian Gas Light Co. drew up and it was not the first in the field. We had conceived precisely the same idea in 1967 and we are going right through with it. It will cost less to complete that pipeline from the Cooper Basin to Dampier than it will to pay for one year's imports of crude oil into Australia at present prices. Once we do that, for the first time we will have access to Australia's true energy wealth. We naturally will have obligations to ensure that in Western Australia there is a pipeline from Dampier to Perth and to the industrial complex at Pinjarra. A feasibility study has been undertaken for that purpose. Having done that, for the first time there will be available the extra supplies of heat and energy which will enable us to cut down heavily- by at least $500m- the amount that we would be spending in imports of crude oil. That is the true equation and let no one in this chamber forget it. We are proud of what we are doing. It is a national concept and is beyond the capacity, intelligence and, I fear, the integrity of the Opposition. 1 turn now to uranium and, here again, we were faced with some last minute what one might call death bed repentance contracts- contracts rushed into at miserable prices. But having in mind commercial integrity and our obligations to Japan, we have said we are prepared to honour them and we have the capacity to do so. We have in reserve 2,250 tons of uranium oxide, which is more than sufficient to meet the delivery dates under those contracts up to the year 1 980. Long before that we will be producing uranium oxide from our own milling plant. There has been a lot of criticism or attempted criticism of the Petroleum and Minerals Authority entering into an arrangement whereby it will assist in the re-opening of Mary Kathleen. There are very valid reasons for doing this and it was done on the advice of the Bureau of Mineral Resources, Mary Kathleen is not merely a uranium mine. There are other adequate resources there and it will turn out to be an extremely sound proposition. By the same token, there is about $1.5 billion worth of coal at Wambo known to be recoverable and, for an outlay of between $4m and $5m, we will obtain a 49 per cent interestnot a bad deal. But of course this is contrary to all the principles of the Opposition. Our concept of public enterprise is this: We will go into open partnership, open co-operation, with private enterprise when necessary and we will do it in a proper way. We will have our directors on their boards and we will accept the decisions that will be made. When one has the wealth of Australia with one, one has some weight and some prestige and is able to do things and do them in the national interest. 
I do not want to unduly delay the Committee. I deal in conclusion with the Fitzgerald report. Having seen to it that, for the first time, Australian minerals were being sold at proper prices and that proper adjustments were made in respect of currency variations, I decided to see how much was really getting through to Consolidated Revenue. What did we find? 
We got the answer. No one on the Opposition side of the House has been prepared to come out and pull it to pieces because no one can. There was stunned silence in the recent election campaign. No one in the Opposition was prepared to come out - 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Dr Jenkins)  - That is not a point of order. The honourable member will resume his seat. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN-  Order! The honourable member will resume his seat or I will name him. Let me make it quite clear to members of the Committee that I will not entertain frivolous points of order. I ask members if they raise a point of order to state their point of order and not to make a speech. 
A very fair example of what I have been saying would be the Hamersley group which had accumulated assets of $750m and paid only $750,000 in company tax. Let us take the position in respect of the alumina refinery at Gladstone. Need I go any further? The refinery pays company tax later and at a depreciated rate and after due fiddle has been done. For the first time there is a government in office which is competent, which understands what to do, which will act in terms of commercial integrity and which has the respect and the co-operation of our Japanese trading partner. 
We are flatly opposed to the application and the matter should be settled in this House once and for all. We have a policy in regard to the allocation of Bass Strait crude and the same principles apply to the products from Barrow Island. We will under all circumstances and to the limits of our power oppose any attempt that will be made to alter that pricing structure, which comes up for review in September of next year. It is, frankly, a piece of impertinence for an application to be made for an increase of $4.15 a barrel. It would be a golden handshake, if it were applied to the whole of the production of crude oil in Australia, of some $A680m. Just to illustrate my point further, an increase of $1 a barrel represents $ 160m a year. 
The pricing structure is quite a good one. Today, when imports of crude oil are rising astronomically in price, it is more than ever essential to ensure that cheap Australian crude is available to offset and to diminish the rising cost of the imported crude. The Ampol Exploration company has a one-seventh interest in the Barrow Island production. Its last balance sheet shows that it is well able to sustain the cost of exploration, which is one of its normal activities. I say that this is only an example of attempted political arm-twisting. If we get down to the stark realities we see that the price of Arab crude, after the deduction of taxation charges that are imposed on the respective producing companies, is approximately the same as the present price of Australian crude. The profits of the American companies which buy that crude are comparable with those of the Australian companies which are producing in Bass Strait. There is no justification, either moral or economic, for this application. 
The honourable member is correct in his deductions which are shared by the overwhelming majority of the Australian people. There is a world energy crisis and there is, in various countries, varying degrees of crisis in terms of crude oil availability. In respect of Australia I will refer the House to the words, published in the 'Petroleum Information Gazette' a few months ago, of  Mr Kruizenga  who is the head in Australia of Esso. He said that Australia was in a very comfortable position in energy terms and that, whatever the shortcomings may be in the long term availability of crude oil, by marrying modern technology to our available energy resources such as coal, we could very comfortably carry on for the future. He might have added to that also the availability of liquids, particularly of condensate and liquefied petroleum gas associated with natural gas. He also made very strong reference to the availability of natural gas in Australia. Today we should look at energy in total terms and not in the terms that are generally indulged in by members of the Opposition, who are merely apologists for foreign overseas interests. 
The answer to the right honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) Nil. 
The programme is being carried out through the Petroleum and Minerals Authority, the establishment of which was delayed by the Opposition until 1 4 August 1974. 
Defence: Stand-off Air-to-Ground Missiles  (Question No. 1067) 
-( Cunningham-Minister for Minerals and Energy)- I present for the information of honourable members a statement entitled 'Northern Territory Uranium '. 
The answer to the right honourable member's question is as follows:  (1), (2) and (3) I refer the right honourable member to the Prime Minister's answer to Question No. 964 on the 1973 Notice Paper (Hansard, 27 September 1973, page 1719) in which he drew attention to the impracticalities of attempting to list all the consultations in which Departments are engaged with other Departments. My Department keeps me properly informed of all important developments- this is a satisfactory procedure for the purposes of my Ministry. 
The answer to the right honourable member's question is as follows: 
I refer the right honourable member to the details given in the reply to Question on Notice No. 41 on pages 2233-2239 in Hansard of 3 October 1974 (in continuation). 
Ministerial Councils: Contact with States (Question No. 52) 
The answer to the right honourable member's question is as follows: 
and (2) No. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes. 
September 1973. 
I asked  Mr Fitzgerald  orally to assess the contribution by the mineral industry to the national economy. 
and (7) None. 
For 3 months ending in December 1973 an Assistant Secretary of the Department assisted  Mr Fitzgerald.  Stenographic and other office services were provided by the Department. 
March 1974. 
Yes. Parliament was dissolved on 11 April before I had the opportunity to table the report in accordance with my undertaking of 2 April vide Hansard page 838. Also, see answer to part (9). 
Full copies were available without restriction as soon as they were available from the printer- earlier general availability having been denied to honourable members by the action of the honourable member for Farrer on 2 April in objecting to my to my incorporating the total report in Hansard (page 838). 
-The position is that in Queensland from 1 January 1973 to the end of September last the additional price obtained for exports of coal will have been of the order of $ 1,860m. In the case of New South Wales it has been much less than that, but very substantial indeed. I can only repeat what I said in the House quite recently: In future Australia rides not on the sheep's back but on the coal truck. With regard to the future, we have had clear indications from Japanese consumers not only of an increase in the demand for coking coal but also for a commencing and growing demand for steaming coal. I am in touch at present with the Joint Coal Board and also the appropriate mining unions to see what can be done in the way of a substantial increase in the labour force in the coal industry. We know clearly where we are going. We know that we can plan and we can organise systematically to ensure that Australia, at least in respect of coal exports and within the limits of its known reserves, can make a very notable contribution to the welfare and the prosperity of Japan and quite a number of countries in Europe. 
-(Cunningham-Minister for Minerals and Energy)- Pursuant to section 45 of the Pipeline Authority Act 1973, I present the first annual report of the Pipeline Authority for the year ended 30 June 1974. 
The answer to the right honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) (a) Two consultant companies and one individual consultant are retained by The Pipeline Authority and its wholly owned East-Aust. Pipeline Corporation Ltd. (b)26. 
(a) $376,850. (b)$153,129. 
The answer to the right honourable member's question is as follows: 
Not to my knowledge. 
,(3),(4),(5)and(6).See answer to ( 1 ) above. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
None. 
See(l) above. 
Pursuant to section 12 of the Petroleum Search Subsidy Act 1959-1973 I present the 15th annual statement concerning the operation of the Act and the payment of subsidies during the year ended 30 June 1974. 
The answer to the right honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) The selection of the process or processes for the conversion of coal to oil will depend on their technical and economic feasibility. 
(a) An additional $100,000 to the normal allocation of $260,000 has been made available in 1974/75 to the National Coal Research Advisory Committee for specific allocation to oil from coal research. 
A total of $135,000 has been granted to the Australian Coal Industry Research Laboratories for research into the production of synthetic oil and chemicals from Australian coal. 
Until demonstration plants have been constructed and operated, there can be no certainty as to the costs of production of synthetic oil. 
Although it has been claimed overseas that synthetic crude oils could be produced at costs ranging from SUS3.25 to $US4.00 per barrel from coals priced between$US1.25 and $US3.25 per tonne, it will be impossible to verify the validity of these claims until demonstration plants have been operated. 
Coal Research Officers of my Department are currently assessing the broad implications of the establishment of a synthetic oil from coal industry in Australia including the relative merits of differing locations for the siting of coal conversion plants. 
On 30 May 1973, the National Coal Research Advisory Committee reported to me on the Status of the Technology of Coal Gasification and Oil from Coal. 
This report was released under my authority on 1 3 July 1973, and has been widely circulated to Government Departments, research organisations and the coal and oil industries. As requested I shall table it. 
Detailed half-yearly reports of progress in all sponsored coal research projects are presented to the National Coal Research Advisory Committee and these are summarised in the Committee's annual reports which are widely circulated, both within Australia and overseas. The Committee's Ninth Annual Report covers the year ended 30 November 1973 and I shall also table it. 
Other reports in preparation by the Coal Research Section of my Department will be tabled and made available as they are completed. 
The statement made by  Senator Durack  is in fact a falsification. I repeat, it is a falsification. Worse than that, it is deliberate falsification. Having put back the development of uranium for 6 months by his activities in the Senate, the honourable senator now chooses to apply his doubtful talents in another field. In point of fact there will be no discrimination whatever between the Northern Territory and Western Australia. Some 12 months ago I contacted a representative of Western Mining Company with regard to the Yeelirrie - 
No Member may use offensive words against either House of the Parliament or any Member thereof . . . 
I would suggest that the words 'a deliberate falsification' used by the Minister are not only entirely inaccurate but also designedly inaccurate. 
-The position is that had the application been successful- and I make no speculation on that score- it would have been a golden handshake of $668m a year from the Australian motorist to the Ampol and other producing companies. Ampol is a company which merely had a one-seventh interest in the Barrow Island operation and was not supported by either of its 3 co-partners- Shell, Cal-Asiatic and Texaco which each have a two-sevenths interest and which, moreover, knew nothing of the application. In 1968 the then Government announced an indigenous crude policy which still continues in force. That policy gave Australian producers an assured domestic market for 10 years commencing from 1970. The price was fixed up to September of next year. I might remind the House that no less a personage than the Leader of the Country Party is on record in respect of the former Prime Minister as supporting his policy and saying it was fixed, permanent, and would not be changed. 
Yes. But a good man and a big man is prepared to admit his mistakes. The application to the Prices Justification Tribunal is in respect to a matter of about 5,000 barrels a day. The total production from WAPET on Barrow Island is 40,000 barrels. Production from Bass Strait is approximately 400,000 barrels. I repeat that we consider the price to be fixed until September 1975. There is no country in the world more dependent on motor transport than Australia. There is no country in the world where an increase in price will have a more drastic and dramatic effect. For that reason we intend to keep the price as low as we possibly can as an offset to the ever-escalating price of imported crude. 
-The honourable gentleman draws attention to the campaign which is being waged at the present time in Western Australia by the Western Australian Government to stir up the people to cause alarm. The fundamental problem is that it is the Government of Western Australia which is responsible for the High Court challenge which has thrown into jeopardy not merely the Petroleum and Minerals Authority Act but also the Seas and Submerged Lands Act and the Pipeline Authority Act by challenging the Commonwealth sovereignty. When that matter is determined- may I inform the House that it will be the subject of reference in the High Court on the 27 November when Commonwealth counsel will ask for the earliest possible hearing date, and we hope that it will be set down for hearing at the commencement of the first term in 1975- then we will be able to proceed with the true exploitation of the North West Shelf. Last week I had a conference with representatives of a major oil company which is anxious to participate in oil search there. The previous week, accompanied by the head of my Department, I had a consultation with another major oil company which is equally concerned in a fifty-fifty proposition under which Australia provides the resource and the company provides the risk capital and the technology. Two months ago I had a conference with another company which is also interested. Let me stress the point that in the main, the North West Shelf is a gas field. I had advice a few weeks ago from the Burmah company, which is the operator of the project, that what oil was there- it is subsidiary only to the natural gas- would not be produced by Burmah. Oil is much further out on what is known as the Exmouth Plateau. The Government might have something to announce about that in the near future. 
With regard to the special needs of Perth, over 18 months ago the Bechtel Corporation, which performed a similar operation in respect of South Australia, did 2 feasibility studies for us in collaboration with the then Labor Government in Western Australia for the construction of a 32-inch pipeline and a 24-inch pipeline. We have also conducted our own inquiries into the offshore operations, and it would appear that the main production platform will be located about 83 miles off-shore. About 79 miles of that has a perfectly easy, level sandy bottom. For the remaining 4 miles there will be problems of depth, and too much stress has been given to this. As a Government faced with disbursing $640m to import 30 per cent of its oil requirements from overseas I would say we will have at least an equal interest with the Western Australian Government in ensuring that there is the promptest possible supply of natural gas from Dampier to Perth. We will lose no time, and at the same time we will answer and debunk completely the propaganda which is at present coming from Western Australia and which is utterly mischievous and not in the best interests of that State, its progress and public confidence in it. 
-The policy in this regard has already been made quite clear. When I announced recently the arrangement with the Peko-EZ group regarding the development of uranium in the Northern Territory I said that precisely the same principles would apply in respect of offshore oil search and development. We have quite a number of very substantial major oil companies which wish to participate in development and search on the North-west Shelf and the Government will be very pleased to co-operate with them. 
-The prospects for the coal industry internally and, more particularly, in the export market have never been better in this century. As a matter of fact, on 9 December a deputation will be coming to Australia from Japan as a natural follow up to the arrangements which we made with the Japanese Prime Minister,  Mr Tanaka.  It will be the most high powered deputation from the coal consuming interests in Japan that has ever visited this country. It will, in addition, be followed in the same week by another deputation from the European Economic Community which is interested in solving its problems which are of a major nature. The Economic Community's coal resources are being depleted rapidly. On Tuesday of this week I was interviewed by a representative of a major American power generating group who indicated that the group would take at least 10 million tonnes of coal a year if we were in a position to provide it, and that this would escalate to 30 million tonnes a year. 
There will be a need for us to work in the closest co-operation, firstly, with the Japanese to ensure that we can meet their full requirements. Japan is our major trading partner and is heavily dependent on us for energy supplies. In turn, a considerable intake of labour into the coal industry will be required. We are able to give to the various unions associated with that industry an assurance of a continuity of employment. In the past there has been a traditional fear of redundancy because of the unfortunate competition that has existed. Having satisfied the unions, we will have to look at the coal loading equipment at the various harbours of Australia. More than that, we will need to upgrade the whole of the harbour system of the main coal exporting centres of eastern Australia. I would say that it will be a matter for the coal industry itself to negotiate with the representatives of the various unions as to the benefits that will be received. For Australia it will mean that we will get an income from the export of coal which frankly, will be far beyond the expectations of most members of this House. The future, in world terms, will be one of acute international shortage. In fact, if we were to meet all the demands that could be placed on us, even the very fine resources which we have in Australia could find their limitations. 
-I deprecate the linking of the supply of uranium to Japan with the supply of beef. As a matter of fact, the Japanese, like the Australians, can be led but they cannot be driven. There was an excellent response in all major sections of the Japanese Press on the return of Prime Minister Tanaka to Tokyo and it was stated there how greatly they appreciated the fair and reasonable treatment which Japan had received in respect of energy supplies. It was further stated that in return it was incumbent upon the Japanese Government to consider more favourably the resumption of meat purchases from Australia and also some modification of motor car exports. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows:  (I), (2) and (3) 1 have publicly acknowledged that, prima facie, the area around the head of Spencer Gulf has attractions as a possible site for a uranium enrichment plant. As announced in the press statement issued on 2 November 1974 after the talks between the Australian and Japanese Prime Ministers, joint studies of various matters relating to uranium enrichment in Australia will be initiated as early as practicable. Further consideration of the question of an appropriate site will be related to those studies. 
The answer to the right honourable member's question is as follows: 
Whilst the Gidgealpa- Sydney pipeline will form pan of the national pipeline grid the initial carriage of gas through the pipeline will be for the Australian Gas Light Company. Estimates of the volumes to be carried in the early years of the life of the pipeline are therefore related to the AGL's estimates of sales in the Sydney Region which it would not be proper for me to disclose. Details could be sought from the Company by the right honourable member. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
A national minerals and energy policy was adopted at the National Conference of the Australian Labor Party in 1969 and confirmed at the National Conference in 1973. This policy has been published in the Labor Party's Platform, Constitution and Rules which I commend to the honourable member's attention. Thus the Australian people have not been awaiting a statement of policy for the last 1 9 months. In giving effect to its policy, the Australian Government is, of course, willing to hold discussions with interested parties, including the European Economic Community, on specific issues as the need arises. 'Investigator's' Anchor (Question No. 1479) 
Pursuant to the provisions of the Coal Industry Act 1946-1973 I present the twenty-seventh annual report of the 
Joint Coal Board for the year ended 30 June 1974 together with the Auditor-General's report on the accounts of the Board. 
-In reply to the honourable member for Evans, I quote the figures for stocks of finished products only. The overall position in Australia normally is that there are 30 days supply of motor spirit, distillate and similar products. At present the total amount is only 20 days supply. In New South Wales there are special disadvantages which flow from the fact that there are only 2 major oil refineries in that State while there are three in Victoria. The refining capacity in New South Wales consequently is only two-thirds that of its sister State. That being so, consistently right through the years there has been a lesser amount of fuel at any given time in New South Wales. For example, the figures at 1 November show that the reserves of motor spirit in New South Wales were 1 3 days supply, in Victoria 23 days, in Queensland 19 days, in South Australia 23 days, in Western Australia 26 days and in Tasmania 31 days. The Royal Commission on Petroleum will, as one of its functions, be submitting a report on the adequacy of the refining capacity in the different States. We anticipate that there will be presented in the near future an interim report on this matter in relation to New South Wales. At present that State is very heavily dependent upon marine transport and it is a situation that cannot be tolerated. There is an urgent need for expansion of the present refinery capacity. 
-The Mary Kathleen uranium mine is to be re-opened. To give the shareholders every opportunity to subscribe to a new issue of shares worth some $22m, the Atomic Energy Commission agreed to underwrite the share issue. It would appear that the shareholders of Kathleen Investments (Australia) Limited have not been able to do so and that only a small number of the general public, holding about 13 per cent of the shares, have exercised their rights in this respect. Consequently between 32 per cent and 46 per cent of the total float will be taken up by the Atomic Energy Commission. This will in turn give the Commission a 42 per cent interest in the company. If that proportion is found to be correct, we will be entitled to 3 directors on the board of the company. 
The purpose of the reopening was to make sure that the contracts which had been in abeyance for some years could be honoured. There will be quite a successful reopening. In point of fact, already we have been able to renegotiate the original contracts which were entered into a few years ago and at prices which do not conform with present market values. The yield from about 5,500 tons under the old contracts will gross approximately $100m. From the residue- a matter of another 2,500 short tons of uranium- there will be a further yield of $50m. The purpose of the exercise was simply to make sure that had we not done this, there would have been foreign companies which would have come in. Under the terms if the arrangements which we entered into as underwriters, Conzinc Riotinto of Australia Limited takes up 5 1 per cent of the shares. There will be an unexpected bonus also in respect of the operations because Mary Kathleen, to quote the words of  Dr Fisher,  the former Director of the Bureau of Mineral Resources, is even more a rare earths mine than a uranium mine. With the percentage of rare earths at Mary Kathleen, if we are able to sell the amount that can be produced, there will be a further bonus of up to $4m a year from rare earth sales. Of course, that will depend on the market from time to time, but over a period of 1 0 years it could be a very substantial further bonus. In total, the exercise will be an extremely profitable one for the original shareholders, CRA, and also for the Australian Government which will prove to be very good partners in this undertaking. At the same time we will be honouring our undertakings to firms which were the parties to the original contract. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes. 
The 22nd Annual Report of the Queensland Coal Board covering the year ended 30 June, 1973 records that the total production of coal in Queensland in that year was 18.5 million tonnes, of which 14.8 million tonnes was produced in open-cut mines and 3.7 million tonnes was produced from underground mines; this gives proportions of approximately 80 per cent of production from open-cut and 20 per cent from underground mines. 
and (4) The conditions under which leases are granted in Queensland fall within the responsibility of the State Government of Queensland. However, when companies discuss with the Australian Government proposals which involve new mines or extensions of existing operations, the opportunity is taken to review the balance of open-cut to underground extraction, bearing in mind the appropriateness of the coal extraction method to the particular deposit being developed. 
The answer to the right honourable member's question is as follows:  (1), (2) and (3) The information sought by the right honourable member is contained in the First Annual Report of The Pipeline Authority which I tabled in the House on 13 November 1974. 
Convention on the Political Rights of Women  (Question No. 1277) 
The answer to the right honourable member's question is as follows: 
Copies of press releases issued by me are distributed by hand to the Press Gallery from my office, by distribution from the Public Information Section of my Department and by publication in the Australian Government Digest. 
There is a list of people who regularly receive copies of my press statements, and this list is constantly changed. In addition a large number of copies of press statements are distributed in response to people calling in, or writing in, on a casual basis. Broadly, however, statements are issued to all members and senators, media organisations, Government Departments, embassies, political party organisations, business organisations, libraries and individuals from whom requests are received. 
The number of copies circulated depends to an extent upon the particular subject matter of the statement, but in general, statements are sent regularly to about 550 addressees including Members of Parliament and Government Departments. 
Part of the cost in producing and distributing press releases for me is included in the cost relating to the salaries and administration of my office. Other production and distribution costs are borne by my Department. The costs attributable to my Ministerial press releases have not been separately identified and it is therefore not possible to give a precise answer to this part of the right honourable member's question. 
Three (pan-time only). 
I am afraid that the honourable member has a very real misconception of the facts of the case. I was approached by a  Mr Burke  who had contacted me at least 13 months before and who had submitted substantial data to me on that occasion. At that stage the Petroleum and Minerals Authority did not exist. I told him that he could subsequently apply for assistance. In fact, we would have been moving in any event because Australian Anglo American Ltd - 
Can these microphones be attended to,  Mr Speaker?  They are worse than useless. I shall repply answer to the honourable member's qu,-suon. It is a simple one. First contact was made about 13 months ago. Quite recently we were approached by  Mr Burke  of Wambo. To suggest that we were muscling in or horning in is absolutely incorrect. The Petroleum and Minerals Authority has certain functions to discharge. Of course the paramount one is to protect Australian interests. The company which the honourable member chooses to champion is one which, I understand, is an affiliate of the De Beers Consolidated Mines Ltd interests in South Africa. Accordingly, on more than even financial grounds it is a company which we should at least refrain from encouraging in Australia. I am proud of what has been done. This is a good deal which will be for the benefit of Australia and not for the benefit of overseas investors. 
May I quote, in answer to the honourable member, the old saying: 'Evil to him who evil thinks': The re-negotiation of the pricing of uranium was conducted in the normal way as a normal commercial transaction. We entered into an underwriting contract. The management and control of Mary Kathleen Uranium Ltd are still in the hands of the directors of that company. They in fact renegotiated. The information was available and would have been given to the shareholders and other interested parties. It was not within our competence to do other at that stage than act as underwriters, as we did. 
-The position is that last Thursday the High Court fixed the date of hearing of the challenge by the 6 Australian States as 1 1 March next. It is anticipated that the hearing will occupy a period of some 6 weeks. Then for the first time we will have a full and final determination in respect of the sovereignty of the Australian Government over the continental shelf. In addition, we anticipate that the challenge to the validity of the Petroleum and Minerals Authority will be heard about the end of June. Both of these cases are of the utmost importance and it is necessary that they be determined. I might add- and it is a matter of regretthat the various designated authorities of the respective States have failed to honour both the text and the spirit of the agreement that was entered into in 1967. The machinery exists in the terms of section 32 sub-section (8) of the Petroleum (Submerged Lands) Act for holders of exploration permits to continue their operations. As the various permits are expiring the State governments are refusing to confer with the Commonwealth in the terms of Clause 1 1 of that agreement. In so doing they are ignoring and, worse than that, in some cases deliberately frustrating the national interest which has been clearly defined in this House by repeated statements by myself. 
The Government has these objectives in mind: That there will be Commonwealth participation in the development of the resources of the continental shelf and that we are entitled to the traditional SO per cent. I made that clear in a statement recently in respect of uranium and an arrangement which has been entered into with the Peko-EZ interests. In addition, there is an obvious need for a requirement that the products found, whether they be natural gas or crude oil, be first made available to the Australian nation. There is a further requirement that there be a proper intensity of drilling. The various States through their designated authorities are assuming that they have a complete right to grant a renewal without discussing these matters that are of vital national importance. I leave the judgment of their responsibility, or the lack of it, to the good sense and to the patriotism of the Australian people. 
For the information of honourable members I present 2 reports entitled. 'The Status of the Technology- Coal Gasification Oil from Coal' prepared by the National Coal Research Advisory Committee and the ninth annual report of the National Coal Research Advisory Committee covering the period from November 1972 to November 1973. In tabling these documents I am fulfilling an undertaking made in my response to question No. 907, put by the Leader of the Australian Country Party  (Mr Anthony).  Due to the limited numbers available, I have arranged for reference copies of these documents to be placed in the Parliamentary Library. 
-The impact of the New South Wales legislation to which the honourable member refers is directed primarily against the major centres of Sydney, Newcastle and Wollongong. Its effect is tapered in respect of other parts of the State and therefore it is wholly and in fact grossly discriminatory. It is taxation of the worst possible type. In fact, in many respects, New South Wales is being taken back to the early days of the postFederation era. The tax will be equally destructive in its impact upon manufacturing industry and other forms of economic activity. 
If we were considering this matter in terms of political advantage only we would leave the New South Wales Government to its own devices and the wrath of the people of that State. Instead, there is a very real need for the national Government to have a look at the whole situation. For a considerable number of years there has been doubt in legal circles in New South 
Wales as to the validity of liquor registrations in respect of the hotel system and whether it was not in fact a disguised excise duty. Similar considerations could be applied to this tax on petrol and fuel because although it is allegedly a registration licence which is based upon the sales of petrol and similar products, in point of fact it is very very close to being an excise duty. In fact. 1 have asked the Attorney-General to examine the matter in that regard. For the future the people of New South Wales can look to being wholly disadvantaged. We have a situation where the major State of Australia which makes the greatest contribution to Australia's economy will have the worst possible impost placed upon it. 
-The right honourable member for Lowe is well aware of the impact of that State. The whole of his Party is resentful about it but is not prepared to do a thing. It is a case of asking his fellow conspirators in New South Wales to do something for the people of that State. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) and (2) The Prime Minister drew attention in Mexico last year to the advantages for countries which depend to a large extent on mineral exports in consulting with each other and exchanging information on those exports. 
The Prime Minister has also said that Australia must have appropriate national policies about the development and exploitation of our resources and that internal and international questions relating to those resources are inextricably linked. The Government's resources policy rests on five considerationsAustralia's future energy and industrial requirements must be met; full account must be taken of the effect of mining on the rights of our Aboriginal people; opportunities should be enlarged for Australians to share in the ownership and development of Australian mineral resources; encouragement should be given for greater processing of minerals in Australia; and efforts must be made to ensure that our resources command a fair price in world markets. The Government will take such action as is appropriate to advance its policy aims in this area. 
Japan's purchases of Australian coal and iron ore to meet the raw material requirements of the Japanese steel industry are at record levels. In addition, new developments in the demand for steaming coal for power generation, following the oil crisis, indicate that Japan will be importing 10 million tonnes p.a. by the end of the decade, most of which will come from Australia. In recognition of the great importance of this trade, which is, of course, mutually advantageous to both countries, I have developed close working relations with the Japanese Government and the Japanese steel mills and, in particular, with  Mr Tanabe  's company, Nippon Steel Corporation, which acts as the co-ordinator for the purchase of Australia iron ore and coal. As I indicated in the Parliament recently, the most senior deputation of its kind, including  Mr Tanabe,  is coming from Japan to Australia this month to discuss how Australia can meet the increased Japanese demands for our resources. There is no doubt that not only will Japan continue to depend on Australia as the major supplier of iron ore and coal to the Japanese market, but this dependence will increase. 
(a) Nil- the Japanese steel mills are, however, currently reviewing their long-term iron ore requirements and, in this respect, sent a technical survey mission to Australia in August 1974 to examine existing and proposed iron ore mines in Western Australia. 
24. 
10. 
2. 
$A1800m. 
Commonwealth-owned Land: Municipal Rates  (Question No. 946) 
For the information of honourable members I present the annual report of the Snowy Mountains Council for the year ended 30 June 1974. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
In introducing this Bill I remind all honourable members that it is identical with the measures which I introduced in this chamber on 1 1 July 1974 and which was carried in this House without amendment on 23 July 1974. It was then introduced into the Senate the same day. The Senate refused to pass the Bill on 24 July 1974. As an interval of 3 months has now elapsed since the Senate failed to pass this measure, the Bill is being introduced again so that it may be returned to the Senate. 
Honourable members 'will recall that the Bill before them constituted Part III of the Seas and Submerged Lands Bill 1973 which I first introduced into this House on 10 May 1973, and that this Part was deleted when the Senate passed the Bill with amendment on 27 November 1 973. The mining code embodied in the Bill will provide a legal framework and established rules governing the orderly exploration and exploitation of our offshore mineral resources. The salient features of this Bill and the associated Royalty Bill were outlined by me when introducing the measure previously and I see no point in going over them again. 

 Mr Speaker, the passage of this Bill will again emphasise the importance we attach to the exercising by the national Parliament of its sovereign powers over the offshore area in relation to offshore mining activities. This Bill is a further positive step towards this objective. I commend the Bill to the House. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Street)  adjourned.' 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
This Bill is consequential upon the Minerals(Submerged Lands) Bill 1974 and was also introduced into the House on 1 1 July 1974 and carried without amendment on 23 July 1 974. It was introduced into the Senate the same day and there failed to pass on 24 July 1974, when the Senate also refused to pass the Minerals (Submerged Lands) Bill 1974. As with the principal Bill, 3 months have elapsed since the Senate failed to pass this measure and I now introduce this Bill again and commend it to the House. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Street)  adjourned. 
-The question asked by the honourable member for Evans is particularly felicitous in view of the last question answered by my colleague the Minister for Services and Property. The interest of the Leader of the Australian Country Party in this perennial question of crude oil pricing waxes and wanes according to the financial fortunes of his party. I would not be so uncharitable as to suggest that due appreciation would not be shown to party funds for an appropriate increase.  His  particular suggestion of a 40 per cent increase in the wellhead production costs of crude oil in Australia would amount to 88c or 89c a barrel- a little matter of a golden handshake of about $140m going directly into the coffers of the Bass Strait and Barrow Island oil producers and having precisely no effect whatever on oil search and production in Australia. 
It is very interesting to examine and strip from the present weighted price of Arab Middle East crude the tax take of some 7 to 8 U.S. dollars per barrel for crude oil and to compare the true cost of crude with the price that is being received by the respective producers. As a matter of fact, the profit on Bass Strait oil is about $1 a barrel. Another factor which is universally disregarded, particularly by the advocates of this consortium, is the production and export of about 1  lA  million tons a year of liquid petroleum gas at a current price of a $A80 a ton. That would add another 50c a barrel profit to the Esso-BHP profits, or a total of $1.50 a barrel. In respect of the arm's length transactions in the Middle East by the multi-nationals the current profit is between 45 and 50 United States cents. In respect of their integrated profits, in the case where they do not sell to a third party but actually refine and retail, their profits can reach US$1. In the case of the United Kingdom and in respect of the North Sea oil production a profit of somewhat less than US$ 1 a barrel will be permitted. I would say that these figures completely debunk the persistent and consistent advocacy of the Leader of the Country Party. The matter is an obsession with him. I am sure that his constituents in farming areas will be duly elevated and titillated by his continuous insistence on adding to the present costs of rural production his concept of oil pricing with particular reference to party funds. 
In asking this question the honourable member of course has purely vexatious purposes in mind. The answer is a very simple one and surely it would have been obvious to the honourable gentleman. No less a person than  Sir Percy  Spender, a former member of the honourable member's Party, pointed out some time ago the true position of the continental shelf in an address at a legal seminar held in Sydney. I discussed the contents of his address with the Prime Minister and indicated that we should follow  Sir Percy's  definitions precisely. If the Leader of the Opposition took the trouble again to read the definitions in the convention on the continental shelf he would see that the continental shelf extends to a point where the superjacent waters go to a depth of 200 metres and in certain circumstances it can go beyond that. The exact definition of the boundaries would be a matter of the geological configuration of the continental shelf of Australia. 
The answer to the right honourable member's question is as follows: 
Neither the Department of Minerals and Energy nor the Statutory Authorities under my control administer any programs which enable individual groups or people in the community to apply for grants from the Australian Government for a specific purpose. 
The answer to the right honourable member's question is as follows: ( 1 ) to ( 1 1 ) I refer the right honourable member to the information provided by the Minister for the Media in reply to question No. 1581 (House of Representatives Hansard, 4 December 1974, page 4590). 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
I refer the honourable member to the answer given to Question No. 1862 by my colleague the Special Minister of State on 5 December 1974 (Hansard pp 4841-4847). 
I noticed a report concerning this matter in one metropolitan journal. Matters relating to the currency, loans and the commercial credit of the nation should be handled with the utmost discretion. I am acting accordingly. 
-We have been actively engaged in propping up this colliery for some considerable time. I know the function that it serves; I share the honourable member's concern. But to say that the mine could be subsidised indefinitely would be a foolish commitment. Nevertheless, the Government will re-examine the position and see what can be done to help. 
-I am well aware of the comments that were made on that occasion. They are typical of the comments that we can anticipate in a calculated course of conduct from the Leader of the Australian Country Party. As usual, he is a victim of foot in mouth disease. He is one of this Government's best assets. There could have been no worse time at which he could have raised this issue than this week. 
The right honourable member will have his chance later. Only yesterday the Broken Hill Pty Co. Ltd announced its halfyearly profit. Its profit from oil rose by 30 per cent to $34m for the half-year. From that we might reasonably calculate that the total profit for the full period of 12 months for the 2 members of the consortium would be $ 136m. Despite that,  Mr Forty-per-cent  still wants an increase in the crude oil pricing of that consortium. It is time this humbug ended. The humbug was not merely in respect of oil prices; it applies today also to Esso-BHP on the export of liquid petroleum gas. In addition to its $ 1 per barrel profit on the handling of Australian crude, Esso-BHP is getting another 50c a barrel for its exports of LPG. Further, as part of the systematic campaign- and a campaign in which, by the way, the Leader of the Country Party has the Leader of the Opposition confused; not that it would take much to confuse this poor gentleman - 
Yes, he did indeed. He is confused. 
-We will deal with Ampol later, too. Quite apart from the humbug on crude oil prices, there is the desire to get petrol dollars for a possible election campaign. This is typical of the Country Party which always takes the can around at election time. In addition - (Opposition supporters interjecting)- 
The answer to the right honourable member's question is as follows:  (1), (2) and (3) Currently Australia's total liquid hydrocarbon reserves are probably of the order of 4000 million barrels which would provide about 15 years supply at current rates of production. At present we meet about 70 per cent of our consumption requirements from our indigenous reserves of crude oil. However, during the period referred to by the right honourable member, the use of natural gas and ' associated liquids from the North West Shelf and Central Australia as well as the use of low sulphur coal will result in substantial reductions in heavy crude imports. In addition, the conversion of coal to oil and gas will be developed. As stated by  Mr R.  Kruizenga,  Chairman  of Esso Australia Ltd., even without further major discoveries, it is feasible for 
Australia to be reasonably self-sufficient in energy supplies by coupling existing resources to new technology. 
The facts are quite simple. We are rather short of staff. 
Opposition members- Ha, ha! 
-Now that the Opposition has had its horse laugh the rest is this: If we had a little co-operation from the Opposition in terms of the application of our policy on which we were elected as a government, I might be able to spare staff for such a purpose. On the other hand, I do take a rather dim view at times of people being sent along to gabfests and on junkets. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) No. On the settlement of the High Court challenge to the Seas and Submerged Lands Act, I anticipate major developments offshore in North-west Australia which should result in an increased demand for offshore drilling vessels. 
No. 
-The Australian Gas Light Company undoubtedly needs to be saved from its self-appointed friends. As a matter of fact, the cost of the main line of the pipeline from Gidgealpa to Wilton will be $ 186m and not $250m, as he has stated. The subject of the lateral lines is one on which again there has been foolish misrepresentation. Our undertaking was to extend those laterals to the provincial cities of Lithgow, Bathurst and Orange and also to Cootamundra and Wagga, and we will do so. The rest of the responsibility from Wilton into the metropolitan area and beyond- northwards to Newcastle and also the feeder main to Wollongong and Port Kembla- is a matter for the Australian Gas Light Company. 
Pricing is not the function of the Pipeline Authority. Pricing is a matter for arrangement and negotiation between the Australian Gas Light Company and the members of the Cooper Basin consortium. It has not been our responsibility. Nevertheless we did indicate recently, as did the South Australian Government, our disapproval of the increase in prices. Nevertheless natural gas is still a bargain. The contract price at Gidgealpa through the gate valve is 30c per thousand cubic feet or the equivalent of 3c per therm. Natural gas has a heat value  Vh  times that of coal gas. Therefore, in terms of the coal gas equivalent, its cost is 13c per thousand cubic feet. The figures for the transmission costs- and we are only common carriers of it- will be readily available to the various corporations that will be served in the country and they will have at their disposal all the resources of the Prices Justification Tribunal. 
I might add also in rebuttal of another of  Mr Freudenstein  's innuendoes in respect of decentralisation that if he were to take the trouble to read the terms of the Pipeline Authority Act he would find that there is provision in it for natural gas to be supplied at an even price to whatever the corporation or other authority may be that is receiving it. The Minister for Mines and Energy has chosen to try his prentice hand at stirring up a little trouble. He will get no mileage out of it. In turn he might well devote his attention to ensuring - 
-The rights of the Utah Mining Company to mine black coal in the Bowen Basin total 300 million tons. When the company first came to Queensland there was an arrangement whereby it could mine up to -30 per cent of the coal within the leases granted to it but not exceeding 300 million tons. It has now been discovered that there are 6.1 billion tons of coal there. Recently I was approached by spokesmen for the Utah Company asking whether the Government would agree to the company's increasing its right to mine and to export from 300 million tons to 30 per cent of the 6. 1 billion tons- about an additional 1500 million tons of prime coking coal which is the cream of the Queensland coal and which, at US$50 per ton, would be worth about US$75,000m. I told the gentlemen who approached me that the Government would honour to the letter their rights to extract 300 million tons and no more. 
The company is already operating 4 open cut mines quite efficiently. It seeks to open a fifth. In 
Queensland only 10 per cent of the coal is capable of being extracted by open cut mining methods. In respect of the company's area that would mean that where it has a right to extract 300 million tons it would be taking half of the easily won coal. I asked them specifically whether from their 4 existing open cut operations they could not increase their production. They said that they could. They said that it would cost them more to do so. Against that we must equate their anticipated profits of some $90m for the current year. Their Australian shareholdings are only 8 per cent. 
As well as being charged with the responsibility of obtaining world parity prices for coal the Government must give due consideration to the Austraiian people's birthright. The Utah Mining Company can well proceed to extract its contracted amount. It has in hand contracts for . 160 million tons. It has the right to extract another 140 million tons. At the present time, using as a stalking horse the creation of extra employment, there has been a spate of Press publicity suggesting that another mine should be opened. I say that the Government needs to give due consideration to proper mining and to proper conservation methods, and in the future it will be done. This Government will honour to the letter commercial commitments entered into, but if and when the company has extracted its full quota of 300 million tons it will then be at liberty, under a Labor administration, to sell its plant to an Australian consortium. There are plenty of them who are willing to take over the operation from there. Buying back the coal is just one of the methods by which we can buy back the farm and restore ownership to the Australian people. 
For the information of honourable members I present a statement on  uranium exploration  in the Northern Territory. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
During 1973-74, 85.1 per cent of primary fuel consumption. 
109 exploration wells plus 19 development wells to 3 1 December 1974. 
The answer to the right honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) and (2 ) This would be dependent upon the costs of the gas. There is not an established world market price for gas of the type contained in the North West Shelf deposits, namely, natural gas, because unless it is conveyed by pipeline, it must be converted to liquefied natural gas or to methanol for transport As the product must be competitive with other energy sources at the destination, there are wide variations in prices. 
This is a matter for future negotiation. 
The answer to the right honourable member's question is as follows (figures rounded): 
$66.3 million. 
and (3) Information is not available in the form requested. Nor is it possible to separate labour and material costs because most of the work is being carried out under contracts the terms and conditions of which do not provide for such separation. 
-The position is briefly this: The statement that appeared in this morning's issue of the 'Australian' newspaper is both mischievous and misleading. The first annual report of the Pipeline Authority stated that the cost of construction of the pipeline from Gidgealpa to Wilton would be $186m. Unless there is industrial trouble or interruptions by bad weather, we will adhere to the figure of $ 186m. and not the $300m. that was stated in the article. Apparently there is a certain element which chooses to pick figures out of the air in trying to denigrate the Commonwealth construction and control of what is one of Australia's major engineering enterprises. The article mentioned a natural gas price of $1 per 1000 cubic feet, but in fact the negotiated price of the gas being supplied to South Australia is 30c per thousand cubic feet. Negotiations are still proceeding with the Australian Gas Light Co. and to that cost will be added the cost of transmission in respect of which the Pipeline Authority is a common carrier. The article also had a swipe at the welders on the pipeline who are doing a magnificent job and one which is a credit to the Australian skilled worker. They are laying that pipeline and welding it at a record rate. They have already completed one half of it. They are working 7 days on end, 10 hours a day in heat of 40 degrees Celsius. They have to contend with flies and dirt and every other possible disability, and are paying anything from $8,000 to $10,000 a year by way of income tax. 
Pursuant to section 45 (2) of the Pipeline Authority Acts 1973 I present the financial statements of the Pipeline Authority for the year ended 30 June 1973 and the year ended 30 June 1974, together with the report of the Auditor-General on those statements. Due to the limited number available arrangements have been made to have reference copies of these statements placed in the Parliamentary Library. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) The proposal for the development of a hydrogenation plant 'to convert Darling Downs coal into fuel energy forms ' is a joint proposal of the Milmerran Coal Pty. Ltd., which owns coal leases in the area, and the Mitsui Company of Japan. As presented to me on 4 November 1974 by officers of the two companies, the proposal envisages the operation of a 10 000 tonne/day commercial plant by 1 98 1 . 
No final decision has yet been made concerning the development of the Milmerran coal deposits. Such a decision will depend on the result of a five year exploration programme now underway, and the availability of conversion technology now under investigation in Japan. 
The answer to the right honourable member's question is as follows: 
and (2) See Hansard of 17 September 1974 at page 1263. 
1 adhere to what I then said. 
About 900 million barrels of L.P.G. 
Remaining liquid reserves recoverable from fields declared commercially viable aggregate about 75 per cent of reserves when fields which have not yet been declared commercial or are awaiting connection to a pipeline are included. 
Because of factors influencing future demand, like those I mentioned in my answer on 25 February to Question No. 917 (Hansard page 699), I am not prepared to make projections which would depend on too many assumptions to be of real value. 
Yes. No reconciliation is necessary. In stating explicitly on 17 September 1974 that 'At present day consumption rates Australia has 15 years of fuel supply in reserve', I clearly implied that the life of the reserve would vary inversely with consumption rates. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The Industries Assistance Commission concluded, in its report of 16 July 1974 at page 15, that total Australian capacity of the nitrogenous fertilizer industry is 1 .7 times the level of Australian market requirements for all uses and will not, it is estimated, be matched by Australian demand until 1980 at the earliest. 
See(l). 
and (4) The Pipeline Authority is consulting Queensland authorities concerning future supplies of natural gas to Brisbane with a view to reaching basic supply decisions this year and is in touch with the Queensland Government Gas Engineer and Chief Gas Examiner with a view to the early establishment of an authoritative assessment of probable long-term market demands so that the most economical solution can be found. 
The position at present is completely unsatisfactory. Contrary to the very carefully disseminated propaganda of certain oil exploration interests there is in fact a remarkable similarity in the number of oil exploration wells which have been drilled off-shore in recent years. A total of 3 1 exploration wells was drilled in the calendar year 1974. In 1973 there were 3 1 wells, in 1972 there were 38, in 1971 there were 20, in 1970 there were 27 and in 1969 there were 32. But those wells were drilled under a former economic situation which no longer exists. Australia today has a heavy bill for imported crude. The bill for the year which will end on 30 June will be at least $650m. We want to see something better than is being proposed and imposed by the Designated Authority, particularly in respect of Western Australia. The major exploration permits are about to expire in that State. In certain cases the Designated Authority has permitted renewals on obligations in respect of exploration which are completely unsatisfactory and bear no relevance to the needs of Australia. 
Exploration was carried on in Western Australia from 1965 under remarkably generous terms. Until 1 972 half the cost of off-shore exploration came from State and Federal government subsidies or from taxation concessions. At the present time we need an intensive drilling pattern. For the 6 years which have just ended, the total cost of exploration under the major exploration permits was of the order of $83m. The Premier of Western Australia is sounding off and is talking in terms of an exploration expenditure of $250m or $300m being required. In point of fact, on present indications the exploration conditions which have been imposed by the Designated Authority of Western Australia would roughly parallel those of the former 6 years. In other words, for the next 6 years we might expect an exploration expenditure of $ 15m to $20m a year. I suggest that it is up to the Premier of Western Australia in particular to ask the oil companies which are drilling off-shore to put their money where his mouth is and to get busy. 
We hear a lot of talk also regarding the need for foreign companies to come into Australian exploration. There are 78 permits for exploration off-shore round the whole coastline of Australia and no fewer than 70 of these are being operated by companies which are wholly or predominantly foreign-owned. Their performances have been unsatisfactory. Now that the exploration permits are expiring we want to see an intensive drilling pattern proposed. We intend to achieve it. Today my officers are in Perth discussing the whole situation with the representatives of the Designated Authority for Western Australia. 
-The situation at the present time is a very simple one. A lot of ofF-shore explorers are treading water until the result of the High Court case becomes known. In other words, there is a fair amount of fudging being done. In respect of the honourable member's home State, he of all people ought well to know that the conditions for exploration that were imposed there are so minimal as to be appalling. I refer him to my answer to a previous question in this House today, which he either did not listen to or did not want to understand. The hard truth is that quite deliberately there is not an adequate pattern of drilling obligations being imposed. The policy that is being pursued by my counterpart in his State is such that the off-shore areas will be locked up for a further 5 years. The game, of course, that they are playing- they are foxingmeans that, having locked up these areas, they will then pursue their pattern of seeking to farm them out. If farmouts are to be done they will be done by the Australian Government. If any company is sitting on more off-shore areas than it can adequately drill, test and explore, let it return them to their true owners, the people of Australia. We are entitled to a half stake in the off-shore resources of Australia and we intend to get it. 
For the information of honourable members I present a report entitled 'National Coal Research Advisory Committee Tenth Annual Report 1975'. In tabling this document I am fulfilling again an undertaking given in my response to question No. 907 put by the Leader of the Australian Country Party  (Mr Anthony). 
For the information of honourable members I present a statement on uranium exploration in the Northern Territory. 
The answer to the right honourable member's question is as follows: 
1) To 1987 for South Australia and to 2000 for the Australian Gas Light Co. 
0.2 trillion cubic feet for Red Cliff was included. 
Yes, subject to further drilling which as I announced on 7 November 1974 will be a function of the Petroleum and Minerals Authority. 
(a) Within the range of 8.57 to 25.9 billion cubic metres, having been downgraded from the estimate given in reply to Question No. 908 on 17 October 1974 following a re-assessment of the Palm Valley structure. 
Reservoir Engineering Group, Bureau of Mineral Resources. 
Re-assessment of the Palm Valley structure, based on results obtained from the drilling in 1973 of the Palm Valley No. 3 Well and its formation flow testing, was completed in December 1974. 
-Today there is in the world no topic on which there are more rumours, more speculation, more argument and more misrepresentation than the subject of crude oil pricing. Our position in Australia is very clear. The price that is being paid to the producers of Australian crude from Bass Strait and Barrow Island, after deducting taxation, is very generous and compares favourably with that which is being charged in the Middle East. Nevertheless the Middle East price, because of the imposition of very high taxation by the producing countries, is being seized upon by the friends of certain major companies in Australia as a specious argument for justifying an increase in the crude oil price. For the future the answer is a very simple one. A very substantial profit is being made today by the major producer of crude oil in Australia. An increase in the price will have very little effect upon stimulating exploration. Already, at present prices, we have quite a substantial number of major exploration companies which are prepared to enter into activities on the northwest shelf and which will be prepared to do so in the event of certain judicial proceedings being terminated successfully. I would suggest to the advocates of oil price increases and particularly to those in the Australian Country Party who seem to have more than the normal vested interest in it- I stress the words 'more than the normal vested interest'- that they might well take discretion as being the better part of valour as, for the future, we will see that the people of Australia, who need motor transport more urgently and more consistently than any other people in the world, have it at a proper price and on proper terms and conditions. 
-The significance is this: It is conscience money- 'conscience' with a very small V indeed. It represents an increase from 10 per cent to 10.8 per cent of the Australian holding in the major company, which recently declared a profit of $47m and which still has under the terms of its original agreement with the Queensland Government- and today at world parity prices- the right to extract another 160 million tonnes of first-class coking coal from the northern end of the Bowen basin depositsjust a little matter, I might add, of US$8 billion gross value. To intensify the nature of our grievance, it is in fact seeking not merely to exploit Australia to the extent of that 160 million tonnes of coal but also it is seeking 1600 million tonnes and it wants $80 billion worth of coal. I never knew of any company to have so much gall or so little sense of public relations. It is a standing disgrace to Australia, it is a standing disgrace to Queensland, and it is something that must be corrected. 
To reassure the honourable member I would say that he need have no qualms as to receiving natural gas in the fair city of Wagga. The main matter that has concerned me has been the rather whimsical behaviour of my State counterparts in New South Wales and Victoria. Some months ago I approached my Victorian counterpart and suggested to him that in the national interest it might be appropriate if we were to consider a real interconnection of the proposed national natural gas grid, and for that purpose that we might construct a 20-inch line from Young down through Wagga and Albury to Melbourne. I got, frankly, quite a cool reception. A few weeks later it was announced, for reasons best known to the gentleman concerned, that the Victorian pipeline, which was to be of the order of ten or twelve inches in diameter, would be extended across the border to Albury, thereby pre-empting what would have been a legitimate market for the supply of gas within this State. 
Consequently, the best I can give to the honourable member is a pipeline with a diameter of six and five-eighth inches. I have received criticism from some of the honourable member's colleagues in regard to the cost of natural gas. The requirement that natural gas shall be sold at a uniform price throughout Australia has been in the legislation since it passed through both Houses of this Parliament. 
I move: 
That the BUI be now read a second time. 
The Snowy Mountains Hydro-electric Power Act 1949-1973 provides for a Commissioner and 2 Associate Commissioners and that these be fulltime officers appointed for 7 years. The Act also provides that an Acting Commissioner may not continue in office for more than 12 months. These provisions relating to the top management structure of the Snowy Mountains Hydro-electric Authority were enacted in 1949 when there was a vast construction task to be put in hand and carried to a successful conclusion. Construction of the Snowy scheme is now virtually completed. 
Under the direction of the Snowy Mountains Council, the Snowy Mountains Hydro-electric Authority will be left with functions of a residual kind, such as manning the scheme- other than the manning of generating stations, which is the responsibility of the State electricity commissionsand financial administration. The top management structure that was appropriate for the construction phase of the scheme is thus not required in present circumstances. Accordingly, this Bill will amend the principal Act to provide flexibility in the top management structure of the Authority consistent with its changing role. 
The Bill provides that the Commissioner and Associate Commissioners may in future be appointed on a part-time basis and that appointments may be for period of less than 7 years. 
The appointment of 2 Associate Commissioners will no longer be obligatory. The Bill also provided that an Acting Commissioner will not be limited to a tenure of office of 12 months. I commend the Bill to honourable members. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr MacKellar)  adjourned. 
The honourable member for Wide Bay  (Mr Millar),  who just resumed his seat, has placed his finger on the most sensitive section of this issue. He said that the Government of Queensland has created a situation which has now been drawn to the attention of the Australian nation. When we came to office we were faced with a situation created by the Government of Queensland, a Country Party Government which has ruled Queensland for many years and which has granted leases and mineral rights according to its own legislation and is now in the process virtually of being criticised by its own Country Party members. 
There has been more heat than light generated in the whole of this so-called controversy. I will yield to no one my dedication to a proper balance between mineral development and the preservation of the environment. I have stressed in the whole of this matter that I acted with very great reluctance and would see to it that the conditions that were imposed by the Queensland Government in respect of the mineral leases which have been granted were honoured to the letter. I have not the slightest doubt that I will have the fullest support of my colleague in this regard. 
The situation on Fraser Island is not new. For example, Queensland Titanium Mines Pty Ltd has been operating on Fraser Island right alongside the areas where it is proposed to mine. Not a word was said about that. Not a word was said about the conditions which are actually imposed by the Queensland Government. Not a word was said about the deposit of $30,000 and the fact that no more than 20 acres is to be mined at any one time and then is to be regrassed and the herbage and vegetation generally to be restored. Only after this is done can a mining interest go on to another situation and mine another 20 acres until 100 acres are mined and, provided that has been done satisfactorily, the land is restored to the ownership and control of the Queensland Government. In addition to that there are specific requirements in regard to the type of sand that is to be used. There are specific requirements as to the vegetation, the trees and the shrubs, that are to be restored. 
There has been a lot of humbug in this matter. Of course, some political mileage can be gained but, to be very frank, some of the most perfervid critics of the Government in this matter have done their own cause a notable disservice because of the excesses of their criticism and the unwarranted ferocity of their approach to this situation. Since 1960 the Murphyores people, who make up one half of the consortium, have been busy in that locality with the consent of a Country Party government. They are still there. In 1972, having had rights there before and carrying on quite an amount of exploration work, they took advantage of legislation introduced by the Queensland Country Party Government to obtain leases. The honourable member for Gwydir  (Mr Hunt)  has been less than frank, because he well knows the contents of the leases and terms on which they have been granted. 
One thing that we have stood for since we have become a government is this: Whatever situation we found we would honour contracts that had been entered into. The 2 leases, which are numbers 95 and 102 from memory, on which the D.M. Minerals people will be concentrating, were granted in 1973. 1 want to refer to the constitutional situation. The Australian Government has no direct constitutional power to interfere with internal mining. The honourable member for Gwydir knows full well- he has had sufficient Parliamentary experience- that the terms of the legislation to which he gave such fulsome praise makes provision for the protection of the environment in relation to projects and decisions of or under the control of the Australian Government. Environmental impact study can be carried out under Queensland legislation, namely the State and Regional Planning and Development Public Works, Organisation and Environmental Control Act. The Queensland Minister for Mines has a discretion under that legislation as to whether or not he will have such an inquiry. He did not in the particular cases mentioned. Now his Country Party colleagues in the Federal Parliament are coming along and are wanting to clobber us and criticise us for the shortcomings of the State Government in respect of the leases which were granted under the terms of the Queensland legislation. That is the position. The attack by the honourable member for Gwydir is humbug and nonsense- utter stark humbug. Let me quote - 
-We shall use it, and we shall use it to the letter, and we shall be watching the mining operations there very closely. We will be glad of the co-operation of the honourable member too. He knows the constitutional position as well as I do in view of the former high office he held in the Australian Public Service. 
Yes, thank you. The situation is this: The best that my colleague can do in respect of any inquiry that he may hold is to get people to come along almost as an act of grace. He has asked these people whether they will agree to defer their operations. They have said no. We were confronted with a situation and we did the right thing. The Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam),  knowing the constitutional problems and the limitations on the Federal Government in respect of mining within a State and under State law, last year quite deliberately sought by successive correspondence to get the cooperation of the State premiers. In certain cases he will get co-operation. The very essence of his approach was that there should be joint inquiries. If the honourable member for Gwydir is sincere and genuine let him get busy and make his representations to the Premier of Queensland, his Country Party colleague. Let the Premier come along and, in a joint inquiry, have a look at Fraser Island. The whole attitude of the honourable member for Gwydir is nonsense, sheer, stark hypocrisy and political vote getting of the worst possible type. 
-That has no relevance whatever. The first approach made by DM to the Government was last April. It was entitled to  make an approach. Would the honourable member deny that? Of course he would not. The company had its leases. We had to face up to a situation which we did not create but which we inherited. The honourable member well knows that. But he comes here today and with stark hypocrisy tries to extract some - 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1) On 13 December 1974, D. M. Minerals was authorised to finalise an export contract in accordance with the terms of a draft agreement submitted on 13 September. Under the minerals export control procedures established in February 1973, D. M. Minerals had consulted with officers of my Department prior to drawing up the draft agreement The project was not considered new in that it had reached an advanced stage in planning and development and substantial exploration and development expenditure had already been incurred, some of which dated back to the early 60 's; also, ruining leases had been granted by the Queensland authorities laying down, amongst other things, stringent conditions to protect the environment 
Yes. 
-The position, briefly, is that the Petroleum and Minerals Authority has acquired a 50 per cent interest in the Delhi Corporation which is the major operating partner in the Cooper Basin consortium. Of the 9 consortium members, the smallest is the major oil company known as Total Australia Ltd which in fact has merely an exploration licence in the Pedirka Basin and in Queensland has some 8 per cent of the total natural gas reserves. Nevertheless, contrary to the wishes of the other 8 members of the consortium, it is withholding its consent to the proposed transaction. At the present time negotiations are taking place between the Delhi Corporation and Total. I must say that the present attitude of Total is a very poor exercise in public relations. 
-The statement as to the amounts is correct. As I indicated to the Deputy Leader of the Opposition on a former occasion, borrowing transactions are a matter of confidentiality and responsibility and will continue to be so treated. 
-It is generally known that I have appointed to a vacancy on the Australian Atomic Energy Commission Professor Harry Messel who is known throughout Australia for his ability and drive. Professor Messel has reported to me his pleasure at the progress that has been achieved by the Commission in the technology of centrifugation. In point of fact the developments have been quite remarkable. They are, of course, under the usual limitations as to availability for public information. Nevertheless it can be said that with Australia on the verge of not merely mining and milling uranium but also enriching it, we will be able to face and to match the consortiums overseas which are interested in selling us this type of technology. This applies also in respect of the Japanese. It is most encouraging because we will be able to use our own achievements in this field as a measuring rod for the rival technologies which may be offered to us. 
Many outstanding examples exist of the problems that have been raised by the honourable member for Hunter. Notably, among the mining companies, are such firms as Hamersley, Comalco, Conzinc Riotinto of Australia and, of course, Utah. In 1970 the Utah company issued 50c shares in Australia at a premium of $1.35 each and the money so ra ised was in turn used to acquire 10c shares in Utah Development Company, the parent company, at a further premium of A$3.89. Hamersley, aided of course by the liberal leases that were granted by the then Government in Western Australia, has been able to impose premiums of as much as 500 per cent on the sale of minor portions of its equity to local investors. Conzinc Riotinto of Australia has issued 50c shares for premiums ranging as high as $ 1 3.50. Comalco took another and possibly more objectionable tack. It made a public issue of 50c shares at a premium of $2.25 in 1970. This was less than the market price at that time and is more than the current market price. The issue was partly placed on an unsolicited basis with potential friends of the company, for example, Queensland Cabinet Ministers, senior public servants and other individuals who were able to reap a windfall gain. I have heard mealy-mouthed advice by the Opposition as to what could be done in the way of buying back the farm and buying back the mine. This is typical of the treatment that Australians get when they attempt to acquire a legitimate share in their own birthright. 
-The answer to the right honourable member's question is as follows: 
$183 per tonne for Japanese pipe plus freight charges which averaged $26 per tonne. $327 per tonne for Australian pipe. Comparable current prices have not been sought. 
The contracts for Japanese pipe, entered into by the East-Australian Pipeline Corporation, which was then a wholly owned subsidiary of the Australian Gas Light Company, comprised about 87 per cent of the total requirements. 
No. 
-The answer,  Sir, is  no. 
-It is a matter of the utmost importance. I am very anxious to do the best that I can in that regard. At the present time different world technologies are being examined. At the moment there is no technology that will give a better thermal efficiency than 60 to 65 per cent, which is not good enough. The residual char that is left needs to be disposed of and the routine method of disposal is for it to be burned in power stations specially constructed for that purpose. The alternative is gasification which has about 80 per cent thermal efficiency. Recently I met what I think is the best of all deputations I have received. It was from the East German Republic, a country which is able to utilise brown coal in full. I am in the process of arranging for my Department to contact the East German Republic. 
-The Leader of the National Country Party can put his fears at rest. We will be able to honour the commitments - 
-We will be able to honour the commitments and we will be able to phase them in. The figure of 8863 tonnes which was cited is not the correct figure. It was for this reason also that we bought into Mary Kathleen Uranium Ltd. We will honour the contracts to the letter. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes. 
Yes. 
and (4) I refer the honourable member to part (3) of the Prime Minister's answer to Question No. 2243 (Hansard, 13Mayl975,page2198). 
As my colleague, the Minister for Environment, has already stated, when the present Government took over administration the position was already well advanced; I came in at the end of the line, not the start. The applications that were the subject of the Dillingham export application- the applications for leaseswere made from 1961 to 1970. Sand mining activities have been conducted on Fraser Island since back in the early 1960s and have varied according to the price obtainable for heavy minerals from beach mining. In 1971 a very full inquiry was conducted at Maryborough in respect of the main lease which was the subject of the export permit. I personally examined the report of the inquiry, which ran to 600 pages of evidence from, I understand, 22 witnesses. I was satisfied that the terms of the inquiry were adequate. More than that, I was satisfied with the particularly stringent terms that were imposed upon the leases: No more than 20 acres could be uncovered at one time; and 12 inches of the top soil had to be removed, stacked and replaced. In addition, plans had to be submitted to the appropriate Queensland State Department of the vegetation- the trees, shrubs and the like- that was there. 
-Yes, that has been done. The security that is provided also is very adequate. An amount of $190,000 is to be available for restoration in the case of the 20 acres concerned. The money available for restoration costs, in the event of any failure to comply with the requirements under the lease, would be of the order of $9,000 per acre. These are the most rigid conditions I have seen. Twenty acres at a time is mined and restored. When 100 acres have been treated they go back to the Queensland Government. In addition, since January 1972 beach mining had been carried on on a strip 500 yards wide and  Vh  miles long outside the area of lease No. 102. We were first asked to approve of an export contract back in March of 1974. We were approached again in June, twice, and again in September. At that stage I saw no valid reason, in terms of my known powers, to refuse the application, and I have acted accordingly. If anything does count for Australia, it is that we honour contracts that are entered into. I made a fair, decent and honest appraisal of the situation and acted accordingly. 
-Undoubtedly, the South Maitland coal is of a highly volatile type and is eminently suitable for the purpose of coal hydrogenation. In contradistinction with the brown coal, the lignite in Victoria, a much more readily available technology can be used in respect of this coal. Yesterday, in answer to the honourable member for McMillan, I pointed out that the East Germans had done wonders in respect of the hydrogenation of brown coal, lignite, and their lignite is inferior to that from the Morwell Valley. The South Maitland coal has the first essential, which is a high hydrogen percentage. It has somewhere between 6 per cent and 7 per cent. Liquefaction takes place when the percentage is between 14 per cent and 15 per cent. I commend the honourable member for his interest in the matter. I will be very happy to send samples to East Germany. I repeat what I said yesterday: We are in close contact with the people there. We intend to pursue the matter. I might add that another coal in Australia is particularly suited to this purpose. It is a highly volatile coal. I refer to the Walloon coal in the Darling Downs, which is comparable to that from the Hunter Valley. In the case of that coal, of course, we find that every major oil company or its subsidiary is already in possession of leases in that area, obviously because those companies are equally interested in coal hydrogenation. At this stage, naturally, for national reasons it is not proposed to permit the export of that coal. 
-The Leader of the Country Party ought well to know the answer, having held high office in a former Government. We happen to have in stock about 2¼ thousand tons of uranium oxide. That will be loaned, if necessary, to the respective companies to see that they honour their contracts. I stress and repeat, Labor honours its contracts and will always be in a position to do so. 
I table the transcript of evidence given to the Wardens Court at Maryborough on 5 May 1971 and subsequent days in relation to granting certain leases to the Dillingham-Murphyores Corporation. 
Ordered that the paper be printed. 
There is no immediate planning for such action to be taken, nor is it in contemplation in the future. It would be a matter that would require very serious thought as to whether some of the equipment that is in operation in Australia today in petrol refining would be worth taking over at any price. More than that, there is a very good old saying: 'You never keep a cow if you can get milk by other means'. We will be able to do that too. 
There has been no agent appointed. There have been no payments made, nor any commitment entered into. 
-For the benefit of the inexperienced honourable member I might add and repeat that there has been no agent. 
-The prices that have been negotiated in respect of the transaction between the Gas and Fuel Corporation of Victoria and the Esso-Hematite consortium will be of the utmost relevance. We have not the full terms yet, but the base price is obviously of the order of 3c per therm. This equates with the going price in respect of natural gas from the Cooper Basin consortium. I might add for the information of the House that tomorrow I will be meeting  Mr Dewhurst,  who is the vice-president of the Burmah Oil Company itself, and we will be discussing with him in some detail our future proposals with regard to development. 
-The question is largely a figment of the honourable gentleman's imagination. At no time has any mandate been given to any individual to enter into negotiations and with authority to act on behalf of the Government of Australia. For purposes of identification, a letter was given in very carefully drafted terms. Thanks to the uninvited and purely vexatious intervention of the Opposition in this matter, both the Treasurer and I have been literally swamped with offers. These are under consideration. It would be a gross dereliction of duty on the part of either the Treasurer or myself if we failed to consider them. I add for the information of honourable members that there is an entirely new ball game in relation to international loan availability. There is today a complete distortion of the world economy because of the availability of funds that have been generated in the purchase of Arab oil at increased prices. Today those funds are seeking to be recycled. The funds that came in the earlier part of the operation of the new price system are now available and are looking for safe and reliable homes. There is no better place than Australia. There is no more traitorous group than the Opposition today, who would stop at nothing and who would stoop to anything - 
-The question is absurd. The answer is no. The antecedents of the man concerned were checked thoroughly. 
-Thoroughly. The firm for which he works is an old and respected one. 
Every possible investigation was made. We will not table the letter. 
-The Leader of the Opposition, as a potential Prime Minister, perhaps, and also in the light of his Ministerial experience, would well know that certain matters are handled on a confidential basis. It would destroy the whole principle of confidentiality if one were to discuss this matter on the basis that the Opposition wants to obtain information for completely scurrilous purposes. That information will not be given. 
That will be disclosed in due course. Suffice it to say that again I might well refer the Opposition to the text of an answer that was given by  Dr Cairns  in a Press interview on 8 May when he was acting as Prime Minister. I will make a copy of it available to the honourable gentleman. It fully sets out the whole spectrum of availability of finance in respect of petro-dollars. 
The provision was revoked with my approval. 
My answer to the Deputy Leader of the Opposition is this: I repeat what I said to him some weeks ago; that in matters of financial importance 2 things count- confidentiality and responsibility. 
The answer to the right honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes, I did receive a telegram and so did most members of the House. It has caused considerable unnecessary perturbation. The position briefly is this: My Department was approached by Dillingham-Murphyores for approval of a contract to export 175 000 tons of beach sand minerals over a period from 1 June 1975 to the end of 1977. The contract as advanced was loosely worded and said that the minerals would come from the company's operations on Fraser Island. In the terms of the guidelines set down by the Prime Minister recognition had to be given to 12 leases which had been granted by the Queensland Government to the Dillingham-Murphyores operation. On the other hand, those 12 leases did not all relate to the area from which mining was to take place. 
We proved specifically the area from which the company wished to mine. The area of special rnining lease 102 contains sufficient of the minerals to meet the whole of the requirements of the contract. It was that area, SML 102, which had been the subject of an exhaustive mining inquiry at the Maryborough court. The full transcript of the evidence taken at the inquiry already has been lodged by me in this House. It is a public document. To provide a back-up it was suggested that the company might also mine from SML 95. On the other hand, my information is that special mining lease 102 will meet the whole of the requirements. The General Manager of Dillinghams, if he made such a statement, is quite wrong and is committing a breach of faith. We will not tolerate it any more than we will tolerate the unnecessary, unfair, and in many cases malicious, criticism which we are receiving from his antagonists. 
The terms of the approval will operate from 1 3 December 1974. They are reviewed annually. If in the meantime any attempt is made- I doubt that there will be because his superiors will keep him in check- to mine from any lease other than those I have mentioned, we will take appropriate action. When the contract comes up for review on the annual basis according to policy, we will strictly confine it to the 2 areas, 102 and 95. 1 am disgusted with the malicious and false rumours that are spread around by some of those people. On one side there are people who have no thought for anything other than the profit they can make. On the opposite side there are people who are foolish, irresponsible, and in many cases utterly intolerant. They are abusing the trust of ordinary, honest, decent Australians who want to preserve pur environment. I would yield to no one in my desire to preserve the environment. At the same time, contracts properly entered into will be honoured to the letter and neither group -conservationists of the ilk of the honourable member for Gwydir or people of the ilk of  Mr Everson  on the opposite side- will be allowed liberty and licence. 
-National Country Party members are laughing. The levity which comes from those honourable members is typical of their political immaturity and their general oneeyed stance on Australia's fundamental energy problems. The main significance is this: The coal resources of Australia are over 160 times as important in energy content as the total known and recoverable reserves of natural gas and crude oil. In particular, the State of Victoria is endowed with what are probably the largest brown coal deposits in the world. Recently, scientific representatives of the German Democratic Republic who visited us stated their amazement at the quality of these deposits, their quantity and the ease of their recovery. Certainly we intend to integrate the deposits in our overall energy planning. 
Brown coal is the sole source of energy in the East German Republic. It is that country's sole source of liquid hydrocarbons as well. East German technology stands pre-eminent in the world today and that is the technology which we will be following. I have noted with interest that the State of Victoria has terminated arrangements for its inquiries with the East German people. The Austraiian Government will be stepping right into the breach. As a matter of fact, I am indebted to the honourable member for McMillan for already having provided me with a sample of coal from his electorate. Similar samples will be obtained from the Hunter Valley and from the Darling Downs. 
-The deposits at Duchess and Lady Annie in the Mt Isa area are of the order of 2600 million tons of 19 per cent  P2O5  variety phosphate. The people from Broken Hill South Pty Ltd have commenced their operations. We are doing everything possible to assist them. In its turn, the discovery is both a boon and raises certain problems. We already have certain commitments in relation to the produce pf Christmas Island, Nauru and Ocean Island. But viewed as a whole, the discovery is a boon for Australia- so great a boon that it is not generally understood by honourable members. The late  Dr John  Dunn, of geological fame, said that the discovery of substantial deposits of phosphate rock in Australia would be of even more importance than the discovery of flow oil. This is particularly the case today in a world which is desperately in need of this most valuable commodity. By virtue of phosphorous in our system we stand upright. It is as simple as that. Phosphate is in short supply throughout the world. Australia will be in a key position to see that the nations of the world, particularly the nations of South East Asia which most urgently need it, are able to be supplied. As for the internal arrangements, I would prefer not to make a specific statement at this stage other than to say that the discovery is an undoubted boon to Australia and we hope to be able to make a substantial reduction in the internal price structure. 
Very substantial progress has been made, much more than the Australian Atomic Energy Commission has in fact revealed. With the advent to its membership of Professor Messel there has been a new driving force. I say this with due respect to its present and former membership. Professor Messel has pointed out to me that technological achievements have been in many respects comparable to those of other advanced countries. I speak in particular of gas centrifugation. We are at a stage in Australia where, in Professor Messel 's opinion, it would be possible for Australia, if it were necessary, to go it alone. Nevertheless, we prefer to compare our advances with those of other countries, in particular Japan and the consortium in Europe, Urenco. From a comparison of our respective achievements we believe we are well on the high road to ranking with the best in the world in this field. What has been achieved is a credit to Australian craftsmen and scientists. Naturally, certain matters are on the secret list but I am well satisfied with what has been done. I have directed the Australian Atomic Energy Commission to pursue vigorously the program of gas centrifugation. I believe that the results which we will be able to show in the very near future will be outstanding. 
-Briefly, the position is as follows: Australia has imputed black coal reserves of the order of 200 000 million tons. The brown coal reserves have not been fully quantified but, as I said yesterday, they are believed to be the world's largest. It is of the utmost importance that we fully identify and quantify Australia's black coal and brown coal resources. For that purpose I have in mind the imposition of an excise duty on coal for the purpose of funding a national exploration scheme and also a national entity for the purpose of dealing with coal hydrogenation and the general question of liquefaction of coal. 
I might add that in many respects this will be of the utmost importance. It will be necessary for us to co-ordinate and to get into one group the work that has been done by a number of very important national entities. There is a division of the Commonwealth Scientific and Industrial Research Organisation which has done excellent work in this field. There is another organisation known as the National Coal Research Advisory Committee and yet another known as ACIRL, the Australian Coal Industries Research Laboratories. There are further organisations in different universities which have done good work, but co-ordination is what is required. I might add that in aggregate excellent work has been done in Australia by those individual but disparate groups. I propose to ensure that for the first time we will have a full national undertaking capable of speaking in the name of Australia. As in other fields, we aspire to lead the world. 

 - Mr Deputy Speaker, the remarks of the Leader of the National Country Party  (Mr Anthony)  scarcely can be taken seriously. 
It is a peculiar characteristic  3  of the Opposition in this House that its speakers can be heard in complete silence and without interruption, but immediately a Government spokesman gets up Opposition members do not want to hear anything but want to hurl their inane interjections. In my contacts with the Japanese I have stressed one matter above all else, that is, the interdependence of Australia and Japan. The remarks of the Leader of the Country Party have done a notable disservice to Australia and to Australia's trading relations with Japan. If there is one thing that counts it is integrity, and Australia is a country- I stress this- that keeps its contracts and honours them to the letter. It is a country which knows exactly its relationship with Japan. Japan and Australia are the only 2 advanced countries in the western Pacific which have mutual trading interests in the Indian Ocean. We are the only 2 countries to which the people of South-East Asia can look for their future development and welfare without the oppression of the rich nations of the world. 
It amazes me that a gentleman who is the leader of a Party which sprang from BAWRAthe British Australian Wool Realisation Association Ltd- from price organisation, from the organised marketing of primary products, should now come along with some dirge, with some jeremiad, suggesting that somehow Australia is screwing the Japanese. I have sought at all times . no more than to secure world parity prices. I have assured the Japanese that Australia values its trading relations with them. I have assured them that, above all, Australia will honour its contracts to the letter, that it will not take advantage of Japan's dependence on Australia- and Japan does depend on Australia. I have assured the Japanese also that we will see that our contracts are honoured by the individual producers of energy, and so they ought to be and so they will be. 
Above all, the Japanese respect people who are competent, people who are sophisticated, and for the first time in Australia's commercial history the Government of Australia, because of its vetting of the export contracts, is fully informed. It is informed not only of export prices in respect of Australia's minerals and energy but is informed also in respect of world prices. I was in business for years before I came into Parliament and it has always been my belief that you do business with people not today and not tomorrow but over a period of years and that you never leave a customer dissatisfied but leave him so that you can go back and do business with him again. It is a disgrace, it is scurrilous, and it is contrary to the best interests of Australia that a speech such as the one delivered by the Leader of the National Country Party should have been made. The right honourable gentleman rubbishes the concept of full Australian ownership. Let me instance the case of the projected sale of Peabody interests in respect of Queensland coal. I suggested that in that case an Australian consortium or Australian group of companies might be able to negotiate to again buy back for Australia what- is Australia's birthright. In respect of the honourable member's suggestion that there was to be a huge tax on coal, I state that we are asking for a tax of 25c a ton. 
-No, but the right honourable member would be silly enough to rush in and lead with his chin. We are asking for 25c a ton for the purpose of identifying and quantifying the coal resources of Australia and also for the purpose of initial and substantial research in respect of coal hydrogenation. We are doing this so that we can honour arrangements which were entered into with  Mr Tanaka  in his recent visit to Australia. As soon as the session of Parliament concludes, I will be going to Japan to pay the return visit to that country pursuant to the understanding that we have for a joint feasibility study in respect of uranium enrichment and coal hydrogenation. In respect of uranium enrichment, it will be a troika. Australia will supply the raw materials. Japan can supply capital and we will get the technology we need from our own research and from what is available in Europe. So much - 
-It is not news at all. I have said that in the House and said it .many times. It has been stated publicly. Let me deal with the suggestion that the Japanese are being screwed in respect of coal. At the present time we are negotiating on a basis which provides that the 
Japanese will be paying less for coal than they have been paying for purchases of coal from the east coast of the United States of America. If there is one thing that the Japanese need, it is reassurance. Australia supplies Japan with 45 per cent of its coal requirements. We supply approximately the same percentage of its iron ore requirements. In an uncertain and politically unstable world the Japanese know they can deal with one country that is politically and economically stable. That is Australia. There are no political strings attached to contracts that we enter into with the Japanese. Let this be also clearly understood. The Nippon Steel Corporation is a monopsony. It is an efficient one. It buys for 1 5 or '16 steel nulls. Against that we exercise what I have correctly termed as a benign supervision over the contractual arrangements between the various coal and iron ore producers. With that monopsony the relationship has been a good one. The Japanese respect strength. They respect confidence and commercial capability. For that very reason they had a real contempt for the former Government in relation to which there was a policy of catch as catch can. For example, would the National Country Party suggest that we did the wrong thing in fixing a floor price for wool? Of course it would not. Yet members of the same Party come into this House and, in a puerile attempt to extract political advantage, advance an argument that somehow we are unkind to the Japanese. 
I know what the future holds. Two-thirds of the world 's people live around the shores of the Indian and the Pacific Oceans. It will be by partnership between Australia and Japan that we will emerge as the two strongest industrial and commercial powers. Australia will be part of this with the advent of additional people coming from Europe. 
I may as well be very frank about the situation in respect of uranium. A contract was entered into. It was drawn up at the Lodge. It was signed by the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam),  the  Deputy  Prime Minister  (Dr J. F. Cairns),  the former Attorney-General and myself. Representatives from Peko Wallsend Ltd and E. Z. Industries Ltd were present. The arrangement included the contribution of  21lh  per cent of the cost of the milling plant by these people. Now, they do not want to do it. They want an interest free loan. As should well be known, the 2 companies have their problems. In fact, they want to screw the Government. In addition to that, it was clearly understood that the Government, because of the nature of uranium- after all, it is a weapons source as much as being a source of energy- wanted to have some say in the sale of uranium. The companies wanted to sell the uranium as it was produced. That is contrary to the terms of the arrangement More than thatand here again the Leader of the National Country Party might take to task the honourable member for Gwydir  (Mr Hunt)-  there is to be an environmental impact study in respect of the Northern Territory. But in the meantime as I have already said, we have a stockpile of uranium inherited from the Menzies Administration which had produced it for weapons purposes. That, together with the initial output from the Mary Kathleen plant which is about to commence production after being reconditioned, will be available. Our contracts for the delivery of uranium to Japan are phased over a considerable period of years. I assure this House and Japan that we will be able to meet our commitments because if there are any delays we will loan part of that stockpile to the companies concerned so they can meet their contracts. 
In respect of steaming coal, we are also in close co-operation with Japan and we get their projections of their future requirements. Japan, if it continues to expand at its present pace, will be in a desperate position because of an increase in crude oil prices. It is utterly and completely wrong and a deliberate attempt to mislead the House to suggest that the increase in coking coal prices is proportionately greater than the increase in oil prices. It is not. It is utterly wrong, and the Leader of the National Country Party well knows it, although he tries to get away with it. 
We are in a position to meet more of Japan's requirements for coking coal. The United States of America which has been Japan's second major source of coal supply now finds that it needs more and more coal for its internal consumption. More than ever Japan has to rely on Australia for this source of energy. Japan has had a fair go from Australia. It will continue to get a fair go. But for the first time, Australia has a Government and an administration which is capable of matching the Japanese, meeting them on their own ground and negotiating a commercial contract on proper terms. 
The Leader of the National Country Party made reference also to liquefied petroleum gas. In fact we have increased the export of LPG to Japan from one million tons a year to 1.25 million tons a year. We are making a very valuable contribution to their requirements in this field. But a time will come- and it could come very soon- when we will need the LPG for ourselves. In the meantime I have assured the 
Japanese that they will have No. 1 priority in respect of their energy requirements. I am speaking here of priorities in terms of trading partners. Our second priority will be West Germany and the third, Italy. These countries are Australia's 3 best partners. They will have these supplies and they will get them. Australia is a sound and a reputable country and we are a sound and reputable Government. Labor honours its promises as does Australia. 
With regard to coal hydrogenation- and this is of the utmost importance to Japan- Australia has certain coal types which can be well used and it will be a matter of very, very careful calculation as to the extent to which they can be used. Here again I deprecate the attempt by the Leader of the National Country Party to mislead the House. We need to know exactly what our high volatile coals are. 
-And brown coal as well. But high volatile coal provides the most easy path to coal liquefaction and hydrogenation. To get some idea of the magnitude of what will be required, a daily production of 100 000 barrels of crude oil would require an annual commitment of 16 million tons of coal. About 105 million tons of coal would be required to satisfy Australia's present consumption of oil of a little over 620 000 barrels a day. In addition to that we produce 65 million tons for other purposes, which brings us to a total production of about 170 million tons a year. The Japanese have forecast that they will scale up to about 30 million tons of steaming coal for electricity generation in their own country by 1980. That will bring the total requirement to more than 200 million tons a year. It is for that reason alone and not to turn the screw on the Japanese that I am asking the Government to agree to the introduction of the excise. 
I repeat my initial comments: Remarks of this kind in a debate of this nature are disgraceful. It is utterly and completely disgraceful to raise this as a matter of public importance. It reflects no credit on the National Country Party of Australia. It shows what a spurious, contemptible crowd they are when they speak in such scurrilous terms with such falacious arguments in an attempt to mislead the people of Australia. . . 
The answer to the right honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) to (6) See answer to Question No. 449. 
The honourable member for McMillan will be pleased to know that my Victorian counterpart,  Mr Balfour,  has suggested that he may come along to see me, together with the  Chairman  of the Victorian Gas and Fuel Corporation. We will be very happy to confer with them and to progress the matter beyond that point. 
The answer to the right honourable member's question is as follows:  (1), (2) and (3) An exhaustive survey of all the research projects bearing on nuclear energy has not been undertaken, However, the twenty-second Annual Report of the Australian Atomic Energy Commission, which was tabled in Parliament on 17 October 1974, lists at pages 105 to 110: the main research programs in progress within the Commission; research contracts awarded by the Commission during the year 1973-74; and research projects carried out within Australian tertiary education institutions with support by the Australian Government through the Australian Institute of Nuclear Science and Engineering. (4), (5) and (6) Approximately 1200 staff were employed by the Commission as at 30 June 1 974; the disposition of this staff is set out on page 93 of the report referred to above, which report also sets out at pages 107 to 1 10 details of persons involved in research projects carried out within tertiary education institutions. The report also provides information on the location of the research projects being undertaken and the Government's support for each project. 
The answer to the right honourable member's question is as follows: 
The answer to question No. 862 is given in Hansard of 27 May 1975 (page2889). 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) D.M. Minerals began consultations with the Department of Minerals and Energy on 6 March 1974. 
The Department acted correctly. As I said on 20 May 1975 (Hansard page 2480), I saw no valid reason to refuse the application by D.M. Minerals. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
-I have had the opportunity of examining the Mining Bill now under consideration by the Legislative Assembly of Western Australia. Whilst I would certainly not presume to interfere in or to comment on the proper exercise of the functions of that body, certain subclauses of clause 119 do give me concern. Implicit in them is a very obvious attempt to prevent the Commonwealth of Australia, through any of its instrumentalities, from obtaining any interest in mining operations in that State. The matter is an elementary one because already under the Constitution- and this is the main thrust of the Petroleum and Minerals Authority legislation- the Commonwealth can, through its overseas trade powers, its interstate trade powers and its defence powers, on appropriate occasions and for appropriate purposes definitely engage in mining and acquire an interest in a mining company. I need scarcely remind honourable members that where there is any conflict between Commonwealth and State legislation, to the extent of any inconsistency Commonwealth legislation prevails. 
The Ranger consortium, Peko-EZ, has been treated very handsomely by the Government. It is being allowed to mine in the Northern Territory uranium which is the property of the Commonwealth of Australia. I repeat that it is the property of the Commonwealth of Australia. The text of the agreement has been well publicised. My answer to the right honourable member's question is this: The basic feature of the agreement with the Ranger participants was that they would receive the net proceeds from the sale of 50 per cent of the yellow cake produced. The other half would be retained by the Government. Also, 72.5 per cent of the finance is to be provided by the Government and only 27.5 per cent by the Ranger participants. Due consideration had been given and account had been taken of preliminary work that had been done by the consortium. The Ranger participants want this finance to be provided free of interest In other words, they want to gain a further benefit out of 45 per cent of the total financing which the Ranger participants want to be an interest free loan by the Government. This amounts to their saying that they want more than- I stress the words 'more than'- 50 per cent of the net proceeds. 
At no time did I say that the participants sought a loan from the Government in respect of their  27'A  per cent share of the financing. Less than 4 weeks after the agreement had been signed they decided to quibble. On 27 November they met the Secretary of my Department and a couple of his officers and negotiated and, in fact, haggled for the whole of an afternoon and into the night. Finally an arrangement was entered into and they were prepared to accept it. A few weeks later along came another letter and there have been 2 further discussions on this matter. The facts are simply these: Both the people from E.Z. Industries Ltd and Peko Wallsend Ltd are having their financial problems. I do not want to diminish their financial standing, but they have financial problems. The Peko people - 
-Our policy in relation to uranium mining in the Northern Territory was made very clear by a very long statement that I issued at a comprehensive Press conference immediately after the agreement was signed. It was made quite clear there that, in respect of any company or individual which had found uranium up to that date, the rights of that company or individual would be honoured and that companies which still had permits to explore would continue to do so. Under the terms of the mining ordinance of the Northern Territory areas of exploration are progressively reduced from year to year until finally they are phased out. The ultimate situation, of course, is one in which the Australian Atomic Energy Commission itself will be conducting all exploration for and mining of uranium in the Northern Territory. In this particular case, we acknowledge the work that has been done by these people. 
As to confiscation, we do not confiscate what we already own, particularly what we already own in terms of the legislation that was introduced in 1 953 with the support of both sides of the House. It is the property of the Australian Government. If and when there is to be joint mining it will be done under the full control of the Australian Government. There is no question of confiscation. In the particular case mentioned by the honourable member, it was arranged that a company would be formed. One of the purposes of the first discussion between the permanent head of my department and these people was to decide on the terms under which a joint operating company would be formed and duly registered. There was no question of acquisition unfairly or unreasonably. To be very frank, we have been more than fair with these people. My suggestion to the honourable member is that he tell his imformants to put there money where their mouths are. 
I had, by appointment, a very amicable discussion with  Mr Dewhurst,  the vicepresident of the Burmah Oil Co., who is representing the major partner in the WoodsideBurmah consortium. We discussed at some length the position as to what could be done, the relative attitudes of the consortium and the Government and, in particular, the impact of the delay in the decision of the High Court of Australia in relation to the challenge by the various State governments to the Petroleum (Submerged Lands) Act. I might say in relation to the north-west shelf that the matter has been beset by one fundamental problem, and that is that in 1965 certain exploration permits were issued by the then Western Australian Government which were remarkably lenient. Those conditions have been carried forward under the transition clauses of the Seas and Submerged Lands Act. They by no means meet the current needs of the Australian people, nor do they meet the geographical realities of the huge area which is to be fully explored. 
I might also state- and here I quote the opinion of the adviser of the Western Australian Government and also that of no less an authority than  Dr Lewis  Weeks, that the north-west shelf is in fact gas prone. Therefore, the niggling and the nit picking which have occured over the last 2 years suggesting that there are unlimited quantities of oil available there are completely incorrect. The oil resources are much further offshore than the continental shelf; they are on the continental plateau itself. It is entirely anomalous that we have an Australian Government which represents, and discharges the function of representing, Australia at the Law of the Sea Conference; which negotiates treaties with adjoining nations; whose navy patrols and polices the adjacent waters, yet at the same time we are saddled with an archaic piece of legislation, conceived in parochialism, which allocates to the various States the right to dispose of what is part of the Australian patrimony. 
The Woodside-Burmah consortium has carried out a very substantial feasibility study in respect of the offshore pipeline development and the construction of a production platform. Onshore, under the auspices of the then Western Australian Labor Government, we have carried out a feasibility study for an appropriate sized natural gas pipeline from Dampier to Perth. May I add that I have a very great respect for the High Court of Australia, a respect which pervades the whole of the English-speaking world and for a 
Court whose judgments have at least persuasive acceptance. It is entirely anomalous- and here I quote what the Prime Minister has said on many occasions- that internally the boundaries of Australia have been dictated by London Colonial Secretaries of 150 years ago, and we have backward States still asserting that beyond lowwater mark they have jurisdiction and sovereignty. It is quite clear that there is a new branch of jurisprudence, which is conditioned by modern technology in respect of geomorphology and petro-geology, and that jurisprudence undoubtedly will be applied, according to our contentions and beliefs, in the judgment of the High Court, which we expect at an early date. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) to (4) In my speech to the New South Wales Division of the Securities Institute of Australia on 10 August 1 973 1 indicated that a lack of elementary information on Australia's mineral export contracts was one factor which provoked the Australian Government to introduce export controls under the Customs Legislation on all mineral exports. Prior to the introduction of this important measure the Government had access to this vital information on an ad hoc basis for some minerals only. The decision to extend the controls to cover all minerals has resulted in the Australian Government, for the first time, having a full knowledge of Australia's minerals export trade and the terms of its contracts. As a result the Australian Government can provide material assistance and advice to Australian mineral exporters, and co-ordinate their export activities on a national basis. 
Yes. 
to (9) At the time export controls were extended to cover all minerals a number of Australian minerals were being exported at below world parity prices. This had resulted from the practice of many key minerals being sold under long term contracts at fixed prices without provision in many cases for escalation of any kind. Firm action has been taken by the Australian Government to remedy this problem by providing full support to Australian companies in negotiating price increases with overseas buyers under existing contracts and by requiring contemporary pricing provisions in new contracts. As a result of this action Australia is obtaining additional export income, in the case of iron ore, under existing contracts, of about $A200m per annum. In the case of coal the 1974 contract tonnage value has risen by in excess of $A250m on 1973 values and is estimated to increase by an additional $A470m in 1975 over the 1974 figures. 
-The Bank was further advised by me by telex on 7 February, following further discussions with  Mr Khemlani,  of the draft terms and conditions upon which the Government would be prepared to borrow if confirmation was provided that funds were available in blocked accounts and immediately available with the permission of the Federal Reserve Bank of New York for transfer. I seek leave to table and incorporate in Hansard a copy of that telex and further 3 telex messages of 27 and 28 February exchanged with the Moscow Narodny Bank. 
-Neither those funds nor funds which were subsequently to have become available through the Seattle First National Bank (Switzerland) and the Overseas Development Bank Geneva became available. I also seek leave to table and incorporate in Hansard a copy of my letter of 22 March to  Mr Khemlani  relative to the Seattle First National Bank (Switzerland) transaction and of my telex of 28 February 1975 to the Seattle First National Bank (Switzerland) referred to therein, together with the telexes of 21, 25, 26 and 27 February referred to therein. 
The answer to the right honourable member's question is as follows: 
The answer to Question No. 449 .is given in Hansard of 3 June 1975 (pages 3272 and 3273). 
I also seek leave to table and incorporate in Hansard copies of telexes of 20 December to the Union Bank of Switzerland and  Mr Khemlani  containing the necessary details of the Executive Council minute, and also a copy of the Draft Acceptance of 21 December to deal with multiple drawings. The borrowing was not consummated, and notification of the termination of the proposed borrowing was conveyed to  Mr Khemlani  on 21 December, a copy of which message I also table and incorporate. 
-On 5 December  Mr Drover  reported by telephone: 'It looks as though it will be all right. I have seen satisfactory evidence that this money is deposited with a first class bank. I have undertaken not to reveal the name of the bank at this stage'.  Mr Khemlani  returned to Australia on Saturday, 7 December. He attended a meeting with myself, officers of my Department and of the Attorney-General's Department, and representatives of Darling and Co. Ltd and their legal advisers, Messrs Freehill, Hollingdale and Page, at which the drafting of documentation was discussed. I seek leave to table and to have incorporated in Hansard a copy of the Memorandum of Advice given by the representative of Darling and Co. on 8 December. This arose from some question about  the effective cost of theloan to the Commonwealth of Australia. 
-On 13 December the proposed borrowing was further discussed by Ministers and the Executive Council authority for borrowing was given in a document which has already been published. I also ask for leave to table a copy of the draft acceptance given to  Mr Khemlani  on 16 December for examination by his principals and to have that document incorporated in Hansard. 
-This was the latest redraft prepared at meetings attended by officers of the Department of the Prime Minister and Cabinet, Department of Minerals and Energy, AttorneyGeneral 's Department, Treasury Department, the Reserve Bank of Australia and  Mr Khemlani  prior to his departure from Australia on 16 December. We also had the benefit on 16 December of  Sir Roland  Wilson advising on the wording of the draft acceptance. Special attention was paid in the drafting to ensure that there would be no liability for payment by the Australian Government to  Mr Khemlani  and that he must look to the lenders for payment, which would have been a once only payment. It would not have been applicable to the deferred interest accruing on the original borrowing which, in fact, would have become annually recurring loans over gradually decreasing periods equal to each successive interest accrual. This was explained in the memorandum of Darling and Company. In view of the false allegations made by the Opposition I also ask for leave to table and to have incorporated in Hansard a list of the net proceeds per cent of loans borrowed by the former Government between 1967 and 1972. In many cases the expenses per cent exceeded that contained in the draft acceptance. As an illustration of the borrowings by the Liberal-Country Party Government in New York, I point out that the Commonwealth loan raising in that market in December 1966 involved expenses of 2.55 per cent and that the net proceeds were 94.95 per cent. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes. 
The functions of the Australian Minerals Council are: 'To promote the general welfare and progressive development of the Australian mining and mineral industry'. 
Yes. 
and (3) No meetings have been held since 2nd December 1972. 
A date for the next meeting of the Council has not been set. 
and (8) The State Ministers principally concerned with the construction and operation of a national pipeline system supported the concept. 
and ( 10) The Australian Atomic Energy Commission consults with the various State electricity generating authorities on the relative merits of nuclear and fossil fuel power stations, and the prospects for nuclear power in each State. The extent of consultation with each State body depends on the prospects and future timing for nuclear power in that State. The activities of The Pipeline Authority since its formation have had bearing on the natural gas needs of New South Wales, Victoria, Queensland, South Australia and Western 
Australia and there has been consultation with the State Governments and pertinent instrumentalities in those States. 
Representation on the National Fuel and Energy Commission will be related to the major energy resources of black coal, brown coal, petroleum, nuclear energy, hydroelectric power and solar energy. 
12) I am concerned to formulate and develop a national minerals policy for the comprehensive development of Australia's mineral resources which conforms to the constitutional responsibilities of the Australian Government and to the constitutional responsibilities of the States. 
The answer to the right honourable member's question is as follows: 
The answer to Question No. 444 is given in Hansard of 3 June 1975 (page 3272). 
The Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  at the commencement of his speech challenged the Opposition to put up or shut up. The Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  has not put up and has only shut up. No documents were produced by him. No documents were quoted from. No charges were made. There were no questions.  (Opposition members interjecting) 
No questions were asked which needed to be answered. I will nevertheless give the answers. I will give the answers and I will give the facts.  (Opposition members interjecting) 
The same international forces and their Opposition puppets which frustrated the early birth of the Australian Industry Development Corporation and which destroyed Prime Minister Gorton now turn their malice, their spleen and their venom on an Australian Government which stands in their path as they seek to enlarge further their grip on Australia's resources of minerals and energy. United States Ambassador Marshall Green has said that per capita Australia is the world's most resourcesrich nation. Australia's proven recoverable reserves of minerals and energy are worth, on a present day calculation, $A5,700 billion-an astronomical figure. In the future they will be worth even more. They represent a security ratio of $A1,425 in assets for every $A1 of our proposed borrowing- the best security ever offered to overseas lenders. 
Last week in Tokyo I negotiated with the Japanese steel mills a 5-year coal export arrangement which is worth over US$10 billion. It is over 2V4 times the value of the proposed emergency loan, the subject of this debate. The whole of the Opposition case is based on the alleged enormity of the loan transaction. Our proposal for borrowing is the proverbial 'peanuts' compared with the depth and the range of Australia's resources. The loan transaction was for the necessary infrastructure for the emergency development of those resources based on the energy crisis. The profit alone from the loan transaction would have been 1½ times the value of the loan. When one speaks in billions it is difficult for people to understand the true measure of Australia's real and potential minerals and energy wealth. 
Our offence in the eyes of certain international forces is borrowing through official Australian Government channels capital funds on the credit of Australia to cope with an energy crisis. Their alternative is for those funds to come into Australia as foreign investment and foreign ownership- the tragedy of Australia's development hitherto. 
In one of the most shabby episodes in Australian journalism rival newspapers in 'cheque book' journalism offer unheard of sums to shabby continental fringe men beyond the jurisdiction of Australian courts. The Opposition certainly would not produce them at any inquiry that it is claiming should be held. It would not be game to. It would be afraid to and it would be ashamed to. These men have been paid for fabricated documentation suitably slanted to support the motives of these newspapers. Having built the newspapers, they have then followed with their denials. 
Sixty-five billion Middle East petro-dollars, generated by the energy crisis, is sought to be invested yearly. In addition to that are short term investments which need to be recycled. Between $20 billion and $25 billion of this goes annually to the United States- the merest trickle to Australia. The orthodox financial institutions are unable to cope with this unprecedented flood, just as the orthodox economic advisers of some of the world's major governments were unable to anticipate the results of overdependence on cheap imported crude oil. Today they are bewildered and lack plans to correct the distortion in the world economy. Australia, although more fortunately situated than most, still imports nearly $A700 million worth of crude oil yearly. This will be further escalated by the decision of the Organisation of Petroleum Exporting Countries to further increase crude oil prices in early October, to match the impact of world inflation on their oil incomes. A projected increase of up to 35 per cent could raise Australia's payments to $1 billion annually. In this situation, which I forecast in April 1973, it was no less than my duty to present to the Prime Minister and my senior colleagues a plan for direct overseas borrowing of $A3 billion- equal to US$4 billion- to deal with this menace. 
I point out that $A450 million of our import bill can be replaced with the full availability of natural gas throughout Australia in substitution for imported crude. This economy alone would have aggregated in 7 years the total projected loan. The full list and cost of urgent energy items was presented not only to my co-signatories of the Executive Council minute but also in the presence of the Secretary of the Treasury and the Governor of the Reserve Bank. The Secretary of the Treasury has consistently opposed the project. My name was inserted in the Executive Council minute itself in the course of the drafting. I understand that the minute itself was drafted jointly by officers of the Treasury and the Attorney-General's Department. When it was brought to the Prime Minister's Lodge for signing at the alleged clandestine meeting, my name was inserted in it. I asked there and then why the Treasurer's name was not included, out of respect to the man because that was his function. The Secretary of the Treasury then said 'No' and objected strongly, and it was agreed that my name should be included. 
The orthodox objections that such funds could cause distortion if admitted into the Australian economy were answered by my proposal to domicile such funds in the United States, invested in approved securities in. the name of the Reserve Bank of Australia and with the approval of the United States Federal. Reserve Bank. The United States interest rates then available were comparable with those of the proposed borrowing. The moneys would have been drawn down as the respective parts of the energy crisis program were implemented on a 'crash ' and in some cases, ' turn-key ' operation. It was only financial logic and prudence that those petro-dollars should be lodged in the home of dollars. 
Apart from the completion of the natural gas pipeline from Cooper Basin - Palm Valley - Dampier - Perth, provision was made for the 84 miles of submarine pipeline from Dampier to the North Rankin production platform. Provision was made in my calculations for the necessary petrochemical plant at Dampier, to extract the natural gas liquids for conversion into motor spirit and other derivatives. The cost of 3 uranium mining and milling plants in the Northern Territory and assistance to the Cooper Basin natural gas consortium, in which the Australian Government is now a partner, was included, and also the cost of the plans to economise in diesel fuel consumption by electrification of the heavy freight rail areas in New South Wales and Victoria. Of current significance was a further provision for the upgrading of the 4 major coal exporting harbours of eastern Australia- Hay Point, Gladstone, Newcastle and Port Kembla. The need for over $200m for this purpose alone is proven by the recent contract with the Japanese steel mills to which I have referred. Despite the presence in Japan of the Leader of the National Country Party  (Mr Anthony),  doing his ineffective but unpatriotic best to discredit Australia's Government last week, I was able to negotiate a very satisfactory agreement. 
To maintain and increase ownership by the people of Australia of our own resources calls for immense sums of money, to which the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  has already referred. In our probings for loan funds we are in such well known company as that of  Sir William  Gunn, a member of the Reserve Bank Board, who has been busy in Europe doing the rounds.  Mr Lang  Hancock has also announced his interest in such sources for borrowing for the development of his iron ore interests in Western Australia. The issue in short is: Who will own Australia? It is a major issue on which the next Federal election will be fought, ignoring the smears and the sneers of an Opposition which has, to its eternal discredit, the current majority foreign ownership or control of Australia's mineral and energy resources. 

 Mr Khemlani was introduced to me on 11 November last. He tendered a Letter of Introduction of 6 November from Johnson Matthey Bankers Ltd of London, addressed to the Australian High Commissioner in Hong Kong. I ask for leave to table that letter and to have it incorporated in Hansard. 
JOHNSON MATTHEY BANKERS LIMITED 
15 King Street 
London 
EC2V 8ED 
Wednesday 6 November 1974 
His Excellency, The High Commissioner for Australia 
Hong Kong. 
Dear  Sir, 
We have pleasure in introducing the bearer of this letter,  Mr Tirath  Hassaram Khemlani, Manager of Dalamal &amp; Sons (Commodities) Limited, 8 West Eaton Place, London, S.W.1. 
Dalamal &amp; Sons (Commodities) Limited is a part of the Dalamal Group of Companies, a wealthy and respectable Indian international group with world-wide connections. They have extensive and important connections in the Middle East and handle transactions of high value to our satisfaction. 
Yours faithfully, for JOHNSON MATTHEY BANKERS LIMITED for P. J. C. FIRTH 
Director 
I also table and seek leave to incorporate in Hansard a report which was sought and obtained by the Permanent Head of my Department from  Mr Drover,  a senior partner of Messrs Coward Chance and Company ofLondon. 
INWARDS TELEPRINTER MESSAGE 
For  Sir Leonard  Hewitt from Charles Drover 
Our ref. D. 6704. Reference our telephone conversation today I have seen  Mr P.  J. C. Firth of Johnson Matthey Bankers Ltd. As I told you Johnson Matthey are an old established firm of gold, silver and platinum refiners who over recent years have expanded their activities into different fields including banking. They are highly respected. They have a small subsidiary in Sydney. 
I had a full discussion with  Mr Firth.  He said that  Mr Khemlani  was the hard-working manager of Dalamal and Sons (Commodity) Ltd. and was well-known to him. Dalamal are an old Pakistani firm which moved the main part of its business to London on the partition of India and Pakistan. The principal in London is  Mr Gopu  Dalamal. The family is well known for being wealthy. Johnson Matthey are their bankers and think highly of them. A number of banks in London deal with them and  Mr Firth  says that status reports are always good. Dalamal are engaged in international trading with emphasis on north and west Africa and some business in the Middle East particularly in oil. Dalamal do deal in fairly large sums. They invariably act as middle men. 

 Mr Firth knows of  Mr Theo  Cranendonk but knows very little about him. 

 Mr Firth says that  Mr Khemlani  asked him for the letter of introduction dated 6th November 1974 (a copy of which  Mr Firth  has given to me) and  Mr Firth's  recollection is the  Mr Khemlani  had said that he was invited by the Australians to come. 

 Mr Firth said that he knew  Mr Khemlani  went in connection with the raising of money but he had no knowledge whatsoever of the details. He said that the Arabs sometimes did things in rather unusual ways and it might well be that  Mr Khemlani  was trying to put a deal together. 
Regards Charles. 
This firm has been for many years the legal advisers in the United Kingdom to the Australian Government. Separate Treasury inquiries, which were unknown to me- and I give the lie to the sneers and smears and innuendoes of the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Lynch),  the hero of water torture in Vietnam and bastardisation in Duntroon, who called this man a convicted criminal- revealed the man's integrity. Subsequently, further inquiries were made, again by the Treasury of the Morgan Guaranty company of New York. The report was that the firm of Dalamal and Sons (Commodities) Ltd was owned through a dominating company registered in the Bahamas which was owned by the second wealthiest family in India. In addition, further inquiries were made, all of which were designed to smear this man. 
In discussions with  Mr Khemlani  on 12 November I, together with my Permanent Head, informed him that in no circumstances would he be authorised to negotiate and arrange for a loan. To the contrary, confirmed by letter of that day, a copy of which I now seek leave to table and incorporate in the Hansard, I informed  Mr Khemlani  'that the availability of such funds for lending should be confirmed at this stage, whereupon negotiations on amounts and other terms and conditions could be commenced immediately between the principals'. I seek leave to have the full text of that letter incorporated in Hansard. 
Dear  Mr Khemlani, 
I refer to your discussions in Canberra yesterday with my Minister, the Minister for Minerals and Energy, The  Hon.  R. F. X. Connor, and the Minister for Labor and Immigration, The  Hon.  Clyde R. Cameron, and to the further discussion this morning with  Mr Connor  and me. 
I am writing to confirm to you what was said by the Ministers at their meeting yesterday. The Australian Government is interested in overseas borrowings of the magnitude you mention, up to a total of approximately US$4,000m, in blocks of US$500m, repayable at the end of twenty years. The Minister has suggested that the availability of such funds for lending should be confirmed at this stage, whereupon negotiations on amounts and other terms and conditions could be commenced immediately between the principals. 
In order to overcome any technical difficulties, such as loss of interest, that might result from confirmation, I am sure that we could commence negotiations on receipt of authentic information of the availability of such funds from a lender. For example, a letter from Johnson, Matthey Bankers Ltd conveying this information, accompanied by an indication of the names of the principals, would be fully considered. 
Yours sincerely, (C. L. Hewitt) 

 Mr Tiraty Hassaram Khemlani, 
Manager, 
Dalamal &amp; Sons (Commodities) Ltd., 8 West Eaton Place, 
London. SW1X 8LS. England. 

 - Mr Drover was advised of the terms of the letter and, in relation to the last sentence, that his name had been given to  Mr Khemlani,  who had been informed that it would be acceptable if Johnson Matthey Bankers Ltd provided to him their confirmation or authentication of the availability of such funds from a lender.  Mr Drover  was also told that the whole thrust of the response to  Mr Khemlani  had been for him to demonstrate that he had a lender of substance before the Australian Government could commence negotiations. Since the Opposition has made so much of traditional Treasury practice I ask for leave to table and to have incorporated in Hansard a Treasury statement concerning unsolicited offers of overseas funds. If honourable members will read that they will see that my purpose was to identify principals and to secure proof of availability of funds. 
Treasury statement on unsolicited offers of overseas funds. 
While all unsolicited offers are investigated on their merits, the following rigorous set of conditions must be satisfied before substantive negotiations may be undertaken: 
identification of principal (through channels of our own choosing). 
availability of funds must be proven. 
cost of funds to borrower must be competitive. 
documentation must satisfy us and A G. 's. 
offer must satisfy Loan Council. 
I seek leave to have incorporated in Hansard a telex of 1 December from  Mr Khemlani  and also my reply to him of 3 December and his reply to me of the same day. The 2 telex messages were published in the Melbourne  Age. 
Honourable R. F. X. Connor and 
Honourable Clyde R. Cameron. 
I would like to offer my humble apologies for the delay and lateness in communicating with you and on the project as discussed, I had been working hard and that I had to contact a lot of people and particularly, I had the misfortune of missing His Excellency Sikkar Geson all the time for he was in the States and in Europe on business of the state and many other important people and this has taken me about 3 weeks up to now and hence this unavoidable delay. 
I have already informed my associates in Adelaide and given a message to them to convey to you and I shall take this opportunity to repeat the message to assure you that everything possible is being done to expedite this matter as early as possible. 
Other reason for the delay was the fact that service charges and various things involved had to be guaranteed for the prime banks having to confirm the loan had to be satisfied over this and in my case, the instructions given to me as per your letter do not give me sufficient strength to deal with this. 
However, I have now arranged sufficiently for the prime banks acting for lenders from Middle East to establish the line of offer into our bank, Johnson Matthey Bank Ltd, so that my bank can convey such message to the Reserve Bank of Australia in Canberra. It is my intention and the arrangments completed are that the assurance of the loan being available and the terms and conditions will be conveyed and given to my bank by Tuesday and my bank will then carry out the necessary relay to the bank in Canberra. 
At the moment, the loan is to become available from the 6 December 1974 and therefore they would do this by Tuesday and the first batch is to amount to US$500 and depending on my further meeting in Canberra the total $4 billion can be completed within 8 months or 4 months and thus US$500 shall be granted every 2 weeks or every month as may be desired by your excellencies. 
I therefore beg of your excellencies to bear with me just a few more days so that I can arrange all this and it is now only a matter of a few days. I believe having done the spade work, I shall be able to arrange matters in a way so that completion shall be by the 15 December 1974 before the Christmas holidays begin in Australia. 
Thanks and regards . . . Th Khemlani of Dalamal &amp; Sons, Commodities Ltd of London. 
P.S.- If there is anything that I can do from here before I proceed to Australia for a further meeting after doing the banking please let me know. Immediately after this meeting between the principals that is the lenders and the ministry will be arranged to catch up with timing of completing the loan now. 
For attention  Mr Khemlani 
To Dalsoncom London from Minergy Sydney 
I thank you for your message about the problems you have encountered. The postponements pose some problems as we had expected negotiations here last week or this week in accordance with your earlier message. A particular problem now is that  Sir Lenox  Hewitt will be leaving Australia with our Prime Minister Whitlam on 14th December. We have also asked through Adelaide whether draft documents could be sent out in advance of your visit and we hope for an early response to that enquiry. If you can comply with this request our advisers can commence their studies. 
From R. F. X. Connor 
Minister for Minerals and Energy 
Mlr-3.12.74 11.08 
To Minergy Canberra 
From Minergy Sydney 
To Margaret Bertoldo 
From Miss Wallar 
Please pass immediately to the Minister 
Attention Hon. R. F. X. Connor 
Minister for Minerals and Energy 
Your excellency I thank you very much for your message and I offer my humble and deepest apologies for the delay and lateness in doing the conclusion for which I am sorry but due to circumstances beyond my control this was unavoidable. 
However I am happy to inform that everything will settled and bank confirmation will be transmitted into the Reserve Bank of Australia in Canberra by Tuesday 16.00 hours and then as discussed in the meeting in your office, I shall bring various documents so that we can get together and complete such necessary arrangements. 
I am still more than sure that I can finalise this by the 9th of this month and that after my visit to your ministry by Thursday of this week, I am arranging the matters in a way so as to finalise the first batch of 500 million before the 9.12.1974 and that this will be revolving every month or earlier to comply with the requirement. 
Therefore, I most humbly thank you for your indulgence and your kindness in bearing with me. I shall be in touch with my associates in Adelaide and also keep your personally informed of the developments. Our first phase of banking was completed today and final phase of confirmation into our bank will be completed by tomorrow and then transmission to follow. Thereafter it will not take very long for the lenders would like to have this to become effective as early as possible. 
I hope that this will be received in the light of my kind and humble evidence of our willingness to serve you well and that no more delay will take place. 
I look forward to having the opportunity of meeting once again by Thursday in Canberra.1am 
Thanks and regards Th. Khemlani 
Mlr-3.12.74 1.36 
-In the light of this notification, cheques and a letter referred to by the Melbourne  Age  on 4 July have no validity, nor is the reference to payment of commission by the Australian Government correct. That reporting is typical of the gutter snipe levels to which the has descended- to borrow the tide of its celebrated slander of the Australian Government. To add to the egg on its face I remind honourable members of the libellous editorial in the  Age  on Saturday last suggesting the complete failure of my coal mission to Tokyo when I had in fact negotiated the best commercial arrangement in Australian history. I remind honourable members of the ungracious, grudging, half-hearted withdrawal in last Monday's editorial in the  Age  after it had bothered for the first time to examine the facts. It is a pleasure to see red faces on the editorial writers 
Graduates from the same gutter are those in the Australian newspaper who on 14 June last, after splurging all over its front page a completely inaccurate and misleading story quoting alleged transactions of a  Mr Go  and  Dr Ako  with a  Mr MacDonald,  devoted a single final sentence on the second page to a complete denial by  Mr MacDonald  that he even knew either of these people. They are, of course, unknown to me.  Mr MacDonald  's denial was repeated on a recent Australian telecast interview of him in his London office. Could one hang a dog on the evidence of these people? 
On 7 January, in connection with the refinancing of a Deutschemark loan the Executive Council borrowing authority of 1 3 December was cancelled. On 28 January 1975 I was given a new Executive Council authority for a borrowing of $l,500m-or US$2,000m. On 30 January I received telex advice from the Moscow Narodny Bank London seeking confirmation that I would accept loan funds prior to its unnamed client 'committing himself to blocked funds'. I seek leave to table and have incorporated in Hansard a copy of that telex and my reply to it of 3 1 January. 
-In paragraph 3 of that telex I continued to repeat that in no way whatever was the Australian Government to be committed to the payment of any costs, fees or other liabilities and that necessary funds for such purposes were to be obtained from the lenders. 
In conclusion may I say that whatever has been done has been done at all times with the best advice that could be got from the Government of Australia. I am an honest man. I deal with honest people. Throughout my  Vh  years as a Minister of the Crown I have stood in the path of those who would have grabbed the mineral resources of Australia. I have no apologies whatever to make for what I have done. It has been done in good faith; it has been done in honesty. I fling in the face of the little men of the Opposition the words of an old Australian poem: 
Give me men to match my mountains, Give me men to match my plains, Men with freedom in their vision, And creation in their brains. 
Australia has been badly served by the Opposition. 
For the first time we have a truly national government in Australia. We have a government which will speak and think and act independently. I do not want to boast, but I have impressed upon the steel mills of Japan the fact that there is in Australia an honest, decent governmenta government which is prepared to honour contracts, a government which is proud of its name, a government which is proud of its country. I give the he to those on the Opposition benches who today seek to besmirch and to smear this Government. Their actions are a disgrace to Australia. I leave them to their own devices and to the judgment of the people of Australia. The whole of the proceedings today are based on humbug, on half truths, on lies. The men who have been publicised in the Australian Press are on the other side of the world. They are not available to an Australian jurisdiction. They could not be summoned to attend. I treat with contempt the allegations of the Opposition. 
Motion (by  Mr Daly)-  by leave- agreed to: 
That this House, in accordance with the provisions of the Parliamentary Papers Act 1908-1974, authorises the publication of papers relating to overseas loan negotiations presented to the House by the Minister for Minerals and Energy this day. 
The answer to the honourable  member's  question is as follows: 
1 ) Yes. I refer the honourable member to the evidence by  Mr Kruizenga  of Esso given on 10 June 1975 to the Industries Assistance Commission. 
Yes. 
The discussions have been preliminary only and any disclosure at this stage would be quite inappropriate. 
The answer to the honourable  member's  question is as follows: 
Approaches were made to the Portuguese Government but that Government indicated that it wished to await the outcome of the Law of the Sea Conference before entering into negotiations. Recently the Australian Government reaffirmed its wish that differences should be settled amicably. 
) No applications have been received by Australia. 
3 ) On the basis of available information, no. 
-The answer is definitely no. I am the Minister for Australia, and I do not favour any State. In particular, in the period in which this Government has held office, there has been a distinct forging ahead of coal exports from Queensland. It is a very distinct one. In the current year, of a total of 30 million tons to be exported, no less than 1 7.5 million tons will come from Queensland. As for the innuendo- and the repeated innuendo- that somehow I am favouring the South Coast district, in point of fact in this year there will be a reduction in its exports of coal from 4.5 million tons to 4 million tons. As I see the future, Queensland will forge ahead. It has huge resources easily won and, by the very nature of orthodox technology, it will continue to progress. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes; yes. 
Yes but a precis will not be tabled because that would disclose confidential commercial information. 
I announced on 7 November 1974 that further drilling arrangements at Palm Valley would be a function of the Petroleum and Minerals Authority. Pending reestablishment of that Authority, following the High Court's judgement of 24 June, its functions will be undertaken by the Petroleum and Minerals Company of Australia Pry Ltd. 
No. 
to (9) See answers to ( 1 ) and (4). 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
and (2) I refer the honourable member to the reply, given by the Prime Minister to Question No. 2586, which appeared in Hansard (page 3545) on 5 June 1975. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
I am informed that the Warden's recommendations to the Queensland Minister for Mines and the reasons for his recommendations do not form part of a public document. I suggest therefore that the honourable member should raise this matter with the Queensland Minister for Mines. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
and (2) I refer the honourable member to the reply given by the Prime Minister to Question No. 2789 which appeared in Hansard (page 3546) on 5 June 1975. 
We are certainly in a position to carry on without delay. In point of fact there is provision in the Budget of $9m for the first stage of the laterals to be constructed from the main natural gas pipeline, from Young to Lithgow, Orange and Bathurst and from Young to Wagga. We have already spent over $500,000 on the necessary surveys, which are to be followed by resumptions. In addition we have already spent over $100,000 on telemetry equipment that was ordered in conjunction with the original launching of the project. The propaganda which has appeared in the Press- in the  Sydney Morning Herald  in particular- has been tendentious and designed to soften up the price resistance of buyers of natural gas in Sydney. The true position is that natural gas can be landed at the Wilton gate valve for the metropolitan area- and this includes the cost of the laterals- at 4.6c per therm. At the present time Australian Gas Light Co. Ltd is paying $84 per tonne for naphtha from which it is constituting the present Sydney metropolitan gas supply. There will be a considerable margin even after the company undertakes the construction of its internal pipelines in accordance with the original haulage agreement. I have told my State counterpart,  Mr Freudenstein,  that we are ready to go ahead and that the request that has been made by the State Government on behalf of AGL Ltd is nothing less than humbug. We are ready to go ahead. We ought to go ahead and it is part of the policy of the Government - 
We are ready to go ahead. 
-In the year ending 30 June 1975 the gross profit in respect of exports of black coking coal was $A 1 66m. It is estimated on a very liberal basis in respect of production costs that the profits for the forthcoming year will be $544m. That will be a total increase of $378m. The proposed tax will be $ 1 20m which will leave a net gross yield of $258m. But in point of fact when it comes to the calculation of company tax at 42.5 per cent a further $51m will go back to the exporters, so the true gross profit increase will be $309 instead of $378m. 
The Utah Development profit would have been of the order pf $A160m gross. After the necessary calculation in respect of the 42.5 per cent reduction of the excise through company tax Utah will still get $A132m. That will be after the calculation of company tax. That will still be a record for Australia. As for the wails that there will be, they will be completely unjustified. People can thank the Government of Australia, the Labor Government, for co-ordinating export sales of coal, particularly to Japan. We nave been treated very fairly by the Japanese. In respect of the Hunter Valley coal production, the tax operating there, based on a carbon content of less than 85 per cent in the coal- it is a soft coking coal- will be of the order of $2 per ton. After the 42.5 per cent deduction in respect of company tax the net tax will be $ 1 . 1 5 per ton, which is quite reasonable and quite appropriate to the coal type. For the first time there is a government in Australia which is prepared to take its fair share of windfall profits. For the first time we have been able to co-ordinate sales and we are co-ordinating the collection of taxation. 
The answer to the right honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) The 1 975-76 estimate for advertising is $ 1 9,000. 
) The type of advertising undertaken by the Department is: 
The advertising for staff for all Divisions of the Department in local, interstate, and where necessary, overseas newspapers and journals. 
3 ) The expenditure figures for the previous five years are: 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes. 
Yes. 
and (4) I refer the honourable member to part (3) of the Prime Minister's answer to Question No. 2243  (Hansard,  13 May 1975, page 2198 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes. 
Yes. 
and (4) The requirements are set out in 'Jervis Bay Nuclear Power Station- Invitation to Tender on Nuclear Steam Supply System and Related Services' dated 28 February 1970, which document was sent to parties expressing an interest in tendering. This document is available for public examination. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes. 
Yes. 
and (4) I refer the honourable member to part (3) of the Prime Minister's answer to Question No. 2243  (Hansard,  13 May 1975, page 2198). 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
13. 
1. 
(a) T. R. Baker, Dip. Eng., MIE (Aust.) A.N.G. 
Bray, B.E., FIE (Aust.) 
With the exception of  Mr Baker  who was engaged from outside the Australian Public Service, the officers had had experience at a senior level in the formulation or administration of policies in one or more sectors of Australian Government administration. 
(0  8. 
None. 
Retrenchments at Tomago (Question No. 1107) 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes. 
Yes. 
and (4) The following information has been made available in relation to environmental studies of the Jervis Bay nuclear power plant: 
R. Davy, M.S. Giles and E. Charash Ecological Factors in the Siting, Design and Operation of a Nuclear Power Station,  Proceedings of the Ecological Society of Australia,  Volume 5, 1970, pages 153-168; 
M.S. Giles, Preliminary Ecological Studies at Jervis Bay, Australian Marine Science Bulletin, No. 36, October 1971, pages 12-16; 
Charash 'Turbulent Diffusion in the Ocean and Bay in the Jervis Bay Area',  Australian Marine Science Bulletin,  No. 37, January 1972, pages 10-19; 
D.R. Davy, 'Nuclear Power and Environmental Pollution',  Atomic Energy in Australia,  Volume 14, Nos. 3 and 4, July-October 1971, pages 41-52; and 
G.H. Clark and E.O.K. Bendun, 'Meteorological Research Studies at Jervis Bay, Australia',  Australian Atomic Energy Commission Report E309,  July 1974. 
The answer to the right honourable member's question is as follows: 
1) to (5) In the joint press statement of 2 November 1974 after the talks with the Prime Minister of Japan, it was stated that Japan would co-operate with Australia in studying the possibility of uranium enrichment in Australia which, in principle, Japan would favour. Further discussions have been held and it has been agreed that the study should encompass future supply and demand for enriched uranium, availability of raw materials, siting and energy costs in Australia, capital requirements, and availability of technology from third countries. 
As I said in answer to an earlier question, I will await the evidence that is given today. I have indicated 2 forms of action that I will take. Others could follow. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: (1), (2) and (3) In my comments on 23 October 1974 I was alluding to cases which were at that time before the Committee on Foreign Takeovers. I do not see that there is anything to be gained in naming the companies involved so long after the event. 
-The Government did not approve of any such contract. We have been consistent in our administration of the indigenous crude oil pricing policy on the terms that were originally evolved by the honourable member's own party when in government. I await with interest today the Royal Commission evidence that will be given by the secretary of the ACTUSolo company. May I add that in respect of that company I have made available to counsel assisting the Royal Commission into Petroleum and Petroleum Products the full file of papers and have instructed our own counsel to the Commission to ask for a special report on all circumstances associated with the preparation and execution of the second agreement. 
-I will await the evidence that will be given today and the answers that will be given to questions that will be asked of the representative of ACTU-Solo. Of course, there will be the questions of taxation which would be due and also whether there would be any implementation of the terms of the second agreement which provided for 7!6c a gallon to be paid in respect of an imputed production of about  13'A  million gallons of petroleum products. I will await the developments today. 
Only one agreement was submitted to us. That is the only one of which we have any knowledge. It was duly processed by my Department both in Canberra and at the Hydrocarbons Division in Melbourne. There was only one agreement. I know of no second agreement. I stated in the comment in the letter returning the agreement that it was unexceptionable in the terms of the indigenous crude oil pricing policy. 
-A telex was sent from  Mr Gartland,  the head of the Hydrocarbons Division in Melbourne, suggesting that there was such a possibility. Long before receiving that message I had raised the matter verbally with  Mr Souter,  the Secretary of the Australian Council of Trade Unions. 
They assured me that no consideration was being paid, other than that contained in the agreement. I have consistently and repeatedly rejected similar proposals which have been put to me by quite a number of other organisations, in respect both of the Allied Petrochemical Pty Ltd entitlement and one of  Mr Roach  and Independent Oil Company Ltd. I am not a fool. 
-I have seen the report. It is both misleading and incorrect. As a matter of fact, in the world today there is imminent overproduction of zircon. The present world production capacity is of the order of 700 000 tonnes of which approximately 600 000 tonnes is produced in Australia. The market is of the order of 500 000 tonnes only. There are 15 producers of zircon in Australia, some in Western Australia and some on the eastern coast. Due to the differences of viewpoint and the differences of planning and production a serious situation has developed. For example, my Department formerly permitted a price differential of $4 per ton less in respect of zircon produced in Western Australia as compared with that produced in the eastern States. The matter will need very careful consideration. 
There are quite a number of facts that I could give to the House that would go far beyond the bounds of a reasonable answer to a question. But this much I can say: Of the 15 producers some ten are quite prepared to arrive at a reasonable price and also are anxious to secure contracts on a 3-year basis with proper escalation clauses. Nevertheless the suggested prices which they have submitted to my Department vary from $90 to as much as $250. Not all of them are prepared to accept a quota. My Department was in conference with all the producers on 6 June. It is absolutely incorrect- worse than that, it is deliberately incorrect- to suggest that we are in any way responsible for the situation. We are again communicating with them. We are seeking to get some common denominator amongst them, some common agreement on matters of policy, so that we can restore order and sensible marketing to a currently chaotic situation. 
-Would the Leader of the Opposition repeat the question? I am just a little baffled by his pseudo-Oxford accent. 
-I do not want that either. I cannot hear your comments. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes. Alternative proposals are being examined in conjunction with the South Australian Government. 
ABC Radio Programs 'AM' and 'PM'  (Question No. 2752) 
The Leader of the National Country Party  (Mr Anthony)  is up to his usual trick of rubbishing Australia. Everything that possibly could be done to destroy the confidence of our Japanese customers- and they are our best- is being done and said right here and now by this gentleman. He has been up to the same tricks previously. When I was in Japan in early July the Japanese expressed to me their contempt for him. If there is one tiling that you can give the Japanese credit for it is being loyal to their own country. They hit as one. They talk together. They act together. For this gentleman to go to a foreign land and to rubbish his own land and its Government which was duly and democratically elected is to plumb the very depths of indecency. 
No, I was not aware prior to last Friday of the existence of this profit-sharing agreement nor of a second agreement. I had an assurance that the agreement that was put before me was one that conformed strictly with the policy on indigenous crude pricing which the Government inherited from the previous Government and which was formulated by honourable members opposite when in office. Over the last 2 years I have quite consistently seen to it that that policy was strictly enforced. I have had repeated representations, for example in respect of another individual,  Mr Roach,  of Independent Oil Company Ltd. In all cases they have been told that there would be no windfall profits and the major oil companies themselves were well aware of it. 
My transactions in this matter were exclusively with  Mr Souter,  not with  Mr Hawke.  I was not taken for a ride. I knew specifically that this oil had been flogged around and was continuing to be flogged around. For that reason alone, I was very emphatic that the indigenous oil price was to be the sole price paid and that was to be the final terms of the transaction. 
-It is not what happened, and we were in fact misinformed. 
-I will be guided in this matter by the advising that I will receive from the Attorney-General's Department and that in turn will be based upon the evidence elicited at the Royal Commission. I can assure the House of one thing: Just as my predecessors in office administered this indigenous crude oil policy with great integrity, so will I. 
-( Cunningham-Minister for Minerals and Energy)- For the information of honourable members I present papers containing the special environmental provisions applying to mineral leases Nos. 95 and 102 on Fraser Island. Due to the limited number available reference copies of these papers have been placed in the Parliamentary Library. 
I am well aware of the position outlined by the honourable member for Darling, and fully sympathise with it. He has shown commendable concern on behalf of the town and the mining interests. The problem is one that is common to a large number of copper producers in the world today. May I instance the case of the world 's possibly largest and most profitable producer of copper, Mount Isa Mines Ltd. Broken Hill South is a reputable and competent company which acquired an area that had already been the subject of considerable mining. Its undertaking is an efficient one but it, together with other copper producers, is subject to the vagaries of the world copper market. Copper is notoriously a volatile metal in pricing terms. We in the Labor administration have done the best that we could, in consultation with CIPEC- the Inter-governmental Council of Copper Exporting Countries- with which I have had recent talks to ensure that we can get to a more stable pricing system. 
The particular problem at Cobar relates to the pay-off of a number of men. My department has just completed an analysis of the problems facing the mine and I have asked for an interdepartmental committee to examine as a matter of urgency the possibility of a reference to the Industries Assistance Commission. It is also a matter for regret that, thanks to the machinations of the Opposition, we are not in a position temporarily to have the assistance of the Petroleum and Minerals Authority in a problem of this nature. 
We were misled. We were misinformed. 
The answer to the right honourable member's question is as follows: 
The answer was given on 28 August 1973  (Hansard page  808). 
-I am well aware of this selfappointed group of people who are meeting as self-appointed experts on this matter. It is quite a coincidence, following the Prime Minister's answer to the last question, that undoubtedly, as a result of a submission that I have made on indigenous pricing, I will be able to give every possible assistance to the operation of off-shore drilling rigs. In point of fact,  Mr Mensaros  has been one of the greatest impediments to offshore oil exploration. Only 22 wells were required to be drilled on the whole of the northwest shelf. In total seventy-two have been drilled around the coast of Western Australia. In respect of the granting of renewals of exploration permits, contrary to our wishes and policy, the Western Australian Government has provided for a total of only 36 wells to be drilled, spread over the next 5 years. In point of fact my Department advises me that that would be precisely enough work for one off-shore drilling vessel. With the submissions that I have made in connection with the indigenous oil pricing policy and a proper remuneration for new oil, I think even the carping critics from the Liberal governed States will be more than satisfied and left without further grounds for criticism. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
See Part 1 of 'Foreign Ownership and Control of the Mining Industry 1972-73' published by the Australian Bureau of Statistics on 16 October 1974. The Bureau of Mineral Resources has not published figures relating to these matters. 
The Government's policy is expressed in statements by the Prime Minister on 7 November 1973 (Hansard page 2888), 3 November 1974 and 12 March 197S. Broadly stated, the Government desires, as a major objective, to promote Australian equity in and control of Australian resources and industries and maximum Australian ownership compatible with Australia's long term capital requirements and her needs for access to markets, advanced technology and knowhow. 
and (6) As these questions are related to the basis upon which the Statistician prepares his publication referred to in ( 1 ) above, I have asked him to reply to the honourable member's question. 
, (5), (7) and (8) These are questions to be considered in relation to specific cases. 
The granting of mining tenements within the States is at the discretion of the State Governments. In Australian Territories, the granting of mining tenements is at the discretion of the Ministers for those Territories. The Government's policies are set out in the statements referred to in (2) above. 
and (11) No. Each case is considered on its merits. 
The variable deposit requirement was suspended on 11 November 1974. 
13) and ( 14) See answer to question No. 147 on 25 July 1974. (Hansard page 732.) 
The first thing that the Labor Government has done in the field of minerals and energy has been to awaken Australia's national consciousness as to the true position. The question that we have posed and that the people of Australia answered very convincingly last May is: Who owns Australia and who will direct its future? We are determined that the people of Australia will. This is briefly the position that we found when we came to office. Again, of course, minerals is one of the targets of the National Country Party of Australia in what it hopes will be a change of governmentand for the best of reasons, because it is suitable for pork barrelling, it is suitable for party funds, and it is suitable above all for those who belong to the National Country Party. What the honourable member for Kennedy  (Mr Katter)  has said is typical of the attitude of the Party which aspires to govern. The honourable member for Kennedy is a long way down in the queue. There are some very bigger dogs than he who have their paws on this particular bone. What he has said today will not merely endear him to his colleagues in the Opposition but is to his eternal discredit because he is a humbug, he is an imposter and he could not handle the truth. 
I will say precisely what I mean and I will give my answer to the honourable member. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1971-72 $4,000; 1972-73 $4,000; 1973-74 $4,000; 
1974- 75 $6,000. 
Riverview College Observatory, Sydney. 
Advertising by the Department of Overseas Trade (Question No. 2862) 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) The only financial assistance by way of a grant ( nonrepayable) made by the Department of Minerals and Energy is $6,000 annually to Riverview College Observatory, Sydney, to assist the observatory's seismological recording program. 
) Because this is one specific grant and not part of a program, it is not advertised. 
1 refer the honourable member to the answer by the Minister for Urban and Regional Development on 21 August 1975 to Question No. 2691 (Hansard, page 46S). 
Financial Assistance by the Department of Minerals and Energy (Question No. 2762) 
The effects of the proposed tax will not be disastrous. In fact they will be beneficial to Commonwealth consolidated revenue. I have already informed the House that gross profits for the forthcoming year on export coal will be of the order of $544m, of which only a net amount of $69m will be absorbed by the new export tax after due allowance is made for company tax. The tax will represent about oneeighth of their total profit- a not unreasonable amount. The underground coal mines in New South Wales will be in a rather less advantageous position as a result of this tax than their counterparts in Queensland which have the advantage of low cost open cut production. Nevertheless, they are doing remarkably well and were doing remarkably well before we went to Japan at the end of June to renegotiate the pricing structure. There could be problems for certain small steaming coal producers. I have already met representatives of four of those companies and have received details of their cost structure and contracts and they are currently being examined. 
We have just heard comment that one would expect from a man who aspires to be the Prime Minister of Australia and who with typical discourtesy walks out of the chamber. He chooses to disregard proceedings that are currently before a judicial tribunal -  (Honourable members interjecting) 
-Thank you,  Mr Chairman.  There is at the present time a royal commission functioning. I have said that I would await the verdict and the report of the royal commission and when that comes along that will be the proper time to discuss the whole question of ACTU-SOLO Enterprises Pty Ltd and the IOC Australia Pty Ltd. When it does come along I will be having plenty to say to the humiliation of these individuals. 
The Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  was born with a silver spoon in his mouth. He gets up before this Parliament and with un-Australian accents he chooses to attempt to denigrate everyone in sight.  Sir, there  is no privilege in this place. I am the son of a worker and proud of it. 
I do not normally take points of order. I normally ignore what is said and do not heckle the Opposition. When I hit I hit hard and I hit fairly. The Leader of the Opposition is beneath contempt in the remarks he made tonight. They are utterly and completely unjustified. If he were left to the limit of his own talents he might be a first class commissionaire. But the Leader of the Opposition is a potential Prime Minister. God help Australia if he gets the opportunity. I reject him with contempt. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
By way of introduction, the operation and maintenance of the works of the Snowy Mountains Scheme is under the control and direction of the Snowy Mountains Council, a body on which the Australian Government, the Snowy Mountains Authority and the States of New South Wales and Victoria are represented; the agreement is the agreement entered into between the Australian Government and the States of New South Wales and Victoria dated 18 September 19S7 and comprising the First Schedule to the Snowy Mountains Hydro-electric Power Act 1949-1975; the Supplemental Agreement is the agreement entered into between those parties on 14 December 1957 and comprising the Second Schedule to that Act. 
No, when the Scheme was launched and the Snowy Mountains Authority was created in 1949 the initial and primary purpose was as stated in the long title of the Act namely 'An Act relating to the Construction and Operation of Works for the Generation of Hydro-electric Power in the Snowy Mountains Area' and this was reflected in the prescribed powers of the Authority which make no provision for constructing storages and diversions for irrigation purposes. 
At subsequent conferences between Ministers of the Commonwealth and the States which eventually gave rise to the Agreement, it was recognised that the Scheme's diversions provided additional water for irrigation. This was alluded to in a number of the paragraphs of the preamble to the Agreement and given effect to in a number of the clauses. The result has been that the Scheme has been designed and operated as a dual purpose one but its total cost is being recovered from electricity production. 
) The Snowy Mountains council in controlling the operation of the Scheme takes aU reasonable precautions to prevent loss by flooding of land along the Upper Murray and Lower Tumut river and in addition the Supplemental Agreement provides for payment of compensation in certain circumstances for losses by flooding arising from the operation of the Scheme along the Upper Murray River. In the case of the Lower Tumut river however, the Agreement provides that the discharge of waters from Blowering Reservoir is under the control of the State of New South Wales. 
The role of the Snowy Mountains Council in controlling and directing the operation of the works of the Authority is in effect, to protect the interests of all parties, both in respect of the supply of water for electricity generation, as well as for irrigation purposes. The Scheme is designed to provide specified minimum quantities of water each year for the generation of electricity and for release into the Murray and Murrumbidgee river systems, based on 70 years of recorded stream flow in the Snowy Mountains Area. So long as a drought sequence is not worse than any that has occurred in the 70 years of record, at least the minimum quantity specified will be available. Water in excess of the specified minimum quantity is available when storages of the 
Scheme and prospective inflows are in excess of the quantities needed to guarantee minimum releases. 
The quantity of electricity reserved for the Australian Capital Territory is capable of being generated from releases of the specified minimum quantities of water described above. 
The electricity authorities of the Australian Capital Territory, New South Wales and Victoria, share the Authority's annual cost of production, such shares, broadly speaking, being proportionate to average energy entitlements. The method of calculating the shares is set out in detail in Clause IS of the Agreement wherein the annual cost of production of the Authority is also defined. In brief, it comprises interest on the net capital invested, a portion of interest accumulated during construction, depreciation and operation and maintenance costs. 
and (6) the basis for electricity charges was arrived at by agreement rather than on information provided by the States. 
The Agreement does not provide for variation in the method of calculating charges but the charges themselves vary from year to year. 
and (9) Yes. The generating capacities of the various Stages of the Scheme were approved by the Australian Government acting on the advice of the Snowy Mountains Authority formulated after consulting the States of New South Wales and Victoria. At the request of either one or other of the States but with the concurrence of both, the finally installed generating capacity of several of the later Stages of the Scheme was larger than originally planned. This arose from changes in a pattern of load growth of the States. The basis for charges was fixed with the signing of the Agreement in September 1957 at which time the generating capacity of some Stages had been determined but successive Stages had not. 
10) The increased generating capacity involved higher costs and higher capital advances by the Commonwealth: these are being recovered from the electricity authorities by higher annual charges to cover interest and depreciation. 
No. 
The total installed capacity of the Scheme is 3740 megawatts (MW) and the respective entitlements of the States are 2683 MW for New South Wales (inclusive of the Australian Capital Territory share) and 1057 MW for Victoria. 
The total annual energy entitlements for each State is notified in terms of minimum, average and maximum. Any entitlement above minimum depends upon the quantity of water in storage and the prospective inflows in a particular year. As an example, for the financial year 1973-74 notified entitlements in kilowatt hours (kWh) were: 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
and (2) Consumers in Albury are supplied with electricity by the Murray River County Council and in Wodonga by the State Electricity Commission of Victoria. For a typical residential consumer using 1800 kilowatt hours per quarter including 800 kilowatt hours for hot water heating, the quarterly charge in Albury would be $38.34 and in Wodonga $40.62. 
Rural consumers with electricity consumptions identical to those in (1) and (2) above who are adjacent to the Albury Municipal area and to Wodonga would pay quarterly charges of $4 1.83 and $40.62 respectively. 
In the area adjacent to Albury a maintenance service charge of $6.00 per quarter is made to rural consumers for 20 years after the date of connection. There is no service charge in the Wodonga area. 
New rural consumers in areas adjacent to Albury or Wodonga are generally required to make a capital contribution towards the cost of extending electricity supply to their properties. 
In the area adjacent to Albury they are required to pay the initial capital cost of connection, less the effective cash value of a State Government subsidy either by a lump sum or by instalments including interests over a 20 year period 
In the area adjacent to Wodonga they are required to lodge with the State Electricity Commission of Victoria the estimated capital cost of making the supply available, as an extension deposit. Subject to certain ceilings, the whole or part of this deposit is refunded by the Commission with interest over a number of years depending on the use of the service and the occupancy of the customer s property. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The Bureau of Mineral Resources carried out an airborne magnetic and radiometric survey in the Broken Hill area between 26 June and 29 August 197S. This work entailed a regional survey of the entire Broken Hill 1:250 000 Map Sheet, involving an area of about 16000 square kilometres, and a detailed survey of an area of approximately 2 700 square kilometres located immediatley north of the Broken Hill township. Approximately 26 000 km were flown in completing this work. 
Ways to identify suitable areas for detailed exploration for new ore bodies that could extend the life of Broken 
Hill as a mining centre were considered jointly by Australian and New South Wales Government departments and the Broken Hill Mining Managers' Association. Following recommendations by these bodies, the Bureau of Mineral Resources carried out the airborne survey, the Geological Survey of New South Wales is carrying out complementary geological mapping, and mining companies will undertake the detailed exploration. 
The answer to the right honourable member's question is as follows: 
The Australian Atomic Energy Commission and the Department of Minerals and Energy. 
See answer to Question No. 215. 
Our aim is to have a report completed within six months. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) The amount expended under the  Petroleum and Minerals Authority Act  1973 during 1974-75. was $6,372,213. The further breakdown of this amount by each calendar month during 1974-75 is a matter of financial detail upon which the former Petroleum and Minerals Authority was neither required nor expected to report 
This question relates to matters of detail in the management of the Authority's operations upon which the 
Petroleum and Minerals Authority was neither required nor expected to report 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
At 30 June 1975 there were 159 nuclear power reactors of over 20 MW capacity in operation in 19 countries as listed below. The output of these reactors totals 68 000 MW: 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
I am advised that: 
The capacity of solar collectors installed in Australia for water heating and similar purposes amounts to less than 0.0 1 per cent of total primary energy needs. 
In addition to this, an unknown amount of solar energy is being used for processes such as the drying of tree and vine fruits and the production of salt. 
A complete answer to the question is not possible because of difficulties in defining the limits of solar energy research, and because of the mechanism by which some of the research funds are allocated. Australian Government spending on solar energy research is, however, mainly channelled through the CSIRO. Approximately $684,000 has been allocated to the CSIRO 's solar energy research programme for 1975-76. 
In addition the solar energy research programmes of the universities are supported by Australian Government funds from sources such as the Australian Research Grants Committee. The Committee has not yet announced the projects to be supported in 1976. The magnitude of the sums spent in this way can be gauged from the fact that $127,000 was allocated by the Committee for these purposes in 1 975. 
Electric power may be generated economically by utilising solar energy in exceptional situations, such as remote telecommunication stations, where conventional power sources are not available. Packaged units for such purposes are obtainable commercially. No economical method of utilising solar energy for large scale electric power production has as yet been developed. 
The United States has instituted large research programs aimed at the development of economic methods of electric power using solar energy. 
Australia is contributing to research into the production of electric power by the conversion of solar energy through studies of heat absorbing surfaces, of heat storage methods, and of direct conversion techniques. In addition, studies of solar biological processes aimed at the production of fuel are pertinent, since fuel so produced could be used to power conventional power stations. (Question No. 2969) 
The answer to the right honourable member's question is as follows: 
I refer the right honourable member to the Prime Minister's reply to Question No. 3 1 10,  (Hansard  1 October, 1975, at page 1598.) 
I support the amendment moved by the honourable member for Scullin  (Dr Jenkins)  to the motion that the Address-in-Reply be agreed to. The Governor-General's Speech in itself is the product of a government which lacks legitimacy. It is the product in turn of a defective Constitution under which Australia has laboured for many years. The events of the last 4 months have done violence to every concept of parliamentary democracy. I speak not in anger but in sorrow. I speak as a parliamentarian of 25 years' experience. I am ashamed to see in Australia today the situation which now exists in which Parliament itself has been diminished and downgraded and in which the Governor-General, the viceroy, the direct representative of the Queen whom we share with the United Kingdom, has himself participated in politics. I say that deliberately and with measured words. On 11 November 1975, when funds were still available and were sufficient until the end of November the Governor-General chose to take precipitate action. In addition to that he quite deliberately chose to wrong-foot the  Speaker,  the chosen representative and the custodian of the privileges of this House, and chose by a snide method to dissolve this Parliament. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Lucock)Order!  I think the honourable gentleman has an appreciation from the debate on the AddressinReply that preceded his speech that no honourable member may refer to the Governor-General in any way that would cast doubts upon his integrity, ability or capacity. 
-I stand corrected,  Mr Deputy Speaker.  I assert that conditions were imposed under which a caretaker government was introduced which had no mandate and which at that time had not a majority in the House of Representatives but which chose to govern. Powers that the monarch herself does not possess have been abused. The power of the purse, the fundamental and traditional power and the privilege of the Commons no longer resides in the House of Representatives, in the people's House. They reside in the Senate. Every constitutional convention by which parliamentary democracy can function has been broken. Convention was broken in the choice of replacements for 2 senators. The conventions that have been established and have transcended political allegiance have been scrapped. They have gone into the discard. Further reserve powers in the Constitution have been abused. I refer to the powers to reserve the royal assent, the power of the Governor-General as contained in the Constitution to refer legislation back to this House with a request for alterations, or for legislation to be deferred for as long as 2 years. This is the position today because of the abuse of the power of the Senate. The Senate was the fundamental compromise by which national government was achieved in Australia. It was the concession made to the smaller States to protect what were conceived to be their fundamental rights. Every fundamental democratic right in Australia has been perverted. 
I listened the other night with great attention to the new incumbent Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser).  An ancestor of mine was present at the first shearers' strike camp at Barcaldine in Queensland. I did not see any difference between the attitude of the Prime Minister and that of the squatters of that era who went along to the shearers' strike camps with troopers and magistrates to deal with them for breaches of the master and servant legislation of the day and for common law conspiracy. The Governor-General's Speech itself refers to fundamental economic instability being due to excessive government intervention. This is part of the political demonology which this Government is attempting to introduce. It is nothing new but it is being revived. The Government presents Australia as being an hermetically sealed economy governed by a government with an hermetically sealed mind. Some of its members have the finest minds of the nineteenth century. They are regurgitating the economic nostrums of another discredited era. They come from the economic swamps and they are political backwoodsmen. The hard truth is this: There is today a world wide economic recession and Australia is in the midst of a global slump. There are global causes for our economic problems which tinkering with the national balance sheet cannot solve. We are told that there are soft options and hard options but that the soft options have run out. 
It is attributed to the Prime Minister that when he recently addressed a meeting of his henchmen he stated that by the end of this year his Administration would be the most unpopular in Australia's history. I have no doubt that it will. Worse than that, it will have polarised Australia. Violence is being done at present to every economic concept. Let us take as an example the disruption of the last 6 months. Not a word has been said in this House about a $50Om run-down in foreign exchange funds, as one case in point. And why not? Because there was an election on and the Government had to pussyfoot because it depended on the support of the National Country Party. The issue raised was the possibility of a devaluation of the Australian dollar. The Australian dollar is still one of the world's soundest currencies and if it fails to continue at that rating- a triple A rating- the fault will be laid directly at the door of this Government. 
The new era that we are entering into will appear very quickly. There are 3 fundamental reasons for it which the Government has conveniently overlooked. Firstly, we are now in the 1975-76 financial year at the end of the post-war reconstruction boom. The devastation, the destruction and disruption that characterised World War II have ended. Secondly, the imbalance of world currencies is endemic. The jargon of the economists is that there is a chronic and fundamental disequilibrium of the various world currencies. The third reason for the present condition is this: It is the emergence of the OPEC cartel- that is the Organisation of Petroleum Exporting Countries- and that is only the first of many, because today we live in a world of macro-economics; something a little above the concepts of the ambitions or the capacity of this Government. The OPEC cartel, with its quadrupling of crude oil prices, is only one of many such groups that will emerge. It has been correctly said that it is not the man 's skin that itches but the man underneath, and the itch is a fundamental one. It is the resentment of colonial countries south of the Equator which for years have suffered under economic exploitation as the satellites or the colonies of the so-called industrialised democracies of Western Europe combined with the United States. The new world order that is emerging and for which the characteristics are, of course, inflation and unemployment, which are now grouped together and called stagflation, will be something that no one has anticipated and something that no one can quite identify. 
We are in the period of complex and dangerous economic and political crises. The bipolar world order, the order of John Foster Dulles, has ended, and today throughout the world amongst the advanced industrialised countries, the wealthier countries, there is a probing for strength, for new alliances and for re-alliances. In the alignments which are occuring the main weapons will be fuel and food. We are now entering into a multipolar world, a world of wide and fundamental conflict between the rich and the poor nations. In our preoccupation in this country with using the antiquated political nostrums of this Government to overcome what is a world depression we neglect and forget the social and political crisis which the fundamental conservatism of the present Government could never properly evaluate, much less understand. The best that this Government can offer to the people of Australia is a reversal of what it chose to be the prejudices of the former Labor Administration. Whatever Labor did automatically there is a reflex action as a syndrome; this Government wants to do the opposite. 
The era which is ending was one of rapid economic growth, stimulated, as I said, by the repairing and restoration of the damage and devastation of World War II. It centred on the industrialised countries of the northern hemisphere. It ended with the deepening north-south problems of continued exploitation of the resources of the countries south of the equator by the so-called industrialised Western democracies. It is clear that the new world order will be a reorganisation on the basis of costly food and costly energy. The terms 'agra-power' and 'petro-power' are being bandied around. Let me illustrate. In the early 1950s the availability of food in the world for its population then was 91 days supply per person. At the present time it is 26 days supply. The phenomena which are appearing and which characterise the change and collapse of the preceding era, and which also foretell the new, are inflation and unemployment, poverty, over-population- twothirds of the world's people still lack the minimum means of subsistence- stagnating international trade, resources nationalism, associated cartels and the recycling of petro-dollars. 
Perhaps one of the most fundamental causes or immediate causes of current trade disruption is the impact of crude oil pricing. For example, in 1974 the aggregate surplus in OPEC countries in terms of United States dollars was $65 billion, compared with $5 billion in 1973. The major oil consuming countries which in aggregate had a trade surplus of $10 billion in 1973 encountered a deficit of $38 billion in 1974. The non-oil producing and less developed countries found their 1973 deficit had increased from $8 billion to $2 1 billion in 1974. The plight of the newly emerging nations- the nations in the Third World and the Fourth World as some to choose to term it- is beyond comprehension. 
The world economic order of the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade and the International Monetary Fund is cracking and will steadily disintegrate, hence the recent Rambouillet conference of 8  Major nations  to demonetise gold, replacing it with special drawing rights. What was the GATT-IMF world-the world of Bretton Woods? It was based on a fixed price of US$35 per oz for gold. In fact after World War II the United States became the world banker for the advanced industrialised countries outside the communist bloc. I do not now quote the words of any doctrinaire economist. I quote those of  Mr Yokoyama,  the  President  of the Bank of Japan as reported in the Japanese Times financial Supplement of January last year.  Mr Yokoyama  said after stating that the United States was the world's banker for the advanced countries outside the communist bloc: 
The fixed price of gold was maintained until April 1968. In that period - 
This is of vital importance-  international liquidity necessary for the growth of the world economy was primarily supplied in the form of balance of payments deficit on the pan of the United States. This was the so-called 'dollar balance'. This supply mechanism of international liquidity gave the United States both a privilege and obligation in respect of international finance. The privilege was that America's payment deficit was financed by other countries semi-automatically. The obligation was that in recompense for this the United States had to maintain the value of the dollar by exercising discipline in its balance of payments. 
It failed to do so. It may be said that the post-war international monetary system collapsed because this equilibrium between the privilege and the obligation was upset and the United States came to employ policies which disregarded its obligations. A major example of this was the world flood of Euro-dollars and its distortion of the European economy. Two basic patterns emerge in a planned new international monetary system. One is a multiple reserve currency whereby the obligation, so far solely upon the United States, would be shared by other major powers, and the other is the adoption of the special drawing rights as a principal reserve asset. This is unlikely. With the latter choice at Rambouillet it yet remains to be seen whether special drawing rights will be able fully to finance the growth of a world in which most nations still tend to prefer the possession of gold as a major reserve asset. 
Successive phases of the world currency crisis were, in 1968, the introduction of the 2-tier gold price and the 'dollar shock' of August 1971. 
With the suspension of the dollar's gold convertibility, the re-imposition of import surcharges and the subsequent shift to a system of floating exchange rates, the Smithsonian agreement of December 1971 provided some temporary relief, reviving temporarily the fixed exchange rate system. Business stimulation followed, with sharp price spirals, as well as the expansion of real output. This in turn resulted in a boost to inflation, reinforced by a second devaluation of the United States dollar in February 1973. In turn the Organisation of Petroleum Exporting Countries oil price increases and the problems of recycling petro-dollars caused the sharp inflation of 1974 and the world credit squeezes, which included the credit squeeze in Australia in that year. 
The governments facing elections in the various Western industrial democracies have in turn borne the brunt of the blame and have been toppled like ninepins by irate electors. The question is whether the Fraser Government's policy provides the sovereign panacea. It is pathetically inadequate. It contains no macro-economic policies. It is limited to micro-economics from the micro minds of its framers. The remedies proposed remind one of the cynic's description of France as having been fully prepared for the Franco-Prussian war in 1914 and for World War I in 1939. It is the product of economic backwoodsmen. It is the product of a ham-fisted Government with a jackboot mentality. With one-track minds this union baiting and union hating Government will gleefully resort to coercion and conflict with the trade union movement. From December 1972, for 3 years, Australia for the first time has stood erect in its full statute as an independent nation. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Lucock)Order! The honourable member's time has expired. Before I call the honourable member for Tangney I would remind the House that this is the honourable member's maiden speech and I would expect the usual courtesies would be extended to the honourable member. 
I listened with great interest to the remarks of the honourable member for Bradfield  (Mr Connolly)  who has just resumed his seat. Anyone who was not informed might infer that the former Labor Government never existed or that it did not inherit a chaotic situation in relation to the minerals export industry to Japan. I repeat that the Labor Government found sheer unadulterated chaos. In the mining industry and particularly in coal and iron ore it found internal divisiveness in each of the States. Equally it found divisiveness and competition between the States. The Labor Government organised and introduced a fundamental principle, that there should be the maximum Australian ownership and control of Australian resources. One thing which the honourable member has conveniently overlooked is that the Japanese have a better appreciation today than ever before of Australia as a result of the activities of the recent Labor Government. 
The Japanese respect 2 things above all others: One is strength and the other is integrity. They know that Australia has both, and particularly under a Labor administration. To the letter we approached them on this basis- of willing sellers dealing with willing buyers, of mutual complementarity on both sides with each dependent on and vitally interested in the other. The Japanese responded. I have the credit for negotiating the biggest single commercial transaction with them. That was for the arrangement I entered into with the Nippon Steel Corporation and its  Chairman  of Directors,  Mr Inayama  That has been glossed over. When the Minister for Overseas Trade  (Mr Anthony)  went to Japan he was told that that was what the Japanese adhered to, and there were very good reasons for it. For the first time a government in Australia knew, understood and exercised a benign but effective supervision over the minerals export industry. I repeat that it was a benign supervision but it was an effective one. For the first time an Australian administration was fully informed as to all the vagaries, all the complexities and the inner costs of mineral production in Australia. That information is available to this day, the propaganda of the current Government notwithstanding. 
I want to refer the House to an editorial of the  Sydney Morning Herald  of 6 February last when it was clearly indicated to the Minister for Overseas Trade, who was then in the process of going to Japan to do a little trading of coal in particular and meat, that he might well take a leaf out of the book of the Labor Administration which had done well. The Labor Government found when it came into office that the average export price of hard coking coal to Japan was about $ 1 1 per ton. When it left office the price was over $38. More than that, in the arrangement which I entered into with  Mr Inayama,  we laid the basis for a soft coking coal trade. We also established the various categories and qualities of Australian coal. Each section of the industry knew precisely where it stood. Each section of the industry knew what its obligations were. More than that, the Japanese knew that a Labor administration and a Labor Minister would provide and back up the necessary supervision to ensure that the contracts were entered into. Today what do we find? We find what one might term a knee-jerk  laissezfaire  reaction on the part of this Government to anything that the Labor Administration introduced. It seeks to minimise for its own stupid, petty, foolish reasons the achievements of a Labor Administration instead of building on them and carrying them on. Our trade and our relations with Japan are too important to be transcended by the vagaries and the vicissitudes and the venom of Liberal-Country Party politics as displayed in this House. 
When I go to Japan and read the English language Press there I hang my head in shame as an Australian to see the standard of literacy of the Japanese, their economic competence, their breadth of economic analysis, the sheer patriotism of those people, their efficiency, their ability to lift themselves up literally by their economic bootstraps- because in natural resources they have very little. I found there a very deep goodwill, a very great reservoir of goodwill for Australia, and it dated back to the days before World War I. Many of the people who were in Australia then in connection with the JapaneseAustralian wool trade had the happiest recollections of Australia. It is a fund of goodwill that is there to this day. 
There is a new Japan. The young people in Japan today know nothing, and even the middleaged people know practically nothing, of World War II. They have the same social problems, and their new generations have much the same outlook, as the generations in Australia, the United Kingdom, the United States and elsewhere. Those people have a real respect for Australia. They have a respect for this country because they know that just as British integrity- the word of an Englishman- was the binding word of many a deal in Asia in the days before World War II, it is the word of an Australian today that counts. There should be no low posture on our part, nor was there under a Labor government; there was a tolerance and a basis of equality on both sides. Between us, Australia and Japan, we are capable of literally ruling and if necessary dominating the economies of the eastern Pacific Ocean and the whole of the Indian Ocean areas because we are the only two advanced countries in this region. What Japan has in technology, in sheer competence, m engineering, in every branch of science we can back up with the necessary raw materials and in turn we can profit by the adoption of a considerable amount of Japan's technology. 
There are points on which I would disagree with the previous  speaker,  the honourable member for Bradfield. One of them in particular is this: Just as the Japanese want to do business in Japan in Japanese ways so should we also in Australia want to do business in Australian ways. I have never accepted the principle that there ought to be a 10 per cent interest in any mining undertaking. After all, whilst they are our trading partners, they are quite competent to look after themselves, and more, and an interest of even 10 per cent denotes a corresponding entitlement to representation on boards of directors. Frankly, I have no greater desire to have Japanese directors on our company boards than they would have for counterpart Australian representation on their boards. This is fundamental. 
I have noted- and disagreed with- the tendency for certain trading elements in Japan these days to put as a basic proposition that we should sell to them at predetermined cost plus a reasonable mark-up. We are not entitled to just a reasonable mark-up, but we are entitled to a proper mark-up and we are entitled to the world parity, and that is precisely what we have got and that is precisely what we ought to continue to get. In terms of the approach of the present coalition Government to Japan, let me revert to the celebrated Premier of Queensland and his truculence no cattle sales, no meat sales, no coal. Crazy! All right, there is a refinement at that approach, and it did not work in the case of  Mr Anthony's  visit. I regret that he was not able to do better in that field, but I do object in the strongest possible terms to the trading off of coal against beef. They are separate commodities. They have a separate pricing structure. There should be separate viewpoints. 
With regard to the future between the 2 countries, Australia and Japan, the arrangement that I had with  Mr Inayama  and Nippon Steel was this: I quite deliberately, over the term of 3 years when I held the responsibility, assured them that their basic policy of not putting all their trading eggs in the one basket was fundamentally wrong. Australia, for instance, provides approximately 45 per cent of Japan's coking coal requirements and a similar proportion of its iron ore requirements, but 25 per cent comes from the east coast of the United States. When I went to Japan last July I found that the Japanese were being screwed by the United States coal producers and let down in terms of contract fulfilment. In that Japanese fiscal year the United States was able to meet only 35 per cent of its total contractual obligations. It was also restricted in what it could produce and its production was being seriously limited in respect of open cut mining, by the objections of United States conservationists. The United States was selling at spot sale prices- therefore at the highest possible prices- to Europe. If you want to get down to the stark economic fundamentals of relationships between Australia and Japan, consider the Pacific Ocean as virtually a closed lake. Within it we have a distinct competitive trading advantage. The haul for iron ore, for example, from Western Australia to Japan is very much shorter than the haul from Brazil. From time to time I read articles by idiots- I use that word advisedly- within the Australian Press speaking in terms of the competitive advantage of friable Brazil. Brazilian iron ore happens to be friable. Apart from its competitive disadvantage in respect of freight it also in the sizing process as a blast furnace feed produces an excess of iron ore dust which in turn has to be aggregated at considerable cost by a sintering process. Honourable members can see the fundamental difference between the products of the 2 countries. I pointed these facts out clearly to the Japanese but at the same time I said: 'We know the exact position; do not try to tell us anything different. At the same time we do not intend to screw you. We want a fair thing.' 
In respect of coal there are even greater advantages both in the haul and in our ability to meet contractual commitments, and above all - this is one thing that is of vital importance to Japan- there is a very low sulphur content in Australian coking coal. The market that  Mr Anthony  claimed he had established for steaming coal had already been established by a Labor Administration. It is a future market; not a present one. At the present time the Japanese have yet to decide finally on the 2 areas where they will locate their coal-fired steaming plants for the generation of electricity, and even when they do this they will be looking for a very different coal type from that which comes from the open cut areas. 
The Japanese also have a particular interest in the Walloon coal from the Darling Downs area. If anyone takes the trouble to look at the map of mining leases that have been granted by a feckless government in Queensland they will find that there are representatives in that area, either by name or by subsidiary, of practically every one of the major oil companies which now call themselves major energy companies. At present the Japanese are seeking- I do not blame them for trying- to import that coal which happens to have about a 7½ per cent hydrogen content. It is the nearest thing we have in Australia to a suitable coal type for the purposes of liquefaction by hydrogenation. The Japanese want it for an entirely different purpose. Their existing power generating plants were designed for the burning of fuel oil. It is very difficult to install a coal-fired fire box in a plant of that type but it is very easy to feed in a gas and the Japanese want to take that coal, gasify it and then feed the gas in as a fuel in substitution for the crude oil. I do not blame them for trying but my attitude is, and I put the challenge strongly to this Government, that if we are to have a future for coal hydrogenation in Australia and to supplement, in the final crunch, our liquid fuel reserves, that Walloon coal in the Darling Downs- it runs in an area north-east from Toowoomba for a distance of about 300 miles, not in seams but in what are termed pods by the coal people- needs to be kept for that purpose. I warn the Government that it will betray Australia's best interests if it allows any of that coal to be exported. I was not prepared to do so. After all,  Mr Anthony  is a new boy at school and I do not mind giving him a few lessons without being patronising. 

 Mr Anthony needs to learn also that it does not follow that hard coking coal will be the final blast furnace feed for the Japanese steel mills because at present there are very advanced experiments in the development of formed coke which the Japanese will definitely turn to for that purpose. Hence their great interest in the coal loading amplification that is now taking place in Newcastle harbour. After all, they will be able to get that coal for about US$12 per tonne less and I do not blame them for using it. These are the factors that have to be considered. If the present Government wants to go on and big-note itself or pretend that it is, it can do so. But there are hard realities that need to be fully examined and that will not be done by merely playing politics and above all by the mere reversal of prejudices which seems to be the best of which this Government is capable. 
It must also be understood that the Japanese people work by consensus and there is no immediate acceptance of any proposition. It will be discussed fully and exhaustively at all levels but when a decision is made it is worth getting because they will adhere to it. As I see the future in a world that is breaking up, that is entering another trade war and is forming into different and rival economic blocs, we, together with Japan, have a tremendous advantage in the economic bloc of the Indian and east Pacific Oceans. Naturally I support the measure. When the debate commenced I expected that it would have been conducted in a different fashion but in view of the comment of the previous speaker I felt that he should be replied to and cut down to size. 
-I address my question to the Minister for National Resources. I preface it by referring him to the delayed judgment of the High Court on the Seas and Submerged Lands Act. I ask him to give the earliest possible publicity that he can to any advisings he may have received upon the operation of that judgment, based as it is upon the exclusive- I stress the word 'exclusive'- off-shore sovereignty of the Commonwealth of Australia from the low water mark under the external affairs power. I ask in particular that in any information that is made available he include reference to the following matters: Firstly, the lack of constitutional authority for State designated authorities; secondly, the validity of exploration permits and leases granted by them to date; thirdly, the extraterritorial operation of State laws; and fourthly, the prior and future collection of royalties from present off-shore petroleum producers. 
-I direct a question to the Minister for National Resources. How does he reconcile his answer to the honourable member for Paterson with the statement which he made last night apprehending aggression in respect of the sale of Australian resources of uranium? When did he first form the opinion that there was a possibility of aggression? From what countries will it come? Does he include amongst them Japan with its constitutional restrictions on the possession of atomic weapons? Has he considered the inhibiting effect that such a craven, low-postured approach will have in the future marketing of uranium on Australia's ability to secure proper world parity prices on proper conditions? 
We had to deal with the factory fodder that a Government that the honourable member for Evans  (Mr Abel)  supported brought in to unsatisfactory conditions in heavy industry and we still have those people there, marooned, who would leave if they could to get better jobs elsewhere, if they were available. The euphoria of this Government has passed. In the heady days when we were being bashed by the present Government in an election campaign, under circumstances that would not bear repeating, the present Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  promised that there would be no Gold Coast holidays on the family earnings of Australians, no Gold Coast holidays for anyone. That was before the deceptions commenced, before the few promises that were made were welshed on, were reneged. Today history is repeating itself and the hungry '30s are now the shocking '70s. The same techniques are being used in a much more delicate and sophisticated way. The nastiest possible news is broken in the nicest possible fashion by this Government- of course it would be- but the hard and stern realities are the same as they ever were. The remedies being imposed by this Government are excessive. They are socially regressive and economically counter-productive. 
We are told of the widespread abuses but there have been 103 prosecutions amongst over 300 000 unemployed. This debate is being commonly referred to by the people of Australia as the dole debate. I call it the dole bludgeoning debate. The dole is to be used as an economic and social bludgeon and weapon. This Government seeks deliberately as a means of controlling employment a pool of unemployed so that it can discipline and smash the trade union movement. 
-Professor Hytten coined the phrase. He was an economic adviser to the Bank of New South Wales before the honourable member for Parramatta was born. The unavoidable consequences of the misguided antiinflationary policy of this Government are with us now. Its strategy is to have a long period of unemployment. It cannot do otherwise. But at the same time it can offer subsidies to factory proprietors who do not need them- a 40 per cent subsidy to factory proprietors who find that their equipment is being only 70 per cent utilised. There is no recovery in sight, despite the protestations and despite the recent jawboning of the Prime Minister in Melbourne. The fact is that the people of Australia have been shocked and belted. They are in a state of economic shock and have been that way ever since the former Opposition, which now holds the government benches, refused Supply. The problems are still with us. 
Fundamentally it must be remembered that a quarter of the people of Australia depend upon government expenditure. You cannot curtail government expenditure and at the same time expect business to flourish in a normal way. It cannot and it will not. Only a government as obtuse, as backward and as benighted as this one would attempt to continue with the policy it has tried to foist on the Australian people. The scars will be there for a generation. This is in fact a divisive government. It is a union bashing government. It is a labour baiting, labour hating government. I see the same people gearing up to use the same tactics as before. 
I can remember men standing on the hill outside the steelworks at Port Kembla. The scene was like a Roman slave market. The foreman would say: 'I will take you and you and that fellow over there. The rest can go home until tomorrow'. Things are more elightened today. 
The men are treated better but the principles being applied by this Government are identical. 
One-third of the employment in my city comes from heavy industry. It is a firm rule in that industry, and one of long standing, that it will not re-employ any man who has left the industry, for whatever reason. In addition to that, more than half the men are migrants and more than half of them still suffer from substantial language problems. What earthly chance do those men have of travelling one and a half hours daily to Sydney to seek employment? They can be employed only in groups under foremen who can speak their language. What hardships are they to suffer, what humiliations? What is their chance of leaving a job, knowing that if they do they will starve for 6 weeks? After that they will have to go cap in hand to a new employer, if they can find one, and they will be treated like cattle and prisoners. They know that if they leave that next employer they are out and will be on the economic and social scrapheap. It is a disgrace, it is a shame, it is a tragedy, that in the name of dole bludgeoning a government such as this can perpetrate a means test of the type it is imposing upon the people of Australia. 
The conditions of the test are immaterial; what is important is to whom the test is applied. We are dealing with people without labour skills. I quote now from an article in  The National Times  of 1 March last which said: 
In December, the largest groups of unemployed men were unskilled or semi-skilled, while the largest group of unemployed women were accustomed to or were seeking clerical and administrative work. Many of these jobless people are chasing work which no longer exists and which is unlikely to be revived in the future. 
The unskilled and school-leavers with no job experience are both vulnerable. They cannot offer training or a work record- both qualities in increasing demand in a workforce relying more heavily on skill. 
They are the victims of a technological age which requires education and work skills (or the ability to adapt to new requirements). 
Unless they can be trained for a job in demand, then many of the people now unemployed are going to find that they have already embarked upon their life's occupation. Unemployment benefits are small compensation for having no job- and in the present bludger-bashing climate, are a stigma of social worthlessness. 
Even the  Sydney Morning Herald,  in an editorial article last week, attacked this Government scathingly for what it was doing and said that the very unemployed that the Government's economic policy created deserved sympathy and assistance. Shame on this Government. It is a disgrace to Australia. It is a divisive government. It will divide Australia into 2 groups of people, one over-privileged and one under-privileged. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Wentworth)  adjourned. 
-We heard the  Deputy  Prime Minister  (Mr Anthony)  for the first time snivelling and attacking certain sections - 
Wingeing, whining-take your pick. 
Prime Minister he should find parliamentary words to do so. 
We heard him complaining. He had obviously had 6 cuts from the prefect and there was the prospect of being expelled if he repeated the gaff that he perpetrated last Monday night. What he said to the world at large was: 'Come and pluck us of our energy resources; come and pluck us of our reserves'. He said: 'We are frightened and we are incompetent'. The men who have been most condemned and held in contempt throughout history were those who paid danegelds to the Danes 1100 years ago. Today the right honourable gentleman made comments in his speech that are equally contemptible and which will surely go down in history on that basis. He is so far out of touch with economic reality that he does not realise that there is no need to fight further world wars of aggression for economic penetration and for the possession of resources. Two world wars were fought for that purpose- for the possession of colonies and for the possession of resources that were available from them. The work is done now much more subtly and in a more more refined way by multinational corporations. The penetration is now economic, not physical; the aggression is not physical, it is economic. That is where we join issue with the Government in respect of its proposals. 
The attitude of the then Opposition was held in contempt by me during the 3 years I held office as Minister for Minerals and Energy. The honourable member for Mackellar  (Mr Wentworth)  struck the keynote in his speech today. I knew the value of uranium. I knew the value of the resources. I was not prepared to allow the multinationals to come in to get the uranium. I was prepared to see that our major trading partner Japan, which takes 56 per cent of our mineral production, got the first chance. The world today is broken up into economic blocs. There is the European Common Market, and Cominform countries under the control of the Soviet Union, an economic bloc made up of North America and South America, the emerging nations in Africa and, beyond those, out on our own and alone, Japan and Australia. These 2 countries are in a position to meet the needs of two-thirds of the world's people who live around the Pacific and Indian Oceans. 
I was right in my forecast. The Labor Government inherited a lousy set of contracts, rushed through in the final days of the former Liberal Government, providing for prices of $6 and $7 per pound for uranium oxide. I said then that the price was unsatisfactory but nevertheless we would honour the contracts when they were due. The minerals are still not due for delivery. I also forecast that by 1980 the market would be matured, and so it is. The figures quoted today by both the honourable member for Mackellar and the  Deputy  Prime Minister prove that to be the case. We have been told that the price for spot is $40 per pound. It will be more than that in the future. But both of these gentlemen are utterly wrong in respect of one figure. The world reliance on uranium as a power source in the year 2000 will be of the order of between 20 per cent and 25 per cent, and not 50 per cent as they have stated. 
Australia is one of the four countries in the world which are wholly independent in terms of energy resources in the aggregate. We are a little short of crude oil but in respect of natural gas, uranium and, above all, coal we have enormous quantities. Thus it is a matter of the will, the wit and the wisdom of all Australians to get together on this matter and not have these resources flogged off, particularly by a National Country Party Minister. The motto of the National Country Party has always been simple in relation to Australia's resources. It is: If it moves shoot it, if it grows cut it down, if it is in the ground dig it out and flog it. It was an economic affront to these people to find out that the Labor Government was quite capable of doing what those so-called experts in economic policy and management could not do. We introduced economic controls. We introduced controls on exports. We did it properly and our record is in  Hansard  for all to see. Repeatedly we told the Japanese that they would get first consideration after we had made our proper assessment of our requirements and get it they will and get it they should. 
We have heard much about the threat of aggression. In this respect the  Deputy  Prime Minister is playing right into the hands of the world's 'Share the Energy Club', known as the International Energy Authority, a Kissinger creation which has been set up for the purpose of ensuring that the older industrial countries are able to get more than their fair share of the remaining world's energy resources. The situation today is an intriguing one. The Organisation of Petroleum Exporting Countries is only the tip of the iceberg. The former exploited colonies are now in a position where for the first time they can dictate the terms of trade. Today we are in a new situation where resources are not a function of money, but money is a function of resources. The activities of the multinational companies today are always to get physical possession of the resources of a country, and that is precisely what this Government intends to allow them to do. Later this week, or sometime next week, a statement will be made on the Government's foreign investment policy. 
The policy of the Australian Labor Party is clear. It is to get maximum ownership and control of Australia's resources of energy and minerals. In the case of uranium our policy is for exactly 100 per cent ownership. As the honourable member for Mackellar said, it is very easy to mine uranium; it is very easy to find it. Despite the aspersions of the  Deputy  Prime Minister yesterday in answer to questions when he alleged government incompetence in respect of the search for uranium, the Bureau of Mineral Resources was responsible for and was able to identify and to inform intending explorers where they could find uranium or where it had already been found. During my term as Minister I was told repeatedly by foreign representatives that they received information about Australia's mineral resources, particularly uranium resources, which would have been classified in other countries. This Minister has the uranium lobby breathing down his neck because he cannot give the uranium to them as quickly as they want it. They want to flog it off  in toto  and not in sequence to get the money in their sweaty little hands as quickly as they can. 
Yes, and we happen to own it. What is the Minister going to do about the Atomic Energy Act 1953- which was introduced by his own coalition government and supported by the then Labor Opposition- which vested in the Commonwealth of Australia the sole ownership of uranium in the Northern Territory. What is the Minister going to do with regard to coal? What is he going to do with regard to the letter that was read out by the honourable member for Blaxland  (Mr Keating)  relating to a deal with Japan for coal exports? He has no answer to that, and it was the height of impertinence and political indecency, when the Governor-General delivered his Speech in the other chamber, to suggest that the Japanese needed to be reassured on continuity of supply from Australia. There was the answer. There was the proof of the lie that Australia was not prepared to do the right thing by Japan. The Labor Government entered into that deal in the full knowledge that there would be a reduction in the ingot output of steel in Japan. At the same time, we knew that Japan was intensely dissatisfied with its treatment by the United States. We came into the picture and we made the deal. It is up to this Government to carry it out, but I doubt whether this incompetent Minister can do that. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Lucock)Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
-An abiding impression of the statement on foreign investment by the Treasurer  (Mr Lynch)  is that like the curate's egg it is good in parts. Imitation, of course, is the sincerest form of flattery and it is in keeping with the tradition of conservative governments that they generally adopt at least a proportion of the policies of the Labor administration which preceded them. In this case there is naturally some joy in heaven because of the repentant sinners who at least saw the error of their ways to the extent of indicating that there was a minimum standard of Australian ownership which they would seek to achieve with, of course, some appropriate loopholes. The statement is a glib one, it is an artificial one and it skates over the major issue. No group of men on a committee, with all due respect to them, should be allowed to deal with some of the major issues which will undoubtedly crop up in relation to Australian resources allocation, particularly energy resources. By that I mean that even before this Committee can function a good deal of legal work needs to be tidied up in relation to the impact of the High Court judgment on the Seas and Submerged Lands Act. As a matter of fact, the whole rickety structure of offshore oil and gas search, erected in 1967, which was criticised and attacked even by a former Liberal Prime Minister and a former Liberal Attorney-General, has collapsed as they and I and other Labor men since 1967 have persistently and repeatedly forecast. 
Today on the North West Shelf there is an admitted 18 trillion cubic feet of natural gas. If one takes the valuation of that at 4c per thermthat was the price that the Woodside-Burmah organisation offered me to sell our own gas to us- that would be a matter of some $18 billion; that is, if one takes into account the 760 million barrels of condensate which are there and which are equal to imported crude oil parity. From the High Court judgment emerges the salient fact that off-shore there is precisely 100 per cent Australian ownership. The sovereignty battle has been resolved and therefore we do not need to talk in terms of a SO per cent partnership at all. When the Australian Labor Party took office we inherited a situation in which my predecessor in office,  Sir Reginald  Swartz, had written to the Woodside-Burmah interests expressing his concern at the continued diminution of the 17 per cent Australian equity which was then held in their company. He asked that the situation be corrected. 
The only thing that we could properly do to serve Australia's interests was to see that the matter of sovereignty was adjudicated on and precisely that we did. We did it despite the criticism, the blackguarding, the opprobrium, the viciousness and the demonology that was gradually erected about our alleged malevolence and misguided approach. The hard fact is that we won and the even harder fact is- I am glad that the Attorney-General  (Mr Ellicott)  is here- that it is up to the Government to clean up the mess which we forecast, which exists and which it has inherited. Today the Burmah-Woodside companyat least the Burmah sector of it- is a lame duck company. I give it due credit for what it has discovered but so it should have done. I give it due credit for the money it has spend but the question is now: How does this Government, without getting into partnership, propose to develop what it, in fact, owns and ought to be developing on behalf of the Australian people? 
An issue of this type is one for consideration by the Parliament, not one to be handed to the members of the proposed investment committee however worthy they may be. National assets of this scale are not to be handed over for adjudication on and allocation by even the most worthy representatives of private business or the bureaucracy. It is to be noted very clearly also the delay in the delivery of the High Court judgment. Quite miraculously it came to light 10 day s after the election. Had it been delivered earlier it would undoubtedly have been a major issue but even allowing for the lateness of its delivery- I quote from what Barwick, C.J., said- the point is this: 
Once low water mark is passed the international domain is reached. 
The boundaries of the Australian sovereign States end at low water mark. They do not even extend out 3 miles beyond to the limits of the territorial sea. The power to legislate is a sovereign one, conferred by the Constitution, and is based on the external powers given in the relevant placitum of section 5 1 of the Constitution. From that, other things automatically flow. It means that the mirror legislation passed by the respective States as a counterpart to the Petroleum (Submerged Lands) Act is in conflict with the Commonwealth legislation and therefore under section 109 is inconsistent and invalid. In other words, titles will need to be given by the Commonwealth in its own right and directly, and whether those titles are merely for further exploration or for development it is not only the Commonwealth 's responsibility by also its prerogative and more than that it is a duty that it cannot delegate to the respective States. 
I remind the House that the then Opposition, which is now the Government, held up legislation which the former Labor Government introduced which would have been effectuated by referendum and which would have given the Commonwealth power to delegate some of its powers to the respective States. The Government is hoist with its own petard. It is the victim of its own obstinacy and its own cussedness. The High Court held that the Seas and Submerged Lands Act was valid despite section 16(b). From that it follows also that under the terms of section 140 of the Petroleum (Submerged Lands) Act that did not remedy the situation and again it is a matter of Commonwealth sovereignty and Commonwealth sovereignty alone. 
I should like to hear from the AttorneyGeneral. I asked his colleague, the Minister for National Resources  (Mr Anthony)  whether he would table the advisings that he had received from the Attorney-General and from any other officer, presumbly the Solicitor-General, on this matter and the implications of the High Court decision. The people of Australia are entitled to know. The Minister can go further than that. He can also table the advising that I received from  Mr Byers,  the Solicitor-General, in January of last year with respect to the status of the various State Ministers for Mines as designated authorities. I also remind the House of the recommendations of the Senate Select Committee of Off-shore Petroleum Resources and in particular of the paper delivered by Professor Richardson, the respected Professor of Law at the Australian National University, in which he pointed out that the constitution of the respective State Ministers for Mines was a derogation of the authority of the Commonwealth Minister and as such in breach of the Constitution. 
We have come to a point where maverick States can no longer be allowed to usurp, and if necessary to abuse, the sovereign functions of the National Parliament. I would be the last man in this House to deny the right, for example, of Western Australia to the development of natural gas for its own purposes. But, having said that, we come to the further situation where the Government now finds itself in a quandary as to how it can comply with the request of the Western Australian Government to allow the present situation to continue. It cannot do so. It should not do so. I suggest that we should have had produced the file of correspondence throughout the period of the High Court hearing between myself and  Mr Mensaros  the Minister for Mines of Western Australia, in which I repeatedly pointed out to him that State's lack of sovereign powers, the inadequacy of the conditions in respect of which the State granted exploration permits or production rights and the inadequacy of the expenditures that were sought from the companies concerned. I also suggested to the Minister that there were sufficient powers within the terms of the Petroleum (Submerged Lands) Act for the State to stall for a little while applications for renewal of exploration permits. The State refused to do so. It wanted to muddle up the position as much as it possibly could. 
Further results flow from the High Court decisions, and I refer in this respect to the rights of the on-shore States to legislate in respect of what is called peace, order and good government. In the absence of Commonwealth legislation there may be some case for State laws in respect of criminal jurisdiction, fisheries, workers compensation and civil contracts to continue. But this is a matter for negotiation. As an Opposition we do not want to see a repetition of an attempt by some means to subvert and to avoid the clear-cut terms of this judgment. That is precisely what was implicit in the answer that was given today by  Mr Anthony  to the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr E. G. Whitlam).  The Government somehow wants to get around the situation and to give the respective States the rights to continue to operate off-shore and to give title. The States are not in a position to give title. They are not in a position to give permits. The most they could do- and this can be done only by  ad hoc  committees without any constitutional basis- would be to delegate the day to day powers of operation in respect of off-shore exploration and production. There is no inherent power remaining in the respective States in respect of the right to decide the areas, the terms under which those areas are to be held and the period for which they are to be held. 
I do not want to see development held up. But here we would be dealing with assets that could be comparable only to those in respect of uranium in the Northern Territory. They are formidable assets. They need to be correctly handled. In the interests of the shareholders of the respective off-shore mining companies the position will need to be clarified. I challenge the Attorney-General to state clearly the extent to which he claims validity for any of the titles that are being granted in respect of off-shore operations. I would not for one minute suggest in respect of Bass Strait, where there is competent development, that the companies should not be granted their full renewal of rights. But wholly excessive areas have been given in respect of the North- West Shelf. These areas have been far in excess of what is off-shore exploration practice in other parts of the world. They have been given on giveaway conditions. This is a matter of national importance. It is a matter that demands immediate decision and the fullest frankness on the part of the Government. We are entitled to debate it fully in this House. 
My question is directed to the Treasurer. I remind him of his recent statements drawing attention to the role and importance of inflationary expectations. Is he aware that very little is known to the Government about inflationary realities, apart from its own economic shibboleths - 
I can quite understand the concern of the Government to get this measure through as soon as possible, particularly before the speech that is to be delivered tonight by the Treasurer  (Mr Lynch).  If there is any item which in the forthcoming Commonwealth Budget would lack any economic or social justification it is this particular one. In respect of other items such as Medibank, or transfers of endowment payments, there can be some justification of a trade off from one revenue source to another form of expenditure; but in this case, as my colleague the honourable member for Melbourne Ports  (Mr Crean)  has said, it is a straight, naked golden handshake. 
It is an open ended commitment. We have had no indication from the Government as to exactly what it anticipates will be required. There is no indication as to who will benefit from this provision other than the very general nebulous term 'industry'. Who will be the recipients? Will the expenditure go to industries which are labour intensive  or to industries which are  capital intensive? We have no clue whatever on the matter. And this is from a so-called businessmen's Government! There is no indication of who will benefit. However, we have a shrewd idea because the message came from Melbourne on 5 
April through the Minister for Foreign Affairs  (Mr Peacock)  that the tycoons of commerce in Melbourne were by no means enamoured of the Government's performance. They also indicated that they did not think very much of the accelerated depreciation allowances. But this sweetener of 40 per cent is fruit for the sideboard. It could provide a new rolling mill for the steel industry. It could provide a new mill for the sugar industry. It could provide a new set of malting equipment and brewing vats for the brewing industry and, even more than that, it can and will undoubtedly be seized on with the greatest avidity by the multi-nationals. 
This is the one item without any social or economic justification and it is for that reason that the Government, in its discomfort, wants to get it through now. It would sit ill when considered with an ordinary Budget package being introduced for the first time and the Government would undoubtedly be ripped to pieces. Instead, if it goes through now, as it will by sheer weight of numbers in this House and in the Senate, it will become an accomplished fact, and that is it. The Government can tick off one of the items of legislation that it wants to wreak its worst on the body politic of Australia. 
Speaking in terms of the ordinary run of the mill of secondary industry today, the surveys made show that in general only about 70 per cent of existing plant is in use. It becomes a question of which comes first, the chicken or the egg- the chicken being an expansion of plant and the egg being a return of consumer confidence- and whether such industries, and I am speaking of the smaller elements of secondary industry, can be enticed to come in and nibble. The big boys will be in, boots and all, with their ears back. They have never had it better than from this Government consisting of their friends. 
Apart from this being an open-end commitment, how soon would the operation flow through? No indication has been given on that score. As to its effect on employment, how much of it will be labour-intensive and how much capital-intensive? Here we can take the classic case of the building industry in Australia today. It is the largest single employer of labour in this country. Normally 90 000 men are engaged in it. At the present time 30 000 of those men in the eastern States of Australia, particularly New South Wales and Victoria, are unemployed. Without making free handouts to anyone, what has been vaguely adumbrated as the amount of Government expenditure would be manna from Heaven for these people. The building industry is different from most industries. First and foremost it depends on home building. In the past it has depended as well upon office construction but with over 3 % million square feet of vacant space still to be let in Sydney, with little hope of it being let in the very near future or even the next 3 or 4 years, the accent is more than ever on home building. Today there are home builders who are carrying on and tendering at cost so that they can retain the limited number of skilled tradesmen left in the industry. If those tradesmen go from that industry they will not return. What is the Government doing about that situation? Nothing whatever. That is where money on this scale ought to be going; it should be going where there can be an immediate effect. But no, the Government, in its mulishness and pigheadedness, wants to proceed with what it chooses to class as an election promise. 
We have had quite enough from this Government of pleas to tighten our belts and at the same time spend freely. No distinction is being made in this legislation between the rights or entitlements of small and large manufacturers. It is wide open. This is the open gate for the multinationals to enter. It is the open gate for the biggest companies in Australia to enter and help themselves. It is the payoff. I repeat, that in terms of employment there is no justification for this legislation. There is just the vague hope that somehow something will happen if this money is thrust upon the lesser elements of secondary industry which do not want it, but the big boys do. If this is to be the situation, all right; there is only one way to describe it- it is a naked and blatant exercise in Liberal discrimination for those people who put the Government in power and to whose tune the Government dances. 
Why is there no exemption in this legislation for the multi-nationals? There is none. I quote what my colleague the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Uren)  said when I say that 2 per cent of the companies operating in Australia net about 50 per cent of the total gross profit. Those are the people who will be coming in to help themselves. What precautions are there against exploitation? To take a classic case, anyone who wants to buy a truck with a capacity of over one ton can qualify under this scheme. What about the question of the trade-in? There will not be any trade-ins from now on. That will be a side issue. To maximise the benefit people will get there will be a straight transaction without the question of a trade-in, but on the side there will be a separate transaction for the sale of what would normally be the trade-in. That is just giving one case to illustrate how loose this proposal is. There has not been proper thinking on it. The Government is over eager to bring it in. It is over eager to get the legislation through today, and it is a disgrace. It is the only item in the coming set of Budget legislation for which it has neither social nor economic justification. 
-Has the Minister for Health noted the decision yesterday of the Federal Assembly of the Australian Medical Association to set up a peer group committee within 3 to 4 years to check Medibank fee abuses? Has he considered the alternative of the powers under sections 34, 35 and 36 of the New South Wales Medical Practitioners Act under which the Medical Practitioners Charges Committee can review patients' accounts promptly at their request on the basis of such criteria as the type of service and the requisite professional standard of competence? If not, will he do so and request the cooperation of other States in introducing counterpart legislation in substitution for the delays inherent in a non statutory peer group? 
-I ask the Attorney-General whether it is a fact that he, together with the Solicitor-General, has given an advising to the Government that the authorities for offshore exploration are of highly doubtful validity following the recent High Court judgment? If so, what steps has he taken with regard to the persistence of the Western Australian Government to continue to invite applications for such exploration? Will he make available to the House any such advising for its information? 
-A tariff debate always brings out new viewpoints and, within parties, even conflicting viewpoints. I listened with very great interest to the comments of the honourable member for Ballaarat  (Mr Short).  I represent the major centre of heavy industry in Australia. Tariffs are a matter of vital importance to us; so much so that recently it was necessary for certain action of a protective nature to be taken in respect of imports of black sheet steel. There is a good old saying that you never knock a doll over until you know what you are going to stand up in its place. That applies particularly to secondary industry. If we look at the Constitution we find that more attention is paid to the duties of customs and excise than to anything else. I think there are ten or eleven sections dealing with this matter. The protagonists for and against protection are still active through various pressure groups. But today the approach of any government ought to be conditioned by the realities of world trade. Let us be frank about it; world trade today is by no means bright. In some cases it is not flourishing, but sick. Whilst every nation today through the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade and public protestations pays lip service to free trade, all are busily raising the tariff barriers just as high as they can possibly get them. The Labor Party is traditionally a protectionist party. That does not mean to say it is rabidly protectionist, but we start from one fundamental premise and it is this: That Australians who are enjoying Australian rates of pay or salary can well afford to buy the products of Australia's secondary industry. There can, of course, be exceptions to that rule. Whilst no one would support in the long term what might be termed the feather-bedding of industries, by the same token we are a Party of long memories and long perspectives. We well remember the fall of Singapore and the fact that we were no longer under the protective aegis of the British Navy and that in fact we had to depend on our own strong right arm and the productivity of our secondary industries. For that reason there is a very real need in considering major tariff alterations to consider the defence potential that is involved. 
We live in an age of steel and I represent a city of steel. Accordingly, whilst we do not normally ask for protection there are cases, particularly in respect of the smaller gauges of sheet steel products in which the labour content is so high, that we need protection. When it comes to the production of pig iron or the larger sections of steel, yes, we can certainly hold our own in world competition. Having said that, let it also be said that by no means all members of the Labor Party were, shall I say, enchanted with the acrosstheboard cuts There are certain fields, in particular the textile industry- and I have a major textile industry in my electorate- which suffered grievously. Nevertheless there is always a time to retrieve the mistakes that were made and those mistakes were made with due warning from those of us who had the appropriate experience. 
For many years we as a Party were plagued by the textbook economists who chose to come over here from the Australian National University and from other universities and lecture us on all the" advantages of free trade. The honourable member for Ballaarat posed the very problem that I posed to some of these textbook economists. Whilst I am not averse to listen to the counsels of these people there is a time when hard common sense ought to prevail, and right now I do not see the need for any Australian secondary industry- this is a broad statement of policy-to be subjected to the impositions of the Industries Assistance Commission. It is a good time just to have a look at where we are running as a nation. Speaking from the top of my head I think that the export component of secondary industry is of the order of 20 per cent to 22 per cent, and it will be a problem to maintain that percentage in a world which is breaking up into protective blocs. There are of course the European Economic Community, the Council for Mutual Economic Assistance and the 2 Americas. Outside those there is the Third World and in the Pacific the only 2 major developed countries are Japan and Australia. There is a very real need for very close co-operation between those countries in terms of secondary industry. But above all we must consider our defence potential. 
I have had the honour to sit in this House for over 13 years and to listen to some of the diatribes from the Government side on piddling matters, but when you come right down to the fundamentals it is our defence potential, our ability to stand as a nation, our ability to stand on our own feet and to rely upon our own ability and our own productivity, that is all-important. Australia to my knowledge is a nation which in raw resources lacks nothing with the possible exception of potash and sulphur. Beyond that I would say that we have every means of supplying not only our food requirements but also our energy requirements. In respect of energy, there has been a fetish for many years that everyone would use liquid hydrocarbons but the whole world has gone for a honeymoon with liquid hydrocarbons and the end is in sight. Despite all the propaganda that we see in the Press and its motivation, whether it is political or financial, the hard fact today is that life is an equation in hydrocarbons. They are transmutable; they are interchangeable. Whether they are solid, liquid, or gaseous they are all of equal importance and they are all equally available for the development of this country. 
It will be the responsibility of this Government and its successor, which will be us again, to think in those term's. Oil is available only off-shore and it is in remote areas. On the continental shelf there is very little. There is a lot of natural gas, but the oil is beyond. It is on the Exmouth plateau. It is in areas where deep-sea drilling will prevail. There we come to the cross-over point as to whether it is worth while to continue to look for oil there and to pay the cost involvedsomething to the order of $700m was the figure given to me just merely for exploration in the Exmouth Gulf- or whether the Government, forgetting politics, ought not to knuckle down to realities. We have in Australia excellent types of high volatile coal, which has as much as  7h  per cent hydrogen and is ideally suitable for hydrogenation into liquid fuel. 
For the future, despite the prodigality that there is in the United States and even in this country in the use of fuel and energy, we will have no alternative but to turn to that source. It is there. It is readily available and in Queensland particularly in the Darling Downs and in New South Wales in the Hunter Valley there are ideal coal types. If someone wants an alternative technology they should go down to the world ranking resources of the Latrobe Valley. 
I am speaking only extemporaneously but I did want to make my contribution to this debate and to sound a note of warning because it is no good our being starry-eyed or woolly-minded. We are facing a pretty rough time today with a world divided into protective trading blocs. If we pursue the chimera, the will-o'-the-wisp of free trade- I know that there are free traders in the Government ranks and they will have their say whether it be in newspaper columns or elsewhere- and if Australia is to have any future at all because of its relative isolation in geographical terms it must be in terms of protected and sensibly protected secondary industry. 
-I refer the Treasurer to the Budget Papers in which the Government's estimate of income from pay-as-you-earn taxation, after deductions by way of rebate, for the coming year will be of the order of $8,750m, an increase over the 1975-76 figure of almost $l,750m and an increase in percentage terms of more than 25 per cent. How does he equate this 25 per cent impost on the trade unionists of Australia with the generally accepted inflation component of 12 per cent in the present Budget? 
-The Minister for National Resources and Minister for Overseas Trade  (Mr Anthony),  who has just resumed his seat, is a little man in a very big job. He has already been the subject of attack by the Premiers of Western Australia and Queensland because his policies too greatly resemble those of the former Labor Administration. He has been under attack for that. The Australian Mining Industry Council is howling for his blood, and there is speculation as to how long he will hold office. Country Party members represent purveyors of concessions. They are now interjecting, of course. There is no fundamental decency in them. They are heard in courtesy at all times by me. I expect the same courtesy in return. I do not think they are capable of giving it. The position today is that this Government knows that Labor's policies were correct. When Labor took control of the Australian mineral export industry there was chaos. We put it in order, but chaos is emerging again today, as my colleague the honourable member for Blaxland  (Mr Keating)  has said. What the Minister has just said is a misrepresentation of the facts, to put it mildly. In July of last year this same man was in Tokyo while I was there negotiating the best deal that had ever been made with the Japanese coal industry. He was bad-mouthing his Government, and the Japanese negotiators expressed to me their feelings towards such a man. After all, they value patriotism, but honourable members opposite do not possess it. 
The Hail Creek project was approved several years ago. It fell flat for very obvious reasons which are well known to the Minister. The Nebo project was held up because of the stranglehold of Utah on the export port and the control of the railway system by the Queensland Government. I received the personal thanks of  Sir Leslie  Thiess for the work done in that respect. Those are the realities. Labor put things in order. The Labor Government found the Japanese market. The Japanese were acting as a monopoly, with one buying outlet under the control of the Government and with finance through the Japanese banking system. I do not blame them for it because I suppose that if we had been in a similar position we would have done the same thing. The Japanese made one bid. They knew what they wanted and they cut up the cake after they had bought it In the export black coal industry we had the spectacle of each company being prepared to cut the other's throat and feuding for that market. We restored order, and we had to use some pretty tough methods in order to do it. The Japanese respect strength, they respect integrity, they respect competence. Today black coal is Australia's major export earner. I repeat that it is the major export earner for Australia, and for that thanks are due to the former Government, its policies and its administration. 
By the same token, the feuding has broken out again, and the question now is whether this Minister is capable of controlling these people. I say that he is not and that he would not know how. More than that, immediately after he took office he went to Japan to do a deal on a tied sale basis. He wanted to flog off meat, linked with sales of uranium and with sales of black coal. He fell flat on his face, and rightly so. I have every sympathy for the meat exporters, but that is not the way to do business with the Japanese. They will never respect him because of his incompetence and because of what he did 12 months ago in badmouthing the Government. Patriotism does count with the Japanese. 
Let us look at the position in the iron ore industry. Let us look at the position of Hamersley Holdings for a start. That company, back in 1965, negotiated contracts in a hurry. There were no escalation clauses and no provision for variation of exchange rates. We tidied things up for that company. In terms of comparative quality, the iron ore industry is a much easier one than is the black coal industry. We had to knock a few heads together because there are some pretty tough cookies amongst the people in that industry. Today the feud has broken out again. We have a situation of Japan being offered 80 million tons of additional exports of iron ore when it has a total requirement of 20 million tons. The present Minister has not come in to knock those heads together and they need to be knocked together; there is no alternative. 
This is a matter in relation to which the national interest comes first and not the foreign ownership interest which now stands at 78 per cent in the iron ore industry in Western Australia. In Queensland 85 per cent of the black coal industry is under foreign ownership and control. Western Australia has its problems. This 
Government is not capable of solving them because it will not take sides. In the process Australia will suffer. When a government of the same political persuasion as the present government took office in 1949 and continued in office until 1972, it rode on the crest of the wave of the postwar boom. In those days it could adopt a low posture. It could open the gates wide for investors to come into the minerals industry on thenown terms. But the boom is over. Governments were able successfully and progressively through the years to allow an increase in foreign capital coming into the minerals industry, to the point where it was 62 per cent owned and controlled by foreigners. Today it is a new ball game and the Government does not know where to start or what to do. 
These are the hard realities of the situation. Of vital importance are Australia's reserves of foreign exchange. At the end of August they were down to $A2,409m, and the deficit on the balance of payments on current account was $A840m for the past year. In other words, what we have today, when related to imports, is the equivalent of only about  3Vi  months' purchases. The Government is out looking for money today; it is wanting to borrow money to add to the foreign exchange reserves. It is a difficult situation. I want to see the present exchange rate continued. Even  Mr Parer  of the Utah Development Co. wants to see the same thing happen. But thanks to this Government and its incompetence the Utah Development Co. now holds the absolute record of profitability in Australian company history- $ 1 50m, of which only 10.8 per cent will stay in Australia; the rest will go overseas. That is typical of this Government. It is typical of its mismanagement. It is typical of its utter, complete and continuing inability to provide a proper policy and proper management. These so-called tycoons, the representatives of so-called big business are utterly, completely and totally incompetent. They bridled when we came along and they said: 'What does a Labor government know about business?' We knew. We handled these people, and the Government is making a mess of the situation. 
I address my question to the Minister for Health. To what extent has he been able to inform himself as to the percentage availability of beds in private and intermediate wards for persons who will be taking out an appropriate insurance cover? Is it correct to say that there will in certain of the Australian States be a definite shortfall in this regard? If so, what does he propose to do to provide relief by way of reimbursement for persons who, on presenting themselves for the insured type of accommodation, find that they are not able to receive it? 
-I support the amendment proposed by the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr E. G. Whitlam).  This Budget and its effect on the Australian people would only be rivalled by the horror Budget of the early 1950s. It is a tragedy of conflicting political ideologies. Ideological obsessions are very nice when taken in small doses. 
I heard the honourable member, for what it was worth, in silence and, if he had any elementary courtesy, he would do the same for me. The Prime Minister of Canada,  Mr Trudeau,  recently said that we cannot make a modified free market economy solve our current problems. He added: . . . it will do no good to try to create a pure free-market economy to solve our future problems . . . 
This did not come from a man of the Labor Party's political persuasion. This man is responsible for governing a major and comparable member of the Commonwealth. He continued: 
Until I heard the shrill comments made by some businessmen during the past few weeks, I had thought that the great depression of the 1930s had destroyed for ever the notion that a free-market economy, if unassisted by Governments, would produce by itself the ideal state of steady economic growth, stable prices and full employment. 
That is precisely what this Government hopes to achieve by the unparalleled pursuit of its traditional ideology. 
This Government lags one whole depression 40 years, as a matter of fact- behind economic reality. Its ideology simply will not work. The leaks corning from the party rooms of the Government suggest that there is unlimited fear on the part of the oncers as to what the result will be. It is very good to try to tough it through, but we are coming to the point where shrill voices are commencing to be heard. The most recent of these was the voice this week of  Mr Taplin  who, as Government supporters would know, is the  President  of the International Trade Division of the New South Wales Chamber of Commerce. He has been reported as follows: 
Some manufacturers, he said, were 'beginning to have grave doubts' whether the Federal Government fully understood business problems. 
I do not believe that it does. Today right throughout the world, in terms of secondary industry, every major trading country is paying Up service to the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade and pushing up the tariff barriers as high as it can. Today it is a case of every nation for itself in preserving employment in a period of deteriorating world economy. Instances of feather bedding can be quoted. Other instances can be quoted of industries doing the best they can. But in the situation that exists at the present time there is no alternative to the maintenance of full employment. Persons who receive Australian rates of pay and persons under Australian working conditions have a corresponding obligation to purchase goods made in Australian secondary factories under those conditions of payment. May I also quote from yesterday's issue of the Melbourne  Age  in which the financial editor  Mr Graeme  McDougall in an article said in the heading 'Asinine jawboning is moving no one' and in fact it is 'counter-productive'. He said that Ministers are taking their own public utterances seriously. He made particular points. He said that through a massive jawboning effort the Government had: 
Talked business into believing recovery had started early this year- when it had not; 
Talked the sharemarket into it 's strongest rise for years; 
We all know about that. The third point was that the Government had: 
Talked many people into believing they had done much for business when in fact they have done little. 
He went on to say: 
There is a strong chance that continuing urging from the top echelons of Government will begin to be counterproductive. 
Ministers are starting to take their own public utterances so seriously they cannot understand why businessmen do not see things the same way and start spending. 
After all, one of the Government's main hopesfrustrated as they have been- for economic recovery is that somehow the bulk of the Australian people will accept lower wages yet spend more- spend themselves out of an economic depression and receive less money for their daily stint of work. 
Yes. I will give you something on that. It was a $2,000m loan, I remind you. I will have something pertinent on that for your edification. If you want a real horselaugh get the full text of the address by  Senator Cotton  to the assembly of retailers recently in which he told them to get out and sell- boots and all. The true position is that with a dwindling cake in terms of consumer expenditure they are doing their best and they are going flat out to maintain their sales and their present diminished rate of employment. 
-No, but you are. To add to the woes of the Government, the economic panel which was recently appointed- the think tank of the whiz-kid, the Treasurer  (Mr Lynch)-  had one of its leaders, a Professor Whitehead, saying, at a public assembly of course, that the retailers are in for 'a long hard haul'. He said there is 'unlikely to be evidence of any real recovery for 3 years'. So much for the handpicked think tank. The truth is that today the figures of current savings indicate that they are continuing to increase and there is only one cogent explanation for it, and it is this: The people are literally squirrelling; they are saving for a rainy day. They are all afraid that it will be their turn next to join the ranks of the unemployed. 
Reference has been made to loan borrowings overseas. The figures are interesting. Since this Government took office it either has arranged or is about to secure total borrowings of $A850m. The figures are there to be seen in the financial columns of last Saturday's  Sydney Morning Herald.  More than that, immediately after the advent of this Government and with the smart money believing that as a reflex action the Country Party would force immediate devaluation, another $A575m went out by way of exchange transfers. The smart money men took it out there and then. The total was just on $ A 1,400m, not so very short of the $2,000m authority that I had. They were U.S. dollars and at the time were worth $ A 1,500m. Our very smart Treasurer has his men tip-toeing around Europe picking up what he can, the unconsidered trifles, wherever he can get them, in places where he bad mouthed a former Government. 
Let us look at the other remarkable financial feat of this whiz-kid Treasurer. Australian savings bonds are at a record rate, a horribly unsensible, foolish rate of 10.5 per cent. They were pitched on terms which were such that all the smart money men got in. I do not blame them for doing so because lightning strikes only once in the same spot on matters like this. The financial world was horrified. Let us look again at the question , of devaluation. I for one am strongly opposed to any devaluation occurring and that is the policy of our Party. Let that be understood quite clearly by the people of Australia. There is no need whatever for devaluation to occur if this Government is prepared to handle its business in a proper way. There are certain excellent sources of export revenue that can be obtained and maintained. I repeat my comment of last week: I said then that my predecessor in office had better pull his finger out and get straight down to business because if he did not the Japanese would put it all over him. In fact they are doing so already. 
We are in a strong position in our trading relations with Japan if we choose to use it correctly. For example, for from time to time there is the old stalking horse of the threat of Brazilian iron ore to the Australian Exporters. It is true that Japan needs only an extra 20m tons and it is true that collectively the Western Australian producers are offering 80 million tons. On the other hand, that Brazilian ore happens to be a soft friable ore which has to be brought a longer distance and when it is being sized for a blast furnace charge it produces extra iron ore dust which in turn has to be solidified by calcination. This should dismiss that argument and I give the Minister that advice for what it is worth because in a matter of a few weeks a Japanese delegation will be coming here. What of the counter offers that will occur in the case of coal, say from Russia or from the east coast of the United States of America. On the east coast of the USA they cannot produce the coal they need and only spot sales are being made because of the conservationist lobby. It is not obtainable there. Similarly, coal from Russia has a very high sulphur content. The Japanese well know that the best coal that they can get at a sensible price and on proper terms as to continuity is from Australia. 
I mention these facts because coal today is the leading Australian export earner. Iron ore is next to it. In both cases, in Australia's interests I want to see proper prices obtained and proper trading conditions. I want to see an end to the chaos that is emerging and to which even the spokesman for the Utah people,  Mr Parer,  referred recently. He said that there was a need for the Federal Government to come back into the picture once again. It is time this nonsense about who was unkind to the Japanese or that the terms upon which they purchased the minerals were unfair was dropped. We entered into proper trading negotiations with them. We had the respect of these people. They respected our firmness, our competence and our reliability. If the Government does not continue its relations with the Japanese on that basis, they will run right over the top of us, and I would not blame them for doing it. 
I turn to other matters. Today we have a world wide situation in which the devastation of World War II has ended. The reconstruction of the damaged countries has ended and we are again in a classic period of economic crisis. We are in a period also in which the productive capacity of the world as a whole far exceeds the ability of the world to consume. In a situation such as that, we need to think much more in terms of what we do within our own country. It is no good the Government trying to gloss over the situation. It is there. It is one that a Labor government would have inherited also. There is only one answer to the situation and it is this: There should be an infusion of public moneys; there must be an infusion of public moneys. Honourable members opposite well know this. The honourable member for Mackellar  (Mr Wentworth)  in particular will know this. One matter upon which I agree with him is that the constriction of capital expenditure is being associated with cash on the barrel head concepts of budget managementMr McLean- But where would you spend it? 
It needs to be spent on infrastructure. If Australia is to achieve its destiny, it can be done only by the upgrading and beneficiation of its mineral resources on the one hand and by selective and improved agricultural production on the other hand. Today in the world there is a drop in the availability of food supplies. In the early 1950s, there was a food supply of 95 days per person for the world's population. Today, that supply is down to about 25 days. We have developing now as a counter poise to petro-power the concept in the United States of America of agri-power. The U.S. happens to be the world's largest producer and exporter of food. There will be conflict between the U.S. and Russia in this regard. One will play its cards and the other will play its cards also. Countries such as Australia must consider precisely what their attitudes will be. I quote the words of Marshall Green, the former United States Ambassador to Australia, as I have so often quoted them in the House previously. He said that Australia on a per capita basis and in terms of our resources is the richest country in the world. Australia is one of only 4 countries which can claim that it is self-contained and self-sufficient in energy resources. The 4 countries are Canada, the Soviet Union, Mainland China and Australia. I suggest to honourable members on the Government side that they consider economic, social and political realities rather than the continual caterwauling we are hearing as to the sins of omission and commission of the former Labor Administration. 
I support the amendment moved by my colleague, the honourable member for Kingsford-Smith  (Mr Lionel Bowen).  I listened with interest to the comments of the honourable member for Balaclava  (Mr Macphee).  I remind him that today there is a very substantial downgrading of the functions of Parliament. As a matter of fact, many of its functions are being usurped by the media, by the electronic media and the Press. I have had 26 years experience as a parliamentarian and my blood runs cold when I see interviewers asking questions for the specific purpose of chopping at a parliamentarian and the parliamentarian being foolish enough to downgrade himself and his responsibilities. Today matters are being discussed by the media which ought properly first to be announced and discussed here. In the centuries to come historians will say that two of the outstanding characteristics of this era were the parliamentary institution and the role of the English language as the only substitute for a universal tongue among mankind. 
In regard to the amendment, I agree with the remarks of the honourable member for Kingsford-Smith. Parliament is under the gravest threat since Federation. Let us look at the basis of parliamentary representation. A party with 43 per cent of the total vote of the people finishes up with 28 per cent of the representation here. In other words, the basis of representation in the party which is here is an excrescence in a parliamentary democracy in terms of numbers. The fundamental issue is a simple and longstanding one. It is the question of the power of the purse residing in the House of Commons or in the House of Representatives. As the honourable member for Kingsford-Smith has said, we have had 2 examples of its abuse and perversion by the Senate. In Great Britain this matter was thrashed out in about the year 1642 when Charles I came into the House of Commons with a detachment of military and demanded money. Ever since then the king and his representatives have been specifically denied access to the House of Commons. The matter finally emerged in statutory form in 1911 in the United Kingdom. Yesterday we had the spectacle of the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  stating in Parliament-again he was dealing with comments made by the honourable member for Kingsford-Smith- that a High Court action could clearly declare to be unlawful the decision of an Australian Government which had voted itself Supply to continue in office. I thought the issue was decided over 340 years ago. 
The instrument for the destruction of the power of the House of Commons- the power over the purse- is the very instrument, the Constitution compromise, by which the disparate States of Australia reluctantly, grudgingly and with the greatest possible caution finally agreed to federation. I refer to the Senate and its function. Of course, we have the spectacle where a State with 15 times the population of another State has an equivalent number of members in the Senate by way of representation. Worse than that, need I remind honourable members of the 2 scandalous appointments to fill casual vacancies which occurred in relation to the Senate? For the first time, we saw the breaking of a gentlemen's convention which had been honoured by the States and in the Federal Parliament by which representatives from the same parties were appointed to fill a casual vacancy. Shame on the Governments which broke that convention. Where else but in the English speaking world would we see restrictions such as those which are still found in sections 58 and 59 of the Constitution? It is worth while reminding honourable members about those sections because of the situation where, when a proposed law is presented to the Governor-General for the Queen's assent, he can declare according to his discretion that he assents in the Queen's name, that he withholds assent or that he reserves the law for the Queen 's pleasure. 
The honourable member for Kingsford-Smith has asked: Unless the Constitution is altered what will be the position when, for the first time, the majority in the Senate come from a different political persuasion to that of the Government in the House of Representatives? Can we imagine the deliberate involvement of the GovernorGeneral in politics and, vicariously, the involvement of the monarchy itself? This is a matter for regret because, in common with other honourable members, I took an oath of allegiance to  Her  Majesty. I do not do those things very lightly. I ask honourable members to imagine the situation which can arise where assent is withheld or, even worse, where the Governor-General has the power to return to this House or to another place a proposed law which has been presented to him with suggested amendments. I thought the functions of a viceroy disappeared with the partition of India nearly 30 years ago. But today we have a viceroy, not a Governor-General, exercising supervisory powers which might have been appropriate to an immature, emerging nation but not to a mature, independent nation which chooses to share a monarch with the United Kingdom. 
The Queen accepts the title of Queen of Australia and we respect her for it. She guarantees the Queen's peace. She is the titular and respected head of the Commonwealth which some historians have chosen to identify as being a crowned republic. But whatever form our nation takes, it is one we understand. It seems to suit our instincts for parliamentary democracy. The result of all this is that we will have in February of next year a royal visit. The Queen and her Consort will be welcomed. Now the criticism of her representative in Australia is leaving the streets and going into a grand debate at public meetings. That is the proper place for such a matter. The issue is still- no member of the Opposition can burke or deny it- the right of the House of Commons or of the House of Representatives to have the power of the purse, to vote money, to spend money, to impose and to collect taxes. That is in section 53 of the Constitution, the opinion of the Governor-General and of the Chief Justice of the High Court of Australia notwithstanding. 
The debate will continue because we have an archaic Constitution which belongs to another age. The High Court- let us be quite frank about it- has deliberately had to strain the meaning of the English language to the limit to make sure that the Australian nation could grow in strength and function. Unless we are freed from those constraints which were put there by timid men with parochial interests, Australia will never fully function effectively as a social and economic unit. I say that not in any spirit of political partisanship but because it is vitally necessary that there be some amendments. Those amendments must be put to the people and supported by both parties. Grave economic and social damage has been done. In conclusion I state that those who live by the sword will perish by it. The threat is there. Let honourable members mark it well. When there is a change of government or if there is a change of representation in the Senate alone, there will be further trouble. There can be double dissolutions at least once every year or even more often. There can be forced dissolution of the lower House to again go to the people, citing the precedent of 1 1 November of last year. 
-I listened with great interest to my neighbour, the honourable member for Macarthur  (Mr Baume).  I do not propose to be embroiled in a parochial dogfight with him. Perhaps he has very good reasons for raising a little bit of a smokescreen to distract attention from other even more important matters in relation to the Burragorang coal mines. I refer in particular to the recent sale by Clutha Development Pty Ltd of a 50 per cent share for a little matter of $ 160m. The main deposits included in that are from the Oakdale coal mines which were sold for $9,750,000 in 1968. The contract was validated by legislation of the then Liberal-National Country Party Government of New South Wales which claimed that the mine was uneconomic and that it could not do anything with it. But the hard fact is that in the total consideration of $160m, about 3 500 000 tonnes of the 5 500 000 tonnes total production of the Clutha interests that were sold, as to 50 per cent only, comes from the Burragorang area. Whether the company ought to be shipping efficiently from Botany Bay or from Port Kembla is a matter that other people more proficient in transport than the honourable member or I will decide. I could not care less which way it goes. I am not parochial in these matters. I am proud to have established coal as the main export earner for Australia, no thanks to the present Government for its frustrations. 
Speaking in more general terms, I state that the Government's dilemma at the present time is a very real one. It is desperately in need of. further funds to shore up its reserves of foreign exchange. Ever since a Liberal-Country Party Government first took office in 1949, to use the celebrated words of the late Arthur Calwell it has been in the process of allowing parts of the farm to be sold to pay the grocery bill. Only today in the  Australian Financial Review  there is a report of an interview with no less a person than  Mr Coates  who is the investment manager of the Australian Mutual Provident Society, the largest single investing group in Australia. The report is worth quoting.  Mr Coates  had this to say:  the equity market as such is not a significant outlet for institutional funds in the long run . . . The equity that is available, that is not held by overseas parents, presents a thin market Our investment opportunities lie outside equities, and more in direct investments. Our recent association with Utah is typical . . . 
I see people literally scrabbling in the dirt for a paltry few million dollars. But I have also seen, as I have watched over my 26 years in Parliament, the gradual dissipation of Australia's real wealth, its natural wealth. As a classical example I take the Utah organisation, which came to Queensland to arrange to get 30 per cent of the then proven deposits of 1000 million tons of black hard coking coal. That company suddenly discovered when it did some ore drilling that there were 6.4 billion tons of coal there. It asked whether it could get that coal also. Company representatives came to me for that purpose. I told them frankly that we, as a government, would honour a contract that had been entered into. The gross value of that coal was $A40 a ton. That company was doing mighty handsomely out of the situation. I told the company that it would get the limit of 300 million tons to which it was entitled. 
Strangely the Japanese chose to foster that company and for very good reason because with all its engineering competence it missed one of the main protective arrangements, namely, the need for escalation clauses. The Utah people, despite the fact that this year they will receive a total of about $150m profit after paying tax, have no escalation clauses. So Utah exists and draws its money by grace and favour of the Japanese. That is a shocking state of affairs for a company which dominates to the extent of twothirds the total black coal export market of Australia. Recently that company was shamed by this Government- I give it credit for doing so- into coming across with some interest. In return that company got another 150 million tons of coal worth $6 billion gross. After deduction of extraction costs and before paying income tax, it is a matter of about $4.5 billion net profit. The AMP Society- I have a very great respect for that company; it is an important Australian association- came into the deal. That is the price we are paying in our attempts to buy back the farm. 
If we go a little down the coast we will come to the Thiess-Peabody-Mitsui interests, 58 per cent of which are held by Peabody. Peabody in turn are owned by Kennecott, the major copper combine which has been told by the United States Supreme Court that it has to divest itself of its coal mining interests. The Kennecott-Peabody interests came to see us when we were in government. They interviewed the then Treasurer,  Mr Crean,  and myself. We told them frankly that, if they were going to offer Australian interests together with their other interests on a worldwide basis, we were not satisfied and that their interest ought to be first offered to Australians. That has not been done. The Broken Hill Pty Co. Ltd at present is trying to acquire those interests. They ought to acquire them. I challenge this Government to say what it is going to do to really protect the interests of Australia. 
Let us go to the other side of Australia and have a look at the iron ore setup. The Japanese are delightfully playing one group off against the other. This Government, through its mulishness and stupidity, is quite deliberately dismantling the contractual supervision that we imposed not merely on price but also on volume as well as on quality. Those iron ore interests which in aggregate are 78 per cent overseas controlled are more interested in maximising their profits. Their final policy decisions will be determined by the dictates of their overseas directors rather than by the best interests of the people in Australia There quite selectively and deliberately the Japanese are choosing 3 existing companies. What a choice they have! What a bagfull of riches! Eighty million tons of iron ore is offered to them when they need only 20 million tons. What a humiliating spectacle! This Government and the State Liberal-National Country Party Government of Western Australia are sitting supinely and doing nothing about controlling the situation. We are dealing with a monopsony. The Japanese- give them credit for it- are patriotic and are true to their nation and to their national interests and are good, astute businessmen. There is only one way to match them and that is to do the same; that means national interest and national control. 
We have a further sellout looming at present despite the fact that after 2 years of obstruction by the then Opposition with its majority in the Senate we were finally able to establish, through the High Court of Australia, the fact that offshore hydrocarbons and minerals were the exclusive property of the people of Australia. Today we are confronted with a report from the Industries Assistance Commission. I sometimes wonder whether it is not the Industries Assassination Commission. That report proposes that there should be a golden handshake for the companies which are operating in Bass Strait and which propose to operate on the north-west shelf. The companies involved are entitled to a proper return, but they are not entitled to a golden handshake of $600m. I have listened to tedious debates in this House arguing over a couple of hunder thousand dollars, yet right underneath our nose the major interests and the major assets of Australia are being filched from the Australian people. 
-The Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  recently announced that there would be an overhaul of the Commonwealth Scientific and Industrial Research Organisation. He sugar-coated the pill with a number of compliments, but it would appear from the terms of reference and from the composition of the committee of inquiry, with the exception of Professor Birch, that it is more of a keelhauling process than a mere overhauling. In point of fact, it is an examination from top to bottom of the functions of the CSIRO. While Professor Birch is a man of undoubted eminence and ability to chair such a committee, when it comes to the question of the huge and broad problems of scientific administration and policy the 2 men associated with him, whatever their eminence in their respective fields, rather remind me of Oscar Wilde's definition of fox huntingthe unspeakable in pursuit of the uneatable. 
More seriously, there are very serious problems associated with science and the approach which must be made to it. The  Chairman  of the CSIRO,  Sir Robert  Price, has put the best gloss that he can on things with his recent statement that changes which had taken place in the 1970s had made the organisation even more aware of the need for more effective external relations with official bodies and community groups, particularly industry, departments of State, universities and the Australian Science and Technology Council. He might have added to that a little more tolerance for the approach made last year and the actions taken last year by the former Government in respect of coal hydrogenation and general questions of petroleum research. The problems are undoubtedly manifold, and I would be the last, and churlish indeed, to deny that the CSIRO has great achievements to its credit, graduating from the requirements of primary industry into other fields, and with considerable distinction, but with a certain professional reservation which can best be described in the words of the report of the Royal Commission on Australian Government Administration, in which the  Chairman  said: 
This distrust of the bureaucracy by scientists is traditional and pervading. Basically it seems to derive from a fear that non-science' values will override the scientist's ethos, thereby emasculating the creativity of science work and rendering the scientist schizoid, alienated and uncreative. 
The Coombs report goes on further: 
Throughout the evidence before us - 
That is the Royal Commission-  and the studies we have sponsored these themes recur with fugue-like repetition and diversity. 
That is correct. There are many problems in relation to science and they take various forms. Of those, the most important is some line of demarcation between the necessary abstract seclusion to which a scientist may be entitled in certain parts of his work and its very definite economic relationship. I can well understand the real motivation behind the proposed keelhauling. It is nothing more or less than this: Treasury wants better value for money than it is getting. It may be entitled to have that, but by the same token a better balance must be struck than has hitherto operated between pure science and applied science, or technology, as it is better known. 
The problems as I see them are these: First, there is scientific integrity, or what might be called the ivory tower complex. Next there is the other extreme, which is obviously the motivation behind the present Government's terms of reference to the committee, that is, financial accountability, with the dessicated calculating machines of the Treasury wanting to know just how much they will get and how quickly they can get it. Then there is the other professional problem of progression in rank, and here one cuts across the inhibitions of the Public Service Board. Next are the general questions, and regrettably former occupants of the Science portfolio have not exercised their powers of direction. As the Opposition sees the picture, the powers of direction and some definition of the relative urgency of scientific research are very urgently needed in Australia. I will say more about that later, in the limited time that I have available. The use of those objectives, or the results of research associated with them, in matters of applied technology is something that certainly needs the closest examination. 
In relation to research and development grants, debates in recent years will reveal that it has been a matter of distributing largesse to those least entitled to it. Some of the biggest firms in Australia, those least in need of having their research expenditure supplemented, have been among the greatest recipients of government aid. Again, there is a very wide field of associated interests, such as defence scientific research, the Atomic Energy Commission and the Bureau of Mineral Resources. Here we come to one of the tragedies of science in Australia. I have had the comment made to me repeatedly by representatives of overseas interests that they were astounded at the ready availability of information on Australia's more valuable resources. In other countries, this information would be classified. In Australia, it has been given away in the most foolish possible way. 
Finally, I mention another problem, that is, the future role of the Australian Science and Technology Council. Yet another is of equal importance. I refer to the extent to which the multi-national overseas companies are already in control. They just gravitate automatically to the high technology areas where they can extract the maximum profit with the minimum of labour content. I broadly favour the terms of the recommendations contained in the Coombs Royal Commission on Australian Government Administration. Page 321 of the report gives a virtual charter for the future of the Commonwealth Scientific and Industrial Research Organisation. The Organisation ought to exist. There ought to be a Minister in charge of science. There must be a Minister in charge of science and a Minister with powers of direction. The remedies are contained in the report. I think they are very good remedies and the Royal Commission ought to be congratulated on them. There needs to be some break up of many of the functions of CSIRO. There are other valuable functions that it will continue to discharge. But there is a need for a co-ordinating committee, which the report recommends, composed of representatives from the various deparments which have scientific interests. At the present time, ASTEC is the only controlling device that exists. The Coombs Royal Commission report recommends as an alternative the possibility of the Prime Minister's Department continuing to control science because of its universality and the ultimate returns that are available from it. In that event, there would need to be an assistant Minister. I think it would be best if there were a separate Minister. The alternatives are adequately posed in the terms of the report. 
As to some of the priorities that are urgently needed, a very obvious one for a country with an import bill of $700m a year for liquid hydrocarbons is obviously coal hydrogenation. Good work has been done by CSIRO into one technology, the flash pyrolysis of coal. I do not think it is the one that will be economically most effective. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Mr Drummond)  -Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
-There is no doubt that there is still much to be done by the Commonwealth Scientific and Industrial Research Organisation not only on the question of coal hydrogenation but also, and even more importantly, and good work has been done by it in the field, on the question of solar energy in respect of low grade heat. The definition of low grade heat is generally the heating of water up to 140 degrees Fahrenheit. However, the real work is still to be done. Good as the achievements of the CSIRO have been in solar energy, the main is still to come and instead of worrying about insolation or the heating of small bodies of water on housetops by solar radiation, the bigger problem is the use of the greatest heat sink on this planet the depths of the oceans and what is known as the heat gradient or the difference in surface and bottom temperature of great ocean depths. Much  work has been done in this field and that is the ultimate solution for solar energy in relation to insolation of water. 
There is another field also where attention is urgently needed. I refer now to solar batteries. Here there is real work that can be done and achievements that can be quite quick. No one realises, for example, that solar batteries energise the satellites which are now in orbit around the world. Most people do not realise that in the more remote areas of Australia a considerable proportion of the telephonic equipment is energised by similar solar batteries. Hitherto other elements have been used but there has been a very substantial break through in what is termed silicon technology and the commonest and cheapest form of silicon is silicon dioxide or common beach sand. Whilst the technology at the present time is costing somewhat between $10 and $15 per watt, the break through has occurred which will enable silicon dioxide of lesser purity to use the variations or aberrations of molecular structure for that purpose. 
The photovoltaic cell, to give it its correct name, together with the temperature gradients of the ocean are together two of the most efficient ways of quickly and reasonably utilising solar energy. Just to temper the enthusiasm of the many conservationists who look upon solar energy as being the immediate as well as the ultimate solution of mankind's problems, it would chasten them to learn that, for example, in respect of water heating whilst in Darwin 90 per cent of a household's hot water can be obtained by solar energy and the balance by an automatic thermostat, in latitudes such as in Tasmania it is below the 55 per cent mark. Those are the hard realities. Nevertheless we in Australia undoubtedly are in an ideal situation. 
Reverting to my former comment in respect of coal hydrogenation, is a matter of some urgency, and I have stressed many times in this House and repeat again the relationship of the three great members of the hydrocarbons family solids, liquids and gases. 
-Exactly, and I will be referring to those in a moment. The tragedy is that the Queensland Government has allowed the multinational oil companies, who now do not call themselves oil companies but rather energy companies, to go there. Look at the deposits in the Darling Downs. For a distance of about 300 miles in a north westerly direction from Toowoomba in the Walloon coal deposits or pods as they are known, most of the licences and leases are either in their own names or in the name of puppet companies- members of the great multi-national oil companies. They are in already. Whilst I was a Minister I was able to stop the leak outward but at the present time there is a very substantial leak. The Darling Downs deposits are undoubtedly the best material for coal hydrogenation in Australia. They have about a  Vh  per cent hydrogen content. If you can inject hydrogen under pressure at the appropriate temperature- up to 14 percentyou have liquefaction. Instead of coal being reserved for that purpose it is starting to go to Japan and for this reason the Japanese, and we give them full marks for their astuteness, wanted to gasify that coal. They are going to purify it first and there is about a 32 per cent ash content in it which they will leave behind in Australia as excess shipping. They will take the coal to Japan, gasify it there and feed that gas under their power boilers- boilers that were designed for use with fuel oil. It is an incorrect use and it is a use that I stressed to some of the interested companies was entirely improper and scientifically incorrect. 
The honourable member for Scullin  (Dr Jenkins)  made reference to thermal efficiency in the use of resources. Here he is undoubtedly correct. The whole tragedy of mankind today is that very few people and certainly most governments have not even a passing acquaintance with the laws of entropy or the laws which relate to the utilisation and transfer of heat and energy. Thermal efficiency is a matter that will determine largely the future living standards of mankind. Possibly it will even transcend in importance food requirements. When we gasify coal of appropriate types, and not all coal is capable of gasification, we have thermal efficiency of somewhere around 60 per cent. There is also a residual coke which can be used as a boiler fuel. Generating power by coal-fired power stations, which is about next on the list in terms of thermal efficiency amongst the more popular energy forms, has an efficiency down to about 32 per cent or 35 per cent- at the outside no more than 38 per cent. However, by the time that electricity comes through, with transmission losses and the inefficiency of the ordinary electric lamp, the ultimate thermal efficiency of an electric globe is of the order of 5 per cent. The ordinary neon fluorescent light has an efficiency of the order of 20 per cent and it ought to be used. 
Of course, there will come a day, and it may not be as far in the future as people might think, when because of its importance the use of coal in open grates for ordinary heating purposes will be a criminal offence. It is the residue of one whole geological area, the carboniferous area. Our potential in Australia is to supply our own needs of energy from coal for at least 350 to 400 years. What we are sending to Japan in the form of hard coking coal is very important for Japan and there are substantial reserves for us, but when we come right down to the nitty gritty which will be the order of the future, there is no known alternative to the conversion of hydrocarbons from one form to another, in particular the hydrogenation of coal, for the purpose of providing liquid fuel, which is vitally essential when we get outside electrification of railways and the like. 
-One of the most delightful characteristics of the present Government- it has been true for very many years- is that when it comes to office it generally manages to thieve our policy clothes and, perhaps after redyeing them or just bringing them a little more up to date as it sees the situation, it carries on where the Australian Labor Party Government left off. Today, particularly in the coal mining industry, Labor's policy holds despite the fulminations and the vilification of the present Government. In point of fact when we took office in 1972 we took over chaos, when the various States of Australia- the 2 black coal producing States- were cutting each other's throats, when within those States the various coal interests were trying to outmanoeuvre and outsmart each other. The net result was that Australia was not getting one-third of the price it should be getting on the current world market for black hard coking coal. 
We corrected that situation, as my colleague the honourable member for Blaxland,  (Mr Keating)  has so eloquently stated. In fact coal today, thanks to a Labor government and thanks exclusively to a Labor government, is Australia's major export earner and it will continue in that role despite what may happen in the way of a world economic crisis. There are times when we need to speak as Australians and I am speaking as an Australian as well as a Labor man. I think it is an absolute disgrace for a government upon coming to office to ignore the achievements of its predecessor and, more than that, to try to blackguard it for them. I throw it right back in the Government's teeth for the impertinence, the insults and the impudence that it possesses. 
Could there be a more outstanding example of collective economic stupidity than there is in the export industry in relation to black coking coal, where a total of almost two-thirds of the high grade coal that is exported- a matter of about 13!/2 million tons for the last complete financial year- is still being exported by an American owned company, Utah company? Two-thirds of the total exports of the high premium hard coking coal are coming from Utah. It so happens that that company is not fully protected by escalation clauses and that it has benefited from the increases in price that we won by the grace and favour of the Japanese. 
I make the forecast also in relation to the price manoeuvring that is going on and the competition in the iron ore industry, where 4 major producers are trying to sell 80 million tons in a market that needs only 20 million tons, that there the Japanese will finally select the area C of the Goldsworthy people because of the Utah interests and they will then have a beautiful double- a beautiful pincers movementwhereby they can link iron ore prices to coal prices and the squeeze will be really on. When we deal with Japan we deal with a monopsony. I have said that repeatedly in this House. I give the Japanese due credit for it. If I were in their position I would be doing the same. I do not blame the Japanese for trying to extract the maximum commercial advantage from buying in that capacity. 
Let us look at what we have done. Firstly, the Government is continuing to vet the contracts. The Government has put up the proposition that it will leave it to private enterprise, but the Government well knows that there is no alternative and that if it lets the dogs off the leash, if I may be pardoned the metaphor, they will start to  fight with one another- and Australia cannot risk it. The proof of that is that only recently- a matter of a week or so ago- telex messages went out to the various coal exporters telling them that they were not to go beyond yearly contracts in renewals under present negotiations with the  Japanese. That was our policy. 
On the subject of reducing the overseas ownership, I was delighted to hear the  Deputy  Prime Minister,-  Mr Anthony,  say that alone he did it. It was done 2 years ago when  Mr Milliken,  a representative of the Kennecott interests, came to Canberra and interviewed the then Treasurer,  Mr Crean,  and myself and told us of Kennecott 's problem, namely, the divestiture order of the United States Supreme Court under the terms of the monopoly laws in the United States of America and said that Kennecott wanted to sell and had to sell its coal interests as distinct from its copper interests. Out of the air or off the top of his head he asked whether we would be prepared to buy the United States interests, its then new South American venture and its Australian interests. We told him no. We also told him that we were not prepared to allow Australian holdings to be offered as part of a world package deal. We said: 'This is a government of commercial integrity. It will honour an existing arrangement, but if you seek to hawk Australian coal interests or Australian coal deposits around the world to sell with your own, you will not be able to export it'. 
I then took the further trouble to contact the Thiess people. I have always had good relations with them and I have always respected them because they are battlers who started from scratch. I suggested to them that as we were not interested they might well contact 3 major Australian companies- CSR Pty Ltd, which was coming into this field- we put it first into Buchanan Borehole Colleries Pty Ltd- the Australian Mutual Provident Society or Broken Hill Pty Co. Ltd. I suggested also to  Mr Milliken  and the Kennecott interests that they might well negotiate with these firms. They have done so. That is where the initiative started. We helped the Thiess people right through the period when appeals were being fought in the United States Supreme Court to try to alter the terms of the divestiture order. So much for the present Government's initiatives. 
As regards stimulating Austraiian companies, we will help them in every possible way. We had to be tough, but once they saw what we were driving at they co-operated. With the exception of Utah, which always adopted a policy, shall we say, of obmutescence, the coal companies broadly co-operated. That is my main criticism of Utah to this day: It is creaming off the easily won coal, the coal that can be won by open cut methods. Coal won by open cut methods represents only 15 per cent of the total coal deposits in Queensland. When Utah has financed creaming it off and has departed, the hard work, the costly underground extraction, is left to the initiative of the Australian Government. That is the situation, and it is a disgraceful one. 
As to the incidence of the tax, I think it is an open secret that my recommendation was not the basis of the final decision. Throughout my period of holding the office of Minister for Minerals and Energy I advocated the imposition of a profits related tax. That is the only way in which anyone could possibly take such a proposal- to give the same return, to give the same yield, but for the incidence to fall on those best able to pay. Taxation, across the board, does not achieve that end. I can understand the dilemma of the Treasurer of the day. He wanted to do something and to do it in the Budget. Nevertheless, the only alteration that ought to be made is in that direction of profit related tax. 
Let us consider what will happen when this Government uses its numbers to force this tax through the House. Who will grab it? The Japanese will immediately want a $1.50 a ton reduction. If they do not get in first, the Queensland Government will do so by jacking up the freight rates, because it is getting quite a nice slice in the way of profits also from the fact that it owns and operates the railway system. I sought a graduated coal tax for much more than a revenue earner because I realised the importance and the significance of black coal to the Australian economy and to Australia's commercial future. In point of fact, one of the crying needs today in relation to export coal is for a stable and adequate system of export ports. Hay Point is an open roadstead. It is owned by Utah. Anyone else who uses it does so by the grace and favour of Utah. Port Curtis, or Gladstone as it is more commonly known, will accommodate ships up to 55 000 tons capacity. Similarly Newcastle still has the rock bar. Again I was right when I sought Australian governmental ownership and control of the proposed coal loader at Newcastle. I well knew the financial position of Gollin and the utter stupidity of the attempts of the then State Liberal Party and Country Party Government in New South Wales to put it in the hands of private enterprise. Coal loading and port operation is a public service and it ought to be under community control. In the case of Balmain, vessels of 40 000 tons or 45 000 tons are the limit. Even in the case of Port Kembla, whilst we have the capacity to handle ships up to 1 10 000 tons, we cannot load better than a 60 000 tonner with export coking coal. These ports need to be upgraded. In the case of Hay Point, apart from the problem of it being the puppet of private enterprise, it also has an open roadstead and has all the interruptions associated with the cyclonic weather traditional in north Queensland. 
As for other reasons for the coal levy, and they were many, there was in particular the need to develop further coal search. We have yet to quantify our very substantial reserves of black coal of various types. I have dealt before with coal hydrogenation but, again, some of that money would have been used for that purpose. In my own city of Wollongong, again because of the inadequacies of the State Liberal-Country Party Government and the public railway transport system, coal is transported in huge trucks of about 40 and 50 tons capacity which thunder through the main residential areas. Further rail links are needed in that area. These are facts. 
In addition, the future of the steel industry does not he exclusively with hard coking coal. As a matter of fact the Japanese, astutely, are capable of blending as many as 7 different types of coal to form a suitable coke for a blast furnace charge. We need to do the same thing because there is a tremendous amount   of coal  in Australia which is not hard coking coal but which can be blended. This work needs to be done and it will need to be done by a national Government using the national revenues obtained through a coal tax of this order. 
Just as an example of the fecklessness of State governments, let us take the case of the sale of the Oakdale mine in about 1968 or 1969 by the then Liberal-Country Party Government in New South Wales. It said the mine was useless and that it could not work it economically. It was sold by Act of the State Parliament for a little less than $9m. That same coal forms a major part of the deal recently negotiated between Clutha Pty Ltd and the British Petroleum company interests for one half of Clutha 's total interests. Threefifths of the production of black hard coking coal comes from those Oakdale leases. The consideration was $160m. One can impute, reasonably, a value of $90m to $100m to that Oakdale area. That again is typical of the fecklessness, the stupidity and the purblind doctrinaire approach of Liberal governments to what is Australia's major national asset. 
Today one finds throughout the world that petroleum companies no longer refer to themselves as oil companies. They are now fuel and energy companies. For that reason they quite deliberately acquire coal mining interests and uranium interests where they can. They are very busy in Australia. as I have pointed out previously in this House. In the case of the Walloon coal deposits of the Darling Downs area we have the best prospects for coal hydrogenation in Australia. I am not unmindful either of the 
Warkworth and the Cessnock area which run very close in hydrogen content, which is the key to coal hydrogenation. Again, that was one of the other purposes that we had in mind with a coal tax of this type. To sum up, I ask: Is it unreasonable, is it unfair that a 90 per cent overseasowned company- which after paying tax for the current year is extracting $150m by way of net profit- should not be asked to make its proper contribution not merely to Commonwealth revenue but also to the future of the research and the general development of the coal industry in Australia? I say it is a standing disgrace. We oppose the legislation. 
I do not normally avail myself of the opportunity of speaking on the adjournment debate. I merely do this so that there can be on record within my constituency a correct statement in relation to an article which appeared in a newspaper, which has a circulation of about 1 SOO in a total of some 80 000, about my attitude in a debate which took place in the Caucus of my Party yesterday. I do not normally refer to those debates but because of the stupidity and maliciousness of that report I want to correct what appears in today's issue of the  Australian.  It was suggested that I had supported an amendment moved in relation to the usage of uranium by the honourable member for Prospect  (Dr Klugman).  I respect him and what he did. I did not support the amendment. I supported and in fact gave assistance to  Senator Button  in the preparation of the motion which was successfully carried. I mention an Adelaide newspaper, also published today, which is never read in my electorate and which has no effect, of course, on public opinion. For the benefit of my supporters in Adelaide I state that this report is completely fallacious. In this article the newspaper was not sure. It feared there might be litigation. The writer said that he supposed that I opposed  Mr Keating.  I did not. I supported him. I commend his attitude to the people of Australia and to the people of my Party. I have always worked on the principle that the dogs may bark but the caravan moves on. I have a very real contempt for the veracity, the mendacity and the capacity for evil of substantial sections of the metropolitan Press of Australia. They are a distinct disgrace to Australia. 
-What steps will the Treasurer take to identify and appropriately tax the smart Australian money which, in anticipation of devaluation, left Australia and will now be repatriated at a 17.5 per cent profit? Also, will the Treasurer give to the House exact details of the loss incurred by the Reserve Bank of Australia on forward exchange cover as a result of the recent devaluation? 
-I address my question to the Treasurer and direct his attention to the statement that was made last weekend by the Minister for Primary Industry to meat producers at Rockhampton assuring them that they would be suitably cushioned against the inevitable increases in interest rates flowing from recent devaluation decisions. Has similar action been taken through the Reserve Bank or has an indication been given that similar protection will be given to the mining sector and to the manufacturing sector of the economy. If so, on what justification has this been done? Can the home builders, the home purchasers, the consumers and the ordinary retailers- the ordinary businessmen- be assured of similar protection? Will the Treasurer also give us the benefit of knowing the arrangements, if any, that have been made to cushion exporters and importers against the vacillations that will occur from time to time in the exchange rates? 
I rise to grievance in respect of the fourth and most recent petition submitted on 21 March to this House for its consideration by  Mr Danny  Sankey. The petition relates to what is commonly known as the Queanbeyan loans case, in which  Mr Sankey  is the informant. It was presented to this House by his parliamentary representative, the Attorney-General  (Mr Ellicott),  asking this House to permit parliamentary reporters to give a report in the Police Court at Queanbeyan of proceedings in the special session of this House on 9 July 1975. Todo so would utterly destroy parliamentary privilege. Not only is Parliament asked to assist in a prosecution which the Commonwealth Attorney-General refuses to take over; also, no member can speak in this House in the future without fear that what he says may be used against him in a court later on. This raises the fundamental question of complete freedom of speech in Parliament. To break down parliamentary privilege will lead to a situation in which any member would not know whether what he said was privileged, thereby leaving him or someone else also immune from prosecution. 
Apart from providing backup evidence to bolster a case having an air of vindictiveness, Parliament will be reduced to the status where it is continuously obliged to prove itself before the very courts which it created. The petition ignores the introductory words of the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr E. G. Whitlam)  in that special sessional debate of 9 July 1975 when he invited all members to speak with complete immunity under the protection of full parliamentary privilege. The petition goes further and ignores section 22 of the Crimes Act, section 86 of which we have allegedly breached. Section 22 states: 
Nothing in this Act shall derogate from any power or privilege of either House of the Parliament, or of the Members or Committees of either House of Parliament, as existing at the commencement of this Act. 
That was as existed in 1914. This is an absolute bar to a criminal prosecution of this type, relying on the evidence of a parliamentary debate. It cannot be overridden by resolution. It can be altered only by an amendment passed by both Houses of the Parliament. The burden and expense of the assertion and enforcement of parliamentary privilege are the responsibility of the Commonwealth. Parliamentary privilege should be raised specifically by counsel for the Crown who already appears in respect of certain claims of Executive privilege, supported by Ministerial affidavits. It is the privilege of speech of all members of this House which should be raised by counsel speaking in the name of Parliament itself. 
This is a private prosecution under section 13 of the Crimes Act. The defendants are denied the protection of an objective assessment by a Crown legal officer of the evidence against them. The subject summonses are in breach of the announcement of the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  to this House on 11 November 1975 of an undertaking required by the GovernorGeneral that there would be no inquiry into the affairs of the former Administration during the election campaign. The informations were laid in Queanbeyan 9 days later on 20 November 1975, returnable, mark you  Mr Deputy Speaker,  at Queanbeyan Court 4 days before polling day. Naturally, we were represented in our absence by counsel, whereupon  Mr Rofe,  Q.C, demanded that bench warrants be issued for our arrest. The waiting media had been baulked of their political prey, so delightfully timed. 
I have never met  Mr Sankey  nor have any of my co-defendants. I have certainly never been questioned on his behalf. Having rushed in impulsively for the equivalent of a rugby league double tackle,  Mr Sankey  apparently had second thoughts when, on 22 March 1976 there was a report in the  National Times  of an interview in which he wistfully said: 
I could be up for $ 1 5,000 to $20,000 in costs. The point is that the Attorney-General is open to taking over the case himself if he wanted to. At the moment he has not shown any interest in doing so: If he did I would be very relieved. 

 Mr Sankey had gone for a ride on the tiger. On 18 November last in Queanbeyan Court, his counsel,  Mr David  Rofe made a similar request for the Commonwealth to take over the prosecution. The Commonwealth has a paramount public responsibility to check the  bona fides  of this political witch hunt. For good measure,  Mr Rofe  threw in the allegation that the claim of Executive privilege by the Government could be construed as being an attempted cover-up of an Australian Watergate. Strange, indeed, are the abuses of police court advocacy. The Executive Council is the third arm of government under the Commonwealth Constitution. Its functions have been fully defined in the affidavit of  Mr Carmody  of 12 November last as presented to the Queanbeyan Court. The claim of Executive or Crown privilege, combined with the 4 defendants' oath of secrecy as Executive Councillors, prevents the defendants from giving public details of the advice received by them before and at the Executive Council meeting from the Commonwealth's top legal advisers in the presence of the top representatives of the banking system and the Treasury. 
So far from the Governor-General having been deceived by the defendants, we rely on the evidence of the Governor-General himself who, not having been present at the Executive Council meeting, was fully informed by the Prime Minister on the presentation of the Executive Council minute for his signature. Accordingly, we propose if necessary to call him by subpoena as a witness. We have no alternative than this as a means of destroying the farrago of nonsense spewed out by political and newspaper commentators and in book form by self-styled political experts.  Mr Carmody  's affidavit pointing out the procedure to be followed when a GovernorGeneral is not in attendance at an Executive Council meeting debunks the myth of a covert conspiracy to deceive him when unavoidably absent. 
