Is the Minister representing the Minister for the Army aware that the Australian Broadcasting Commission television news recently showed an elderly Vietnamese villager being tortured by allied troops with a rag being tied about his face and a sense of suffocation being induced by the pouring of water over this rag? Does the Government condone this behaviour by either Australian troops or our allies in Vietnam? Have any Australian soldiers been involved in this kind of treatment of Vietnamese civilians even if such civilians are regarded as Vietcong suspects? Will further orders be given to Australian troops to the effect that they must avoid any association with the torture of Vietnamese captives? 
My question is addressed  to the Minister representing the Minister for the Army. Did the Saigon Government consult the Australian authorities before approving the establishment of an entertainment centre offering legalised prostitution at Vung Tau, the Australian forces rest and recreation resort? Has the Army placed any restriction on Australian soldiers patronising entertainment centres? If not, what provisions have been made for our troops to be protected by regular medical examinations? Also, have any objections been raised by the local Vietnamese people against a project which may have far-reaching effects on their daily lives? 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for the Army,  upon  notice: 
Did the Saigon Government consult the Australian authorities before approving the establishment of an entertainment centre offering legalised prostitution at Vung Tau. the Australian forces' rest and recreation resort. 
Has the Army placed any restriction on Australian soldiers patronising entertainment centres; if not, what provisions have been made for troops to be protected by regular medical examinations. 
Have any objections been raised by the local Vietnamese people to a project which may have far-reaching effects on their daily lives. 
asked the Minister repre senting the Minister for the Army, upon notice:  (1)Is the Minister aware that the Australian Broadcasting Commission television news recently showed Allied troops torturing an elderly Vietnamese villager with a rag being tied around the face and a sense of suffocation induced by pouring water over the rag. 
Does the Government condone this behaviour by either Australian troops or our allies in Vietnam. 
Have any Australian soldiers ever been involved in this kind of treatment of Vietnamese civilians, even if they were regarded as 'Vielcong suspects'. 
Will firm orders be given to Australian troops that they must avoid any association with the torture of Vietnamese captives. 
The measure now before the Senate has some peculiar features. I want to touch briefly on those features for a moment or two. But first I point out that this Bill was brought into the House at 9.16 p.m. last night and we of the Opposition are expected to debate it within 24 hours of its introduction into this chamber. 
Leader of the Opposition not take the debate on the Vietnam statement? That is what he wanted to do last night. 
 If the honourable senator could keep his trap shut and let someone else have the floor we could perhaps get some sensibility into this chamber. Naturally we can expect the honourable senator who interjected to speak  on  the adjournment again tonight because he has an audience. However, I do not propose to deal with him now. 1 think he is beneath contempt. 
I move: 
At end of motion add-  but whilst welcoming the extended scope for grants offered by the Bill, the Senate is of opinion lhat - 
the clauses of the Bill relating to credit unions should be redrafted to give credit union savings complete and' unconditional recognition tinder the Act; 
the restored benefit provided by the Bill in respect of those persons who were previously ineligible because their savings were not in a designated Home Savings Account should be dated to commence from 31st December 1967; and 
applicants should, where necessary, have the right to have the value of land and dwelling-house valued on appeal by a Government Valuer of the Commonwealth Taxation Office'. 
When the Minister for Housing  (Senator Dame Annabelle Rankin)  introduced this Bill into the chamber on Tuesday, 2 1st April 1970, I secured the adjournment of the debate, but the Government endeavoured to bring the debate on again on Wednesday, 22nd April, some 26 hours after the introduction of the measure into this chamber. It has been customary that when a Bill is introduced into this chamber, the second reading debate is adjourned and the Bill lies on the table of the Senate for a week before the debate on it is resumed. As I said a few moments ago, it was the Government's desire to continue with the debate on the Home Savings Grant Bill  26  hours after its introduction into this chamber. On Wednesday, 22nd April, when I sought to have the debate adjourned for a period of time, the Minister accused the Opposition of delaying the introduction of the legislation. The accusation made by the Minister on Wednesday, 22nd April, was just so much absolute humbug. 
My reason for making that statement is that this legislation was mentioned in the Governor-General's Speech when  His Excellency  opened the Parliament on 3rd March of this year. The Minister herself made a statement regarding the legislation on the same day. On 5th March the Government introduced the Home Savings Grant Bill in another place, and the Government had the right to bring this legislation forward for debate at any time. I do not blame the Minister for not bringing the legislation forward for debate; I blame the Government. After the Bill was introduced in the other place, the Government had the right to bring it forward for debate at any time, but we find that 7 weeks elapsed between the time when the Bill was introduced in another place and the time when it was introduced in the Senate. Yet the Minister desired to have the Bill debated 26 hours after its introduction into this chamber. That is the reason why I say it was so much humbug on the part of the Minister- 
The  DEPUTY  PRESIDENT (Senator  Bull) -  Order! The honourable senator should know that 'humbug' is not a parliamentary word and I suggest that he do not use it again. 
I bow to your wishes,  Mr Deputy President,  but the Government could have introduced the Bill into this chamber and we could have had ample time in which to debate it, without the Government endeavouring to rush it through the week before we rose for a week's recess. I feel disturbed in my mind to think that the Minister would accuse the Opposition of delaying the introduction of this legislation, when the delay is entirely the fault of the Government. The Bill was introduced in the House of Representatives 9 weeks ago. It took that length of time before the debate on the merits and demerits of the Bill could be instituted here. It has some demerits as well as merits. I give credit to the Government for some of the benefits which will be implemented by the introduction of the Bill. The provision enabling a divorcee to become eligible for a grant and the provision increasing the price of a home in respect of which a grant is paid from $15,000 to $17,500 are very good features of the Bill. I will come to them at a later stage. In my opinion, some of the features of the Bill are included only because the Government is giving lip service to a promise it made prior to the last election. I refer to the provision giving credit unions the right to participate in this type of legislation. 
We well recall that in October last year the Prime Minister, on his election tour, promised that the price of the home in respect of which a grant is paid would be. increased from $15,000 to $17,500. The Opposition welcomed that provision. We could have criticised it and said that the increase was not sufficient to cover the increases in the cost of land and in the cost of building throughout the Commonwealth over a period of time. I do not profess to be a great authority on the cost of land in other States, but at least I know a little about the increase in the cost of land in the State I represent. The land to which I shall refer is not the land in the more elite areas of Hobart.  Senator Wright  will realise that the blocks to which I shall refer do not include the Sandy Bay area. I refer more to the New Town and Glenorchy areas in which people in the middle income bracket would live. In 1967 these blocks of land were procurable for from $2,300 to $2,400. Now they cost from $4,500 to $5,000. I have known some to be as dear as $8,000 or $9,000, the higher prices being due to an increase in services. I was able to buy a block of land for what I considered at that time to be a reasonable figure. This was prior to 1967. I had to pay £1,200 for a block of land on which to build my house. Immediately I bought the block the estate agent used the argument that a member of Parliament intended to live in that area and up went the price of blocks by another £200. 
No. They rose not because I was the person concerned but because a member of Parliament intended to live in the area. This was the argument that was used. I do not see why the price of land should rise because a member of Parliament intends to live in the area, but that was the argument that was used. 
I should have. Unfortunately, 1 am only a working man. I did not have the money. I am not a capitalist. I think something should be done to control land prices and the interest rates charged on homes and land. We know perfectly well that a number of working class people are unable to find sufficient money to buy outright a block of land. Therefore, they have to put down a deposit and pay it off. This is one aspect of home building in which credit unions can be most helpful to their members. They can arrange finance for a person who desires to purchase a block of land but who does not have the full purchase price of the land. The credit unions can lend money to their members at a rate of interest which is not as high as that charged by the lending societies. This is a big factor so far as the home builders and young people are concerned. I have had some experience with the rates of interest charged to young people who do not have sufficient money to buy outright a home or a block of land. They pay only a deposit. The Government could have assisted many home builders by introducing provisions which would have enabled members of credit unions to obtain loans from those credit unions for the purchase of blocks of land on which to build homes later. 
r  am no authority on 
Ihe  interest rates  that  credit unions charge, but my understanding is that their interest rale is cheaper than the normal interest rate charged by lending societies. 
 Senator Georges  is more of an authority on the subject than  I  am. There is a difference between what the credit unions charge on a sliding scale of interest and what the lending societies charge on a flat rate. If the two amounts of interest are taken into consideration - the flat rate basis and what the credit unions charge as interest - 1 think we will find that the credit union rate compares more than favourably with the flat rate charged by lending societies. I am afraid I cannot give the honourable senator the actual figures. I think that is the broad picture. I rather expect that the figures will come out in the speeches as  Ihe  debate proceeds.  Senator Georges  will speak on this Bill and I know that he has some figures which he can give to the Senate. I think they will be particularly helpful to the Senate. 
I think we should go back lo 1963 when the then Prime Minister,  Sir Robert  Menzies, proposed to introduce legislation which would provide for the payment of homes savings grants to certain people. It will be recalled that when the Bill to give assistance to certain people by way of homes savings grants came before the Parliament, the credit unions were excluded. At that time the Opposition endeavoured to have the" credit unions included in the list of organisations recognised under the Act which was to be introduced. The Government' opposed that suggestion most vigorously and, wilh the support of another Party in the Parliament at that time, it defeated the Opposition's amendment. Now the Government has introduced a provision which will enable credit unions to become recognised organisations under the Act. I do not know why the Government has had a change of face on this occasion, but a change of face has occurred. Having regard to the provisions which have been included in this type of legislation, the Government's attitude has been one of hypocrisy. The Government has been hypocritical because the provisions which it has laid down in this Act make it almost impossible for the credit unions to participate. 
I would suggest quite seriously that very few credit unions throughout the Commonwealth would have the resources to meet all of the provisions of this Bill. It provides:  prescribed housing loan' means a housing loan of an amount of not less than Seven thousand dollars repayable over a period of not less than 12 years; 
That means that at least 90% of the credit unions could nol qualify. 
A lot of things would prevent them from qualifying. I suggest that if the Government were genuine in its approach to this matter it would have had more regard to the amount of money which the credit unions can make available to their members. Had the Government done so, 1 suggest, it should have reduced that amount considerably. If the Government had set a figure  of about S3, 000 instead of $7,000 a larger number of credit unions could have participated under this legislation. 
They do not have to do that.  Senator Marriott  has completely missed the point. 1 do not think he has even studied the Bill. I am not trying to take anything from the honourable senator but I do not think he has studied the Bill. He has thrown in an interjection on a matter with which he is not conversant, and I suggest that he just keep quiet. 
Not in the least. I have been on the track, 1 think, a little longer than  Senator Marriott  and I would be a little more difficult to get off the track than he would be. I also wish to question the period of 12 years which is mentioned in that provision. The credit unions do not desire this period because it will be a penalty to them. If the Government is genuine in its desire to bring the credit unions in to assist the home builder - and it has always made a feature of this point - wherever it can it should do everything possible to assist the home builder and to assist the people who are buying their own homes. This Bill is a complete contradiction of what the Government has put forward as its policy over a period of years. These are some of the things that I intend to put to the Minister for her consideration at the Committee stage when it is possible for amendments to the various clauses to be moved. By accepting these amendments the Government could assist more people and assist the credit union movement in its desire to help people who wish to purchase homes. Clause 5 (4.)(a)(iii) states: 
The total amount that was lent by the credit union to its members during that financial year by way of housing loans was not less than Fifty thousand dollars; 
That is one of the requirements that the credit unions have to meet to qualify to lend money to their members. It simply means that for a credit union to make money available to its members it has to prove to the Government that it had lent $50,000 for housing during the previous year. It is almost impossible for the credit unions to comply with this requirement. As 1 said earlier probably only 10% - I think this would be the limit - of the credit unions will be able to comply with that provision and I am doubtful whether it would be as high as 10%. Why is it necessary for the Government to put such a provision in a Bill as will prevent the credit unions from assisting their members to participate in this scheme? I am afraid that I am at a loss to understand why the Government has introduced a Bill such as this and put such stringent provisions in it to prevent the credit unions from taking part. 
I do not know whether the Government is aware that the credit unions are also limited by State legislation as to the amount of money which they can lend. This is done by legislation but quite often it is done by the State Registrar of Companies who lays down the limit which a credit union can lend to its members for housing. Where this provision exists in State legislation the credit unions cannot comply with the provisions which are laid down by the federal Act. This seems to me to be trying to play the credit unions with a 2-headed penny. One other provision with which I have had some experience and about which I am not happy - I have raised this point with the Minister - is referred to in paragraph (3) of the amendment which we have moved to this Bill that applicants should, where necessary, have the right on appeal to have land and dwelling house valued on appeal by a Government Valuer of the Commonwealth Taxation Office. As the Act stands at the moment if an inspector from that section of the Department of Housing which is responsible for the granting of money to the applicant says that the. value of a house is above the permissible amount which has been $15,000 and which in the future will be $17,500 there is no appeal against that decision. 
I feel that generally speaking the inspectors are experienced men and do a very good job. I give them credit for this. But the point is that we should not allow one person to make an arbitrary decision that has to be made under the provisions of this legislation as it now stands. We believe, as we always have, that there should be a right of appeal. In respect of other types of legislation the Government has said on many occasions that there should be a right of appeal. If it is right and proper to have a right of appeal under one type of legislation, in my opinion it is just as right and proper to have a right of appeal under another piece of legislation. 
I put that to the Minister quite forcefully. She will be quite conscious of the particular matter to which I am referring when I say that I brought it to her notice 
In Hobart some weeks ago. There was a disputed case involving a chap who considered that he had not received a fair deal under this legislation. He was advised to take certain action, namely, to appeal against the decision of the inspector. Whether or not he has taken that action, I do not know. But the Minister knows the matter to which I am referring. I believe that the Government should have regard to a number of these matters that will come out in the course of the debate on this legislation. 
I realise that what I am about to mention does not really come under the jurisdiction of this Government, but I believe that the Government should have a look at the possibility of introducing uniform building regulations that would apply throughout a State or throughout the Commonwealth. Some very interesting stories can be told about the regulations that operate in the various Slates and the various municipalities. One amusing episode that came to my notice concerned a chap who bought a block of land and wanted to build his home on it and also wanted to build a fowl run on it. He had his plans drawn up. He submitted them to the local council but they were rejected because the fowl run was too close to the house. That was all right. 
This episode shows the stupidity of some of the regulations that are in existence. J relate this story only to highlight the stupidity of them. This chap then made applications to build a fowl run and received approval from the council. About 12 months afterwards he made application to build a home and was granted permission to build it. Simply because he did not make a joint application in respect of the home and the fowl run he was able to build the fowl run first and Ihe home afterwards. Situations such as that show how stupid regulations can be. I suggest to the Minister that if it is possible for the Government, somehow or other, to prevail upon the authorities that be in the various municipalities and States to introduce a uniform code of building regulations it will be of assistance. 
The Government has introduced a Bill that will increase the amount of money available to people who can qualify under the provisions of this legislation. I suppose that it is the desire of the Government to increase the number of homes that will be built in any particular year. But i just happened to pick up a Press cutting from the Hobart "Mercury* of Thursday. 30th April. The article is headed: 'Fall in Building of Homes'. Whilst I do not desire to read out all of it, I will read out this passage: 
There was a marked fall in the number of new houses and flats on which work began in Tasmania for the quarter ended 31st December last year compared with the same period  in  1968. 
This was shown in figures released yesterday by the State office of the Commonwealth Bureau of Census and Statistics. 
Whilst it is the desire of the Government to make more money available so that we will have an increase in the number of homes being built, it is rather disturbing lo read in the Press that the number of homes and flats on which work is beginning is falling. I confine this comment to Tasmania because I do not know the number of homes being constructed in the other States. 1 have not made it my business to try to find out the figures. No doubt I could find out the position if I obtained the relevant statistics. I sincerely hope that the Minister will have regard lo some of the suggestions 1 have made. In particular I ask that she give consideration - very favourable consideration - to making it much easier for credit unions lo channel more of their money iwto this field than is being channelled into it at the present time and will be channelled into it under this Bill. 
I move: 
After the word 'Act' in paragraph (1) of my amendment add the following words: or at least that the prescribed housing loan limits be reduced to $3,000 repayable over not  less than 5 years and that the qualification of 550,000 hy way of housing loans made and undertaken to be made by a credit union, be eliminated or reduced'. 
Debate (on motion by  Senator Prowse)  adjourned. 
My question is addressed to the Minister representing the PostmasterGeneral. Have representatives of Tasmanian Newsagents Pty Ltd approached the PostmasterGeneral requesting him to give favourable consideration to granting a 21/2% commission on the sale of postage stamps? Is the Minister aware that stamps are sold by newsagencies at no profit whatsoever to the retailer? Is the Minister aware that the practice of selling stamps by news-agents is becoming more and more popular with the public? Is the PostmasterGeneral aware that in line with Government policy numerous small post offices are closing down and consequently the sale of postage stamps to the public through other outlets is becoming more necessary? If the Minister agrees with the request for the21/2% commission by Tasmanian Newsagents Pty Ltd, will he advise the secretary of that organisation forthwith? 
I propose to move an amendment to the request for amendment in the following terms: 
Leave out all words after the words 'Leave out' and insert the words 'seven thousand dollars repayable over a period of not less than 12 years', and insert instead the words 'three thousand dollars repayable over a period of not less than 5 years'. 
That amendment would have the effect of making the provision read:  prescribed housing loan' means a housing loan of an amount of not less than Three thousand dollars repayable over a period of not less than five years; 
The amendment which I propose to the request made by the Minister for an amendment to the Bill is in line with the amendment which ( moved to the motion for the second reading, which the Minister would not accept, which the Democratic Labor Party did not support and which went to a division on which it was defeated. In speaking on the second reading of the Bill I indicated that I had moved the amendment following representations which had been made to the Australian Labor Party by members of credit unions. According to the Minister,  Senator Little  approached her and introduced representatives of some of the credit unions. The Minister said that she was impressed with the approach that was made. Apparently she received from the credit unions information which prompted an amendment which would be of assistance not only to the credit unions but also to the legislation which is brought forward by the Government on this occasion. 
I recall quite vividly that ever since the Homes Savings Grant Act was put on the statute book by this Government, we of the Labor Party have endeavoured to have the credit unions recognised for the purposes of this legislation. However, the Government has completely rejected our approaches until this occasion. I give the Government credit at least for having opened the door, although by this legislation it is just open. Unfortunately, if the Bill now before the Committee is given effect to, even in the amended form as requested by the Minister, it will not bring within its provisions the number of credit unions which the Labor Party would desire to have participate under this legislation. 
I should think that the Minister probably would have covered some of the ground for this proposal with representatives of the credit union and would have believed that if she deleted the words 'Seven thousand dollars' and inserted in lieu 'Five thousand dollars' this would have brought quite a number of other credit unions within the provisions of the Bill. We ask the Minister to go just a little farther and particularly we ask that the provision go a little farther in relation to the time factor. The time factor is just as important to the credit union movement as a lesser prescribed amount because whilst it might be desirable in some cases to have a loan repayable over a period of 12 years, it is the wish of the credit unions that their loans should not be repayable over a long period. This is the reason why I have sought to amend the request proposed by the Minister and to have the period as 5 years instead of 12 years. I do not think there is much difference in the approach of the Government, the Labor Party and the Democratic Labor Party to this legislation. 
Surely to goodness in 1970 we have grown up sufficiently to try to bring in legislation which will benefit the great number of people who will be able to participate in the scheme under this legislation and  also benefit members of the various credit unions. Consequently, in all earnestness 1 propose this amendment to the Minister's request. 
I indicate now that I propose to move 2 further amendments. Each refers to the limit of $50,000 to be placed on credit unions for housing loans. I seek guidance as to whether the amendments should be taken together or dealt with separately. 
Proposed section 4b. (4.) reads: 
The Secretary shall not approve a credit union unless - 
he is satisfied that - 
the total amount that was lent by the credit union to its members during thai financial year by way of housing loans was not less than Fifty thousand dollars; 
the  credit union has given him an understanding in writing that - 
the  total amount that will be lent by inc credit union to its members during each subsequent financial year by way of housing loans will be not less than Fifty Thousand dollars.  1 move: 
Leave out sub-paragraph (iii) of paragraph (a) of  sub-section  (4.). 
Leave out  sub-paragraph  (iii) of paragraph (b) of sub-section (4.). 
I do not have much to add in explanation of why we seek the proposed amendments but 1 do wish to say that we have had consultations with the credit unions.  Senator Little  said that we are not up lo dale with our information on this Bill or on its provisions which relate to credit unions. I advise the Committee that representatives of the credit unions suggested to the Labor Party that it would be in the interests of both the credit unions and persons seeking loans covered by the Homes Savings Grant Act to delete the limit of $50,000 to enable credit unions to advance a certain amount of money in bridging finance. This is the important point. Bridging finance has to be found to cover the gap between a deposit and a loan, or even a second loan on a house. 
I sincerely hope that  Senator Little  will support the Opposition on this occasion. From the indication that  Senator Little  has given it seems that I have my answer immediately. We proposed an amendment to the amendment which  Senator Little  was so kind as to throw at the Labor Party. On each occasion that he has had an opportunity to throw something at us on this issue he has done so. We mentioned in the amendment we proposed that the limitation of $50,000 by way of housing loans made and undertaken by credit unions should be eliminated or reduced. There has been no proposal by the Government either to reduce or to eliminate that amount. The Labor Party therefore has no alternative but to seek the deletion of the relevant clause. 1 suggest to the Minister that the safeguards which she has said should be included in the legislation are contained in the proposed section (4.) (a) (i) and (ii).  Senator Cavanagh  said during his speech that the provision we are now considering does not affect the Government. That is true, lt affects credit unions and their members. One would think that the Government would welcome the participation of the credit unions in this type of legislation. The Minister referred to the intention of the Government when it introduced the homes savings grant legislation. 1 agree with the Minister. 1. think that this is good legislation and I wholeheartedly support it. Nevertheless, 1 would like to see it improved and that is the sole intention of the Opposition in bringing forward its proposed amendments. The greater the amount of money that can bc used in the homes savings grant scheme, the more our young people will be helped, to use the Minister's words, to obtain their first matrimonial home. It is our desire to do this. I hope that the Minister will not take the view that the Opposition is merely trying to gain a political point against the Government. We do not sink to that level although  Senator Little  accuses us of doing so. 
I suggest that so far as my own Slate of Tasmania is concerned there will not be one credit union in the whole of the State which will be able to participate under the conditions of the Bill. I may be wrong because I am not an authority on credit unions, but I have had discussions with a number of representatives of credit unions in Tasmania who have told me, when we have discussed this type of legislation, that it was their opinion that there was not a credit union in Tasmania which would be able to qualify under the conditions laid down in this legislation. I suggest that the Government should appreciate the participation of the credit unions in this scheme and the benefits which may flow, not only to the credit unions themselves but also to the members because the office bearers and employees of the credit unions are interested only in giving their members service. 1 want to return to the amendment which I moved to the motion for the second reading of the Bill.  Senator Little  has accused us of trying to take political advantage of this measure and he went on to say that we had moved an amendment to an amendment. We did do this; it was done by leave of the Government. But  Senator Little  is endeavouring to discredit the Labor Party because he is not in possession of the facts.  it  will bc recalled that the Bill was introduced in this place on 21st April, on which date the second reading speech was delivered. 
 lt was introduced into the House of Representatives on 5th March and introduced in this place on 21st April. The Government wished to have the measure debated on 22nd April, 26 hours after the motion for the second reading. As 1 was in charge of the Bill for the Opposition I indicated that 1 was not ready to go on at that time, lt had been the practice and it is the practice of the Government normally to allow a Bill to lie for 1 week before the Opposition is expected to debate it. I had assumed that the principle which had been established would be followed on this occasion and I had not given the Bill my particular attention. However, on 22nd April the Government agreed that the debate on the matter should be deferred. But then it wanted to bring it on again on 23rd April. I had commitments which took me away from the Parliament on 23rd April and so i could not go on with thi debate on that day. We then went into recess. When we came back the Government brought it on again and we debated it. 
On those occasions when the Bill was before this chamber - on 21st. 22nd and 23rd April - although our first amendment had been moved we had not been approached by the credit unions to bring forward an amendment lo the proposed legislation. We had simply moved as an amendment what had been moved in another place. Before the debate on the Homes Savings Grant Bill resumed in this place we were approached by the credit unions to amend our amendment. This is where  Senator Little  says that we are not in touch with the feelings and desires of the credit unions. This is the reason why, after consultation with the credit unions, we brought forward our amendment lo the amendment! I do not see anything wrong with that, and I am sure that  Senator Little  would not see anything wrong with it if the Democratic Labor Party were bringing forward the amendment. But in this instance, m order to gain a bit of political advantage and because the proceedings of this chamber are being broadcast tonight, he has tried to rubbish the Labor Party. The real reason is that he thinks we have stolen his thunder. 
But as I said earlier, the credit union representatives came here to Parliament House and canvassed every political party. It became a matter of which political party could get in first to gain the greatest advantage for the credit unions - not for themselves. The Labor Party would not stoop to this. However, we did want to assist the credit unions. We did that by bringing forward an amendment to our amendment of the motion for the second reading. We move the amendments now in Committee to get a wider participation of the credit unions in the scheme operated under this piece of legislation. 
 My question is addressed to the Minister for Air. When the Minister and his officers are considering the applications by the major domestic airlines for an increase in passenger air fares, will they give special consideration to the transport difficulties that affect Tasmania? Will the Minister give favourable consideration to recommending to the 2 major airlines that air passenger fares for flights to and from Tasmania remain at their present level? 
 ls the Minister representing the Treasurer aware that appeals for money to assist the victims of the Peruvian earthquake are being conducted throughout Australia? Will the Minister give favourable consideration to allowing such donations as concessions for income lax purposes? 
I will refer that question to the Treasurer without delay. 
Has the Leader of the Government in the Senate seen figures released by the United States Senate Foreign Relations Sub-Committee on payments to America's allies in Vietnam for the services of their troops? Did the United States pay about $l,000m for the South Koreans, $200ra for the Thais and $40m for the Filipinos to demonstrate that it had the support of those nations in the Vietnam war? Does this not show America's failure to convince Asian nations to give military aid freely, and thus illustrate clearly to the world the real nature of the Vietnam tragedy? 
It would be a very unwise person who would draw the conclusion the honourable senator has drawn in relation to what financial arrangements are made between the US Government and other countries. I suggest to him that he has made a completely wrong appreciation of the facts of the matter. There has never been any doubt about Australia's attitude to assistance and what we are doing in Vietnam. Whilst the Opposition, including  Senator Poke,  may not agree with it or approve of it, the fact of the matter is that it is the policy of the Government and that it has had the- 
I am not asking about our policy. 
The honourable senator likes to ask his question with some loaded angles to it, but he does not like receiving a reply that he feels is loaded against him. 
I am only trying to keep you on the rails. 
The honourable senator should start keeping himself on the rails. 
I am well and truly on them and leading by a short nose. 

 Mr President, is this a diatribe or question time? The fact of the matter is that the honourable senator has read in a newspaper something written by some journalist in good faith; he has swallowed what he has read and he has chucked it up here as a loaded political question. Now he is getting a bit back on the straight line and he does not like it. The fact of the matter, as I read the article in the Press, was that certain countries, associated with their contribution in Vietnam, were receiving some revenue from the USA. The honourable senator has imported into his question an inference that they are doing what they are doing in Vietnam only because of the money. I suggest that that is a very wrong appreciation of the position. 
I wish to thank  Senator Buttfield  for the little bil of humour she gave us in the early part of her speech, so late in the debate on the Budget. 1 agree with  Senator Buttfield  that it is rather late in this debate to find something to say that is different from what has already been said. The honourable senator was rather humorous in her references to her little bag and I thank her for that light relief. I am entering this debate at a late stage. I was not particularly anxious to enter into the debate on the Budget because it is a terribly dull Budget and one for which one could not raise enthusiasm in any circumstances, lt is the fifteenth Budget that has been introduced since 1 have been a senator and 1 think I can fairly claim that it is the worst of them all. 1 have entered the debate only because of comments made by 3 fellow Tasmanians. I refer to  Senator Lillico, Senator Marriott  and  Dr Solomon  in another place. I will deal with their comments at a later stage because, before doing so, I wish to turn to a matter that is very close to my heart. I refer to the zone allowance as it affects Tasmanians. Honourable senators will recall that in recent months Tasmanian shipping freight rates were increased by !2£ per cent. This has put Tasmania at a very distinct cost disadvantage. The Budget also will increase prices. This is inevitable. Prices will increase as a result of the higher sales tax. This will mean dearer motor cars, television sets and a number of other items. The price of petrol will increase. It has increased once already and another increase is pending. Air fares have increased and are to increase again. These increases disadvantage Tasmania more than they disadvantage other States. 
The point which I make is that Tasmania is dependent almost entirely on shipping. Increased shipping freight rates impose a tremendous burden on Tasmania. How can the situation be eased? It appears quite evident that the Federal Government will not give Tasmania any freight rate concessions. Apparently the Government will not give any subsidy for shipping. So. we have to look at ways and means of obtaining some financial assistance for Tasmanians. I suggest quite seriously to the Government that it should have a look at the zone allowance, which is a disability allowance. There are 2 zones. The northern part of Australia constitutes zone A. Certain other parts of Australia constitute zone B. Included in zone B is a certain area on the west coast of Tasmania. Over a number of years we have endeavoured to prevail upon the Government to provide the people with relief because of the very bad working and climatic conditions that they have to endure on that part of the island. ' My suggestion to the Government is that it would be helpful if the Government were to raise that part of Tasmania which falls in zone B to zone A and to classify the balance of Tasmania as zone B. 
It is very noticeable that at the moment only 3 Government members are in the Senate. This shows the interest of Government senators in the debate.  Senator Davidson  is counting how many Government members are present. You,  Mr Acting Deputy President, Senator DrakeBrockman,  who is the only Minister present, and  Senator Davidson  are the only 3 Government senators here. Two more have just walked in; we are doing well. We are getting some of them in. 
This may be so, but a number of people are boring. I give the honourable senator top marks for that. Over a period of time I have raised the issue of zone allowances. Going through some of my old notes I find that I raised this issue when we were in the pounds, shillings and pence era. A considerable time has elapsed since this issue was first raised on behalf of Tasmanians. Having another look around the Senate, I see that the Government has increased its numbers by 100 per cent. Now 6 Government members are present, but one of them is leaving. 
Another matter on which I take issue with the Government is the non-allowance of fares to and from work as a taxation deduction. I do not intend to weary the Senate at this time by reading a long list of letters which I have received or which have been received by other members of the Labor Party in both the State and Federal spheres. To indicate to the Government the feeling that exists in our State, I intend to read one letter which was written on 6th August of this year. It was addressed to the Leader of the Opposition, the Honourable Eric Reece. It is in the following terms: 
I am writing inquiring about our income tax. As I pay S3 a week travelling allowance, I wonder why we cannot claim for this each year as we all from Storeys Creek pay $150 a year. 
There isn't enough houses al Storeys Creek to accommodate all who work there as the district covers those from St Helens, Scamander, St Marys, Fingal and Avoca. 1 would like your opinion on this as 1 and my workmates seem to think it isn't fair to all concerned, 
Hoping to hear from you, 
Yours faithfully. 
Graeme "Wickham 
Honourable senators will note that that man is not the best scholar in the world but he has put the point of view that exists throughout the State, which is something to which the Government could well have regard. 
Earlier 1 said that 1 would touch on some matters raised by  Senator Lillico  and  Senator Marriott.  Firstly,  Senator Lillico  spoke in this debate on Wednesday night, 2nd September, before the Senate rose for its 1 week recess. Consequently be continued when the debate resumed yesterday. He made a number of remarks. I have heard similar remarks ever since I was a boy of about 8 or 9 years of age.  His  speech was a typical farmer's speech. I do not blame him for this.  Senator Lillico  has been associated with primary production all his life. One could quite understand why he would make a speech of this description. I do not always agree with the way in which he advances his argument, but at least I give him credit for having the interests of primary producers at heart. He gave a long dissertation about the costs incurred by primary producers. He gave certain reasons why these costs were high. During his speech he made mention of increased wages. He said: 
I have a publication by the Secretary of the Productivity Groups Advisory Council in which he speaks of obsolete methods indulged in by the management of some of our industries in Australia. He speaks of factories running at about half their capacity and mentions many other factors which, he claims, militate against cheap production. He ends with a statement that appeals to me very greatly and should appeal to the Opposition. 
That remark is directed at the Party which 1 represent. He continued: 
He says that getting a better return from the same resources enables the nation to spend more on education and social services without having to short-change investment in the future and provisions for defence to do so. The truth of that remark is perfectly obvious. 

 His speech reminded me. as I said earlier, of remarks that I have heard made by people such as  Senator Lillico  ever since J was a boy of 8 or 9. I can look back on conditions that existed 50 or 55 years ago when some primary producers paid their employees the magnificent sum of about £2 a week and they paid their employees every 13 weeks. 
The honourable senator asks: 'When was this?' I realise that the honourable senator cannot remember back that far, but perhaps he can look up the records. If he does, he will find that these conditions existed in 1910, 1912 and up to 1914. I am sorry that he cannot remember back that far so as to check me on that point. Some of the employers in that industry decided that in order to make good fellows of themselves they would pay their employees once a month. This meant that the employees were paid 12 times a year. They were paid on the 15th, 16th or 18th of the month - whatever the case was. But the employers gained by making 12 payments per year instead of 4 payments per year. The worker was £8 per year worse off being paid by the calendar month instead of by the quarter. 
1 do not think that the honourable senator should address questions to me because when he interjected previously he indicated how boring I was. If I am so boring I would suggest that the honourable senator do not ask mc questions because I will only bore him more. I do not think it is worthwhile replying to him because I do not want to bore him.  Senator Lillico  referred to strikes. Of course there are strikes. Why should there not be strikes? I have participated in strikes because we could not get the pay to which we were entitled. Is a strike for that reason justified? In my opinion it is. I have participated in strikes because when we were paid by cheque the cheque bounced and we wanted to be paid by cash. Is there anything wrong with that? 
Over a period the workers have learned that it pays to strike. This has been brought about, to a very large extent, by the attitude of the employers. That attitude has been supported by this Government, and I make no apologies for saying that. 1 have appeared in the arbitration court on behalf of my industrial organisation. The employers' representative has opposed the employees' application, and he has been supported by a representative of this Government. The Government has offered evidence against the employees so that they will not receive an increase in wages, lt is quite evident that workers will strike when they take exception to the conditions with which they are faced. The blue collar and white collar workers have learned today that they have gained as a result of taking industrial action. They are more inclined to take industrial action or to cause some stoppage in order to make employers meet, their demands. 
I will tell honourable senators what happened on one occasion when I appeared before the arbitration court. 1 will not. go into all the details, but at that time there were 3 award classifications in which 1 was interested. The employers were agreeable to pay to those 3 classifications 5s. per week more than was paid under the metal trades award. We had to go to the arbitration court to get a Commissioner to ratify the agreement with the employers. But he said: 'We cannot have this because it would be more than is paid under the metal trades award. If I were to give a 5s. per week increase to these 3 classifications I will have an application from all those employed under the metal trades award and the whole of the classifications would receive a rise.' This is one of the reasons why workers today resort to strikes. They know that as a result of strikes they will make some gain in their pay or working conditions. 
I briefly want to touch on something that  Senator Marriott  said last night. He became rather agitated, I thought, when he attacked the Australian Labor Party. He told us how we could reform the Party, how much better we could make the Party and all these kinds of things. He made one statement with which I agree. He said: '1 believe that we should be proud of the Australian worker.' I do not merely believe that; I am sure of it. lt is rather significant to note that  Senator Marriott  never took this line until quite recently when he attended a meeting at the Hobart Trades Hall. At that meeting were  Senator Marriott,  the honourable member for Denison  (Dr Solomon),  a few other Govern ment, supporters from both the State and federal Parliaments, representatives from the Chamber of Commerce and the Chamber of Manufactures, and other people. I think it did  Senator Marriott  good to go along there and see the cooperation that existed between employees and management. I think that probably since then  Senator Marriott  has realised that the Australian worker is quite a good type of chap. 
As I said, last night  Senator Marriott  told us how to organise the Labor Party. He told us of many things that are wrong with the Labor Party. Of course, it is nothing new to hear not only  Senator Marriott  but also the Press saying this. For donkey's years the Press has been saying: What is wrong with the Labor Party'?' Some sections of the Press want the Labor Party organised along the lines which they suggest. Employers, the Liberal Party, the Australian Democratic Labor Party, the Nationalists and even the Commos have told us how to run the Labor Party. University professors and academics of every description have told us how to run the Labor Party. In short, all the experts have told us how to run the Labor Party, but I cannot call the latest one -  Senator Marriott  - an expert. lt is rather peculiar that when one looks at the situation one finds that the Labor Party, which is the only major political party which can form an alternative government, is the only party which has not changed its name.  Senator Greenwood  is trying to interject. Perhaps he can recall the time prior to the formation of the Liberal Party, when there was the United Australia Party. He might recall the time when there was the Nationalist Party. He might even be able to remember back a little further in history when there was an earlier Liberal Party. He cannot say that there is any party in this Parliament, other than the Labor Party, which can form an alternative government. Neither can he say that there is any parly in this Parliament, other than the Labor Party, which has not changed its name. I felt that  Senator Marriott  paid me quite a personal compliment when he was talking about a split which had arisen within the Party in Tasmania. He said that one section went one way and the other section went another way, that there was a right wing and a Poke wing. I have heard of all sorts of wings within the framework or structure of the Australian Labor Party and the Liberal Party - is there still a Liberal Party? I think there is. There are all sorts of wings within all sorts of parties, but I did not know that a section of the trade union movement or of a political party followed exclusively my line of thinking. 
No, he said Poke, unless there is a misprint in Hansard. We do not find many misprints there. The honourable senator has paid me a great tribute. After some 55 years in the trade union movement I find suddenly that a wing of the Labor Party supports my views exclusively. 
Apparently 1 am. 1 have been promoted by  Senator Marriott  to the position of leader and I am very happy to have his word that I have attained that position. There was much that I wanted to say about the Budget, but it appears that the old enemy, the dock on the wall, will defeat me. Although it is not often that  Senator Gair  and I agree, there was one point that he made with which I do agree. 
I agree wholeheartedly with him in what he said about the Government's approach to the family man. I give the honourable senator credit for having pointed out that there has not been an increase throughout a whole range of social service benefits which are the responsibility of this Government. I refer first to age pensions where an increase of approximately 3 per cent was granted. That increase does not keep pace even with the inflation which has continued at the rate of 5 per cent over the past 12 months. As a result of inflation, notwithstanding the increase of 50c, age pensions have dropped in value by 2 per cent over the last 12 months. Goodness knows what  the rate of inflation will be over the next 12 months. 
The Budget provides no increase in child endowment.  Senator Gair  pointed out that child endowment has not been increased since 1967 and said that the previous increase was in 1964. The tax reductions granted by the Government to wage earners are cruel. 1 can find no other expression than to say that the reductions provided for by the 1970 Budget show a cruel, hard, callous disregard of the rights of those in the lower income bracket. If I may refer to some of the decreases in tax payable by referring only to unmarried taxpayers, a man who earns $3,200 per annum, which is approximately $62 per week, will receive the benefit of a tax reduction of $1 per week. One would expect that in order to get the benefit of a reduction of $2 in income tax one would have to earn $124 per week, but this is not the case. The tax scale shows that in order to qualify for a $2 per week decrease in tax one has to earn only $4,800 per annum or $92 per week. 
As we look further through the scale we find that the man who earns $6,000 per annum, which is $115 per week, benefits by a reduction of $3 in the tax payable and that the man who earns $10,000 per annum, which is approximately $192 per week, benefits by a reduction of $6 per week. 1 would have liked to develop this aspect a bit more, but I find that I am running short of time. Consequently, with the concurrence of honourable senators, 1 incorporate in Hansard a Press cutting showing the scale of tax cuts. 

<graphic href="045232197009160_53_4.jpg"></graphic>


<graphic href="045232197009160_54_0.jpg"></graphic>

I should like now to touch very briefly on the statement made in another place by the honourable member for Denison. I do not want to do him an injustice by misquoting him. so I shall read what he said. He stated:  it appears that in this affluent society young marrieds regard collecting of cars, radios, washing machines, floor polishers and the like as a substitute for parental care, leaving the Government to pick up the tab for the care of the aged. 
I do not know whether this represents  the  feeling of the Government, but I draw particular attention to these words,  to pick up the tab for the care of the aged. 
I do not know how the people in the division of Denison will react to a statement of that type, but as one who lives in the constituency which is represented by  Dr SolomonI  am thoroughly disgusted to know that a person would make a statement such as this.I would have liked to touch on many other subjects because one could develop the shortcomings of  the  Budget over a long period, but 1 conclude by saying that I support wholeheartedly  the  amendment moved by the Leader of the Australian Labor Party in the Senate,  Senator Murphy. 
Is the Minister representing the Attorney-General aware that prior to the weekend Moratorium the Premiers of New South Wales and Queensland made several public statements that could be construed as incitement to public violence? Can the Minister inform the Senate whether it is the intention of the Government or of the Attorney-General's Department to lay charges against the Premiers concerned? 
I address my question to the Leader of the Government in the Senate. Are further marches planned by farmers in protest against dwindling rural incomes and declining living conditions? Will the marchers be taking over the streets of capital cities and causing obstruction to innocent bystanders and people going about their normal business? What action does the Government intend to prevent this dissentient and scruffy minority disrupting proper processes of law and order? In particular, will the demonstrators be treated with the same severity and arbitrary force as was applied to the Vietnam Moratorium demonstrators in Sydney and Adelaide on Friday? 
I address a question to the Minister for Air. Did the Air Board fly the Royal Australian Air Force Central Band with its instruments from Laverton, Victoria, at very great expense, to play at a function given for the Duke of Edinburgh at the Hotel Canberra recently? Did the Hotel Canberra dining room take on the character of an officers' mess and was it staffed by Air Force stewards, many of whom were flown from Sydney or Laverton? Are there perfectly good Service bands in Canberra for this purpose? Is this regarded as an austerity measure? 
As the Minister representing the Treasurer is not in the chamber, I ask some other Minister to bring this question to the notice of the responsible Minister: On Tuesday of last week  Senator Devitt  asked the Minister representing the Treasurer to have a detailed examination made with a view to providing a greatly increased zone allowance for residents on the west coast of Tasmania. If the detailed examination requested by  Senator Devitt  is undertaken, will the Minister extend the inquiry to cover the whole of Tasmania with a view to increasing that area of the State in which residents now receive the zone B concession allowance to take in that area in which residents receive the zone A concession allowance? Will other areas of Tasmania be favourably considered for the zone B allowance because of the peculiarities and disadvantages suffered by the State due to the various transport problems? 
asked the Minister representing the Treasurer, upon notice: 
What amount of pay-roll tax was paid  to  the Commonwealth Government over the  past  three financial years. 
How were these amounts disbursed. 

 Senator Sir KENNETH ANDERSONThe Treasurer has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's  question: 
Details of pay-roll tax collections over  the  past three financial years are set out in  the following  table: 

<graphic href="048232197105201_8_0.jpg"></graphic>

The proceeds from pay-roll tax, along with the proceeds from other taxes levied by the Commonwealth, are paid into the Consolidated Revenue Fund. As part of the general revenues of the Commonwealth, these amounts are used to meet the Commonwealth's overall financial commitments. 
Has the attention of the Minister representing the Minister for Customs and Excise been drawn to an article in the Hobart 'Mercury' of 17th August headed ' " Savage " fine for duty dodger'? Is the Minister aware that a magistrate in the Hobart court allegedly said: 'Some penalties under the Customs Act were not only unduly severe, they were " savage " '? Does the Minister agree with the magistrate that it was regrettable that he had no option but to impose the $50 fine which is provided under the Act? Will the Minister examine the Customs Act, as suggested by the police magistrate,  Mr Solomon,  and inform the Senate whether it is considered necessary to amend the Act. 
1 ask the Leader of the Government in the Senate: Is the Government planning to take any action against the former Prime Minister and former Minister for Defence,  Mr Gorton,  to stop his damaging articles appearing in the Sunday Australian'? If  Mr Gorton  writes so disparagingly of  Mr Fairbairn  as to call him 'pedestrian, conservative and slowthinking, without the capacity to pose a competitive threat', how can the public be persuaded that  Mr Fairbairn  has the ability to carry out his vital duties as Minister for Defence? Is this statement by  Mr Gorton  representative of what most Government members think about the third Minister for Defence in 3 months? 
Answering the honourable senator's first question and ignoring the inconsequential second and third questions, the answer is no. 
Will the AttorneyGeneral have inquiries made to ascertain whether newspaper companies in all States are breaching resale price maintenance laws by forcing newsagents to sell their product at a predetermined price? For instance, if newspaper retailers are charged 5.25c a copy on the understanding that the paper is to be sold for 7c a copy, is this not a classic case of resale price maintenance? 
At a time when the Government is canvassing the issue of secret ballots within trade unions before strikes, I ask the Leader of the Government in the Senate whether he will agree that Australia's record for strikes is not at all alarming when compared with that of other advanced industrial countries. Will he accept my figures when I indicate that between 1958 and 1968 the average number of days lost for each 1,000 employees through strikes was 262 in Britain, 312 in France, 345 in Australia, 784 in Canada, 1,008 in Italy and 1,114 in the United States? If the Government intends to go ahead with secret ballot legislation, will it act also to control unjustified price increases and curb monopoly activities? 
My question is addressed to the Minister representing the Minister for Social Services. Is it a fact that Cabinet has rejected a plan for a national superannuation scheme prepared by the Minister for Social Services,  Mr Wentworth?  Was this plan designed to give a much better deal to pensioners and to take the first steps towards the elimination of the means test? Will the Minister make urgent inquiries to find out why Cabinet scrapped such a valuable proposal, which is one of the important policies advocated by the Australian Labor Party? Can it be inferred from this rejection that the Government is not interested in justice for the pensioners and intends only to continue with minor pension rises if the Australian electors are unfortunate enough to be saddled with the same government by the time of the introduction of next year's Budget? 
My question is directed to the Leader of the Government in the Senate. Does the Government have diplomatic relations with the Government of Bolivia? If so, has the Government protested to the new right wing regime in Bolivia about its use last month of the Bolivian air force to bomb and strafe 300 students who barricaded themselves in a university building in La Paz? Does the Government believe there is justification for military coups against left wing governments but no justification for coups against right wing military regimes such as the one in support of which we have been fighting for so long in Vietnam? 
My question is addressed to the Minister representing the Minister for Education and Science. What is the Government's reaction to the statement made last night in Tasmania by the Archbishop of Tasmania,  Dr Young,  that he will be forced to close a number of Catholic schools in Tasmania because of inadequate financial provision made for them by the Federal and State Governments? In view of this further evidence of the continuing crises in education what steps does the Government plan to prevent such a disastrous closure? 
My question is addressed to the Minister for Health. In view of the concern expressed yesterday by the Minister about not passing the buck in relation to legislation to provide for warning labels on cigarette packets, would he now ask the Postmaster-General to intervene on behalf of the Victorian Anti-cancer Council? Will he ask the PostmasterGeneral to obtain the support of the Australian Broadcasting Control Board for the Anticancer Council in its efforts to have an anti-cigarette advertisement accepted by commercial television stations? How is it possible for commercial stations to refuse  to play anti-cigarette advertisements which represent only a drop in the bucket compared with propaganda bombardment used to advertise cigarettes which are a proven health hazard? 1 can vouch for that having been an 80 cigarettes a day man until 3 years ago. 
If you were an 80 a day man you're a better man than I am Gunga Din. As I said in response to questions yesterday and again this morning, the Department of Health has no control over the advertising of cigarettes on radio and television or in any other media. Control of advertising on radio and television is vested in the PostmasterGeneral's Department under the Broadcasting and Television Act. Under this Act the Director-General of Health has power only in relation to advertisements for talks on matters of health. I will refer the question to the PostmasterGeneral. 
Like  Senator Willesee,  I feel that I have to oppose the change suggested by  Senator Byrne,  for many of the reasons mentioned by  Senator Willesee.  If one looks at notice of motion No. 1 in the name of  Senator Byrne,  one finds that it was placed on the notice paper on 3rd March 1970. Item No. 11, which he desires to bring forward and to debate in lieu of Item No. 1, was placed on the notice paper on 17th August 1971. Item No. 1 has been on the notice paper for 17 or 18 months. It is quite true, as  Senator Willesee  said, that until such time as item No. 1 is disposed of all other items are snookered. I merely put forward this thought: If the item was important enough in March 1970 to be put on the notice paper, there have been a number of opportunities of which  Senator Byrne  could have availed himself in order to dispose of that item and enable items placed on the notice paper by other people to be dealt with. 
I think I overhead  Senator Byrne  say that he could have the position of that notice of motion on the notice paper changed. If it was important in March 1970, why have we not been able to deal with it and get it off the notice paper? If it was not important, why has it laid there for so long? -Let us clear the deck. Let us get on with the business of this Parliament. There has always been a tendency for this Parliament to sit on and on towards the end of a session, when we become short of time in which to dispose of the business. We are now in the early part of a session, and we have the opportunity to dispose of some of these matters which are important to the people who put them on the notice paper. They may be important also to the parties those people represent. I believe that we should go along with the thought that notice of motion No. 1 must be cleared from the notice paper. If  Senator Byrne  now considers that it is not important, as it was in March 1970, let him seek leave to have it discharged from the notice paper so that we of the Australian Labor Party can bring forward notice of motion No. 2 standing in the name of  Senator Willesee. 
My question is directed to the Minister for Health and is very closely related to the question asked by  Senator Laucke.  The question relates to health risks. Is the Minister aware of a preliminary study by the chemistry department at the University of Tasmania of the pollution of marine life by metals, particularly mercury? Does this study show that the oyster industries in Tasmania and New South Wales are in danger of collapsing because of the growing mercury pollution of our waters? Did the head of the chemistry department, Professor Bloom, say that the Federal Government should learn from similar crises in other countries and take urgent and drastic steps? Will the Minister investigate Professor Bloom's claim that the present level of mercury allowable in Australian foods - 0.5 parts per million - should be reviewed in the light of the statement by the World Health Organisation that the level should be reduced drastically to 0.05 parts per million? Will the Minister take all steps available to initiate urgent action against this major health hazard and report as quickly as possible the views of his departmental experts on the implications of this new Tasmanian study? 
Apart altogether from the risk to the oyster industry, which I am sure we would all regret very much both from a commercial and a palatable point of view, I agree with  Senator Poke  that there is an element in this question which relates to the Department of Health. 1 will have the question referred for study so that I may make a report to the Senate on it. It is a very wide subject and certainly goes far beyond the risk to one particular food. I will have it studied and hope to make a report to the Senate at an early date on the issues raised. 
Has the attention of the Attorney-General been drawn to the publication recently
              of a book called 'The Outcasts of Foolgarah', written by Frank Hardy, the
              author of 'Power Without Glory'? Are some of the characters in the book
              clearly identifiable as leading members of the Government; for instance,  Sir William  Bigears, <inline font-weight="bold">Mr
                Sneedhearn</inline> and many others? Does the book also refer to  Sir Jasper  Storeman and his sinister influence on the
              Government - a clear reference to  Sir Frank 
              Packer? 
My question is addressed to the Minister representing the Minister for Primary
              Industry. In view of the continuing crisis over wool sales and the strong possibility
              that, the wool subsidy estimated at $60m in the Budget will now rise to $180m, will
              the Government consider one of the many possible acquisition schemes which could be
              financed by the wool industry instead of by the taxpayer? 
Is the Government aware that last month <inline font-weight="bold">Sir
              William</inline> Gunn acknowledged the Government's budgetary difficulties,
            pointing out that he had received an assurance of funds from overseas financial
            institutions which could finance a subsidy scheme instead of - and I emphasise these
            words - soaking the taxpayer to prop up an industry which cannot and should not survive
            in its present form? When will the Federal Government acknowledge the inequity of the
            present subsidy scheme and, in view of the current crisis, review the present system of
            subsidies and stockpiling which has shaken buyer confidence, wrecked the rural
            reconstruction scheme and wrongly allocated our nation's resources? 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Foreign Affairs, upon notice:
            
Does the Australian Government have diplomatic relations with the Government of
                Bolivia; if so, has the Government protested to the new right-wing regime in Bolivia
                about its use, last Monday, of the Bolivian air force to bomb and strafe 300
                students who barricaded themselves in a university building in La Paz. 
Does the Government believe there is justification for military coups against
                left-wing military regimes, such as we have been fighting to support for so long in
                Vietnam. 
My question is addressed to the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry. In reference to the Minister's reply to my question yesterday about the continuing crisis over wool sales, despite his description yesterday of my question as balderdash, will he now answer these questions:. What is the aim of the. Wool Commissions's purchasing policy in the long term? When is it expected to achieve this aim? Has the Wool Commission any idea what the approximate cost will be, or is it true that the Government has placed no ceiling on the purchasing activities of the Commission? What are the broad Government guidelines for the Commission? Has it a charter endlessly to spend taxpayers' money in the pursuit of a totally unrealistic policy? What evidence is there that the Commission's policy to date has increased prices being paid by the main wool buyers at the current sales? 
I address my question to the Minister for Health. Does his statement yesterday that the Government was reconsidering its promise to set up a national health insurance commission really mean that plans for such a commission have now been scrapped? If so, what credence can the public place on such promises which were firmly made when  Mr Gorton  was Prime- Minister? Is this a further step in the de-Gortonisation of Government policy since  Mr McMahon  took over the Prime Ministership and placed his predecessor on the back bench? 

 Senator Sir KENNETH ANDERSONMr  President,  your admonition about political propaganda might well apply to this question, too. For the same reason as I have suggested that a number of other questions be placed on the notice paper, I suggest that this one be placed on the notice paper also. 
My question is addressed to the Minister for Air. I imagine that he is aware of Press reports that the Government is expected to decide before the Parliament rises on 10th December to take delivery of the Royal Australian Air Force's 24 Fill aircraft. Is the Minister still studying the recommendation of an RAAF technical team which returned from the United States of America several weeks ago? 
I address my question to the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry and remind the honourable gentleman about my questions last week which referred to the Government's soaking the taxpayers to prop up a wool industry subsidy scheme. Is the Minister aware of the large difference which has developed between prices offered at the current auctions by the Australian Wool Commission and prices in other wool producing countries? Is it a fact that a survey by one of the leading continental wool buying brokers of prices in Argentina, Uruguay, New Zealand, Brazil and North America has shown that buyers could get their wool 10 per cent to 15 per cent cheaper overseas? Is it a fact that the stockpile of 539,000 bales held by the Commission is worth $54m? If so, when  does the Commission expect to sell that wool and reimburse the taxpayers for such a massive outlay used to prop up a system which appears to be collapsing? Is it a fact that the Government's wool buying through the Commission in effect creates an artificial price which implies price rigging, a practice, which is coming under severe criticism in the share market? Does this price rigging system by the Wool Commission grossly mislead the Australian public? ls it true that there is a vast international market rigging scheme instigated, conducted and condoned by a government which professes to believe in free enterprise? 
My question is  addressed to the Leader of the Government in the Senate. Is he aware of an editorial in the latest monthly journal of the Canberra Young Liberals which gravely criticises the leadership of the Prime Minister,  Mr McMahon?  Did this Liberal journal state that it was time the Government realised that it has only a slim chance of winning the next federal election and that the Liberal Party of Australia urgently needs some initiative at the helm? Does this criticism of the Leader of the Government, who is also the leader of the Liberal Party, constitute a grave warning to a public which is becoming daily more disillusioned with the lack of leadership in this country? Does the Leader of the Government in the Senate agree that the lack of initiative probably explains why a poll conducted by a leading newspaper last week found that only 34 per cent of the people of Australia support the LiberalCountry Party coalition while 48 per cent now support the Australian Labor Party? 

 Senator Sir KENNETH ANDERSONI have not indulged in reading the leading article to which the honourable senator referred. 
I again ask the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry whether he is aware that there is a large difference between the prices offered at current wool auctions by the Australian Wool Commission and prices obtained in other wool producing countries where prices are 10 per cent to 15 per cent lower than Australian prices. Does the Government have any limit in mind for the amount which the taxpayers will be asked to pay wool growers to subsidise their product? Is there a ceiling on the amount which the Wool Commission can spend at auctions? 
My question, which is  addressed to the Minister for Air, bears a very close relationship to the question addressed by  Senator Webster  to the Leader of the Government in the Senate. 1 ask the Minister for Air: Why has the Government rejected a suggestion that it should guarantee a work load for a merger between the Commonwealth Aircraft Corporation Pty Ltd and the Government Aircraft Factories? Is it a fact that (he aircraft industry would welcome a clear cut Government statement of its intentions for the industry as well as the inclusion of the defence aircraft industry in the 5-year rolling defence programme? Does the Minister agree that such a statement would allow the industry to plan its future, thus eliminating employment troughs now occurring between major production runs? 
I address my question to the Minister for Air. In view of the answer he gave yesterday about the leasing of substitute aircraft for the Fills, will he confirm that this means that Australians will not see Fills in our skies until the end of next year even if the Government decides, before the end of this parliamentary session, to take delivery of them? 
My question is addressed to the Minister representing the Minister for Labour and National Service. Is it a fact that a 12-month old boy and a 70-year old widow have received national service call up notices? Does this mean that the Government plans to continue conscription for at least another 19 years or, alternatively, is it thinking of widening the scope of the National Service Act to include 70-year old women? If the boy fails to register will the Government guarantee to prosecute him with greater fervour than it is currently doing with the estimated 1,100 young men who have refused out of conscience to register for conscription? 

 Senator Sir KENNETH ANDERSONI do not regard this as a serious question. We have had the odd experience of parliamentarians suddenly receiving a call up notice because somebody, very wickedly, has submitted their names. I suppose that if  Senator Poke  received such a notice he would have to ask himself whether he, at his age - I do not know his age - would report for national service. So I say that I do not regard the question as serious; nor do I regard it as offensive. I think the honourable senator is just creating a lighthearted atmosphere at question time in the Senate. 
Has the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry seen today's Press reports that the amount of wool shipped to Europe since the opening of this season's sales in Australia is 56,000 bales less than the anticipated figure? ls this further evidence of the continuing crisis in the wool industry and is it confimation that many wool buyers are buying outside Australia because of the price rigging activities of the Australian Wool Commission? 
I direct a question to the Minister for Health. My question refers to the expenditure of $397,000 by the Commonwealth Government to pay management expenses' to the hospital and medical benefits funds at the rate of 6 per cent on the money that they handled in 1970-71 in dealing with bills under the subsidised medical scheme for low income families, migrants and others. In view of the fact that the insurance funds do not use their own money to meet patients' bills in this scheme and in view of the fact that the funds are not involved in insuring anyone enrolled in this scheme, how does the Minister justify this sheer waste of taxpayers' money? 
I do not concede that this is a sheer waste of taxpayers' money at all. Anyone who receives a management fee receives that fee because he has provided some management service. This is not peculiar to government. It is common in every facet of business. I will get the particulars of what the management function was, how long it took, what it accomplished, and what was done, lt would not reflect very well on the Senate's understanding of business methods if it agreed that a government or anyone else should pay any sum of money - in this case, it is $397,000  -  for a management consultant's performance unless the service for which payment was being made was rendered. Having said that, I will obtain the details of this matter and provide them to the Senate. 
 My question is addressed to the Attorney-General. Why has he refused to order the release of conscientious objector Charles Martin following a reduction of the term of national service by 6 months? As the Government has stated that no conscripts will now be sent to Vietnam unless they wish to go, does this place Martin's imprisonment in a completely new light and greatly strengthen the argument that he should be released immediately? As we are withdrawing from Vietnam, why should a young man be kept in gaol for the next few months until the new National Service Bill becomes law. Is the lack of clemency further evidence of the Government's attempt to save face over the whole of the Vietnam tragedy? 
My question is addressed to the Leader of the Government in the Senate. Is it a fact that the Prime Minister has written to  President  Nixon protesting at  Mr Nixon's  failure to give him advance warning of the announcement of the President's proposed visit to Peking? If this is so, does this indicate that the Government is working against the American alliance and has been seriously embarrassed by  President  Nixon's failure to take the Australian Prime Minister into his confidence on such a vital matter? As  Mr McMahon  claimed 4 days before  President  Nixon's stunning announcement of his impending trip to Peking that the Leader of the Opposition,  Mr Whitlam,  was played like a trout while in Peking, is  Mr McMahon's  letter of complaint an admission that the fish was on the hook in Canberra and not in Peking? In a more serious vein I ask: Does this not confirm public suspicion that there has been a fundamental change in relations between America and the McMahon Government? 
I am sure that I would not be expected to respond to a question which is framed and couched like that and which at this point is based primarily on Press reports of statements between Heads of State. For me to answer the question now would be absolutely absurd. If the honourable senator wishes to put his question on notice he is welcome to do so. 
My question is addressed to the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry. Is there widespread concern among wool growers that wool sold privately is not eligible for the Government's price support subsidy? If this is so, will the Minister give a firm assurance that there will be no discrimination between wool sold privately and wool sold at auction when subsidies are paid? 
Is the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry aware that wool prices quoted by private wool sellers in some overseas countries are at a considerable discount below prices now payable at auction in Australia? As the Australian Wool Commission bought 37 per cent of the offering at Albany and 30 per cent of the offering at Sydney yesterday, does the Minister consider that it would be an advantageous move to send a trade mission to the wool buying countries of the world in an endeavour to sell the ever increasing stockpile of Australian wool held by the AWC at prices comparable to those being quoted by overseas sellers? 
Is the Minister representing the Minister for Social Services aware that administrators of homes for the aged in Tasmania arc expressing considerable concern regarding the financial crisis affecting the homes, some of which are facing closure due to lack of finance? Is it not a fact that many of the homes for the aged have to depend on charity in order to balance their budgets? In view of the financial difficulties facing these homes, will the Government give further financial assistance to them? 
The Opposition opposes this measure. I know that the Attorney-General  (Senator Greenwood),  who represents the PostmasterGeneral  (Sir Alan Hulme)  in this chamber, has an appointment that he wants to keep. I am very sorry that the Opposition's approach to this matter could prevent him from keeping that appointment. I know also that the Parliament is geared to a computer system and that the Government wants this Bill to be passed by tomorrow. 
Well, the Government wants this Bill to be passed today so that the increased charges for which it provides will become operative tomorrow. I think I should at the beginning make a comparison between the second reading speech in this chamber of the Attorney-General and the second reading speech that was made by the Postmaster-General in the other place in relation to this matter. I do not know why there is a difference between the verbiage used in this place and the verbiage used in the other place in relation to this Bill, but there is. There is no difference in the intent of the Bill, but there is a difference in the wording used by the responsible Ministers in each chamber. In his second reading speech in the other place the Postmaster-General made some reference to a station at Darwin - I forget offhand what type of station it was - but no reference was made to it here by the Attorney-General. I do not know why. 
It is rather interesting to note that on almost every occasion during this session on which the Government has introduced a Bill Ministers have made some reference to wages being a major factor in the increased expenditure which has been incurred. In fact, one could say that the Government would seem to be obsessed with the desire to emphasise at every opportunity its claim that all the ills from which it suffers are the result of increased wages. I have heard this story for the past 50 years. I can go back into the 1920s when the employers used exactly the same type of propaganda. In those days every increase in costs was said to be due to wage rises. In the Depression years the expression over-production and under-consumption' was used freely. A little later on the old bogy that wage increases were the cause of all our ills again cropped up. At that time it was said that until wages were stabilised we would be faced with some form of inflation. It was not called inflation in those days. That is a word which has been coined in more recent times. Still and all, the meaning in those days was exactly the same as it is today. 
I do not accept nor do I think anybody on this side of the House accepts the proposition that all our financial ills are the result of increased wages. I would like the opportunity to debate that aspect on another level at another time. I do not think it is appropriate to discuss it during the debate on this Bill. But I do wish to put on record my opposition to the Government's attitude that wage rises are the only factor, as I said before, in the necessity for increased expenditure. 
I am pleased that the Government has seen fit to retain its policy of not expecting blind persons and schools to pay a fee for a broadcast listeners' or television viewers' licence. That is commendable. I think we should endeavour to allow those people who depend almost solely on radio and television for a little bit of entertainment to do so at a minimum cost. The Government has put forward the argument that the increase from $6.50 to $8 a year in the broadcast listeners' licence fee runs out at approximately 3c a week. I admit that the increase runs out at about that figure. But I would point out that it is the normal pattern on all measures introduced by the Government of late for it to say - whether it be a pensioner or an ordinary taxpayer who has to pay the increase - that it is an increase of only so much a week. No matter what the increase may be - whether it is only 3c a week or $1 a week - it all has to come out of the pockets of the pensioners and the workers. For that reason I would condemn the Government for increasing these fees. 
I sometimes wonder when watching some television programmes why we have to pay an increased amount for a television licence. In fact, I think we should be paid to look at some programmes, particularly those programmes on commercial television stations which feature an advertisement in which  Mrs Jones  is saying that a particular brand of soap is better. I think it is terrible to have to watch these advertisements. 
I notice that the combined receiving licence fee is to be increased from $20 to $26.50 a year. It is interesting to note that there has been quite an increase in the number of combined licence fees which have been issued. An examination of page 45 of the 39th annual report of the Australian Broadcasting Commission will show that in 1969 - I will give the approximate figures - slightly in excess of 2 million combined receiving licences were issued. In 1970 approximately  2i  million were issued. In the financial year ending 30th June 1971 slightly in excess of  2i  million were issued. It is interesting to note the increase from year to year. For instance, there was an increase in 1969 of some 97,000 on the figure in 1968. The increase of 97,000 in 1969 was reduced to an increase of 85,000 in 1970. The approximate figure for 1971 is 62,000. We must expect that this trend will continue. The number of licences will increase but the percentage will decrease. As licences are combined this trend will continue. A few minutes ago I mentioned that we oppose the Bill because it seeks to increase certain rates. The increase in the combined licence to $26.50 will mean an increase of approximately 50c a month. This is an increase of 12c or 13c a week. To some people this is only a small amount, but the cost to the listener or viewing public has increased and this increase will be a severe blow to the pensioners and to people on low incomes. 
I would like the Minister to make some comment on the quality of reception in certain areas. In Tasmania there are only 2 national stations but there are commercial stations. It was necessary for a number of translator stations to be installed so that people in outlying areas could get reception. South of Hobart, in the Cygnet and Dover areas, viewers can get the commercial station only very seldom. The reception is not good. In the main they get the national station. Is anything being done to carry out a survey of that area to see whether the installation of a translator station might help, what might be the best type and what would be the cost involved? I do not know whether anything has been done in that direction. I would like the Minister to say whether that is being done. I would also ask the Minister to make some comment on the situation on King Island. I have not been in contact with King Island for a period. I know that at one stage there was quite a controversy about the residents having to pay a full TV licence fee and getting only a partial picture and very often getting no picture. I would like some comment on that issue. 
I sincerely hope that I have not provoked the Minister into making a reply to this debate as long as the reply he made to the debate on the Post and Telegraph Bill. If he does he will miss his appointment. When the Minister was replying to the debate on the Post and Telegraph Bill he accused the Labor Party of putting nothing in its place. He said that we did not advance a policy. I suggest to the Minister that it is not the responsibility of the Opposition, in a debate such as this, to advance its policy. We are here as an Opposition. We are here to criticise Government policy. I think the Minister is aware that we make our policy known following our Federal or State conferences, as the case may be, and during election campaigns. When we are debating Bills of this nature, although we may be invited by the Minister, we do not feel obliged to advise him or the Government of the extent of our policy on any issue. I think we should, and we mostly do, give sufficient of our policy to fit the particular Bill. I think we did that with the Post and Telegraph Bill. I think we did that with this Bill. We oppose the increases. That is all we have to say. We have nothing to say as to what we would do if we were offering an alternative. We offer no alternative. We oppose the Bill because it seeks to increase certain rates. 
Is the Minister for Health aware that some hospitals have a policy of demanding payment from a patient before he gains admittance? Is this further evidence of the way in which the national health scheme is breaking down? What is the attitude of the Department of Health to such a practice? Will the Minister make urgent inquiries to see whether such an inhuman policy is being pursued? 
If so, will he take steps to eliminate it, especially as it would weigh heavily on the chronically ill and the poorer members of our community? 

 Senator Sir KENNETH ANDERSONThe honourable senator has asked a very broad question. It should be remembered that hospitals generally, particularly State institutions, are instruments of the State governments. Apart from hospitals in the Australian Capital Territory and other Commonwealth territories, the Commonwealth would not be directly involved in hospital administration, lt is conceivable that private hospitals would insist upon a payment in advance, although probably not full payment for the anticipated stay of the incoming patient; but even in certain State instrumentalities - I have not checked on this for some time - a certain payment has been insisted upon before admission of a patient to intermediate and private wards. 
As to public ward patients, I am not aware of demands for payment in advance. In fact, private hospitals would not have public ward patients. I do not think that the point raised by the honourable senator indicates a new situation or that it reflects upon the efficacy of voluntary contribution medical and hospital schemes. Sitting behind the honourable senator are senators who are members of hospital boards. They would be able to advise him whether certain intermediate and private cases are asked on admission for payment of at least the first week's charges. That practice has existed for years, to my knowledge. 
Following my question last week, I ask: Is the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry aware of Press reports that the Australian Wool Commission's stockpiling of wool under a reserve price policy has led to speculation that a policy change is likely in the near future? Is it true that if the Commission continues to buy wool at its present rate the stockpile could reach 1.5 million bales, worth almost $150m, by the end of this selling season? As the Commission has already spent $ 13.4m on this price support policy, I again ask: Has the Government in mind any ceiling above which the Commission cannot go, or is the taxpayer facing the prospect of an endless payout to support the wool industry? 
My question is addressed to the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry.  Win  the Minister state where the Australian Wool Commission is stockpiling the mountain of wool it is accumulating and especially whether any of this storage space is rented or leased and if so the cost of these leasing or rental arrangements? Can he also give details of how much the Australian Wool Board would earn by renting out the spaces it owns if those spaces were not already occupied by AWC wool stockpiles? 
My question is addressed to the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry. Is the Minister aware of reports today from Tokyo that Japan's wool yarn futures market has plunged to its lowest level because of panic selling? Is it true that observers in Tokyo have blamed the market collapse partly on the large stocks of wool accumulated by the Australian Wool Commission and that the collapse could further affect Japanese purchases of Australian wool? In view of this further evidence of approaching disaster for the wool industry, what positive policies has the Government in mind, or is it content merely to let the Australian taxpayer pay more for stockpiling more wool? 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry, upon notice: 
What is the long-term aim of the Australian Wool Commission's purchasing policy, and when does it expect to achieve this aim. 
Does the Australian Wool Commission know what will be the ultimate cost of its longterm wool purchasing policy. 
Has the Government placed a ceiling on the wool purchasing activities of the Australian Wool Commission, and what guidelines, if any, has the Government laid down for the Commission in regard to wool purchases. 
What evidence is there that wool purchases by the Australian Wool Commission have resulted in increased prices being offered by the main wool buyers at the current series of sales. 
asked the Minister repre senting the Minister for Primary Industry, upon notice: 
Is there a large difference between prices offered at current wool auctions by the Australian Wool Commission and prices in other woolproducing countries, where these prices are 10 to15 per cent lower than in Australia. 
My question is addressed to the Minister for Civil Aviation. Will the Minister indicate whether 
Qantas Airways Ltd will persist in the sacking of the 138 of its pilots and pilot trainees who were given notice some 6 months ago? 
I remind the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry that yesterday I asked him a question about the purchase of wool by the Australian Wool Commission. 1 now ask: How long will a bale of wool need to remain in storage before its accumulated storage cost equals the original purchase price of the bale? Does the Minister agree that every effiicient business should have a quick turnover of stock? Does the Australian Wool Commission intend to ignore this standard business practice and allow its wool stockpiles to mount up into a modern Tower of Babel? 
My question is addressed to the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry. Has the Australian Wool Commission decided that all superfine wools must be marketed through the auction system and not by negotiation outside the system? Has the Commission set price reserves for the whole of the season on this class of wool, which comprises only 1.2 per cent of the clip? If so, what criteria were used in establishing the reserve price? 
I direct my question to the Minister for Air. Has any decision been made in regard to the purchase of long range reconnaissance aircraft? If no decision has vet been made, which suitable aircraft of this type are under consideration? 
Can the Leader of the Government in the Senate add anything further to the report that at a symposium in Washington next month doubts may be dispelled about the United States Northrop Corporation's precision navigation system, Omega? Can the Minister indicate to the Senate whether negotiations have been entered into wilh America to establish the station in the north west of Tasmania? 
My question is addressed to the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry. Will he consider whether it would not be cheaper to ship part of the stockpiled wool held by the Australian Wool Commission to India for blanket weaving than to maintain it in storage in Australia for the lengthy periods between acquisition and indefinite sale? Would not this be doing simultaneous favours to both the Pakistani refugees and the taxpayers of Australia in view of the costly retention of the stockpile by the Australian Wool Commission? 
I direct my question to the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry. How many bales of price averaging plan wool offered for sale by the Australian Wool Commission have been passed in at auction this season? Is it a fact that a large number of PAP bales need to be re-offered four or five times before a sale is effected? What is the cost per bale incurred each time a bale is reoffered for sale? 
 My question is addressed to the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry. During the last 12 months, which wool broking and handling charges have been increased and what has been the amount of each of those increases? Will the Minister not agree that the operations of the Australian Wool Commission have meant a bonanza for brokers? 
Is the Minister representing the Minister for Foreign Affairs aware that the Broken Hill Pty Co. Ltd has sent one of its senior executives to 
 My question is addressed to the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry. Is it a fact that under the Wool (Deficiency Payments) Act payments go to the mortgagee or the holder of a bill of sale, namely, the wool broker, for the wool involved? If so, does this mean that money allegedly paid to help the wool growers and to resuscitate dying country towns will not in fact reach either the wool grower or the local trader? 
Does the Government agree that this massive subsidy to wool brokers is a classic case of misrepresentation both to the taxpayers and the wool growers who were expecting relief from the Government? 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry. What answer has the Government to the growing criticism from a wide variety of informed sources that the measures to assist the wool industry have failed to make any real impact on the rural crisis? How does the Government reconcile its open-ended commitment to boost the price of wool for one year - a decision which could cost the taxpayers $l60m - with the decision to pay only $lm over a period of  4  years for rural reconstruction? Will the Government consider a major rationalisation of the wool subsidy scheme to allow more money to be channelled into the rural reconstruction scheme instead of pouring millions of dollars into the wool industry - much of it to wealthy brokers and big grazing companies? 
asked the Minister representing the Prime Minister, upon notice: 
Has the Prime Minister written to  President  Nixon, protesting at his failure to give  Mr McMahon  advance warning of the announcement of his proposed visit to Peking? If so does this indicate that the Government is working against the United States of America alliance and has been seriously embarrassed by  President  Nixon's failure to take the Prime Minister into his confidence on such a vital matter? 
Does this situation confirm wide public suspicion that there has been a fundamental change in relations between the Governments of the United States of America and Australia? 

 Senator Sir KENNETH ANDERSONThe Prime Minister has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
and (2) I refer the honourable senator to my replies to questions without notice by  Mr James  on 29th September 1971 (Hansard, House of Representatives, page 1622) and by  Mr Whitlam  on 7th October 1971 (Hansard, House of Representatives, pages 2014-2015). 
asked the Minister repre senting  the  Minister for Supply, upon notice: 
Why has the Government rejected a suggestion that it should guarantee a workload for a merger between the Commonwealth Aircraft Corporation and the Government Aircraft Factory. 
Would a statement by the Government on its intentions for the aircraft industry, and the inclusion of the industry in the five-year rolling defence programme, allow the aircraft industry to plan for the future and so eliminate employment troughs which occur between major production runs. 
In the absence of the Minister representing the Minister for Foreign Affairs, I address a question to the Leader of the Government in the Senate. I might add that I also have a supplementary question. Is it a fact that the Australian Government stated the view that Taiwan should not be expelled from the United Nations because it was a foundation member of that body and it had always acted as a responsible member and discharged its membership obligations? 
In the absence of  Senator Wright,  who represents the Minister for Foreign Affairs in this place - he is absent because of a family bereavement - let me say that, having regard to the historical facts of the case and because the question should be answered with particularity and in detail, I would prefer it to be placed on the notice paper. If there is to be a supplementary question, that also should be placed on the notice paper. 
My question, which I address to the Leader of the Government in the Senate, is supplementary to the question asked by  Senator Lillico.  I ask: Can the Minister reconcile the view that Taiwan has always met its United Nations obligations with the fact that Taiwan left the United Nations owing S30.3lm in unpaid membership dues? 
I would not know the precise amounts involved but I do know that many other countries owe a financial debt to the United Nations. I suggest that the honourable senator place the balance of his question on the notice paper. 
My question is addressed to the Minister for Health. The Minister will recall that last week I asked him a question about the allocation of an item number under the Commonwealth schedule of medical benefits for venipuncture services. I ask: Has the Minister yet got this information? [f so. will he inform the Senate about it? 
It is true that  Senator Poke  asked me a question last week about the determination of an item number in the medical benefits schedule for the service known as venipuncture. As promised. I have had the matter examined. The following information was supplied to me by my Department: Venipuncture is a medical term to describe the taking of a blood, sample for the purpose of a pathology test. In some cases the venipuncture is performed by a doctor who himself carries out the pathological test. In cases of the kind to which  Senator Poke  apparently refers, the service of venipuncture and the pathology test are regarded as a single medical service for which the medical benefits appropriate to the pathological test are payable. In those cases a separate benefit is not payable for the venipuncture. In other words, one can only claim when it is done by the one person. In other cases the doctor who performs the venipuncture forwards the blood specimen to another doctor - the pathologist - for testing. When this is done the patient of the doctor who carries out the venipuncture may be paid medical benefits for the venipuncture - item 931 of the schedule - or a consultation but not both. That is because a consultation and a venipuncture are regarded as a single medical service. I might add that the question of the retention of item 931 in the schedule of benefits is currently under review. 
My question is addressed to the Leader of the Government in the Senate. Is it purely coincidence that the American Defence Secretary,  Mr Laird,  yesterday pledged a continued American military presence in Indo-China at the same time as the Australian Government agreed to leave Australian troops in Vietnam to train Cambodian soldiers? Will the Government give an unqualified guarantee that these advisers are not the advance guard of another major commitment to an Indo-Chinese war, with the announcement perhaps ready to be made if the Government manages, by some remote chance, to hold office after the next election? Will the Government remove the well justified suspicions of a great many Australians by withdrawing all our troops from Vietnam and also ending conscription? 
Is the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry aware that  Sir Norman  Giles,  chairman  of 
Elder Smith Goldsborough Ltd, yesterday described the S30m subsidy pay-out to wool growers during the last year as a social service handout at the expense of the taxpayer? Did he also .ay that the subsidy achieved nothing for the wool industry in general? In view of this further evidence that the Government's wool subsidy schemes are coming ur.c'er criticism from all quarters, when will the Government undertake a complete review of all wool subsidy schemes with a view to achieving justice for both the rural producer and the taxpayer? 
Can the Leader of the Government give any credible explanation as to how the Prime Minister was kept in the dark for a month about an American request to keep Australian troops in Vietnam to train Cambodian troops? Docs this astonishing performance give some clue as to why this country is governed in such an unplanned and haphazard way, or is it just further confirmation that this Government is allowing Australia to drift rudderless into an uncertain future? 
I do not subscribe to the last part of the honourable senator's question. That is a political interpretation which, naturally, somebody sitting on the Opposition side would like to make. 1 commend to the honourable senator an editorial in a 
Sydney journal this morning which said that this matter is tittle tattle, insignificant stuff which had been pushed out of all proportion because of politics. As to the balance of the question, I gave an answer yesterday and I add nothing to that. 
1 address a question to the Minister representing the Minister for Housing. How does the Government expect young couples today to afford to build a home while rising land costs and higher mortgage interest rates are pricing them out of the picture? Is it a fact that a recent study by  Dr Max  Neutze of the Australian National University showed that in Sydney the housing component of the consumer price index rose by 79 per cent between 1952-53 and 1966-67 while the all-groups component of the consumer price index rose by only 39 per cent in the same period? Did  Dr Neutze  also find that the cost of home purchase in Australia since the post-war period had risen more rapidly than average earnings, with earnings rising by 106 per cent in the period mentioned earlier while the average price of homes rose by 200 per cent in the same 14-year period? 
I ask the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry: Does the Government approve of  Sir William  Gunn's remaining as  chairman  of the Australian Wool Board and purporting to represent Australia's major rural industry while on the other hand he is actively engaged in selling large areas of Australia to overseas interests? How can these conflicting interests assist the rural community? Is it not hypocritical that  Sir William  influences Americans to invest in Australian agricultural projects while he has been unable to have removed tariff and import restrictions that have helped to cripple the Australian wool industry? 
Is the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry aware that  Mr C.  M. Beer, Director of the Finance and General Services Section of the Department of Primary Industry, stated that the Federal Government will be asked to provide several million dollars more to bail out the Australian Wool Commission this year? Is it factualto say that the Australian Wool Commission has stockpiled 700,000 bales ofwool worth more than$70m? Does the statement made by  Mr Beer  substantiate the statement by  Sir Norman  Giles, who described the $30m subsidy payout to wool growers as a social service handout at the expense of the taxpayers? How can the Minister reconcile the statements made by these 2 gentlemen with his answer to my question on 3rd November in which he stated that the sum of just over $20m had been actually paid to wool growers? 
My question is addressed to the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry. Why has the Australian Country Party's national secretariat sent a questionnaire to more than 50,000 members of the Country Party asking their opinions on topics from abortion, militant unionism and migration to the health of the coalition? Coupled with the Country Party's fading power as its rural chickens come home to roost, could this move be construed as a final desperate attempt to hold the Party together long enough to secure a few votes at the next Federal election, or is it perhaps an indication that  Mr Anthony- 
No, but it too is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry. I preface my question by referring to the Minister's endorsement last week of  Sir William  Gunn's notorious activities in selling out large areas of Australia. Is the Minister aware of the remarkable statement by the Acting Prime Minister,  Mr Anthony,  in Sydney yesterday in which he discussed the question whether it was possible to find ways of marshalling the savings of Australian people so they would have the confidence and opportunity to invest in the ownership of their own industries? How can the Acting Prime Minister have the effrontery to suggest this when the Government has allowed a takeover by foreign interests of a great part of our natural resources and industries? Will the Minister ask  Mr Anthony  to refrain from such tasteless suggestions at a time when the majority of Australians are crying out for the Government to legislate to prevent this massive takeover of our nation? 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry. Is it a fact that the Australian Wool Commission has negotiated with the private banks a further loan of$30m at 6.5 per cent repayable by 30th April next? Also, is the Government aware of how the Commission plans to reduce its stockpile of wool when the international currency situation is resolved, as the Commission's optimistic plan would involve substantial reductions of a stockpile of 70,000 bales of wool valued at in excess of $70m? Can the Minister say when the Government will act to create a viable economic plan for the wool industry instead of allowing the Commission to build up huge stockpiles in the farcical hope that it can keep prices up and finally allow the disposal of all of the wool stock piled? 
My question is addressed to the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry, ls it a fact that the  Chairman  of the Australian Wool Commission,  Mr W.  J. Vines, announced in Melbourne on Sunday last that the Commission had negotiated a further loan of $30m at 6.5 per cent, repayable by 30th April next? To what amount will this new loan bring the total sum borrowed by or granted to the Commission for the purpose of adding to its enormous stockpile of wool which is exacerbating the crisis in the wool industry, particularly when 90 per cent of the locked up 700,000 bales of wool could be sold tomorrow at world parity prices and put to use? 
My question is addressed to the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry. Why has the Australian Country Party's national secretariat sent a questionnaire to more than 50,000 members asking their opinions on topics ranging from abortion, militant unionism and migration to the health of the coalition? ls this a sign of the Country Party's anxiety about its rural chickens coming home to roost, or is the Country Party endeavouring to update its image- 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Foreign Affairs, upon notice: 
Has the Australian Government stated the view that Taiwan should not be expelled from the 
United Nations Organisation because it was a foundation member and has always acted in a responsible manner and discharged its membership obligations. 

 Senator WRIGHT - The Minister for Foreign Affairs has furnished the following reply: 
Yes. To give just one example of this, the Foreign Minister in his statement in the General Assembly of the United Nations on 4th October said:  . . one of the realities is that the Republic of China is and has since the beginning of the organisation been a loyal  and  responsible member. In our view there should be no question of expelling it.' 
My question is addressed to the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry. Is the Minister aware that in recent weeks, according to reports from the various selling centres throughout Australia, prices for types of wool which were dropped from the Australian Wool Commission support scheme, such as locks, bellies, crutchings and discoloured wools, and which make a presentable percentage of the overall offerings, have risen generally by from 20 per cent to 50 per cent and in some cases 100 per cent? Does the Minister not understand that if the Wool Commission stopped buying in at auction as on aggressive competitor a similar rise in values of higher grade wools could be possible? Will the Minister use his influence to stop the crazy window dressing activities of the Wool Commission and prevent it from stockpiling these vast quantities of wool at taxpayers' expense and let the world market determine the real value of wool? 
My question is addressed to the Leader of the Government in the Senate and by way of preface might I say that in answering I hope he will not display the same amount of sensitivity as did the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry. Is it true that the United States  Deputy  Secretary of Defense,  Mr Packard,  will be given free access to the Pine Gap base while permission is still refused Australian members of Parliament to enjoy the same right? Is it true that when the Leader of the Opposition visited the base he was refused admission to key areas and saw only mess halls, recreational facilities and ancillary features? When will the Government reverse this embarrassing and absurd situation so that responsible parliamentarians will have the right to know what is happening in their own country? 
With your indulgence,  Mr President,  might 1 say that if I thought that discharging the duties of my office meant that I would lose my sensitivity I would resign within the hour because sensitivity is a trait of human nature which we a JJ want to preserve. As to the question, I ask that it go on notice. 
Is the Minister for Health aware of the criticism voiced in the annual report of the Commonwealth Serum Laboratories about the restrictions placed on its operations which are leading to rapidly declining profits? Is he also aware that the director of Commonwealth Serum Laboratories,  Dr Lane,  has told the House of Representatives Select Committee on Pharmaceutical Benefits that the CSL could sell certain drugs at a much lower profit than commerical drug companies? In view of these revelations, will the Government lift the restrictions so that a Commonwealth instrumentality can operate profitably and also supply drugs to the public at a lower cost? 
Whether the production of non-biological drugs by CSL could actually be achieved at a lower cost than that of other manufacturers is clearly a theoretical question at this time. The manufacture of any product is dependent upon a considerable volume of production - we all understand that situation - which in turn is influenced by the extent of market penetration achieved. The costs involved in the provision of building, plant and equipment for the production of non-biological drugs and the economic viability of such production would require a very detailed examination, both as to the type and range of products to be produced and a cost benefit analysis of manufacturing processes and marketing arrangements. A great majority of non-biological products available for therapeutic use as pharmaceutical benefits are covered by patent, registered trade mark or both. In any event, having regard to those decisions as I understand the position some alteration would be required to the charter of the CSL. 
I believe that everybody associated with Tasmania will be pleased to know that this legislation has come before the Senate for ratification. First of all, I would like to congratulate  Senator Devitt  on the very high standard which he set in this discussion. 1 am very sorry to have to say that  Senator Rae,  the Government  speaker  who followed  Senator Devitt  did not maintain that standard or show a spirit of cooperation. Unfortunately  Senator Rae,  in his own little way, became political. He criticised previous Labor governments in Tasmania. One thing for which I will give him a little bit of credit is his correct summary of some of the history - but only some of it. 
I realise that I did interject while  Senator Rae  was speaking. Let me say that whilst interjections from him would probably assist me greatly in making my contribution to this debate, I intend to ignore them. I am not going to swallow the bait as  Senator Rae  did when he replied to my interjections.  Senator Rae  has on this occasion, as on numerous other occasions, adopted double standards. At the conclusion of his speech he adopted double standards when he spoke about shipping subsidies to Tasmania.  Senator Wilkinson,  who is a member of the Senate Standing Committee on Primary and Secondary Industry and Trade which inquired into freight rates on Australian National Line shipping services to and from Tasmania, endeavoured by way of interjection to assist  Senator Rae,  but  Senator Rae  would not accept the advice offered by  Senator Wilkinson. 

 Senator Rae included  Senator Devitt  among the knockers of the rail link project between Bell Bay and Launceston. He even accused  Senator Devitt  of raising a furphy. I would like to refer in this regard to a Press report of 23rd September 1971 of a statement by  Mr Bethune,  who I think is - I am not quite sure - a member of the same Party as  Senator Rae  but who could be controlled by somebody who is what one could perhaps refer to as a barnacle on the boat of the Liberal Party in Tasmania. 
 I know he is sick. I think he got sick only when the Liberal Party would not play the game as he wanted it to be played. I think  Mr Bethune  and  Mr Beattie  told this man to go and jump in the lake. He may have taken that advice and developed a cold. I do not know what happened. But all at once he has become sick. However, I think I should revert to what I was saying. I wish to refer to a statement by  Mr Bethune  on the cost of the rail link.  Mr Bethune  was very reticent about disclosing the cost of the proposed link between Launceston and Bell Bay. An article in the Launceston 'Examiner' of 23rd September 1971, headed Rail link cost may double', states: 
The Bell Bay rail link may cost double the original estimated amount. 
The member for Huon in the Legislative Council  (Mr Michael Hodgman)  said last night he had been told by a reliable businessman that tenders for the link could be about 100 per cent more than originally estimated. 
The Premier  (Mr Bethune)  would not deny this when asked, but he did agree that tenders were substantially more than the estimates,  Mr Hodgman  said. 

 Mr Bethune had refused to say what the lowest tender was. 1 leave it to honourable senators to judge whether  Senator Devitt  was being a knocker or whether  Senator Rae  was correct in accusing  Senator Devitt  of having raised a furphy. One other area of agreement in which I find myself with  Senator Rae  is on the tribute that he paid to the members and office bearers of the Australian Railways Union. But I would go a little bit further and pay a tribute to the whole of the staff of Launceston workshops. The workers in those workshops know perfectly well that a lot of their jobs, particularly under the present Tasmanian Government, are in jeopardy. They know that if this rail link is not built a lot of them will lose their jobs and the employment situation in Tasmania will be a darned sight worse. 
Little  Sir Echo. Senator Rae  referred to  Mr Taylor  and  Mr Robertson  of the ARU. It was very noticeable that he did not refer to a person who was Secretary of the Australian Railways Union in Tasmania, namely,  Mr Stanistreet.  Perhaps  Senator Rae  did not refer to  Mr Stanistreet  because he felt he might become contaminated if he used his name. 
 Mr Stanistreet  was a Communist. He was also a man who was prepared to stand up and say that he did carry a ticket. But, irrespective of whether  Mr Stanistreet  was a Communist, he was a very good fighter for the Bell Bay railway link and no-one can gainsay that. I can go back to a time before  Mr Stanistreet  was Secretary of the Tasmanian branch of the A.R.U. I can go back to the day when a gentleman who was Secretary of the Tasmanian branch of the ARU had the honour to represent Tasmania in this very chamber. 1 refer to ex-Senator Bill ;Morrow. He, along with a lot of other people, did everything he possibly could do to have the Bell Bay rail link constructed.  Senator Rae  made some reference to the Comalco project. 
lt is possible that he did. 
1 direct a question to the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry. How does the Government justify to the 88 per cent of Australian taxpayers living in urban areas the appropriation of a further S300m last Friday for use by the Australian Wool Commission in propping up the wool industry? ls it not true that stop-gap measures of this nature are only postponing the inevitable, and that only when the Commission stops stockpiling and price deficiency payments will wool prices find their own true market level? if $300m is to go to the wool industry this financial year in grants, loans, research allocations and promotional expenses, when does the Liberal Party intend to stop the Country Party squandering public funds at a terrifying rate merely to bolster its failing electoral position? 
My question is addressed to the Minister representing the Minister for Foreign Affairs. What protest has the Government made to the Government of Thailand following the imposition of martial law and the dissolution of the Thai Parliament? As Thailand has now followed Cambodia in the process of non-democratic government will the Australian Government, which has used men and money to support so-called democracy in South Vietnam, make public its displeasure at the way in which democracy is being challenged by our former allies in Indo-China? 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry. I preface my question by informing him that I will use the figure of S30m that the Minister gave me yesterday instead of the S300,n that I mentioned. I will accept his correction of my figure. Following last Friday's Cabinet decision to provide another S30m of taxpayers' money to the Australian Wool Commission, will the Government tell the people who are being slugged for this money what proportion of wool deficiency payments is going into the pockets of wealthy brokers and wool firms and to banks instead of to the struggling rural producers who really need the money? How much longer will the Government continue to pour money down the drain of an open ended deficiency scheme which means that taxpayers are subsidising these wealthy people and large companies while a severe depression blights the rural areas of Australia? 
My question is addressed to the Minister for Health. Is it possible for the Government to take any steps to persuade more medical students to become general practitioners, rather than research scientists and specialists? Is the Minister aware of the views of Professor Wilfred  Mommaerts,  Professor of Physiology and Medicine at the University of California, Los Angeles, who recently told a seminar in Melbourne that a quiet revolution in medical education is occurring in the United States of America, created by  students concerned with the needs of the under-privileged and who desire to create a modern variation of the old style family doctor? 
Yes, I saw the reference. I was very impressed with the comments which were made. The honourable senator's question is based on the significance of the movement away from general practice into specialty in medicine, lt is not peculiar te this country, ft is happening in most countries in the free world. It is refreshing to see a suggestion of movement in the reverse direction because I believe everybody would agree that whilst we need the particular knowledge and know-how of specialists there will always remain a significant role for general practitioners to fill. They really become more than medical practitioners. They become almost father confessors, guides, philosophers and friends, particularly in homes where there are children. Some general practitioners care for children right through into their adulthood. 
I cannot say with precision what is happening in this respect in Australia at present. Certain factors mitigate against general practitioners. There is the developing method of joint practices; there is the natural instinct for medicos to go overseas in search of higher degrees and to become Fellows of the Royal College of Surgeons in the United Kingdom. Having acquired special knowledge they become specialists. In district hospitals the practice is developing of specialist systems whereby honorary medical services are all directed to the various specialists in the hospital itself. I would like to reflect upon the honourable senator's question and probe within my own Department to get further information so that T might put down in the Senate a paper on this very important question. 
Does the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry regard the Government's decision to appoint a special committee to 'solve the wool industry's problems' as a vindication of the Opposition's probing of the issue? Will he now agree that the problems of the wool industry are far greater than he has been prepared to convey in his answers to me over the past several months? 
My question which is addressed to the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry is supplementary to the question I' asked a few moments ago. Will the Minister give consideration to referring to the special interdepartmental committee which the Government has set up to solve the wool industry's problems a suggestion that it investigate why a one ounce ball of pure knitting wool sold over the counter costs 36c an ounce when wool is bought at 36c lb? How does the Minister explain the enormous profit on the manufacture and sale of one pound of wool bought at 36c? To whom does the profit go? 
I ask a question of the 
Leader of the Government in the Senate. What control has the Government placed over our civil aid to South Vietnam to ensure that the money does not go to military use rather than to help to rebuild that shattered and unfortunate nation? Is there any check on the way in which Australian aid is spent, or is it merely handed over to the Saigon regime to allow that undemocratic government to maintain itself in office at the expense of the ordinary people's welfare? 
Is the Minister for Health aware of claims by the American consumer advocate Ralph Nader that the commonly used chemical hexachlorophene has caused brain damage in tests on rats? Did  Mr Nader  state that blood levels of hexachlorophene, which is readily absorbed by the skin, were getting dangerously close to blood levels known to have caused brain damage in experimental animals? Will the Minister seek immediate advice from the Department of Health as to whether a parallel hazard may exist in Australia? 
-I address a question to the Minister representing the Minister for Shipping and Transport. What incentive does the Federal Government offer to car manufacturers to induce them to place emphasis on safety in cars rather than on speed, power and glamour? Does the Government have power to lay down strict legislative controls over car designs so that a positive trend towards safe construction could evolve? 
Can the Leader of the 
Government in the Senate inform the Senate of the Government's view of the plan proposed by 10 of Australia's leading economists to rectify the economic recession now afflicting the community? As the professors believe that their plan would bring lower prices, an end to inflationary psychology, more jobs, increased demand and less capital inflow because of lower interest rates, will their proposals be studied urgently in the interests of treating our ailing economy? 
Has the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry been informed of an offer made to  Sir William  Gunn by a United Stales bank and 2 European banking groups of $300m to set up a wool marketing authority? Are these offers merely tentative or are they sufficiently firm to justify basing the establishment of a wool marketing authority upon tl:em? What rates of interest would be applicable to this loan and what would be the term of the loan? 
asked the Minist er representing the Minister for Primary Industry, upon notice: 
Have observers in Tokyo partly blamed the collapse of the Japanese wool yarn futures market on the large stocks of wool accumulated by the Australian Wool Commission, and could this collapse further affect Japan's purchases of Australian wool? 
1 ask the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry: Is it a fact that the increase of 4c a bushel for wheat will lift the taxpayer's contribution to the growers and also stimulate inflationary pressures because of possible price rises in bread and cereals? ls it true that the taxpayer could be faced with payments to the wheat industry of between $34m and $44 m whereas in the last. 2 Budgets wheat subsidy allocations amounted to only §29m and $27. 2m respectively? As the Australian Wheal Board delegation recently returned empty handed front China, does the Government yet recognise that improved diplomatic relations with Peking could go a long way towards restoring China as a major market and obviate the need for injections of public money into the wheat industry? 
Is the Minister representing the Minister for the Environment, Aborigines and the Arts aware that an atempt to ask questions about the living conditions of Aborigines employed by the Hooker Corporation at Victoria River Downs Station was rejected at the annual meeting yesterday of Hooker Corporation Ltd? ls it a fact that  Mr Hooker,  whose company acquired the station from the Commonwealth Government on a 50-year lease, allowed prepared answers to questions to be read out but refused to allow the meeting "o discuss the matters? How does the Government view the fact that when Pastor Frank Roberts, representing the Aborigines, asked for more detail in the answers, he was abruptly silenced by  Mr Hooker  who old him that the meeting would not be turned into a debating forum on the rights of Aborigines? Would the Government consider this kind of behaviour by a wealthy land tycoon to be of any assistance in maintaining good relations wi h the Aborigines, especially in connection with their claims to land rights? 
My question is addressed to the Leader of the Government in the Senate. Why does the Government continue lo tell the people of Australia that there is nothing wrong with the economy when all available indicators show that we are now moving into a serious recession? Does the Prime Minister expect the scores of thousands of people out of work-- 
I ask the Leader of the Government in the Senate whether the Australian Government will inform the Government of the United States of America, following the controversial dismissal of the former commander of the Harold E. Holt base in Western Australia, that it wants this country to have a much greater say in the control of the base? Is the Australian Government disturbed by reports that the former commander of the base has been ordered to have a psychiatric examination - a frightening situation where the commander of a base is involved in communications with nuclear submarines? 
I do not know the source of the information on which the honourable senator has based his question. I have read some very colourful Press reports about this matter, but I have no official information about it. Very properly therefore, before responding to a question which implies that we should be sending almost dictatorial signals to the United States of America, I would think that the obvious thing to do would be to get the facts. I will attempt to get the facts in response to the question. 
Does the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry agree with the estimate made by the Prime Minister on Australian Broadcasting Commission television last night that between 11,000 and 14,000 Australian wool growers should be withdrawn from the industry? Does he also agree with the Prime Minister's announcement that the Government has decided that it will not extend its present wool subsidy scheme or give the Australian Wool Commission unlimited authority to support the wool market? In view of the Minister's previous answers to me does it not seem that the Prime Minister's latest announcements are contrary to what the Minister has been saying? 
My question is addressed to the Minister representing the Treasurer. I ask: How much notice is the Government taking of the repeated pleas from important sections of the community about the urgent need to stimulate the economy? Will the Government urgently consider the plan put forward yesterday by the Associated Chambers of Manufactures of Australia for reduced interest rates, removal of the 2i per cent personal income tax levy and reintroduction of the taxation allowance for investment in plant and machinery? Will the Government take notice of the comments by the new  President  of ACMA,  Mr Nichols,  and act to take the brakes off the economy and start the long process of restoring confidence and halting unemployment? 
The Government has an obligation and a responsibility to evaluate and examine, in the light of advice available to it from other sources, the submissions put to it by any responsible group on the matter of the economy, lt would be quite wrong to suggest that the points of view put forward by a creditable body are not examined. I can assure the honourable senator that they are examined. A group of professors last week put forward certain views as to what should be done about the economy. The views of that group would be examined along with those of any other creditable body. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry, upon notice: 
Did the Director of the Finance and General Services Section of the Department of Primary Industry,  Mr C.  M. Beer, state that the Federal Government will be asked to provide several million dollars to 'bail out' the Australian Wool Commission in 1971? 
Has the Australian Wool Commission stockpiled 700.000 bales of wool worth more than $70m? 
Does the statement by  Mr Beer  support  Sir Norman  Giles who described the $30m subsidy to wool growers as a 'social service hand-out at the expense of the taxpayers'? 
Can the Minister reconcile these statements with the reply he gave to a question on 3rd November 1971, wherein he stated that a sum of just over $20m had been actually paid to woolgrowers? 
I ask the Leader of the Government in the Senate: Why is the Government planning to use free assistance from the giant American management consultant company, McKinsey and Co. Incorporated, to help it fight the next Federal election? 
The honourable senator has the same privilege. I also ask: Does the Government believe that it needs top level guidance and assistance from America in every move it makes, even on such a domestic matter as Australia's federal elections? Is not an Australian firm good enough for an Australian Prime Minister? Is the Government aware of the dangers for itself and the country in hiring a Arm which has been described in the Press as 'a handful of smooth-suited men who closet themselves in a private office in a big organisation, study the books and the system- 
A number of Bills dealing with customs matters have been before the Parliament during this session. Some of them, of course, have been of great importance to the country and some have not- been quite as important. One could say that the Bill presently before the chamber is a Bill of no great magnitude. Its purpose is merely to validate the collection of duties under the customs tariff proposals introduced into the Parliament on 17th August. 23rd August, 7th September, 16th September, 30th September and 10th November. The Minister for Customs and Excise  (Mr Chipp)  states that he expects the subject matter in the proposals validated by this Bill to be included in the next Customs Tariff Bill. We on this side of the chamber accept the expectations of the Minister on this particular Bill. I indicate here and now that the Opposition does not oppose the Bill. We will do all in our power to give it speedy passage. 
I ask the Minister for Air: Why is the Government delaying until after the Parliament rises the annoucement of its decision on the Fill aircraft? In view of today's reports that the cost will be yet another $45m, will the Minister make an interim statement on the Government's plans before the Parliament rises for Christmas? 
asked the Minister repre  senting the Minister for Primary Industry, upon notice: 
Is the Minister aware of Press reports that the Australian Wool Commission's stock-piling of wool through its reserve price policy has led to speculation that a policy change is likely in the near future. 
Is it true that, if the Commission continues to buy wool at its present rate, the stock-pile could reach l.5 million bales, worth almost $150m, by the end of the current selling season. 
As the Commission has already spent $13.4m on wool purchases, has the Government any ceiling above which the Commission cannot go or is the taxpayer to face the prospect of an endless pay-out to support the wool industry. 
asked the Minister repre senting the Minister for Housing, upon notice: 
How does the Government expect young couples to afford to build a home while land costs and mortgage interest rates are increasing. 
Did a recent study by  Dr Max  Neutze of the Australian National University show that in Sydney the housing component of the consumer price index rose by 79 per cent between 1952-53 and 1966-67, while the 'all groups' component of the index rose by only 39 per cent in the same period. 
Did  Dr Neutze  also find that the cost of home purchase in Australia in the post-war period has risen faster than average earnings, with earnings rising by 106 per cent while the average cost of homes has risen by 200 per cent during the period mentioned. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for the Navy, upon notice: 
Will the Government inform the Government of the United States of America that following the controversial dismissal of the former commander of the Harold E. Holt base in Western Australia, it wants Australia to have a much greater say in the control of the base. 
Is the Australian Government disturbed by reports that the former commander of the base has been ordered to have a psychiatric examination, in view of the involvement of the base in communications with nuclear submarines. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry, upon notice: 
Has the Australian Wool Commission negotiated a further loan of $30m from private trading banks repayable by April 1972, at 6.5 per cent per annum. 
Can the Minister for Health inform the Senate how much money the Federal Government has outlaid in advertising and explaining to the public the complex operation of the national health scheme and the means by which people with the greatest need, and to whom the scheme purports to be directed, can best avail themselves of the help that is available to them? 
Does the Minister agree that the very complexity of the scheme's operation is in fact a fortunate deterrent to its use by many people - fortunate from the Government's point of view, certainly not from the point of view of the very poor, the very sick and the aged, the people who most need the help afforded by the scheme? 

 Senator Sir KENNETH ANDERSONI am not clear whether the honourable senator was referring to a particular Act or to the generality of the National Health Act. If he was referring to that Act, I will attempt to get the information he sought in relation to costs. If he was referring to a particular Act and if he will let me know the Act to which he was referring, I will seek to get that information also in relation to expenditure in publicising the National Health Act or the Act that he had in mind. As we all know, there have been subsequent Acts which have a bearing on the whole question of national health. I disregard the pontifications at the end of the question. 
asked the Minister representing the Prime Minister, upon notice: 
Is the Prime Minister aware of the statement by  Mr Anthony,  on 8th November 1971, when he discussed the question of whether it was possible to find 'ways of marshalling the savings of Australian people' so that they would have the confidence and opportunity to invest in the ownership of their own industries. 
Has the Government allowed a take-over by foreign interests of a great part of Australia's natural resources and industries. 
Do the majority of Australians desire the Government to legislate to prevent the take-over of Australian resources and industry. 

 Senator Sir KENNETH ANDERSONThe Prime Minister has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
Yes. 
and (3) The Government's policy on overseas investment in Australia, including the desirability of using legislation to define the conditions under which overseas investment is acceptable to Australia, was set out in a statement made by the former Prime Minister to the House of Representatives on 16th September 1969. 
 T ask the Minister for Health whether it is a fact that there is a time lag of about 2 weeks between the subjection of a patient's claim to a health insurance fund means test and the time when insurance is granted. Does the Minister acknowledge that this situation can lead to hidden costs which are quite considerable even in the case of those people protected by the subsidised health scheme? 
There is a time lag but I would not like to be categorical about it at question time. I certainly will respond about the extent of the time lag. In every walk of life a time lag must result in some hidden costs. 1 would like to respond in some depth to the question tomorrow after receiving advice from my advisers about the approximate times involved and perhaps T will be able to expand upon how the process works. 
My question, which is addressed to the Minister for Health, is couched in similar terms to the question asked by  Senator Guilfoyle.  However, the 2 questions are different. Will the Minister confirm or deny reports that the existing rates of marginal taxation relief on health insurance funds mean that the effective cost of subscribing to the present top scale hospital and medical benefits table at family rates, which amounts to nearly $120 a year, is only slightly more than $90 for the person earning $3,000 a year and, by contrast to show the total injustice, only about $52 for the person earning $12,000 a year? 
Again, something in relation to the health scheme has been taken out of context. This is one of the criticisms that 1 will be making when 1 present my statement on the Labor Party's proposition. For that reason, 1 will not respond at the present time to the question asked by the honourable senator. lt is pretty easy to pick a section of the community in isolation and to build a story loaded with emotional implications around it in relation to variations in the taxation and health scales. But, when analysed, the proposition will not stand up. One of the basic ingredients of the present scheme is that it is a scheme for all the people of Australia. One does not pick out a section in isolation and suggest that the scheme is destroyed because that section or any one section is out of balance with the Other sections. Our taxation system is based on a number of gradations. A number of other provisions operate under this principle. When people pay insurance premiums there is a similar result. The whole concept of Labor's approach is the thing that 1 criticise. Tn fairness, when I make my criticism I will do it under my own name, I will seek to have it published and I will do it in my position as Minister for Health. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry, upon notice: 
Where is the Australian Wool Commission stock-piling the mountain of wool it is accumulating, is any, ofthe storage space used rented or leased; if so, what is the cost of leasing and/or rental arrangements. 
How much would the Australian Wool Board earn by renting out storage space which it owns, if such space was not already occupied by Australian Wool Commission wool. 
SenatorDRAKE-BROCKMAN-  The Minister for Primary Industry has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
Until the end of the 1970-71 wool-selling season, all wool owned by the Australian Wool Commission was being held in selling broker's stores. A special concessional storage rate of 10c per bale per week after a free storage period of 4 weeks was negotiated with the brokers. 
Late in 1970-71 the Wool Commission commenced leasing storage space in Australian Wool Board's stores and some of the wool purchased by it is now being held in these stores. The cost of leasing the Wool Board stores varies between individual stores as the rentals charged by the Board differ according to the standard of storage facilities. 
Overall, the cost of storing the Commission's wool in the Wool Board's stores is slightly cheaper than the brokers' stores, which compensates for added handling charges incurred in moving the wool from brokers' stores to Wool Board stores. 
The Wool Commission pays the Australian Wool Board the same rentals as the Board's other tenants. Accordingly, the Wool Board does not lose any revenue. 
asked the Minister  representing the Minister for Primary Industry, upon notice: 
Which woolbroking and handling charges have been increased in the past 12 months, and what has ben the amount of each increase. 
Does the Minister agree that the operations of the Australian Wool Commission are turning into a bonanza for woolbrokers. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry, upon notice: 
Is it a fact that the Australian Wool Commission has negotiated with private banks a further loan of $30m at an interest rate of 6.5 per cent, repayable by 30th April 1972. 
Does the Government know how the Commission plans to reduce its wool stock-pile of 700,000 bales valued at over $70m when the international currency situation is resolved. 
When will the Government act to create a viable economic plan for the wool industry. 
Has the attention of the Minister for Health been drawn to the anomalies and (he inequities in the health services of this country, particularly as they arise through the fact that contributions to health insurance funds are not set on a progressive scale which takes income into account but are set at a flat rate? Does his Department intend to initiate a review of the present iniquitous situation whereby the marginal rates of taxation in incomes results in those on the highest incomes gaining most relief? 
The question as posed has some inaccuracies in it. I appreciate that the honourable senator is right in general in what he says about contributions to medical and hospital funds, but in the lower areas of contribution there are elements which are not made on a flat rate as he suggests. The rates of contribution are set out in various Bills complementary to the National Health Bill. For that reason I think that in all fairness the honourable senator's question should be answered in depth. For instance, we are aware that in certain circumstances contributors who are receiving less than a certain income are relieved of responsibility for paying insurance. There are also those who are receiving unemployment, sickness or special benefits, newly arrived migrants and so on. So the totality of the question the honourable senator has posed is not accurate. It is true that for an overwhelming number of subscribers - the figure is about 4 million - contributions are calculated on what the honourable senator has chosen to call a flat rate. The honourable senator then proceeded to postulate opinions about this matter. 
Which I am entitled to do. 
Is the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry aware that British produced wool is being used to manufacture carpet to cover the floors of the Sydney Opera House? Will he endeavour to obtain from F &amp; T Industries Ltd, the firm which has won the contract for the supply of the carpet, and make available to the Senate the reason why that firm considers that Australian wool is of the wrong texture for the job? Does the Minister agree that the choice of British produced wool is not in the best interest of the Australian wool industry, particularly because of the economic problems associated with the wool industry in Australia? 
asked the Minister for 
Health, upon notice: 
Have plans for the formation of a national health insurance commission been abandoned, in view of a statement by the Minister on 8th September 1971 in which he intimated that the Government was reconsidering its promise to establish the commission. 

 Senator Sir KENNETH ANDERSONThe answer to the honourable senator's question is as follows: 
The Government does not intend to implement the recommendation of the Nimmo Committee that a national health insurance commission be established. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Defence, upon notice: 
Will the United States  Deputy  Secretary of Defense,  Mr Packard,  be given free access to the Pine Gap base while permission for members of the Australian Parliament to enjoy the same right is still refused? 
When the Leader of the Opposition visited the base was he refused permission to enter key areas and was he only able to view mess halls, recreation facilities and other ancillary features? 
When will the Government alter this embarrassing and absurd situation, so that responsible parliamentarians will have the right to know what is going on in their own country. 

 Senator Sir KENNETH ANDERSONThe Minister for Defence has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
and (2) I have previously dealt with the matter of the relative rights of access to the Joint Defence Space Research Facility. I hope that 1 have already made it clear that similar principles apply to Australian as to United States persons in equivalent positions. 
The present arrangement, which is logical and consistent, is based upon this Government's policy on the management of joint AustralianUnited States installations in Australia. This policy has been made clear by Ministers from time to time and was reviewed in my statement on 14th September 1971. 
My question is addressed to the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry. Is approximately 13 million lb of wool suitable for carpet manufacture imported into Australia each year? Has any research been conducted into the production of Australian wool with a view to its suitability for use in the manufacture of carpets? If not, why not? 
I preface my question, which is addressed to the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry, by referring to comments made by the Minister for Primary Industry in the House of Representatives yesterday in answer to the honourable member for Banks who asked whether Dalgety Ltd was one of the finance companies which received a large share of the $30m emergency grant lo wool growers because growers were in debt to that company, fs it a fact that Dalgety Ltd has announced a 5 per cent bonus share issue and has disclosed a net profit increase of Sim for the 6 months ended 31st December 1971? ls it likely that a great part of the profit came from the payments under the wool emergency gram? If so, wm the Government disclose how much of the grant was paid to Dalgety Ltd? Is it possible that this great profit by a wool broker, while growers are in a desperate situation, could have come from interest charges made on loans by Dalgety Ltd to the growers which, in effect, would mean that Dalgety Ltd received interest on a public subsidy? Can the Minister ascertain whether any members of the Australian Wool Board or the Australian Wool Commission are directors of or have any association with Dalgety Ltd or other major wool broking firms which received part of the emergency grant? If so, will the Government urgently consider ways of preventing large firms wilh such associations making large profits from public subsidies paid in an attempt to alleviate the plight of wool growers? 
The Minister will answer the question, thank you. 
I ask the Minister representing the Minister for National Developmen' whether it is true that an attempt by 10,000 Australians to buy land in the Simpson Desert area for 20c an acre in order to retain it as natural parkland and thus prevent its sale to American interest has been rejected. Is it a fact that the land, 3 pastoral leases near Bedourie, which is 1,200 miles west of Brisbane, is the subject of higher offers from American interests? Will the Government take steps to ensure that this land does not become another part of Australia taken over by overseas owners? 
asked the Minister repre senting  the  Prime Minister, upon notice: 
Is it Government policy not to employ persons who have committed a misdemeanour during their youth and have served a prison sentence or a term of probation? 
Are persons who apply to join the permanent defence forces also precluded on these grounds? 

 Senator Sir KENNETH ANDERSONThe answer to the honourable  senator's  question  is as follows: 
The Prime Minister has been advised by the Public Service. Board that Section 34 of the Public Service Act states, in part, that a person is not eligible for permanent appointment to the Commonwealth Service unless the Public Service Board is satisfied that he is a fit and proper person to be an officer of the Commonwealth Service. In its administration of that section, the Board determines, on its merits; each case of an applicant who has been found guilty of an offence against the law. The Board has regard to such factors as the nature, recency and circumstances of the offence, the conduct of the applicant since the offence was committed, and any other relevant matters. There is no policy of refusal to employ persons who have committed a misdemeanour in their youth and have served a prison sentence or a term of probation. 
Advice has been received from the Department of Defence that each case is considered on its individual merits. Normally a conviction for a crime of violence or serious dishonesty would debar acceptance for enlistment in the Forces. A conviction for a minor offence may not. 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry. Is it a fact that the report released yesterday by the Australian Wool Industry Conference seeking full powers of wool clip acquisition makes no reference to the possible cost of the scheme to the taxpayers? Will the cost of such a scheme be made public before the Government makes a final decision on the implementation of the scheme? 
My question is addressed to the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry. What criteria would be used by the Government in selecting members of any wool authority body established to control a wool acquisition scheme? Is it true that some wool grower organisations are seeking a grower dominated board to control the authority and that some sections of the industry wish to elect the board on political rather than commercial qualifications? In creating such a powerful body would the Government insist that the Board be composed of top marketing men rather than politicians and activists from among the ranks of wool growers? Also in selecting members of an authority what limitations would the Government place upon people who are directors of or who have major associations with large wool broking firms? 
Has the attention of the Leader of the Government in the Senate been drawn to reports suggesting that Irish businessman,  Mr Anthony  Davies, is making $40^000 a year selling high fashion Irish woollen dresses for as much as $100 each and that many of his keenest customers are the wives of Australian woolgrowers? Can he assure the Senate that the 
Australian Government is making every endeavour to assist and promote the work of Australian fashion designers in an effort to allow other Australian wives - not just those of graziers - to afford to buy garments made from wool? 
I have not seen the statement so I cannot give an intelligent answer to the question. But I do know that the promotion of Australian wool is the lifeblood of the industry. I have yet to meet anybody from the industry or, in fact, from Australia as a whole who does not do everything possible for the promotion of Australian wool. 
asked the. Minister representing the Minister for National Development, upon notice: 
Is it true that an attempt by 10,000 Australians to buy land in the Simpson Desert area for 20 cents an acre, to retain it as natural parkland and thus prevent its sale to American interests, has been rejected. 
Is it a fact that the land, comprising 3 pastoral leases near Bedourie, 1,200 miles west of Brisbane, is the subject of higher offers from American interests. 
Will the Government take steps to ensure that this land does not become yet another part of Australia taken over by overseas owners. 
My question is addressed to the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry. Was  Mr A.  J. Vasey,  Chairman  of the Australian Wool Industry Conference, correctly reported when he claimed that the Minister for Primary Industry,  Mr Sinclair,  told AWIC members on 10th March that a salary of $20,000 was the absolute upper limit for a government instrumentality of this kind? Is the Government likely to submit to the pressures being brought to bear on it to agree to a salary of $40,000 to $50,000, as is anticipated by the AWIC? Is it the intention of the Government to fix the salary of the  chairman  of the instrumentality, or will the suggestion of  Mr I.  P. Heffernan,  Chairman  of the Victorian Farmers Union Wool Committee, be accepted when he said that it was unrealistic that the salary for such an important position should be fixed by the Government? Will the Minister inform the Senate whether the  chairman  of the instrumentality will be likely to represent the grower organisations, or is it likely that the  chairman  will come from the broker organisations? 
Is the Leader of the Government in the Senate aware that  Mr E.  W. Barr, the Assistant Manager of H. J. Heinz and Co. Australia Ltd, claims that a  10  per cent price increase will occur in canned food charges if the Standards Committee on Packaging insists that cans containing 16 oz, or  454  grams of food, be increased to hold  500  grams, because cans would need to be taller and bigger labels and bigger cartons would be required? Can the Government assure consumers that they will not be penalised by price increases because of the decision to change to the metric system? 
2, 4, 5-T 
Does the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry agree that moves by shipping companies outside the Conference lines to ship wool from Australia could result in a substantial benefit to wool growers in that they would be able to market their products more cheaply? Is the Minister aware of the answer given to a question in another place on 11th April in which the Deputy Prime Minister said that if it were decided to ship wool outside the Conference lines there could be serious interference with existing services to other industries? I ask the Minister whether he can give us an assurance that the interests of our wool growers will be the prime consideration before the interests of the monopoly Conference lines in maintaing high profits with high freight rates? 
I address another question to the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry. By way of preface I refer to my question addressed to the Leader of the Government in the Senate and an earlier question to the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry on the need for the Australian Wool Board to promote wool. I now ask: Has the Minister seen reports that an Irish trade commission promoting Irish wool designs is in Sydney at the present time and receiving considerable publicity and business? What steps are being taken to emulate this successful promotion so that Australian wools and designs can receive similar promotion overseas? 
Is the Leader of the Government in the Senate aware that delegates to the annual conference of the Victorian Country Party expressed the desire to abolish the ballot system for national service and the wish for all young men to serve instead 6 months in one of the armed Services? Is the Minister aware that abolition of the ballot system for national service is also the Australian Labor Party's policy? Did the Minister also notice that the conference decided to press for an amendment to the legislation to make service outside of Australia voluntary, which is again the policy of the Australian Labor Party? How does the Government now reconcile its policy on national service with that of the Victorian Country Party? Is that expression of opinion likely to place further stresses on the already strained relations between the 2 parties of the coalition Government? 

 Senator Sir KENNETH ANDERSONOne of the wonderful things about the coalition Government is that it has stood the test of time, which is evidence of good faith on both sides. Lest there be any doubt about it in the minds of the expectant government I point out that the coalition will continue in office for a long time in the future. I do not think that it would be wise, for the Opposition to develop a debate at question time about resolutions carried at conferences. I should have thought that, in view of the resolution that was carried by a State branch of the Australian Labor Party over the weekend, the Opposition would be. as silent as Dean Maitland. Democracy does exist under the coalition, which is contrary to the situation in some other areas that we know of in this world. Resolutions are carried and it would not be unique for a resolution to be carried on a subject on which the Labor Party and the Government were in agreement. For example, I know of an occasion when they were in agreement on parliamentary salaries. So let us not get things out of perspective. The Government's policy on national service and defence has the respect, admiration and confidence of the people of Australia. Anybody who has any doubt about that need wait only until the next general election is held to find out that I was right in what I said. 
Can the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry inform the Senate whether there is any. foundation for a report currently being circulated to the effect that the Government is intending to continue the operations of the wool reserve price scheme which originally was intended to expire in June this year? Is it likely that legislation to establish the new Australian wool authority will be brought before the Parliament before the winter recess? Is the Government likely to make such a far-reaching decision before it has received the report from the Randall Committee on future plans for the wool industry? What amount of money does the Government envisage to spending on the continuation of the wool reserve price scheme? 
I should like to be associated with this motion. Charles Lamp was known to me over many years. In fact, the members of the Lamp family were family friends. My first close association with Charles Lamp was in the latter part of his parliamentary career. I was the secretary of his committee in the year in which he was defeated in the Senate election. I had another very close association with Charles Lamp when I was  President  of the Tasmanian Trade Union Council. At that time, Charles Lamp, in addition to being Secretary of the Launceston Trades Hall Council, as mentioned by the Leader of the Government in the Senate  (Senator Sir Kenneth Anderson),  was also the Secretary of the Tasmanian Trade Union Council. J. could pay no higher tribute to Charles Lamp than to say that he was one of the best trade union secretaries that it was my pleasure to work with during the period that 1 was the  President  of that Council. 1 join with  Senator O'Byrne  in extending my sympathy to his son, Charles, and to his daughter, Elsie, who is married and in Canada. 1 note also that Charles Lamp's widow is still a member of the Slate Executive of the Tasmanian Branch of the Australian Labor Party. She is very active and has kept members of the Executive informed of Charles Lamp's health over the past few months. I wish to bring out one other interesting factor in regard to Charles Lamp's life. In 1947-48 he was the  chairman  of a committee which investigated the setting up of parliamentary offices in Hobart. It was he who, as the  chairman  of that committee, brought forward a report on the purchase of a block of ground in Hobart for that purpose. All in all, one can say that Tasmania will be the poorer for the passing of Charles Lamp. 1 join in extending sympathy to those whom he leaves behind. 
Does the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry recall his answer to my question on 29th February about the supply of nonAustralian produced wool for manufacture into carpet to cover the floors of the Sydney Opera House? Does he also recall that in answer to a question by me on 2nd March and a question by  Senator Lillico  on 7th March he stated that he would find out what research had been undertaken into the growing of suitable Australian wool for carpet manufacture? How does the Minister reconcile those answers to my questions with the answer he gave on 13th April when I asked about a trade mission for the promotion of Australian highfashion woollen garments similar to that conducted by an Irish trade mission in Sydney and he said: 'One has only to visit the International Wool Secretariat in London to see Australian wool being promoted in all manner of ways, one instance being the very lavish carpets on the floor as one enters the front door of the building'? 
My question is addressed to the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry. Has the Minister seen a Press report attributed to the.  President  of the New South Wales Graziers Association,  Mr F.  M. MacDiarmid, to the effect that the price averaging plan for the marketing of odd lots of wool had proved to be a failure? Does the Minister agree with  Mr MacDiarmid's  views that, because of the failure of the price averaging plan, any legislation to set up an Australian wool authority should be as general and flexible as possible? Could the Minister advise whether the wool authority, when established, will be endowed with the power of acquisition or will be just another paper tiger? 
My question is addressed to the Leader of the Government in the Senate. If the Government is sincere about keeping Australian control of our land resources, will it take urgent action against the proposed sale of over 1,200 square miles of the Northern Territory by Gunn Development Pty Ltd, the family company of  Sir William  Gunn? Will the Government ask the Senate Select Committee on Foreign Ownership and 
Control to give this matter high priority as newspaper reports state that although the area will be offered first to Australian buyers the prospectus is aimed heavily at American investors by using an illustration showing small American flags indicating which parts of the Territory are already owned by Americans? 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry. When will the Government make public its decision on a proposed wool acquisition scheme? I refer to growing reports that the Prime Minister is still stalling because he fears that the cost of at least $300m could be a major vote loser at the next election. Can the Minister state how long  Sir Richard  Randal) will take to complete his report? Will the Government guarantee that any recommended scheme will be placed before the public well before the election so that its advantages and disadvantages, in relation particularly to the economic factors involved, can be debated at length? Will the Government deny that there is a clash between the Liberal Party and the Country Party over the scheme, with the Country Party Ministers supporting it, for obvious reasons, and the Prime Minister opposing it because he is worried about its vote losing potential in urban electorates? 
I direct a question to the Leader of the Government in the Senate. Further to a question which I placed on the notice paper at his invitation on 26th April 1972, I now ask him whether he has seen an article in the 'Sunday Australian' of 30th April headed 'Gunn Drops $7.6m offer to United States'. In view of the public disquiet on the probable sale of properties known as Mataranka, Roper Valley and Coolibah in the Northern Ter ritory and Mount Oscar and Arahana in Queensland to overseas ownership, will he use his best efforts to obtain an answer to my previous question at the earliest possible time? 
Within the limitations of my physical capacity and the time available, I try to obtain answers for honourable senators as promptly as is possible having regard to the fact that they are directed on occasions to departments other than my own. So the answer to the honourable senator's question is yes, I will do my best to obtain an answer to his previous question. 
It is not the desire of the Australian Labor Party to make a long drawn out issue of the Customs Tariff Bill (No. 2) in the Senate as was made in the other place. I indicate immediately that the Opposition does not oppose the amendment. The Minister for Civil Aviation  (Senator Cotton)  in introducing the Bill said: 
This Bit) proposes minor amendments to - sections ofthe Customs Tariff - section 8 relating to the free on board price of goods and section 31 relating to overseas freight and insurance in connection with the landed cost of goods. 
I have not made a study of the Act in relation to those 2 sections but I am quite prepared to accept the word of the Minister that those 2 sections are somewhat loose and that they want tightening up. This being so I think that we as a responsible Opposition should not agree at any time that any person or persons should be able to manipulate certain sections of the Customs Tariff Act to their own advantage. The Minister in his second reading speech went on to state:  values can be manipulated by arrangement between exporters and importers . . . 
As 1 say, we cannot be a party to the manipulation of customs duties such as can happen under that section. The term 'tariff avoidance' is a polite way of saying that we are robbing the Australian Government of revenue. This reacts against the taxpayers. The Opposition will not tolerate and will not support that type of procedure being indulged in. As I said in my opening remarks the Opposition does not oppose the motion and will give it a speedy passage. 
 Mr President,  I apologise for taking time in the adjournment debate to raise this issue but it is one with which 1 have become closely associated over the last few days and one which has caused me some concern. It involves  Mr Derwas  Farrer Reynolds, who lives at 3 Fleurs Street, Moonah. He is 85 years of age. 
 I would have thought that honourable senators would have known that 1 was referring to Tasmania when I spoke of Moonah. The man to whom I refer is a returned serviceman from World War I. He is 85 years of age. I think his Army number was 769, but I am not sure of that. He was wounded in action in France.  His  wife is 75 years of age, so this places her in an unenviable position so far as looking after her husband is concerned. I think that will be revealed as I unfold the story. This man was wounded in action. To the best of my information, he receives a 50 per cent war pension and a Service pension. He has a married daughter who lives in the near vicinity. She has had a heart condition for a number of years and this makes it difficult for her to give attention to her father.  Mr Reynolds  suffered a major stroke on 27th April. He is now confined to bed completely. 
He applied for admission to the repatriation hospital in Hobart on 4th May. He was not admitted. The reason given for his non-admission was that there was a shortage of medical staff to attend to him. I understand that recently one doctor resigned from that hospital, and that another doctor is absent on sick leave. I have been informed that beds are available at the hospital, and that nurses and a number of orderlies are available to attend to patients who are confined to bed. That being the case, one would have anticipated that this man would have been admitted to hospital and would have been given treatment. 1 understand that his repatriation doctor has stated that  Mr Reynolds  does not require a lot of medical attention but that he does require specialist nursing treatment. 
I am concerned about the matter because I can recall, certainly only as a lad, these men who went to serve in World War I. As a child living at Somerset I travelled on more than one occasion to the Buurnie railway station and to the Burnie wharf to see men embark for service in France. Those men were waved off with flags. They were patted on the back. They were given every encouragement to enlist for war service. They were told that they would be looked after on their return to this country, if they returned. Now we have to face up to the fact that they have reached an age and a stage at which they need medical and hospital treatment. It is time that the government of the day, whatever political colour it may be, had due regard to the requirements of these people. While I admit that the issue which I have brought forward is a parochial one - it deals with a particular case - my main purpose in bringing it forward is to direct attention to the fact that many returned servicemen from World War I, from World War II, from the Korean conflict and later still from the Vietnam war will require hospital and medical treatment. I want to see something done for those people who may have to be treated in the future. 1 checked on this issue at 5 p.m. today.  Mr Reynolds  is still in his bed at home. It would appear that on many occasions when returned servicemen become sick they become only a statistic on the books. 1 feel strongly about this matter. Only yesterday  Dr Palmer  of the suburb of Glenorchy, who is one of the repatriation doctors for that area, again asked that this nian be admitted to the repatriation hospital. Again admission was refused because it was claimed that the hospital did not have the medical staff to permit him to bc admitted. An approach was made to the Sunnyside Rest Home in Hobart to have this man admitted, but admission would cost to the family $28 a week, and he would not qualify for repatriation assistance while he was in that home. However, that rest home is not suitable for this man because I am informed - fairly reliably so - that the night watch at the home does its rounds only every 2 hours and  Mr Reynolds'  condition does not permit him to call for assistance if it is required. I raised this matter with the  Deputy  Commissioner of Repatriation in Hobart yesterday. He referred to the avenues which were available to this man and to the family, namely, an appeal to a board, a tribunal or a commission. If that procedure has to be followed it will take not hours, not days but weeks before something can be done for  Mr Reynolds.  The family is in dire circumstances. The man should be accommodated in what I consider to be the place where he should be accommodated, that is, in the repatriation hospital. 
I appeal to the Government to treatreturned servicemen in a better way than the way in which they are being treated now. It is my opinion that a returned serviceman is entitled to the best medical and nursing care that it is possible for any State to provide. If that medical and nursing service is not available in the State in which that person lives, I think it is encumbent on this Government or any other government to transfer him, at the cost of the Repatriation Department, to another State where he can get better treatment if belter treatment is available. I apologise for raising this parochial issue, but I feel that it is warranted. I am confident that I can depend upon the Minister for Repatriation  (Mr Holten)  to co-operate on this issue. We do not want it in a month's time; wc do not want it in a week's time; we want it now. 
I ask the Minister representing the Minister for Labour and National Service: How much weight will the Government place on the criticism voiced last night by Professor Whitehead of the Economics Faculty at La Trobe University of the Government's proposed amendments to the Conciliation and Arbitration Act? Did he say that the amendments did not sufficiently change the framework of wage determination to inhibit wage induced inflation? Did he also warn that the new measures seemed unlikely to improve industrial relations, and indeed, the potentially greater use of penalties could inflame unions rather than restrain them? Will all these criticisms from such an expert be given weighty consideration before the legislation is introduced into this chamber? 
My question is addressed to the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry. In answer to a question I asked him on 26th April about the action to be taken by the Government concerning a proposed wool acquisition scheme the Minister commented that my question was a lot of rubbish. In view of the Prime Minister's statement of 2nd April regarding Cabinet's consideration of the Randall Committee's preliminary report, does the Minister still hold the same opinion? While a Press statement which was released states that no decision has yet been taken, I again ask the Minister whether the Government will guarantee that the details of any recommended scheme will be put up for public discussion before the Federal election or whether the giving of such a guarantee will be refused because of the divisions in the coalition Government about that scheme. If no such guarantee can be given- 
In view of recent Press reports, will the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry, in the interests of the wool growers of Australia, indicate to the Senate whether it will be possible for the Government to afford the 
Parliament the opportunity to debate the report of the Randall Committee before the winter recess? 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry. Was the Minister correctly reported in the Press as having told the  Deputy  Prime Minister that he would not be able to contain Country Party senators from voting with the Opposition because of the reluctance of the Prime Minister to lay down guidelines on the wool marketing arrangement for next year's wool clip? Will the Minister state whether or not  Mr Roberts,  the Federal  Chairman  of the Australian Country Party, has supported  Mr Anthony  in his efforts vo obtain a quick decision from the Government on the Randall Committee report? Further, has  Mr McDiarmid,  the  President  of the Graziers Association of New South Wales, stated that there is widespread disappointment at the Government's failure to make a decision on the marketing of wool? 
Can the Leader of the Government in the Senate advise the Senate of the stage that negotiations have reached between the Liberal Party of Australia and the Australian Country Party on the proposed wool acquisition scheme? Is he aware that Press reports are appearing daily on this sensitive issue? Does he agree that the Press reports of conflict between the coalition parties on this important matter would be most disturbing to the wool growers of Australia? Can the Leader of the Government see any prospect of the amalgamation of the Australian Wool Board and the Australian Wool Commission before 1st July 1972, in other words, before the 1972-73 wool selling season begins? 
Insofar as the honourable senator's question relates to the affairs of the coalition parties in government, I know that my name is Anderson but it is not Hans Christian Andersen. I think the honourable senator has been reading fairy tales. 
My question is addressed to the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry. Does the Minister agree that statistics produced by the Reserve Bank of Australia clearly demonstrate that the wool deficiency payments scheme has been and will be of more benefit to the banks and the pastoral finance houses than it has been and will be to the wool growers? Can this be seen from statistics for April which show that the indebtedness of the rural sector of the population to banks and pastoral companies has fallen by $62.3m since July last when the subsidy scheme came into force? Does this not strongly suggest that the major beneficiaries of the scheme have been the large financial institutions? 
I ask the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry a question supplementary to that asked by  Senator McLaren.  The honourable senator said that it was claimed by  Mr Maisey  that the appointment of the Randall Committee was a straight out subterfuge to delay progress. 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry. I refer to my question yesterday about statistics produced by the Reserve Bank, showing that the wool deficiency payment scheme is benefiting banks and the big pastoral finance companies more than the wool growers. In view of the urgency of this question, has the Minister yet had an opportunity to study the figures, and can he give me an answer today? 
My question is addressed to the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry. In view of urgent telegrams having been sent to all Country Party members and senators by the Katanning Zone Council of the Farmers Union in Western Australia, which has a membership of 900, can the Minister give a guarantee that a decision on a wool acquisition scheme will be made public before the August Budget, or will the Government continue to stall on this important question for fear of electoral disadvantages flowing therefrom? 
Can the Minister representing the Minister for Foreign Affairs inform the Senate of what information the Government has given to  Sir William  Gunn to enable him to make an intelligent contribution to the conference of the International Wool Textile Organisation on the marketing of Australian wool? If  Sir William  does not know the Government's decision on the wool acquisition scheme, how can he put Australia's case to such an important conference? 
My question is addressed to the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry. 
Yes, naturally. With the answers I have received to my questions on wool, 1 should think that I would concentrate on 'rt. Can the Minister inform the Senate of the income from wool for the year 1969-70? Can he further advise how the income from wool compares to income derived from other high export earning rural commodities? Could the Minister advise whether small wool growers are receiving the same recognition in financial support as are the big wool growers or is it a case of the rich sector being pandered to al the expense of the small wool grower, whose subsidy payments invariably go to the brokers to pay off lien debts? 
 Yesterday I addressed a question to the Minister representing the Minister for Foreign Affairs. I think the question was incorrectly addressed to that Minister. I now address a question to the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry. Can the Minister guarantee that when the Government has come to some decision on the marketing of the Australian wool clip it will inform  Sir William  Gunn of that decision so that that gentleman can present a competitive and intelligent contribution to the International Wool Textile Organisation conference which he is attending overseas at the moment? 
I ask the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry whether his attention has been drawn to a statement made by the Managing Director of the International Wool Secretariat,  Mr A.  C. B. Maiden, to this effect: 
The fact is that wool ceases to have significance as a product of primary industry, with all the political and economic associations which that entails, from the moment it leaves these shores. 
Does the Minister agree with that statement? If so can he explain to the Senate why there is so much reluctance and procrastination on the part of the Government in preparing an efficient plan for the competitive sale of the wool clip on the world market for the next wool selling season? 
asked the Minister represent in ; the Minister for Primary Industry, upon notice: 
Vin the Minister inform the Senate whether the Government is contemplating any action before the next Budget as a result of a recently released submission by the Australian Wool Industry Conference. 
Does the Conference's submission, urging the amalgamation of the Australian Wool Commission and the Wool Board and a total acquisition by such an authority of the wool clip, constitute a new concept to the Government, or have relevant Government departments been investigating such a move. 
Would an Australian Wool Authority such asthat proposed by leaders of the industry have the power to determine the price of wool and would this mean less cost to the Australian taxpayer than the present price support system. 

 Senator DRAKE-BROCKMAN - The Minister for Primary Industry has provided the following answer to the honourable senators question: 
A statement on Government policy affecting the wool industry will be made before the opening of the new woo) selling season on 1st July next following consideration of the Australian Wool Industry Conference submission and the final report of the Randall Committee. 
The Australian Wool Industry Conference adopted in principle the concepts of amalgamation of the Australian Wool Board and the  Australian  Wool Commission and the acquisition of the Australian wool clip  in  November 1971 and announced its decision at that time. The recommendations which the Conference submitted  to  the Government in March 1972 were developed on the basis of the Conference's November 1971 decision which was, of course, known to the Government. 
Since no decision has yet been made by the Government  on  the wool industry's recommendations, any comment  on  the proposed authority's powers would at this time  be  pure speculation. 
asked the Minister repre senting the Minister for Primary Industry, upon notice: 
Is there any foundation in a report currently being circulated to the effect that the Government is intending to continue the operation of the wool reserve price scheme which was originally intended to expire in June this year; if so, (a) is it likely that legislation to establish the new Australian Wool Authority will be brought before Parliament before the winter recess, (b) is the Government likely to make such a far-reaching decision before they have received the report from the Randall Committee on future plans for the wool industry, and (c) what amount of money is envisaged to be spent on the continuation of the wool reserve price scheme. 

 Senator DRAKE-BROCKMAN- The Minister for Primary Industry has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
The reserve price scheme for wool which is operated by the Australian Wool Commission  does not expire in  June 1972. The honourable senator appears to have confused the reserve price scheme, which is designed to mitigate the instability of auction prices, with the wool deficiency payments scheme which was introduced  for one  year to supplement a grower's return from wool to a level equivalent to an average of 79.37 c/kg for the entire Australian wool clip. Under current legislation the deficiency payments scheme is due to expire on 30th June 1972. 
In his statement of 2nd May 1972 about the wool marketing proposals submitted by the Australian Wool Industry Conference, the Prime Minister announced that the Government will be considering the Randall Committee report in conjunction with these proposals before the commencement of the 1972-73 wool selling season and advising the industry of its decision. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry, upon notice: 
Do statistics from the Reserve Bank clearly demonstrate that the Wool Deficiency Payment Scheme has been, and will be, of more benefit to the banks and the pastoral finance houses than to the wool grower. 
Do statistics for April 1972 show that the indebtedness of the rural sector of the population to the banks and pastoral companies has fallen by $62.3m since July 1971, when the subsidy scheme came into force; if so, does this suggest that the major benefit of the scheme has been to these large financial institutions. 

 Senator DRAKE-BROCKMAN- The Minister for Primary Industry has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
No. 
Statistics published by the Reserve Bank in the April 1972 Bulletin do not show the total rural debt. They do not cover credit extended by lenders such as State Government agencies, assurance societies and private creditors. The statistics do show that advances by the major trading banks to rural borrowers have fallen by $60m from $994m to$934m between July 1971 and January 1972 and that rural advances by pastoral finance companies have fallen by $21m from $334m to $313m between July 1971 and February 1972. The bulletin also shows that deposits by rural interests with the major trading banks have increased by $85m from$729m to$8l4m between July 1971 and January 1972 and that clients' credit balances with the pastoral finance companies have increased $0.7m from $31.9m to $32.6m between June 1971 and December 1971. These movements are influenced by seasonal factors such as growers' receipts from the sale of wool and wheat. The amounts by which indebtedness has been reduced and deposits increased are significantly greater this year than last year. This is regarded as reflecting the improvement in farm income that has taken place this year. The wool deficiency payments scheme has been a contributory factor in this improvement. 
asked the Minister rep  resenting the Minister for Primary Industry, upon notice: 
Is the present temporary stimuli in the wool trade doing anything of real value to stop the decay in the industry. 
Do 70 per cent of the 90,000 woolgrowers in Australia run flocks of less than 2,000 sheep. 
Is 7,000 sheep the accepted rough figure at which a grower can reasonably expect to maintain essential quality. 
What definite long-term scheme has the Government in mind to keep small woolgrowers in a viable business. 
Does the Minister agree with the statement made by  Mr George  Le Couteur that the present ceiling could be too high for the long-term good. 

 Senator DRAKE-BROCKMAN - The Minister for Primary Industry has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
I personally am hopeful that the recovery in the wool market since January this year is more than temporary. I have no doubt that the improved wool prices now being obtained are of very real benefit to wool growers. 
Figures issued by the Commonwealth Statistician in March 1971 (the latest available) show that in 1969-70, 70 per cent of all holdings with more than 200 sheep bad less than 2,000 sheep. 
It is not possible to quantify the minimum flock size needed by a grower to maintain flock quality except in relation to a specific area. This is because the flock size depends on a large number of very variable factors, such as soil, climate and genetic material available. 
The Government's policies in regard to the wool-growing industry are aimed at the industry as a whole although the interests of the family farmer have been kept well in mind in their formulation. 
The view that present wool price levels are too high for the long-term good of the wool industry is one which I find difficult to accept. There is a good deal of evidence to indicate that the wool market at present has a solid basis. Since January, prices at Australian wool auctions have staged a strong recovery from the extremely low levels of last year. Demand for wool is good  and  improving in Europe, Britain and Japan, and it should not be overlooked that the current level of woo) prices is still below the levels which prevailed before the recent slump. 
asked the Minister repre senting the Minister for Social Services, upon notice: 
Are many, unmarried mothers forced by economic circumstances to have their children adopted, thereby denying those mothers the basic right of motherhood. 
Do State Social Welfare Departments provide assistance to unmarried mothers and, in the case of a claimant State, are then penalised by the Loan Council for meeting this humane social need. 
Will the Minister press for a more equitable social service payment to unmarried mothers. 

 Senator GREENWOOD -The Minister for Social Services has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: (1), (2) and (3) The situation in this regard was explained in the Second Reading Speech on the States Grants (Deserted Wives) Bill on 5th June 1968 (see Hansard, page 1414). 
Under arrangements with the States, provision is made for assistance up to the rate of widow's pension to be given to a single mother caring for her child. However, the assistance granted in any particular case is a matter for determination by the State authorities. 
asked the Minister representing the Prime Minister, upon notice: 
Will the Government take urgent action to prevent the proposed sale of over 1,200 square miles of the Northern Territory by. Gunn Development Pty Ltd, the family company of  Sir William  Gunn. 
As the prospectus for this sale is aimed at American investors, will the Government initiate action in the Senate to have the Senate Select Committee on Foreign Ownership and Control give this question urgent consideration. 
Is  Sir William  Gunn, as a Board Member of the Reserve Bank,  Chairman  of the Australian Wool Board, the International Wool Secretariat and the Wool Bureau, using his powerful positions to act as a salesman of Australia's heritage. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry, upon notice: 
Can the Minister guarantee that when the Government has come to some decision on the marketing of the Australian wool clip, it will inform  Sir William  Gunn, so that that gentleman can present a competitive and intelligent contribution to the International Wool Textile Organisation Conference which he is attending overseas at the moment. 
I was pleased when the Acting Leader of the Government interrupted  Senator Maunsell's  speech to introduce a statement which the Prime Minister  (Mr McMahon)  had made in another place. The Government has at last decided to hold an inquiry into poverty in Australia. I was particularly pleased to hear that it has been able to prevail upon Professor Henderson, Director of the Institute of Applied Economic and Social Research in Melbourne, to conduct the inquiry. He is one of the greatest Australian authorities on poverty. One of the things that perhaps is missing from the announcement about the inquiry into poverty is that the Government has not endeavoured to define the poverty line. Whether Professor Henderson and those people who will give evidence at the inquiry will be able to define the poverty line remains to be seen. I think most honourable senators on this side of the chamber could supply an immediate answer to term of reference (c) - factors which cause poverty in Australia - by saying that it has been caused by the succession of LiberalCountry Party governments. 
This evening  Senator Maunsell  referred to the 2 per cent level of unemployment in Australia and compared that figure with world figures. He even made mention of  Mr Frost  and that  Mr Frost  said that a 2 per cent level of unemployment in the Australian work force was not of much consequence. To a man such as  Mr Frost  perhaps a 2 per cent level of unemployment may not mean very much.  Mr Frost  would be one of those people who has never known what it is to fight for a job. He certainly would be in that age group. To him a job has always been easy to obtain. I would think that he was one of those people who had never seen the day when he did not have sufficient money to buy himself or members of his family  a  meal. So I do not place much reliance on what  Mr Frost  said about our unemployment. I, a number of people in this chamber and a number of people in Australia went through a period when we were unable, as much as we were willing, to find employment and sufficient money to buy proper food. Quite often we had to go to a farm and bandicoot the farmer's potato crop to get enough potatoes for a meal.  Senator Maunsell  holds up to us  Mr Frost's  statement that a 2 per cent level of unemployment means nothing so far as world standards are concerned. Good God, let the honourable senator be unemployed and find that he has not sufficient money to buy a meal. Of the hundreds of thousands unemployed, for each 1,000 persons unemployed, probably between 2,000 and 3,000 others are affected. The unemployment affects young children. That concerns me. I do not see why  Senator Maunsell  or any other Government  speaker  had occasion to commend the Government for the Budget. 

 Senator Maunsell made an attack on what he called extravagant wage claims and the fight for a shorter working week. I can well recall when the 52-hour week was the normal working week. It was reduced to a 48-hour week, to a 44-hour week and to a 40-hour week. On each occasion that hours were reduced the employers fought the case before the arbitration court. They said that industry, both primary and secondary, could not afford a shorter working week. As we advance into the machine age and the technological age we must realise that hours of work must be shortened to keep people employed. I have heard talk of extravagant wage claims since 1924 or 1925. So I do not place much reliance on the cryings and moanings of some honourable senators opposite. 
It is significant that the Budget is rather similar to the mini-Budget that was introduced on 11th April 1972. I was going through some old papers in my office and I found the 'Daily Mirror' of 12th April 1972. Under the heading The Two Billies do an About Face', there was talk about the de-Gorton rising of the Budget of the previous August and the re-Gortonising of the April Budget. The editorial said that the Government had pressed the panic button. It appears that the Government has pressed the panic button again in August 1972. The editorial stated: 
Canberra is full of good news today. Taxes are going down. Pensions are going up. And the tax on company share profits will be changed to favour the investor. 
The news is as welcome as it is warranted. There is every chance that it will induce a spark of liveliness from the most wretched prongs of the economy - public spending and unemployment. 
Let us look at the unemployment figures for April 1972 and August 1972. During that period the unemployment pool has been increased by thousands. The prediction of the 'Daily Mirror' along with the prediction made at that time by the Government has not borne fruit. The article continues: 
What the Treasurer's surprise package does not do, unfortunately, is to remove the inequalities of the taxation system. 
Again, we find that this is quite evident in the present Budget. The article continues: 
Once again, the wage earner who most needs relief gets the short end of the stick. 
I do not know how that ties in with what  Senator Maunsell  was saying a few moments ago. I wish that he were in the chamber to hear these words which were written by the editor of the 'Daily Mirror' for the issue of 12th April. The article further reads: 
No one should be surprised. The Government has taught us well to accept promises in lieu of decisive action. So what is one more promise between friends? One more committee? One more inquiry? 
Unhappily for Canberra, we have not yet learned to accept without question a style of government that rules by political expediency. 
I would say that since 1949 right up to the time at which this Budget was presented - as it will do until the next general election which, I anticipate will be in November - this Government has ruled by political expediency. I quote again from the editorial which says this: 
Even the most  uncynical  supporter must detect the sweat of panic behind last night's gift to the economy. 
Why else should the Government blandly assure the nation for 7 months that the economy is sound and then, without warning, suddenly rewrite the whole Budget strategy? 
Does  Mr McMahon  seriously expect us to believe that his actions spring from a benevolent goodwill toward the people? 
And that they have nothing to do with the ANOP surveys which showed that no Prime Minister - Liberal or Labor - was ever more unpopular? 
That is equally true today. I think that the gallup polls have shown that  Mr McMahon  is more unpopular with the taxpayers today than he was when he brought down his mini-budget. One could say that the Budget which  Mr McMahon  has brought down on this occasion will do nothing to enhance his popularity or to relieve his unpopularity over the last few months. Following the presentation of the Budget I made it my business to conduct a survey concerning the proposals and concessions contained in the Budget in an effort to obtain the reactions of the electors. I have to confess that some of the reaction was favourable. There were a number of people who said that the abolition of the means test was a good thing because it would assist some people in their savings. They could have a greater amount of money and still obtain the pension. But there is a catch in this one. I would like to read that portion of the Budget where the Government says that it was to introduce a free of means test pension: 
The Government's commitment to introduce free of means test pensions for people aged 65 or over is an historic decision and represents  a  major social advance. It is one that has, of course, considerable financial and social implications. Because of this, the Government proposes - 
This is the point that I want to bring out -  to appoint a Committee of Enquiry to examine and report on these matters and on how this proposal may be responsibly financed with particular reference to national superannuation. 
A reference was made in the 'Daily Mirror' of 12th August to committees and how governments make further promises. What is to prevent the Government from setting up the committee as it has promised to do? I have no doubt that it will set up that committee. But the committee may, in its wisdom, bring back to the Government a recommendation that it is impossible or undesirable at this time to implement the policy of the Government. What will the Government do? It has made one more promise which perhaps it will break when it comes to give consideration to the committee's report. I am rather pleased and I guess that a lot of other people are pleased to see that at least some attempt is to be made to ease the means test. But then I also have a second thought on this issue. My sympathy goes out to the poor old persons who have only the pension on which to sustain themselves. The lifting of the means test will not help this type of person. Very often, this type of person who has no means of income other than the pension has lead a very difficult life. This is brought about by a number of circumstances. It is brought about by circumstances of which wc are all aware. 1 do not think that it is necessary for me to touch on those circumstances. It is very interesting to take note of the fact that in 1969 the present Government, when the Australian Labor Party included the abolition of the means test in its election speeches said that it could not finance the abolition of the means test. We, as a Party, said that we would abolish the means test within the life of 2 parliaments. That wold have meant that the means test would have been abolished by 1975. 
We did not become a government. While we endeavoured to pevail upon the people to accept that as part of our policy and elect us as a government, wc were not elected. The Government said that it could not be done in a period of 6 years. In 1972  -  an election year, mark you - the Government has said that it could do it in 3 years. In other words, it. can abolish the means test by 1975 which is exactly the year by which the ALP said that it could do it. I do not know how much better the Government is in relation to financial matters than we of the Australian Labor Party are. I would not have a clue on that because over the last decade we have had no way in which to make a comparison. At least it is rather significant that in election years some very good promises are always made by the existing government. I would suggest that many of the pensioners say: Thank God for election years'. When one goes back and examines the election promises that are made and what is done in relation to budgets in non-election years one can see quite well that the only time the people in the lower income bracket receive anything from the Government is in an election year. 
That is very true. The Government kicks them in the teeth for 2 years and gives them a hand out at election time. It expects the people to accept this, and unfortunately, the people have accepted it. 
I agree with  Senator Cavanagh,  I do not think they have accepted it on this occasion and that is one reason why I said a few moments ago that I believe the election will not be held until November. I am confident that  Mr McMahon  wants to hang on to the Government as long as he possibly can. There are many reasons for this.  Mr McMahon  is a very egotistical man. 
Coming events are just what T am coming to. There is an event that may take place early in October in the McMahon family. 
My word he is; that has been proved. We can see at The Lodge evidence of his virility. 
If  Senator Webster  wants it back, he can have it, as much as he wants. If he wants to bring that sort of thing in- 
Would you like to say that to me outside? 
Then I will see you outside. Do not talk about getting low, because nobody can get lower than you. 
The ACTING PRESIDENT- Order! 
 Mr Acting President,  I object to being referred to as low and I want that remark withdrawn. 
I ask for his withdrawal. 
The ACTING  PRESIDENT-  What were the words used which you claim should be withdrawn? 
He referred to me as being low. 
The ACTING  PRESIDENT-  Order! I am asking  Senator Webster  the question. 
The ACTING  PRESIDENT-  If that is the case, I would ask  Senator Poke  to confine his remarks to the political side and not to any family matter. 
I am insisting that the words that I could not get lower be withdrawn. 
The ACTING PRESIDENT- Thank you. 
Thank you. 

 - Mr Acting President, I have taken advice from quite a number of people in my political life and also in my industrial life but I do not think  Senator Webster  could give me any advice whatsoever that would assist me, because I do not think he has either the experience or the initiative to give me advice - 
Or the ability- thank you for the help - to give me advice that would assist me. I say merely that the Prime Minister has no intention, in my opinion, of holding an election before November because there is an event coming off on which he wants to make history. 
The ACTING PRESIDENT- Order! 
I had no intention of pursuing that matter further. I have made my point. 
The ACTING  PRESIDENT-  Order! 1 would ask you to withdraw that reference. I do not think it is right to be talking about anything relating to a person's family in that way. I do not think that a reference such as that is worthy of the Senate. I ask  Senator Poke  to withdraw it. 
 Mr Acting President,  although what I said is, I know, factual - 1 think we are all aware of this - in deference to you I withdraw the remark. I cannot see that it makes any difference. 
I will at this point of time accept some advice from  Senator Webster.  I did not think he could give me any advice that would assist me, but I will on this occasion go to a different part of my speech. I will refer to tax deductions. This perhaps will be more in  Senator Webster's  corner for I know he is very interested in this issue.  Senator Willesee  and quite a number of other honourable senators have throughout this debate referred to reductions of income tax for individuals. The Government set out a number of examples of reductions and while it is not my intention to go through each and every example, I want to touch on one or two. I should like first to quote from the front page of document titled 'Income Tax on Individuals'. It gives examples of income tax reductions as set out by the Government. The text is: 
Examples illustrating the effect of proposed income tax measures on tax payable by taxpayers having selected levels of income ranging from well below the level of average weekly earnings to well above it, and having various entitlements to deductions. Tax reductions are shown both in dollars per annum and as percentage of the present tax. For example, a taxpayer earning $67  per week and having a dependent wife and 2 dependent children, but no other deductions, would have his  tax  reduced by $82.15 per annum or 22.3 per cent o£ his present tax. 
That sounds all right when one talks about 22.3 per cent of his present tax. But let us be quite clear on this issue. We should be quite clear that what is involved is only reduction of the existing tax. This makes quite a difference when one looks closely at the figures which the Government has given as applying for a taxpayer earning $67 per week. The reductions which are to be made are only reductions on taxes which have been progressively increased by the present Treasurer and his predecessors. I think we all realise that over a period of years taxes have been jacked up and jacked up on all groups. We are, I suppose, among the most highly taxed people in the world. 1 might say that this point was made by the 'Daily Mirror' the day after the Budget was brought down. A taxpayer with no dependants who is earning $67 a week or $3,484 per annum has had his net wage increased to $58 a week. That means that his tax deduction on that wage is $9 a week; that is his tax deduction. That gives him a take home pay of $58. We find a different situation for a taxpayer with a dependent wife and 2 dependent children.  His  tax is reduced by S5.50 a week and his weekly take home pay becomes $61.50. The take home pay of the taxpayer who has a wife and 4 dependent children is $63 a week out of a weekly gross of $67.  His  tax is $1.50 a week less than that of the man earning S67 a week with a wife and 2 dependent children. So, I do not think that these taxation concessions do very much for the taxpayer in the low income group. 
These facts bring us back. I suggest, to what the Sydney 'Daily Mirror' had to say of this Government's mini budget which it introduced in April of this year. It is pretty difficult for the Government to reconcile these figures with its statement in the Budget. So that there will be no error, I will quote that section, lt reads: 
This slackness in consumer spending has been basic to the economy's lack of punch. Our first objective in this Budget, therefore, is to create conditions conducive to stronger consumer spending. 
I wonder how the few dollars that the Government is giving to people in the lower income group will lead to a greater spending power. This is not revealed in the figures which I have quoted. One can say that these proposals will not increase consumer spending. This is again a case of the Government doing exactly what the 'Daily Mirror' said it was doing in April 1972. lt is pressing the panic button. One could say that the Government is doing nothing more or less than kicking in the teeth the taxpayer in the low income group. In my opinion, these proposals are an injury and an insult to those people in the low income group. 
Further, 1 rather resent - I use the word resent' because J do not think that I could rind a word more appropriate to express my feelings - the continuous attack by the Government on the trade union movement for what the Government alleges is the sabotage of the Australian economy by the trade union movement. It is all right for honourable senators to talk about those who produce the wealth of this country.  Senator Maunsell  made some reference to the people who produce our wealth. I wonder: Who does produce the wealth of this country? Is it the mine manager? Is it the big station owner? Is it the person occupying an executive position? Or is it the man who is working on the job? The worker in primary or secondary industry is the person who produces the wealth of this country even though he may not use his brains to obtain better employment in the labour field. I do not know why the Government continues to attack the worker. Let us face the fact that the Government would be out. of office forever were it not for the number of workers who support it. Why the Government virtually kicks in the teeth the persons who support it is beyond comprehension. One sits here and listens to attacks made on workers, on the trade union movement, on the  President  and the Secretary of the Australian Council of Trade Unions, by  Senator Wright  and  Senator Greenwood  who are 2 of the most vicious men in this chamber for attacks on the workers.  Senator Wright  and  Senator Greenwood  give me the impression, rightly or wrongly, that they would happily see the worker burnt at the stake. It appears that they would enjoy seeing a return to the conditions that operated in the days of the Tolpuddle martyrs. 
 You would not even know who the Tolpuddle martyrs were. This is the kind of approach that some members of this Government have towards the Australian worker. There has been a continual attack- 
 Oh, yes. I would exclude  Senator Withers  because we never see him do any work. There has been a continuous barrage of attack on  Mr Hawke.  I would say that  Mr Hawke  is one of the best trade union leaders this country has had. If it had not been for  Mr Hawke  we would have had a great deal more industrial trouble than has existed in recent times. I give  Mr Hawke  credit for having settled the oil dispute. I give him credit for having settled the postal dispute. 
 I do. Any action that will provide the workers with a commodity at a cheaper price deserves credit. I give him credit for that. I certainly hope that he is successful with Thomas Nationwide Transport too. I give  Mr Hawke  credit for settling the shipping dispute which has affected my own State probably more than any other State in the Commonwealth. I give  Mr Hawke  credit also for having forecast what would happen with respect to the broadcasting and telecasting of the Olympic Games. Let us face the fact that 48 hours before the Olympic Games were due to commence  Mr Hawke  predicted that Australia would see the opening ceremony of the Olympic Games live on television. A great number of people doubted very much whether that would happen. There were many doubting Thomases in the community. But what happened? The opening ceremony of the Olympic Games was televised live throughout Australia. I give  Mr Hawke  credit as the one person who was successful in prevailing on those involved to allow the technicians to provide that broadcast and telecast throughout Australia. 
That might be right. I will answer  Senator Gair's  interjection but I will let some of the other senators who are trying to interject wither on the vine.  Senator Gair  says that the Press reported that the union involved told  Mr Hawke  to keep his nose out of this matter. It may have done. I do not know. I would suggest that, even if this was in the Press, we could not take any notice of it. In the period that 1 have been associated with the industrial and political fields I have learnt one thing with respect to the Press - that is, to read between the lines in the Press and not- 
 The honourable senator would not stop me. We have considered income tax in relation to the lower bracket wage earners. What has happened in relation to sales tax? Nowhere in this Budget has there been reduction of any significance in sales tax. Over a long time many items in the sales tax field have brought unfavourable comment. Perhaps we should have some regard for those things which go to make our beautiful women a little more beautiful. Eyebrow pencil costs 85c; the Government receives 23c in tax. Mascara costs $2.20; the Government receives 60.5c in tax. 
That is the height of the honourable senator's intelligence. I prefaced my remarks by saying that these are the things which make our beautiful women a little more beautiful. If ever there was an old woman in this chamber it is the honourable senator. I think that he instead of some of the women should be using this stuff. Even without these aids the women put him well and truly to shame with their looks. I suggest that  Senator Young  just keep quiet. He might learn something about making his own wife a little more beautiful than she is; I will admit that she is beautiful. The average price of rouge to the consumer is $1.50; the Government receives 41c from that item. These are the 'terns which could be given some favourable consideration when it comes to sales tax. I suppose I am not the only member of Parliament who has received a particular line of approach from the Cosmetic and Toiletry Manufacturers Association of Australia. 
 One gets into a dangerous field when one looks at amusement tax because whether it is amusement takes some defining. Quite a lot has been said about how the pensioners would react to this Budget. I shall read part of a letter - some of it is personal and I do not want to read that portion - which was written to me on 24th August 1972. It reads: 
J am writing to see if you would kindly prepare a claim for me to be presented to the Federal Treasurer to ask if the Federal Government will grant a subsidy to all local councils and shires to enable them to give a 50 per cent remission on rates to all eligible pensioners owing to the rising costs in all commodities especially, water and sewerage rates. It is impossible for the average pensioner to meet the said payments. 
This is from a man who has done quite a lot for pensioners. For a long period he has been active on behalf of pensioner organisations. Unfortunately he has had to receive an invalid pension over a long period. Probably he knows more than anybody else I could nominate about having to struggle through on a small pension with a large family. He has asked whether something could be done to assist pensioners in the payment of rates to shire councils. This is an indication of what some pensioners feel about the Budget. 
The Government should give some special consideration to the apple and pear industry in Tasmania. There has been an attempt by the Government to assist that industry but one of the endeavours made by the Government will not give any assistance whatsoever to the industry. Over the years the fruit industry, which is very important to Tasmania, has run down. First of all small fruits disappeared. The apple and pear industry is now facing a situation which perhaps will put it completely off the map. At one time of a weekend one could go down through the fruit growing areas and pick up any type of fruit one desired at a reasonable price to the consumer. Today if one goes through that area one has to hunt around somebody's backyard to see whether there are a few raspberries, strawberries or even a few apples available. A number of orchardists have had to grub out their trees and change over to an entirely different type of farming. Producing apples is an industry which is not easily changed. It takes about five to seven years to produce a crop which is in any way profitable. Perhaps it depends on the orchardist himself and the care which he gives the trees. To get an industry of this nature back on its feet could take five, six or seven years. I am afraid that that is not possible for many orchardists. It is beyond their financial resources. A number of orchardists now are grubbing out their trees. 
Submissions have been made to this Government to assist orchardists in Tasmania. Let us face the situation - more apples are grown in Tasmania than in the rest of Australia. That fact alone makes this an important industry so far as we Tasmanians are concerned. There does not appear to be any provision for reconstruction in the industry although it costs in the vicinity of $3,000 an acre to replant an orchard. If an orchardist has to lay out about $3,000 an acre and then has to wait for from 5 to 7 years before getting a return on his money, it indicates that the fruit industry is in a pretty parlous situation. I do not think it is possible under any circumstances to get an orchard to a point of economic production in less than 5 years. The present situation in which orchardists have to grub out their trees means that in many cases they must vacate that ground because the acreage they have is not sufficient to enable them to produce an economic crop which will support them and their families over a period of 12 months. lt has been suggested that some compensation will be paid by the Government to orchardists who have to change from apple and pear production to other types of farming, but according to the information I have this will not put the orchardists in the position of being able to get another cash crop coming in at the time they would have had the cash coming forward from their apple crop. 1 make a plea to this Government to be a little more helpful to the orchardists in Tasmania because they have been in a very bad financial situation for a number of years. 
 The silence may appear to  Senator Webster  to be better. I always have thought the same thing about him when he in on his feet. A number of things affecting the industry in Tasmania could be mentioned in a speech on the Budget. One of the greatest problems that we have in Tasmania is the shipping service. Tasmania has been badly affected on a number of occasions by its shipping service. Certain submissions have been made to the Government over a period of years to assist by providing an alternative. The trade union moment in Tasmania has done more than has this Government to keep ships moving between Tasmania and the mainland. The late  Mr O'Neill  was secretary of the trade union movement in Tasmania. He did more for the shipping industry and the producers, primary and secondary, in getting produce to the mainland than anybody else that I know of in the time that I have been associated with shipping in Tasmania, and that has been practically the whole of my working life. I appeal to the Government to assist Tasmania as much as possible in the matter of shipping freights. The Australian National Line has done a pretty good job in shifting our products to mainland and overseas markets, but by the same token I make a special appeal to the Government to do more to help solve the various crises that we face in the shipping service to and from Tasmania. 
I wholeheartedly support the amendment moved by the Opposition to the motion that the Senate take note of the Budget papers. The amendment brings home to the Government and to the people of Australia issues which are important to the workers of Australia, far more important than the issues which the Government has given consideration in this Budget. I think that this was the 16th Budget that I have seen presented in this chamber. I do not think it has done one more thing for Tasmania than has any other budget which this Government has introduced. So far as Tas mania is concerned, possibly this is the worst Budget that the Government has brought down. 
 I agree with  Senator Cavanagh.  One comes to this place with the hope of getting the most assistance for one's own State, in the first place, and then, secondly, for Australia generally. On this occasion I think that the Government has done less to help Tasmania and to help Australia as a whole than it has in any previous budget. 
 I present the following petition from 68 citizens of the Commonwealth: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate in Parliament assembled. The petition of the undersigned respectfully showeth: 
That the rates charged by local councils and shires are rising rapidly and are beyond the capacity of pensioners to pay. 
That a Commonwealth grant be made to local authorities and thereby enable councils to make a 50 per cent remission on pensioners' water, sewerage and general rates. 
Your petitioners most humbly pray that the Senate, in Parliament assembled, should give urgent attention to this heavy burden on persons living on social service pensions. 
Petition received and read. 
asked the Minister for Health, upon notice: 
Is a person who pays for drugs and medications not on the free list, but which are prescribed for patients in nursing homes, unable to claim their cost as a taxation deduction. 
Would a major step in the social welfare scheme be achieved if the costs referred to in (1) were made a deductible taxation item. 
What is the position of a patient in a nursing home who has no relative to pay for prescribed drugs or medications not on the free list. 

 Senator Sir KENNETH ANDERSONThe answer to the honourable senator's question is as follows: 
The Treasurer has advised that, where a taxpayer makes a payment to a chemist in respect of drugs and medication for a patient in a nursing home, an income tax deduction for the expenditure is allowed under the heading of medical expenses if the patient qualifies as a 'dependant' of the taxpayer and both the taxpayer and the dependant are residents of Australia. In this context, the term 'dependant' includes the spouse of the taxpayer and a child (including an adopted child, a step-child or an ex-nuptial child) of the taxpayer less than 21 years of age. Medical expenses incurred by a taxpayer in respect of his spouse and child under 21 years qualify for deduction irrespective of whether the taxpayer is entitled to a deduction for their maintenance. 
The term 'dependant' also includes any of the following persons if the taxpayer is entitled to a concessional deduction for contributing to his or her maintenance: 
a daughter-housekeeper over 21 years of age; 
a dependent child less than 16 years of age who is not the taxpayer's own child; 
a dependent full-time student less than 25 years of age, not necessarily the taxpayer's child; 
an invalid relative as defined; and 
a parent or parent-in-law of the taxpayer. 
The maintenance deduction otherwise allowable in respect of any dependant is reduced by the amount by which the separate net income of that dependant exceeds $130. If the application of the separate net income test results in no maintenance deduction being allowable to the taxpayer In respect of a dependant within these categories, a deduction is also not allowable to the taxpayer for any medical expenses incurredin respect of that dependant. 
The question of additional assistance for the cost of drugs and medication for a patient in a nursing home is one which would require detailed study by the Government. 
Under existing provisions a patient in the situation described by the honourable senator would be responsible for the cost of the prescribed medication. 
I present the report of the Australian delegation to the 18th Commonwealth Parliamentary Association Conference at Blantyre, Malawi. I seek leave to move a motion dealing with the report. 
 The question is: 
That the new sub-clause proposed to be inserted in clause 18 be inserted. 
 Senator Webster,  to what particular clause of the Bill are you relating your remarks? 
My question is addressed to the Minister for Primary Industry. No doubt farmers will be pleased with the announcement by the Minister and the Treasurer yesterday of continuous involvement of the Federal Government in rural financing. However, as the funds supplied by the Commonwealth are made available to farmers through the Commonwealth Development Bank of Australia, does this mean that farmers will have to forego the right to use private enterprise banks? Will they be forced to bank Commonwealth to be able to take advantage of the funds being made available by the Government? 
-Can the Attorn y-General give the Senate details of recent decisions by the National Literature Board of Review which removed most of the publications remaining on the prohibited import list? Can he also tell the Senate what progress is being made with his promise earlier this year to review existing laws relating to postal services to ensure protection for people, and those in their care, who do not wish to be exposed to unsolicited material that they consider to be offensive. 
 Will the Minister for Primary Industry say how apple and pear growers have reacted to the Government's proposal to set up an Australian Apple and Pear Corporation, which will replace the existing Australian Apple and Pear Board? When is it proposed that the Corporation might commence operations, hopefully for the betterment of the industry? 
Has the Minister for Primary Industry read reports about Japanese wool spinners offering to support financially the expansion of wool production in Australia? Has the Government been requested to take any role in this move by the Japanese? 
 My question is addressed to the Minister for Primary Industry. Why was it felt necessary to modify the free school milk scheme which has provided a valuable outlet for the dairy industry? 
 Is the Leader of the Government in the Senate aware that on Saturday, 25 August, the airports at Melbourne, Sydney, Canberra and Adelaide were closed because of fog and poor visibility? Is the Minister further aware that Hobart Airport was the only capital city airport in south-east Australia which on that day was open to traffic all day? As there is no other capital city airport in south-east Australia capable of accommodating large overseas aircraft, can the Minister assure the Senate and the people of Tasmania that the proposed improvements to Hobart airport will be accelerated? I ask the Minister also whether more favourable consideration will be given to easing further the restrictions now applying to the landing at Hobart of charter flights? 
In answer to a question in the last week of sitting the Minister for Primary Industry indicated that he would give urgent consideration to submissions from sections of the fruit growing industry which could be adversely affected by the removal of the sales tax exemption for carbonated fruit juices containing more than 5 per cent of fruit juice. In view of the desperate situation of the citrus industry- fruit will soon be falling from trees- will the Minister indicate whether there is any likelihood of urgent financial assistance being forthcoming to prevent this fruit from simply rotting on the ground? 
Has the Minister for Primary Industry made any decisions about the issue of an export licence to cover exports of apples and pears from Tasmania? Is it true that the Minister recently stated that he is not in favour of a single export licence? When will the Minister make an announcement on this matter which is of such vital concern to Tasmania? 
The question is: 
That the words proposed to be left out, be left out. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
I understand that the Minister for Primary Industry has had several discussions with organisations involved in the apple and pear industry about marketing arrangements for that industry. Can he indicate whether any firm conclusions have yet been reached that might be for the benefit of the growers? 
My question is addressed to the Minister for Primary Industry. I understand that negotiations are currently talcing place over freight arrangements for shipments of apples and pears to the United Kingdom and Europe. In view of the critical effect which the level of freight rates has on the apple and pear industry, particularly in Tasmania, can the Minister indicate whether any conclusion has been reached in the negotiations? 
Is leave granted? There being no objection, leave is granted. (The document read as follows)- 

<graphic href="058232197311072_41_0.jpg"></graphic>


 -Mr President, I take exception to what  Senator Rae  insinuated. He talked about my holding office in a Party. I am proud to say that I attained the position of Senior Vice-president of the Australian Labor Party in Tasmania. I also attained the position of  President  of the Australian Labor Party in Tasmania and the position of Senior Vicepresident of the Federal Executive. I do not think that  Senator Rae  can compare the offices which he has held in his Party with the offices which I have held in my Party. I strongly resent that  Senator Rae  should insinuate that I, along with other members of the party, have been something in Tasmania which has been shady. I throw this challenge to  Senator Rae:  If  Senator Rae  can show anything to point the finger of the least suspicion at me I shall donate $ 1 ,000 to the Liberal Party. In turn, if he cannot prove what he has insinuated he should donate $1,000 to the Labor Party. Come on. Show your money. It is put up or shut up as far as I am concerned. I am not going to take those insinuations. I have been an official of the trade union movement. I have been on the executive of the Australian Council of Trade Unions. I have never yet heard anybody sink so low as has  Senator Rae  here tonight in insinuating that I have ever accepted a bribe. I have never accepted one and I would not accept one. I take exception to that insinuation. 
No, you have not got the guts? 
Order! The Minister's time has expired. 
Order! Perhaps I can clarify a point before I call you,  Senator Lawrie.  Under Standing Orders we cannot proceed with the amendments as suggested by  Senator Wriedt.  We can deal only with amendment No. 1 which relates to clause 20 on page 14. Perhaps that may assist the Committee. 
Is leave granted? There being no objection, leave is granted. 
1 ) In clause 8, leave out paragraph ( b). 
In clause 1 1, leave out proposed sub-section (6). 
In clause 1 1, leave out proposed section 13C, insert the following proposed section:- 13c Where a court convicts a person of an offence against section 1 3 or section 1 3b, the court may order the forfeiture of- 
a boat, net, trap or equivalent used in the commission of the offence; 
fish on board such a boat at the time of the offence; or 
the proceeds of the sale of any such fish.  13D. Any boat or other property ordered by a court to be forfeited under this Act becomes (he property of Australia and shall be dealt with or disposed of in accordance with the directions of the Secretary. '. 
Leave out clause 12. 
I think that covers all the consequential amendments to the Bill which are necessary as a result of the deletion of clause 20. 
Can the Minister for Primary Industry inform the Senate whether any action is being taken by the Government to assist the fruit growing and processing sectors of the industries which were affected by the abolition of the exemption from sales tax of carbonated soft drinks containing not less than 5 per cent of Australian fruit juices? 
