I ask the Minister for Supply a question. On 17th September last year I asked a question concerning the progress made in relation to Project N. I asked when production of this light aircraft was likely to commence. The Minister then advised me that the project was almost at the stage when an executive decision would be made in relation to it - to use his own words. Can he now advise me of the stage this project has reached and whether production will commence in the near future? 
Has the Minister for Air any information which confirms or denies reports emanating from the United States of America that have stated that the Fill A version of this aircraft which is being purchased by Australia is now obsolete or will be so within 2 years? If so. what benefit will these planes be to Australia's defence when they finally come into commission some time in the near or distant future? 
Will the Minister for Works inform me whether an additional floor is to be added to the Commonwealth building in the city of Geelong in Victoria? If a floor is to be added, will he ensure that adequate air conditioning is installed not only in the new floor but throughout the whole of the present building? 
Has the Minister representing the Minister for the Army seen allegations published in the December issue of the publication entitled 'Resist' which state that conscripts at the Canungra training camp are told categorically that no prisoners are to be taken during action in Vietnam, that if the enemy are wounded the conscripts should shoot them, and that some conscripts at this camp have deliberately wounded themselves so that they may be discharged as being psychologically unfit? Has the Minister investigated these allegations? If so, what were the findings of the investigation? 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Prime Minister. Have any representations been made to the Prime Minister by the 
Victorian Government, or by any organisation or from any other source, for Commonwealth financial assistance to compensate grape growers at Tresco in Victoria who had his season's crop wiped out by a freak hail storm? If so, has any decision yet been reached? 
 I ask the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry whether it is a fact that in anticipation of adoption by the Government of the proposed wool marketing plan submitted by the Australian Wool Industry Conference wool brokers have already increased charges for items that the Government will subsidise under that plan? 
My question is directed to the Leader of the Government in the Senate. Have the Commonwealth and State governments had any joint discussions concerning common legislation for the granting of a vote to 18-year-olds? If so, can the Minister inform the Senate as to what stage the discussions have reached? Is it likely that uniform legislation will be submitted in the near future on this important electorate reform? 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Treasurer. In view of disclosures made at the abortion inquiry in Victoria, which disclosures indicate that many top level Victorian policemen and many medical practitioners have understated their incomes in taxation returns, can the Minister advise the Senate whether a full scale investigation has been carried out by the Taxation Branch into tax evasion by those named at the inquiry? 
Can the Minister for Supply advise me whether the Government Aircraft Factory at Avalon, Victoria, will participate in the manufacture of component parts for overseas aircraft companies which have already granted or may grant contracts within Australia? Will these contracts be confined to Fishermen's Bend in Melbourne? 
My question is directed to the Minister for Housing and/or the Minister representing the Minister for Labour and National Service. Has either Minister received representations from the Geelong Chamber of Commerce requesting that flats be erected in that city for the housing of newly arriving migrants? If so, has any decision yet been reached on those representations? 
As  Senator Fitzgerald  has indicated, the Opposition will give these Bills a fairly speedy passage. However, I wish to address myself to them briefly for some of the reasons expressed earlier by  Senator Little  in referring to interpretations given as to eligibility for benefits. I believe that at present too many differing interpretations are given by officers of the Department of Social Services, in the same office or in different offices throughout a State. I think that every member of this Parliament will have at some time approached the Department to seek an alteration of an interpretation, with successful results. Under this legislation the extra payments will be made available or Will be denied to applicants on the basis of interpretations. I have had some rather bad experiences of interpretations given by officers of the Department of Social Services. 
An interpretation was given by an officer of the Department in a provincial Victorian city which denied to a 17-year-old girl an invalid pension although one of her legs had been amputated at the hip because of a malignant growth. Even during the period when she was unable to walk and was learning to use an artificial leg an officer in that provincial city told her that the amputation of one of her legs did not automatically give her a right to an invalid pension. She was refused an invalid pension. Fortunately, the Minister for Social Services  (Mr Wentworth)  has reversed that decision. 
To me the most disturbing feature of the Social Services Act and the interpretations of it is that it is possible to get three different interpretations in 1 day from the same office. I have had experience of a girl at the inquiry desk of an office of the Department sending people away with her ruling that they were ineligible for pensions. Later a telephone call to an office on the second floor of the same building has gained from the officer in charge of that office the ruling that those same people were entitled to a pension. An adjustment is very quickly made, but it seems to me that this legislation has got to the stage where it should be rewritten in simple terms that can be understood by the average person in the street. This would help to eliminate the possibility of differing interpretations by officers of the Department. 
The Bills we are considering contain provisions that make it very clear to me that the Director-General of Social Services will delegate his powers to officers in charge of branch offices throughout the Commonwealth. Interpretations as to eligibility for benefits will be made by officers in regional sections. One can see at those offices the departmental bible which is inches thick and contains hundreds of interpretations of the provisions of this legislation. I ask the Government to consider introducing a new and more simplified measure to eliminate the need that exists at present to make interpretations. 
On this occasion the Government had an opportunity to bring before the Parliament amendments to improve the lot of many sections of the community. 1 refer, for example, to widows left in their middle 40s or younger, sometimes with children who have reached 16 years. The nation virtually tells them to find a job or the widows' pension they have been receiving will be reduced to the level of the unemployment benefit. It is tragic that these people are pushed into a field which is very competitive, particularly for those who have been rearing a family for 15 or 20 years and find suddenly that they are forced to seek employment. These people should be looked after. The direct cost to the Commonwealth would be small. A golden opportunity to introduce benefits to assist many people has been lost. 
I have expressed my concern over differing interpretations of social service provisions. I am also concerned that insufficient publicity is given to the benefits available. I am aware that the present Minister has tried to improve this situation and has made available to members of this Parliament information that was not available to them before. But many hundreds of people in the community are unaware of their rights to social service benefits. I imagine that that situation will prevail in respect of the legislation we are now debating. The Government and the Department could achieve a lot by regular publicity, not just by paragraphs in the Press but also by using radio and television facilities to advise the community periodically of the extent of social service benefits. I also suggest that registered nursing homes, aged persons homes and organisations that operate such institutions should be advised immediately this legislation is implemented that the extra payments are available. I hope that more and more publicity will be given by the Department to these matters and that steps will be taken to ensure that the advice is written in clear and concise terms that aged people in particular will be able to understand. Very often advice sent out by the Department is very difficult to understand, even by people who study these matters. It is almost impossible for aged people to interpret or understand it. 
I hope that these Bills receive a speedy passage. The initial benefits they extend are very important. I agree with my colleagues that in the initial standard payment there should not be any differentiation between married and single people. However, this is a step forward to assist in bringing justice to an area that is in great need. 
I rise with reluctance on a Thursday night to speak to the motion for the adjournment of the Senate. I do not make a practice of speaking on the adjournment debate, and I do not do so unless I believe that the matter I have to put before the Senate is of a serious nature. I wish to raise again the matter of the assault - and I do not now call it an alleged assault - on a young Australian Broadcasting Commission reporter at Essendon Airport on 28th February of this year. A document was prepared for the Minister for Civil Aviation  (Senator Cotton)  which he read in this chamber yesterday. I am not satisfied with that document. I am certainly not satisfied with the attempt by officers of the Department of Civil Aviation to whitewash the whole affair because there is now evidence that convinces me more than I was convinced at the time I previously spoke about this matter that a full inquiry by the Department should take place to ascertain what really happened at Essendon Airport that night. 
I believe that the Minister's statement is far from accurate and does not in any way accord with the evidence that would be available to him and his Department if a full investigation were made. It is now quite clear to me that an assault took place and that it was unprovoked. The document presented yesterday by the Minister is full of errors and inaccuracies, and certainly full of contradictions. It points out that statements received from officers of TransAustralia Airlines and the Department of Civil Aviation, reporters and a member of the Commonwealth Police on duty at the airport on that night present conflicting information. It is obvious that there was a good deal of confusion at the time. However, the fact that conflicting information was available to the Department does not excuse the failure to hold a full and proper investigation. The document presented by the Minister states that 2 DCA traffic officers on duty both denied that the late  Mr Pugh  was struck with intent, but both implied that in the confusion he may have been struck inadvertently. 
1 will come to that, lt appears to me that despite the fact that evidence was available or obtainable to establish the fact that a bashing took place, the word of 2 DCA officers is being accepted and presented to the Senate as the final statement on the matter, lt is apparent that there has not been a full investigation and that cognisance has not properly been taken of the evidence available to the Minister and his Department if the matter were followed up.  Senator Greenwood  has asked that the next section be read. I point out to him that I have it underlined and ready to read and there was no doubt that it would have been included in this discussion. The statement goes on: 
If this did happen, I believe the act of striking was not premeditated or done deliberately. I believe it is quite clearly established that Pugh's method of attempting to gain access to a prohibited area was the prime cause of the incident and any force used by the traffic staff on duly was the result of strong provocation. 
There is a contradiction in terms in that it is stated that there was strong provocation for an assault that inadvertently occurred. This is the kind of statement that makes me wonder what will happen in future if a full investigation of this attack is not carried out. Reports have been submitted to the Commonwealth Police Force. At least one report, that submitted by Kevin Sanders of GTV9, is not available to the Senate. Kevin Sanders admits in his report that he was an eye witness to the incident. He has stated in the Press, and I understand that he has also stated in a report to the Commonwealth Police Force, what he claims he saw happen. 1 refer to a report in the Melbourne 'Truth' of 14th March, which states: 
Pugh walked down the covered walk-way in an attempt to join the other reporters already interviewing Burchett at the foot of the gangway. 
A uniformed DCA guard stepped in front of Pugh blocking his way. 
Pugh moved to one side, trying to pass the guard, who grabbed him and forced him against the side of the walk-way. 
The guard 'king-hit' Pugh, who was weighed down with tape-recording equipment, and then landed other punches on him. 
One blow caught Pugh on the right side of the face, rendering him dazed and semi-conscious. 
As Pugh fell to his knees, the guard continued to bump him against the walk-way wall and to attempt to punch him. 
Al this stage a plain-clothes Commonwealth Policeman intervened, forcing the DCA guard away from Pugh who was then, according to Sanders, semi-conscious. 
Pugh, holding his jaw, and unsteady on his feet, was firmly led from the scene by the Commonwealth policeman. 
Pugh was later treated for head and face injuries. 
My investigation and my inquiries confirm what Kevin Sanders has stated in his Press release and what I understand is in the report that he has submitted to the Commonwealth Police. 
 I am making an allegation which 1 want to have investigated. If the honourable senator were the judge J would not make the allegation because he would be so biased against the persons concerned that they would have no hope of achieving justice. 
To the Minister. If he desires to question me in this way I am prepared to answer him, but certainly 1 am not prepared to answer the new back bencher who has shown no attitude of justice or humanity to any person in the lower or middle class income groups in the community. The Minister may obtain the information that 1 have by asking for it. 1 would be prepared to give it to him. A report similar to the one which 1 have read to the Senate is in the hands of the Commonwealth Police and I am now asking that the report be tabled in this place when the Senate resumes its activities in a fortnight's time. 
Also 1 want it to be known that my inquiries and my information completely exonerate the Commonwealth Police in relation to this assault. The information that I have in relation to this matter indicates that a Commonwealth policeman broke up the attack on Pugh and led him away to save him from any further punishment. We have seen presented to the Parliament a report which is obviously a whitewash, something that will disappear forever if  a  full and comprehensive investigation is not carried out. We have a situation in which the Australian Journalists Association has asked for a full inquiry and in which, 1 understand, the Association has been able to submit the names of a number of persons who were witnesses to the incident. It is an incident in respect of which photographs exist and are in the hands of newspaper companies. The photographs show quite clearly that the assault occurred. Yet we find in a report which is submitted to the Parliament that the word of 2 DCA Officers is accepted and is to be the final word in relation to it - despite the fact that the statement indicates quite clearly that earlier there had been a great deal of confusion in association with that incident. The statement by the DCA officers contradicts entirely the statement which allegedly was given by the Superintendent of Commonwealth Police in Victoria to the Press at that time. For the purpose of putting on record the Superintendent's statement I repeat sections of it. A Press report states: 
Supt. E. S. Canney, in charge of Federal Police in Victoria, investigated Ihe allegations. 
His report says tha! one federal policeman in plain clothes was present, but he definitely did not assault Pugh.  1 accept this because my subsequent inquiries completely bear out this statement. The Press report continues: 
The report says that after a demonstration at Brisbane Airport, it was decided that all except newspaper photographers would have to stay behind a barrier when Burchett arrived at Essendon. 
Several reporters jumped the barrier and were ushered back behind it. 
The facts are that many reporters were already interviewing Burchett at the time that Pugh tried to jump the barrier, in company with other reporters. He was not the first one to break the barrier or to break the rules which had been established for that day; Burchett was already being interviewed in that walk-way. Pugh and the other reporters felt that as some reporters were able to interview Burchett, they were equally entitled to attempt to do so. The situation is, of course, that they jumped the barrier with the result that Pugh, who was a very slight person about 5 foot 2 inches tall and who weighed about 7 or 8 stone, was able to assault a DCA officer - that is, if we believe their report. The report issued by Superintendent Canney does not substantiate the report that the Minister brought before the Senate yesterday. The Press report continues: 
Despite warnings to stay behind the barrier, Pugh and two others again jumped the barrier, the report says. 
The Federal Policeman chased two reporters and a uniformed Department of Civil Aviation officer chased Pugh. 
The report alleges that Pugh rammed his tape recorder into the officer's face and kneed him in the groin. 
Pugh was then punched and taken back behind the barrier, it says. 
Yet we find that the DCA officers have said in their report that any assault, although inadvertent, was as a result of strong provocation. 
Only the fullest investigation can resolve this question to the satisfaction of many people in the community. Only a full investigation will resolve to the satisfaction of the Australian Journalists Association that no assult took place. Kevin Sanders, who is a well known television newsman, is on record as stating that Pugh was king-hit and that he had observed the whole assault. He has stated also in his Press statement that a similar report has been given to the Commonwealth Police. I understand that other reports have been given by eye witnesses to this incident. 
In order to resolve this question and to get it finalised the fullest investigation must be made. I personally believe that the report made by Kevin Sanders and any other reports that have been submitted in relation to this assault should be tabled in the Parliament for honourable senators to see. lt is quite obvious to me that the attitude of the Department, in Victoria, at least is this: Least said, soonest mended. If that attitude is adopted this incident will be a blight on the community for evermore. Let us have an investigation. Let us have the evidence which has been submitted to to the Department of Civil Aviation or to the Commonwealth police and let us see whether an unwarranted assault did take place. 
It would do a lot of good because it would protect many people in future from the same type of unwarranted attack. This is the most important aspect to it. Throughout the world today we are finding that security officers and security police are forever trying to suppress things that they believe people should not know. This is happening in Australia as much as it is happening in other countries. The situation is arising in which if we are not outspoken about matters of this kind in the parliaments of this country, assaults of this nature will become very common and nobody will take any notice of them. There are countries where actions of this kind are commonplace. I have been in countries in Asia where, every night of the week, people are being hammered down by the riot squads because they choose to demonstrate against the government of the day or against foreign embassies. There has been provocation on both sides. But I believe that on this occasion there w« no provocation by this reporter. I believe he was attempting to do the job he had been assigned to do. I believe that other reporters already had access to Burchett on this occasion and I believe that because this reporter was the smallest one there he was the easiest one to tackle. I want to see a full and complete investigation into this matter. I ask that the documents associated with this matter be tabled in the Senate so that honourable senators may see what really happened. Let us not have a whitewash like this perpetrated in this Parliament. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for the Army, upon notice: 
Has the Minister seen allegations, published in the December issue of a publication called Resist, which state that: 
Conscripts at Canungra Training Camp are told categorically that no prisoners are to be taken during action in Vietnam, and that if the enemy arc wounded they should be shot; and 
Some conscripts at this camp have deliberately wounded themselves so that they can be discharged as psychologically unfit. 
Has the Minister investigated these allegations; if so, what were the findings of the investigations. 

 Senator DRAKE-BROCKMAN- The Minister for the Army has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
Yes. 
The allegations have been investigated but there is no evidence that students at the Jungle Training Centre have been instructed to shoot prisoners. All instruction on the handling of prisoners is based on the Geneva Conventions and programmed periods are set aside for this very purpose. 
There is no record of any national serviceman deliberately wounding himself for any reason, at the Jungle Training Centre. 
asked the Minister representing the Treasurer, upon notice: 
Will the Treasurer give consideration to amending the appropriate legislation to provide for sales tax exemptions for blind persons in gainful employment who, because of their disability, are unable to use public transport and are driven daily to and from their places of employment by  a  relative  or  friend. 

 Senator ANDERSON- The Treasurer has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
It is the Government's practice to examine the many requests that have been made for taxation concessions when it is preparing the annual Budget. The request by the honourable senator has accordingly been noted for consideration when the 1970-71 Budget is being prepared. 
Can the Minister representing the Minister for Health advise me whether a medical practitioner can refuse to see pensioners who have medical entitlement cards on the grounds that he is not prepared to 'see any more pensioners'? If so, would this indicate that a medical practitioner, making such a decision, is not prepared to accept pensioners as patients because the financial return is insufficient to warrant him having pensioner patients? Can the Commonwealth Department of Health take any action against a medical practitioner who refuses to see pensioners who hold medical entitlement cards? 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for External Territories, upon notice: 
Is the Minister aware that a large number of permanent overseas officers are resigning from the Public Service in the Territory of Papua and New Guinea. 
Is the Government concerned at the rate of resignations and, if so, what steps are being taken to correct the drift in the loss of permanent officers. 
My question is directed to the Minister for Civil Aviation. Can the Minister inform the Senate when 
Melbourne Airport at Tullamarine will commence commercial operations? When operations commence will Melbourne be used for both interstate and international services? If not, when is it expected that both interstate and international services will be operating out of Melbourne Airport? To what use, if any. will Essendon Airport be put when Melbourne Airport is fully operational? 
Can the Minister for Air advise the Senate whether it would be possible to borrow some DC3 aircraft from Taiwan to tide us over pending the delivery, if ever, of a strike reconnaissance aircraft suitable for our defence needs? 
The  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Bull)  - The Minister may decide whether or not he will answer the question. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry, upon notice: 
Is it a fact that in anticipation of the adoption by the Government of the proposed wool marketing plan submitted by the Australian Wool Industry Conference, wool brokers have already increased charges for items the Government would subsidise under the plan. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Primary industry, upon notice: 
Does the inclusion of trace elements in superphosphate increase the price in some cases by over $30 per ton; if so, in view of its high cost to primary producers who use trace elements, will the Government consider subsidising trace elements when used in association with superphosphate. 
Has the attention of the Minister for Air been drawn to a Press report which appeared in today's Melbourne Age' that  Mr McEwen,  the Minister for Trade and Industry, told Victorian Country Party members not to 'squeal like stuck pigs' and threatened 'to get on my plane and go back to Canberra'? Does the Minister consider that the use of a VIP aircraft for travel to a Party conference to endeavour to placate angry delegates is a proper use of a VIP aircraft by a Minister of the Crown? 

 - Mr Calwell had the courage not to join the forces because he held strong views.  Senator Little  is laughing. He had an opportunity in 1939 to join the forces. He is in my age group. He had an opportunity to join but did not accept it. Now 2 young lawyers on the opposite side of the chamber are clawing at each other to get the one ministerial vacancy that will exist next year. They have to show that one is more hawkish than the other to obtain the one portfolio that will be available. That is why in the Senate on 2 nights in succession we have seen the disgraceful behaviour of  Senator Greenwood.  I have ho doubt that  Senator Rae  will attempt to out-hawk his colleague in this debate in order to be absolutely certain of attracting the eye of the Prime Minister  (Mr Gorton),  rather than have it attracted by the senator from Victoria. 
Last night a 4-hour debate ensued in the Senate in which only 2 honourable senators opposite took part. The debate gained no publicity in today's Press. Therefore the motives for the debate were not realised and the debate is being repeated tonight. The first purpose behind the debate is to create a situation in which violence is sure to occur in the conduct of the Vietnam Moratorium Campaign. The second purpose is to ensure that the hawkish views of the 2 young lawyers opposite will be taken into account when the Prime Minister decides to fill the ministerial vacancy that will exist in this chamber on 1st July next year. 
We will have this debate at any convenient time when the proceedings of this House are being broadcast, so that the Australian people can hear it. We who are supporting the Moratorium are not ashamed of our support for it. We believe that Australian troops should be withdrawn from Vietnam. We believe it is a rotten war and we have been drawn into it simply because of the politics associated with big business and the investments of United States companies in this country. We believe that honourable senators opposite are not in any way concerned that the Government is sending 20-year-old youths to be killed in Vietnam. Not one of you of military age has attempted to carry on that fight although you profess to believe in the defence of Australia in Vietnam. 
In 1939 many thousands of Australians enlisted to fight against Fascism. There was no question of conscription of men to fight in the Middle East or to travel to England or to the islands in the Pacific in order to save Australia. There was no question of conscription at any level because we knew in Australia that if this country was in danger enough young Australians would be prepared to defend it. 
You are talking about something that happened much later. You are a boy in a man's world. 
Yes, the same war that you refused or decided not to fight in. You were fit, you were able and you were young enough. 
'Unwilling' is the word for it. I disagreed with the conduct of events in Korea but I say publicly without hesitation that we were able to get enough volunteers in Australia to fill the force that Australia was committed to provide for Korea. The situation is different in respect of Vietnam. In the initial stages we had to find 4,000 soldiers to fight in Vietnam, from amongst a population of about 12 million. Could the Government find 4,000 volunteers for the stinking war in Vietnam? Of course not. Our young people know that that war is unjust. They know that the Government is not game to declare war. Government supporters say that there is no war. Ministers in this chamber have said that there is no war, yet young Australians are being killed in Vietnam every day of the week. It is 'business as usual'. The Government has to conscript 20-year-old boys who have no vote. They have not finished their education or apprenticeships. They are at a stage of development where they should be on the sporting fields of this country, but they are being sent to die in Vietnam. 
The Government could nol get 4,000 volunteers to fight in the Vietnam war and now it has had to raise the force to 8,000. It became necessary for the Government to decide that 60% of our people who fight in Vietnam would be young kids. Initially the Government claimed that 2 years of training was necessary under national service regulations to make a soldier out of a trainee. You are now sending them after 9 months training to fight in the jungles of Vietnam. The initial debates in this Parliament on the Vietnam war prove that a 2-year period of training was initiated following the Government's claim that that time was required to train a soldier. Now the Government is prepared to send half trained lads into the jungles of Vietnam. They are sent to delouse mines about which they know nothing. The newspapers carry reports that 20-and 21-year-old national servicemen are being killed because they are insufficiently trained to handle the mines they are asked to delouse. 
A Minister said in the Senate that the mines were laid by the Americans and could not be shifted. But the North Vietnamese have shifted them and the plans have been changed. When our boys go into the mined areas they find that the mines are in different places. When they attempt to delouse them, they blow them up. lt is an absolute disgrace to every member of the Government Parties that you are sending boys on a man's errand. You are not supported by the general public of Australia. The people en masse have now decided to protest and  Senator Greenwood,  the hawk from Victoria, is endeavouring to incite violence so that he can come back to this Parliament and say: 'We were right.' He is seeking to ensure that broken limbs and bodies will be in the streets of Melbourne and Sydney to prove that he is right, to ensure that he can get the public on his side in talking about the rabble that he claims is supporting the Moratorium. 
Every honourable senator on this side of the chamber knows that professional provocateurs will be used within the ranks of the demonstrators to make sure that the people become violent. I am sure that  Senator Greenwood  does believe in his own heart that he is acting to incite that kind of violence. I advise him to examine the records of the visit to Australia of that great democrat Air Vice-Marshal Ky. He came into this country with guns on his hips. At every door in this Parliament there were officers with guns on their hips. We were denied the right to come into this Parliament with more than 3 guests while he was visiting this place. There were armed people in every corridor in this building. There were hundreds of New South Wales policemen hiding behind hedges. A peaceful demonstration was conducted at the Canberra Hotel and court proceedings proved that provocation took place to ensure that that peaceful demonstration would get  the  utmost publicity. People  were  charged with offences. However some fatal mistakes  were  made  - the  wrong people  were  charged. 
1 will deal with the Democratic Labor Party later. They charged the wrong people, lt was clearly disclosed to Australia that there was provocation on that occasion and the persons charged and who faced the magistrate in this capital city were not found guilty. 
Last night in this chamber  Senator McManus  from Victoria quoted at length from some documents which honourable senators may have thought were quite authentic. We may have thought that he had the inside information from the committee meetings of those organising this Moratorium. Because we wanted to examine the documents  Senator Wheeldon  decided that he would have them tabled. The document from which  Senator McManus  quoted at length about the alleged activities within student groups and among children was an information bulletin published by the Democratic Labor Party. I cannot read the street number but the document was printed at an address in Lonsdale Street, Melbourne. This is a document of fiction. 1 challenge any Democratic Labor Party  speaker  tonight to authenticate any of the statements in it. This is just a straight publicity handout from the Democratic Labor Party. 

 Senator McManus stood in this chamber last night holding this bulletin close to his chest, reading from it at great length and saying, in fact, that it contained inside information that he had obtained from the Moratorium committees in Monash University and other places. But it is a spurious bulletin printed by the machines of the Democratic Labor Party in Lonsdale Street, Melbourne. It is exposed for what it is worth. We had it tabled so that every honourable senator could see it. 
There is an article on the front of it which is alleged to be a document directing people of the Communist Party to do certain things. There is no evidence in any shape or form to suggest that it was not printed also at Lonsdale Street, Melbourne. 
I challenge  Senator Little  to produce factual evidence relating to this document that his Party had printed on its own machines. I ask him to produce factual evidence about what appears in this document which  Senator McManus  claimed to be an authentic record of what was happening within the committees operating as part of the Moratorium Campaign. 
The honourable senator will have his opportunity to stand and authenticate what was printed in Lonsdale Street, Melbourne. He can do so later. We will listen with great interest to find out who gave his Party the evidence, what the evidence is and who authenticated it. 
I asked for it. It was tabled last night in this chamber. I understand it is available to all honourable senators. It was tabled under Standing Order 364. 
The DLP published it so  Senator Little  probably has hundreds of them. Tonight we witnessed this shabby display.  Senator Greenwood  and  Senator Rae,  who probably will speak later, seek to use the motion for the adjournment of the Senate to claw their way to the front bench next year by proving that they are the most hawkish of the candidates. We see the shabby example of the same 2 people, deliberately, on 2 nights running in this Senate, using this chamber in order to incite violence, in order to be able to prove that they are right. We witnessed the shabby performance of honourable senators on the Government side who were not prepared to support their own speakers last night. I certainly hope that  Senator Greenwood  has rounded up more support for tonight. We of the Opposition are prepared to match him  speaker  for  speaker.  We are prepared to remain here again until 3 o'clock or 4 o'clock, in the morning. But what is more important is that the Australian Labor Party is prepared to debate this matter at a time when the Australian people can hear what is being said rather than after the motion for the adjournment has been moved when they cannot hear the speeches made. 
I am appalled,  Mr President,  to think that men who are ready and willing and were able to take a role in the armed forces of Australia have used this chamber to attack people who have a conscientious objection to fighting in this war. While using the chamber for this purpose they have been prepared to spill the blood of every Australian except themselves. 
My question is directed to the Minister for Air. As the Minister for Defence is now back in Australia can the Minister for Air officially advise the Senate what arrangements if any have been made to obtain a strike reconnaissance aircraft for Australia pending the delivery, if ever, of the F111? 
Has the Minister for Civil Aviation seen reports that an Australian operator plans to convert 3 Electra passenger aircraft for use as freighters? Can the Minister say whether approval will be given for these aircraft to be used during curfew hours at major airports where such restrictions are in force? ls the Minister aware that, according to official noise readings, an Electra during the landing phase is capable of making more noise than a DC9 pure jet? Will the Minister take steps to ensure that the night curfew applied to safeguard the interests of residents living in the proximity of airports will not be circumvented by the use of noisy turbo-prop aircraft of the Electra type? 
Has the attention of the Minister representing the AttorneyGeneral been drawn to a statement by a  Mr Enderby  in today's 'Canberra Times' in which he claims that the AttorneyGeneral's Department has directed a magistrate in the Australian Capital Territory not to give a decision in a part heard case involving an alleged demonstator? Can he advise the Senate whether such action has been taken and. if so, for what reason? 
asked the Minister for 
Civil Aviation, upon notice: 
Is it afactthat Ansett Airlines of Australia, in association with Don McGregor's Safaris, conduct hunting tours in Arnhem Land, Northern Territory, in which the shooting of kangaroos, wallabies, emus, buffalo and other animals is part of the 'sport'. 
Are special exclusive tours available in which helicopters are used and the 'game' mentioned above shot from the air. 
Is it a fact that many of the wildlife shot from the air arc badly wounded but not killed outright, and left to die in agony. 
Have any diplomatic representatives been invited to take part in any such special safaris in recent months. 
My question is directed to the Minister for Civil Aviation. Has Don McGregor's Safaris, or any other company or organisation, conducted hunting safaris in the Northern Territory in which helicopters have been used from which animals have been hunted and shot? If so, will the Minister consider suspending or cancelling licences of operators who use -aircraft for this purpose? 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Repatriation upon notice: 
Has the Government allocated large sums of money to be spent at the Heidelberg Repatriation Hospital, for (a) building a new kitchen, (b) providing two new operating theatres, and (c) replacing large quantities of wooden duckboard paths with concrete paths; if so, is it intended to re-open ward's that have been closed for a number of years, and to make available approximately 500 more beds for urgent treatment of ex-soldiers, nurses and other personnel from the Boer War, World Wars 1 and II, Korea, Malaya and Vietnam, and members of the regular forces. 
I presume that the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry is aware that the United States of America has put a ban on the import of mutton from Australia. Would the Minister agree that Australian standards of hygiene in the killing and processing of mutton for export are very high and equal to world standards, and have proved to be so in the past? If so, is the United Slates ban on the acceptance of further consignments of Austraiian mutton really a method of imposing a quota on Australian imports of mutton? 
Is the Minister representing the Minister for Trade and Industry aware that the loss of export markets for mutton could mean that between 300 and 400 employees at an abattoir at Portland, Victoria, could be dismissed? Is he also aware that such dismissals could have disastrous effects on those employees, on the whole town and on mutton producers generally? Will he use all his influence to see that such a disaster is avoided by requesting the Minister whom he represents in this chamber to do everything possible to retain our overseas markets in the United Slates of America and in other countries to which we now export? 
asked the Minister representing the Treasurer, upon notice: 
Is  it a  fact  that the Medical Journal of Australia published in its issue of 24th October 1964  an  article which  stated  that micro-organisms  known as  salmonella bad  been  isolated  from  kangaroo meat sold  in  South Australia. 
Is  it also a fact that salmonella is responsible for many forms of enteritis and that salmonellae were isolated from the faeces of two cats in houses where gastro enteritis had occurred, 
Were tests carried out in Adelaide which showed that of 36 samples of kangaroo meat tested 21 yielded salmonellae on culture. 
In view  of  this evidence that kangaroo meat sold as pet food is very likely a source of enteritis infection to human beings, will the Treasurer consider imposing a heavy sales tax duty on kangaroo meat sold as pet food to discourage its use for this purpose. 
I rise to support the motion moved by  Senator Mulvihill.  I congratulate him for taking this step. There is no doubt that we would not have got as far as we have today in relation to the conservation of the kangaroo and other marsupials if it had not been for the action over many years of  Senator Mulvihill  in continuing to bring this matter before Parliament. It is a matter now on record that he and he alone carried on this fight for a great number of years until other people, noting the seriousness of the situation, were prepared to join him. It is also on record that on the numerous occasions when  Senator Mulvihill  has risen to his feet to discuss this subject many of us have treated his remarks a little lightheartedly. However, the light-heartedness was not of people who do not care. The conservation of the kangaroo is a matter of great moment to honourable senators in this chamber. When the history of its conservation is considered in the future I think  Senator Mulvihills  name will receive high ranking. He is a great fighter in the cause of the conservation of the kangaroo. 
This matter is a matter of some urgency. 1 understand that figures were produced in another place which indicate that about I million kangaroos arc being destroyed in Australia each year. They are being killed mostly for commercial purposes. A tremendous number of these animals are being destroyed in the interests of pet food manufacturers and those who manufacture articles from their hides. It seems to me that the kangaroo will be soon extinct if killings of this magnitude continue, it is quite obvious that kangaroos are not around in such great numbers. It is a matter of history that some of our marsupials have become extinct and others are very close to extinction at this point of lime, including the red kangaroo - the big red - which we have heard so much about in the past from  Senator Mulvihill.  Many years ago he realised the great dangers which exist in relation to the extinction of the kangaroo if killings of this nature are to continue. I support to the hilt any efforts which arc made by the Commonwealth and the States to husband our marsupials, particularly the kangaroo, in order to ensure that no species which is not already extinct becomes extinct and that some of the species which are close to extinction increase in number. 
I wish to bring to the attention of the Senate another matter which is associated with the slaughter of the kangaroo for commercial purposes. Not only is conservation of the Kangaroo necessary and vital at this stage, but it is also essential that the Commonwealth and State parliaments take action to stop the inhuman killing of our kangaroos at present. This applies not only to the sportsmen who go out and kill these animals for sport but also to the commercial shooters. Ample evidence has been provided by  Mr Quirepel  of Mildura and others who have taken a great interest in this matter which proves beyond doubt that not only do the people who kill for sport do so in an inhuman manner but also many of the commercial shooters. We will have to ensure that the inhuman methods which are now used are eradicated. Evidence has been submitted to me, which I accept because of the validity of the person who has submitted it to me, to the effect that many kangaroos are disembowelled whilst still alive by the professional shooters because of their haste to get the next animal to put into their coolers. Joeys are also slaughtered. There is completely indiscriminate slaughtering of the species regardless of whether the kangaroos are male or female and regardless of whether there is a joey in the pouch or at foot. 
No sensible person in any kind of commercial undertaking who wants to keep the species going would be a part of this type of indiscriminate killing. The States do not seem to have any real laws to prevent this indiscriminate killing. If there are laws there does not seem to be any policing of them to ensure that the mad method of killing which now exists is stopped. Many inhuman methods of killing meat for commercial purposes are adopted. No-one in his right mind would suggest that the animals which are killed to provide meat for human consumption are killed under the most hygienic conditions. The kangaroos are killed in conditions of cruelty. They are killed far away from the areas in which they are to be processed. A ludicrous situation would exist today if the meat industry were permitted to kill Iambs which are to be processed for the commercial market out in the paddock and then allowed to be thrown into the back of a truck which is covered with dust and dirt. I make these observations because of some other aspects I wish to bring up at a later stage of my speech. 
If - and I say 'if advisedly - there is a necessity to destroy the kangaroo and if there is a necessity to keep up the profits of the commercial interests we will have to have a system of slaughter and a system of processing which will completely obviate the methods which are adopted at present. We can do this very easily. It may be true that in parts of Queensland, the Northern Territory and perhaps the west some problems are being experienced because the kangaroo is a pest. However, this does not excuse the method by which these animals are killed today for commercial purposes. There are many methods whereby kangaroos can be captured and killed in a humane fashion if it is absolutely necessary to do so. For example, a tranquilising dart could be used. These are extensively used in national parks in many countries in the world to treat ill animals. These tranquilisers put an animal out of action for a considerable period of time and they become easy to handle and to treat for an illness or an accident, lt is equally feasible that this system could be adopted in the slaughtering of kangaroos for commercial purposes. 
I believe - and 1 am supported by many people in Australia - that there should be a complete and absolute halt at this stage to the legal and illegal killing of these animals because it is quite clear to anybody who has a true appreciation of the situation that this is necessary. I know that the Commonwealth Scientific and Industrial Research Organisation and other organisations have done great work in the study of these animals, but a proper assessment has not been made of the number of kangaroos in Australia at present or of the number slaughtered for commercial or sporting purposes. This information is needed in order to assess whether kangaroos will multiply or become extinct by the indiscriminate killing which is going on at present, lt is not a science which we have developed to any great extent. I believe that a complete halt in these operations should take place. 
I am not going to stand in my place and use the excuse that we have little power at a Commonwealth level to handle this situation. In fact, we have the power at a Commonwealth level to do what I suggest should be done. We have power under our customs and tariffs legislation to ensure that the meat of kangaroos which are killed for commercial purposes is not exported from Australia in either a tinned or raw form. Under the same legislation we can ensure that none of the articles produced from the hides of these animals is exported from this country. This would result in the depletion to a very great extent of the commercial killing of these animals. The peculiar situation exists in Australia today whereby live kangaroos cannot be exported under any circumstances - it is taboo - but we are at the same time exporting millions and millions of pounds of kangaroo meat. We are also exporting many articles which are produced from their hides. We have this hypocritical situation whereby, on the one hand, live kangaroos cannot be exported from Australia and, on the other, the by-products of the animal can be exported. 1 am permitted to speak for only 15 minutes in this debate. In the short time which I have left 1 wish to point out that I am speaking not only from the point of view of the conservation of kangaroos but also from the point of view of the dangers which are inherent in people in Australis using raw kangaroos meat for pet food. This danger has been clearly established by an article which appeared in the 'Medical Journal of Australia' on 24th October 1964. I want to quote briefly from this article. 1 will be asking leave of the Senate to incorporate the whole of the article in Hansard. At this stage I wish to quote from the early section of the document: 
During the period 1962 io 1964, u number of unusual salmonella were isolated from human sources with increasing frequency in  the  Salmonella Reference Laboratory, Adelaide. At the same time, it was noted that samples of kangaroo meat submitted for bacteriological screening prior to export were occasionally yielding similar serotypes. The sale of kangaroo meat for pet food in Adelaide shops did not at first, appear to be significant hazard, since legislation provides for the protection of other meat sold for human consumption. In brief, meat nol claimed to be fit for human consumption cannot be sold in a butcher shop unless it is in a sealed package, is marked as pet food and is. effectively coloured with dye. However, the isolation of salmonella from the faeces of 2 cats in houses where gastroenteritis bad occurred suggested another route of transmission, which might implicate pet food as  the  source of the infection. 
This 2 page document goes on to draw certain conclusions. The results of these tests showed: 
Of 36 samples submitted for examination 21 yielded salmonella on culture. Sixteen samples produced 1  seretype  4 produced 2 serotypes, and 1 yielded 3 serotypes. 
The summary and conclusion of this investigation indicated: 
Heavy contamination with numerous salmonella serotypes is recorded and the results are compared with those obtained from kangaroo meat for export. 
What has happened, in fact, is that persons who have purchased this kangaroo meat - this is discussed in detail in this report - have placed it in their refrigerators  next to the meat they have bought for home consumption. This is one way this disease has been carried through to the family. On other occasions the disease has been transmitted by petting the cats and dogs which have eaten the affected meat. This report indicates quite clearly that the use of raw kangaroo meat is a great danger to the health of the people. 
In South Australia there are some rules in relation to the sale of this meat, but to the best of my knowledge in the State of Victoria horse meat and kangaroo meat is sold by pet shops; it is not packaged and not coloured. It is well known that some people on the pretext of purchasing this meat for pet food have been using it for human consumption. This document clearly indicates that kangaroo meat is very dangerous to the health of the community as has been proven by laboratory tests. I think it is absolutely essential that all aspects of this problem should be examined very closely and we, as a Commonwealth, should take all the necessary steps to halt this uncontrolled slaughter The Senate may recall that I placed a question on the notice paper on 3rd March this year relative to the matter which I have just read from the medical journal. It has taken exactly 2½ months for the Minister to tell me that questions 1, 2 and 3 are not within his sphere of responsibility. With the concurrence of honourable senators I incorporate in Hansard an article which I previously mentioned, and which was published in the Medical Journal of Australia' of 24th October 1964. 
THE ISOLATION OF SALMONELLAE FROM KANGAROO MEAT SOLD AS PET FOOD 
Kevin Andersen. M.D. (Lond.) M.R.A.C.P., M.C.P.A., Senior Medical Bacteriologist. 
F. Crowder. A.I.M.L.T.. Chief Technician. From the Salmonella Reference Laboratory, Institute of Medical and Veterinary Science, Adelaide and 
Philip Woodruff. M.D.D.T.M.&amp;.H. F.R.A.C.P., Director-General of Public Health Adelaide. 
THE MEDICAL JOURNAL OF AUSTRALIA, OCTOBER 24th 1964 
During the period 1962 to 1964, a number of unusual salmonella were isolated from human sources with increasing frequency in the Salmonella Reference Laboratory, Adelaide. At the same time, it was noted that samples of kangaroo meat submitted for bacteriological screening prior to export were occasionally yielding similar serotypes. The sale of kangaroo meat for pet food in Adelaide shops did not at first, appear to be significant hazard, since legislation provides for the protection of other meat sold for human consumption. 
In brief, meat not claimed to be fit for human consumption cannot be sold in a butcher's shop unless it is in a sealed package (packed elsewhere), is marked as pet food and is effectively coloured with dye. However, the isolation of salmonellae from the faeces of two cats in houses where gastro-enteritis had occurred suggested another route of transmission, which might implicate pet food as the source of the infection. 
The majority of kangaroo meat is fed raw to domestic animals, after being stored in proximity to other food in domestic refrigerators. It is cut up with knives used in the kitchen, and is handled by both housewives and children. Animals may develop a clinical gastro-enteritis after consuming infected meat, or may merely excrete the organism in their faeces. In either case, infection may spread to other members of the household, and in particular to children, who fondle the animals. It was therefore decided to examine samples of kangaroo meat sold as pet food in a number of city and suburban shops. 
Materials and Methods 
Thirty-six samples were purchased over a period of two weeks by an inspector of the Department of Public Health, and forwarded to the Salmonella Reference Laboratory in batches of 12 on the day of purchase. Each plastic bag contained one pound of meat, some samples of which were not dyed in accordance with existing legislation. Bags were opened with sterile scissors and a portion of meat was transferred to a sterile jar containing 1 ml. of sterile saline. This was agitated and 0.5 ml. of the washings was added to5 ml. of solenite broth. A further 20 gramme sample was covered with50 ml. of solenite broth and minced with a sterile scalpel blade. These containers were shaken mechanically for three minutes, and all the cultures were incubated at 37 deg. C. for 18 hours. Subcultures were made on to S.S. medium (Difco) and suspicious nonlactosefermenting colonies were subsequently transferred to Kohn's two-tube medium. Isolutes with suggestive bio-chemical reactions were submitted to full biochemical testing and final identifications by routine serological methods. 
Results 
Of thirty-six samples submitted for examination twenty-one yielded salmonellae on culture. Sixteen samples produced one seretype, four produced two seretypes, and one yielded three seretypes. 
The results were quoted in Table 1. 
Discussion 
The number of isolations from kangaroo meat sold as pet food is extremely high, and must be compared with the 13 isolations obtained from 119 samples submitted for testing prior to export in the period 1962 to 1964. Details of these strains are shown in Table 111 Salmonellae isolated from human sources during the same period and which were also found in kangaroo meat, are shown in Table IV. It seems unlikely that the one species of animal would be parasited by such large numbers of salmonellae. The observation that kangaroo meat for export has a much lower incidence of contamination is further evidence in favour of the explanation that the meat is handled more carefully, and requires bacteriological screening before its acceptance overseas. There can be little doubt that kangaroo meat sold as pet food constitutes a serious danger to public health, if the observed degree of salmonellae is allowed to continue. 
Summary and Conclusion 
Heavy contamination with numerous salmonellae seretypes is recorded and the results are compared with those obtained from kangaroo meat for export. 
Attention is drawn to the public health problems arising from the continual sale of this meat, and the possible transmission of infection to the community. 
Salmonella: - Was first delected by that eminent American Pathologist the late D. E. Salmon. He defined it as:- A large group of micro-organisms, members which arc responsible for many forms of enteris, (e.g. food poisoning, typhoid and para-typhoid fevers. Also hog cholera). 
The ACTING  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Cant)  - Order! The honourable senator's time has expired. 
Is the Leader of the Government in the Senate aware that a South African cricket team has been invited to tour Australia during the 1971-72 cricket season? In view of the racial discrimination policies of the South African Government in the sporting field, will the Australian Government indicate immediately its opposition to such a tour and advise the Australian Cricket Board of Control accordingly? 
Is the Leader of the Government in the Senate aware that the young Aboriginal champion tennis player Evonne Goolagong will not be permitted to enter South Africa to play in tennis competitions in that country because the colour of her skin is black? Does this action of the South African Government interfere with free competition in sporting activities between individuals and countries? Does the Minister still believe that such actions by a government should not be subject to questions and discussion within this Parliament? 
I ask the Leader of the Government in the Senate whether his attention has been directed to a statement by  Mrs Gwen  Benzie, Secretary of the Australian Women's Basketball Association, in today's Melbourne 'Age' in which she is reported to have said:  lt  was understood but nol specifically mentioned that  no  team  of  coloured players would go  to  South Africa. 
She was referring to the fact that South Africa is a member of the International 
Federation of Women's Basketball and Netball Associations and that this condition of entry to South Africa, while not being specific, was well known to all members of the Federation. Does not this attitude of the South African Government reflect the direct interference in sport on racial grounds which the Minister condemned in the Senate yesterday? 
This argument is going back and forth on the basis of oral surgeons and I challenge the Minister and her advisers to find anywhere in this Act anything that refers to this new expression oral surgeon. The simple situation is that we are talking about dentists carrying out work in a dental surgery in the interests of the people who go there. We have the Government now defending the situation whereas at first it desired to have all this work done in an approved hospital. Once that was eliminated by amendment there was no reason in the world why any dentist who is qualified could not carry out this work of oral surgery. This is like the new name for eye specialists that we have been hearing all day today. The Government is trying to confuse us with new words and not using the simple terms of the Bill. The Minister's second reading speech did not go into this great detail that we are being told now. lt stated: 
The new definition of 'professional services' in the Bill recognises for benefit purposes services rendered by oral surgeons. 
But we cannot find anywhere in this document that is the Bill and will be the Act a reference to oral surgeons. The Bill says, in fact, 'qualified dentist or dental practitioner. F ask the Minister what is the difference between a dentist and a dental practitioner. In my humble view there is no difference, yet we are being told here that there ure to be specialists appointed by the Director-General to carry out this work. This is because the Government had confined this work to activities within an approved hospital. The Committee in its wisdom has said to the Minister that it does not agree with this and that a dentist can cany out this work within his own surgery with the same competence and the argument that we are to have stick orderlies appointed by some person in high authority which will give some section of the dental community the right to do work in hospitals is eliminated because we have eliminated the necessity to go into the hospital. 
That is not in the Minister's second reading speech, as I am reminded by  Senator McClelland.  The simple fact now is that we are asking that the Director-General be not the person who appoints dentists or dental practitioners. There is no definition in the Act that differentiates between a dentist and a dental practitioner. The Government is using words that are getting it into trouble. This is its problem. It is getting itself into so much mud that it cannot swim out of it simply because on the one hand it used some simple terms in the Bill and on the other hand it started talking about oral surgeons, who are people who pulled my teeth out with or without cocaine when I was a kid of 14. This amendment moved by  Senator 
Turnbull clears this up and states that dentists who are qualified can carry out this work and that people who go to them are entitled to some benefit. That is the humane approach, is it not? This will give the people within the community some rights under the National Health Act and that is all we are asking. 
Has the Minister for Supply seen a Press statement that  the  Managing Director of the Commonwealth Aircraft Corporation has alleged that the Commonwealth Government has let the Australian aircraft industry down in not supporting a project that could put the aircraft industry on its feet, and has said that the Government should leave the development of the aircraft industry in this country to private enterprise? Will  the  Minister give an undertaking that the Government will not leave this important field of development to private enterprise? 
 My question is addressed to  the  Minister representing  the  Postmaster-General. Is it  a  fact  that  the programme 'This Day Tonight'  on  ABC television arranged for 27th May was canceiled  at the  last minute at the direction of the Post master-General because  Sir Henry  Bolte declined to appear on the programme? ls it a fact that leaders of all political parties were advised prior to the day of the programme that it would be proceeded with provided that 2 party leaders were prepared to appear? ls it a fact also that the Leader of the Australian Labor Parly, the Leader of the Democratic Labor Party and (he  Deputy  Leader of  the  Country  Parly arrived at the Ripponlea 
ABC studios to take part in the programme and were advisedonly then that the programme had been cancelled? 
It has nothing to do with that programme at all. 
It is very depressing to sit in this chamber and hear the pessimism that exudes from the Government ranks concerning the Australian aircraft industry. This is one of the reasons why it has been necessary for an urgency motion to be moved on this matter. Recent statements by both the Minister for Defence  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  and the Minister for Supply  (Senator Anderson)  have indicated quite clearly that they are opting out of a project which could well have established this industry on some basis of continuity. The vital point that arises from these statements and subsequent statements by the industry itself is that the pessimism of the Government is not shared by the private enterprise sections of the industry. Indeed, they have severely criticised the Minister for Defence for some of the statements he has made in relation to the reasons for opting out of the project that was contemplated. 
It is becoming clearer than ever that we are now getting to the stage where development of this industry is further away than it has been in the last 20 years, and we are in a situation now that we were in in the late 1930s and early 1940s when the same conservative attitudes were expressed by the people who now sit on the opposite side of the Senate in relation to the development of the motor car industry. We heard all these arguments then that we could never establish a viable motor car industry. Indeed, the Chifley Government came in for great criticism for having the temerity to establish the motor car industry because the population was too small and we would never be able to sell the cars on the open market in competition with British and American cars. The whole story is being told again here. 
We certainly should have. That is quite correct. The whole story is being repeated in relation to the aircraft industry. But the situation is that the people in the industry today have made it quite clear that they disagree entirely with what  Mr Malcolm  Fraser has said in relation to the future of the proposals that were undertaken with a British company.  Mr Ring,  who was quoted earlier by  Senator Bishop,  has stated quite clearly that he thinks that Government authorities tended to suffer from an Fill phobia. He also criticised  Mr Fraser's  statement that there was virtually no prospect of sales of the AA107 to the Royal Air Force.  Mr Ring  said his information was that the RAF was very interested in the aircraft and was still studying a version of it even though the Australian Government had pulled out. Here is a man in the industry who is very close to it and who denies a statement by the the Minister for Defence that the RAF is uninterested in the project at all. Of course, if the RAF is interested it is quite obvious that the Royal Australian Air Force would also be interested and we would have a situation where this could be a viable project. 
We have had the Minister for Supply apologising for 30 minutes for the fact that the Government has no positive plans for the continuity of this industry. We have been in this silly situation over decades of having these hills and valleys in the industry that have been highly detrimental to its whole future. When we get a project such as the Mirage project we hotfoot it off to England and go through the whole country recruiting skilled labour that already exists in this country but has left the industry because of lack of continuity from previous projects. We had exactly the same thing occur some 12 months ago in relation to the Government Aircraft Factories when men who were recruited in England for the purpose of entering this industry in Australia were dismissed from the Government Aircraft Factory at Avalon after being given verbal undertakings on their recruitment of continuity of service in the industry. They were conned into coming to this country on the basis of information given to them verbally at the recruitment centres in the United Kingdom and they found themselves in the intolerable position of purchasing homes close to the factory at Lara and then having to sell them on a depressed market if they desired to continue in the industry by finding work in the metropolitan area or at Hawker de Havilland in Sydney. So much for these promises. These people, in deputations to the honourable member for Cocrio  (Mr Scholes)  and me have indicated that they will never go back to the aircraft industry, that they will not be put in the situation where they are recruited for one project, sacked for the next and then expected by the Government to go back as soon as it gets another small project to go on with. 
If we get another project by this hit and miss method that the Government is using now we will have to hotfoot it off to the United Kingdom again seeking recruits from the industry in that country and no doubt will tell them the same story that there is continuity of work in this country. When they find that this is not so they, too, will be lost to the industry. I am not the only person who holds this opinion. In March this year a great pioneer of the aircraft industry in Australia went on record as saying: 
Without any shadow of doubt, there is a brain drain in the aircraft industry. You teach a man aeronautical engineering and you invest in him, because most of our education is Government subsidised, and he finds he has no outlet so he goes abroad. To hand him a couple of blueprints to make a few smalt things is not the way to treat him. 
Of course it is not the way to treat him. That is the kind of treatment which in the past has lost for us many skilled trades men whom we should have retained in the industry by providing continuity of employment for them. 
The pessimistic attitude that we will not be able to sell these planes if we develop them is unreal in view of the requirements which I believe will exist for smaller type aircraft throughout the South East Asian area and generally in Asia itself. We have a vast field for development and research in small aircraft within Australia. Because of the broad open spaces of our nation we find that smaller aircraft are being used increasingly, not only in relation to commuter services at a commercial level but also by private people who desire to move over this country speedily. I believe that the attitude of the Government and of people who are pessimistic about this industry has been summed up by Graeme Kennedy, the aviation writer for the Melbourne 'Herald'. In the issue of the newspaper of 16th March 1970 he wrote: 
Australia's aircraft manufacturing industry is not unlike a highly qualified engineer taking on post-hold digging as a career. Australia has tremendous capabilities in design and manufacture of military and commercial aircraft, yet it is forced to scramble after small industrial contracts to keep some profit coming in. 
That is the situation we face at the present time. We hear statements from the Minister in this place, as well as from a Minister in the other place, that the only answer is rationalisation. That is the term with which they fiddle. But people in the industry are now asking: 'What does rationalisation mean?' They have talked to me in the city of Geelong. Does rationalisation mean that the Government Aircraft Factory at Avalon will close? Does it mean that there is no future whatever for the Government Aircraft Factory as an identity? Those are questions which should be answered because very strong rumours are spreading to the effect that under the rationalisation plan the Government Aircraft Factory will virtually go out of existence and that Government interest in the aircraft industry will disappear. The pessimistic note in the Minister's remarks today clearly indicates to me that that is the kind of planning in the Government's mind at present. 
We have only to look at the record of this nation in .the industry to realise the skills that we have been able to acquire and use in the development and construction of the Canberra and the tremendous job that we did with the Mirage. I was very proud of the workers at Avalon for the job they were able to do with the Mirage. People from France came to Australia, looked at the project and said that we were doing a far better job on the plane than perhaps they were doing in France. That gives a clear indication that we have the ability and the skills. We should be using them instead of saying: 'We cannot fill the order book. We know we will not be able to fill the order book so we will pull out of these projects before the investigation is even half completed and before the Royal Australian Air Force has made a final Decision.' We are even pulling out of a recent agreement with the British aircraft industry to try to establish something on a joint basis despite the fact that we took part in the initiation of the project, particularly in the field of design. This must induce the people in the industry to say: 'What the hell. Let us go to a country which will appreciate our skills. Let us go to a place where we are not digging post holes but are doing something positive.' 
This is an industry which Australia needs urgently and most certainly will need for many centuries to come. Let us not be like a country which says: 'We cannot have the motor car because there are not enough people to drive it.' Consider Sweden which looks forward and says: 'We will establish a viable industry.' Sweden is a much smaller country than is Australia with less affluence than we have but she has been able to establish a viable industry. Let us get on with the job of developing this industry in the interests of our nation. Let us drop our pessimistic attitude in relation to it. 
At least 30 minutes. I looked with great interest to the notice paper of the Senate to see where the statement appeared in order of priority. 1 fo:md that it was so far down the list that it would not be possible for a debate to proceed on this very important issue. We of the Opposition found ourselves in this situation: An undertaking had been given to me by the Leader of the Government that thin statement would be debated.  Senator Bishop  secured the adjournment of that debate and we accepted that situation. We did not go on with the debate on that day simply because I. had this arrangement with the Leader of the Government.  I  admit that I am not Leader of the Opposition but I accepted with sincerity that at least 30 minutes would be allowed for this very important discussion. This matter has since become urgent and was urgent today because of subsequent statements relating to the aircraft, industry which indicated that Australia was opting out of an agreement. We had hoped that the agreement with the United Kingdom would help to put the industry in this country back on its feet. Statements were made not only by the Minister for Defence  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  but also by the Minister for Supply  (Senator Anderson)  making it quite apparent that this industry is to be sold down the drain, despite the fact that people associated with the industry believe that the Royal Air Force and the Royal Australian Air Force may be interested iti. this project. 
I want to make this point very firmly: An undertaking was given to me at the table that this matter would be debated in the week following the statement by the Minister. 
 Senator Branson  said that we raised a matter that was not urgent. We thought it was urgent when that statement originally was made. However, in order to permit the business of the Senate to proceed I made an arrangement which would have allowed the matter to be debated. 
Of course this is a lot of rot in the eyes of  Senator Gair  simply because he agrees with the Government in relation to these matters. I want to make a further point. We have been accused by  Senator Branson  of delaying the procedures of this chamber. 
I want him to check the Hansard record of recent days to see how many times the Opposition has permitted the incorporation of second reading speeches on a number of Bills. It would have taken a great deal of time to read those speeches. We facilitated the procedures of the chamber. We did this in relation to 7 Bills that were presented today. It would have taken at least an hour to read one second reading speech. We have done these things so that important matters may be debated in this chamber. In the first 5 weeks of the sittings the Government could find us no business at all. The Government brought 3 pot-boilers before the Senate. It took the Minister for Housing  (Senator Dame Annabelle Rankin)  7 weeks to bring her own Bill before us after it had been passed by the House of Representatives. This afternoon  Senator Branson  stood up and adopted a holier than thou attitude about an important matter which we put before the Senate earlier today. We were supported by the Democratic Labor Party and had the numbers to have that motion resolved.  Senator Branson  did this only because there is to be a Senate election at the end of this year. Let us cut out this nonsense. 
I am not turning on anybody. I stand on my own feet. The man I accuse of delaying the Senate is  Senator Branson  who stood up and adopted this pious attitude because he thinks he might get some headlines in the Press about holding up the business of the Senate. I am prepared to stay here. Are you? Of course  Senator Branson  is prepared to stay because he lives here. 
The  DEPUTY PRESIDENT-  Order! The Senate will come to order. I urge the honourable senator to use temperate language and to address his remarks to the Chair. 
I regret that you consider my remarks to be intemperate. In the trade union movement they would have thought that I was very temperate. The remarks made by  Senator Branson  are the greatest rubbish that I have heard since I have been in this place. I remind the Senate that  Senator Branson  has not entered into many debates in this place. What he has said is a lot of pious nonsense. We of the Opposition have facilitated the business of the Senate as best we could, but the Opposition will not at any time withdraw from a debate in this place if it believes that a matter of urgency should be raised. 
I propose to move 2 amendments to clause 12 of the Bill. The amendments are identical to amendments which were moved to the Australian Film Development Corporation Bill, which was the last Bill before the 
Senate. With the concurrence of the Senate I shall move both amendments together. I move: 
In clause 12, sub-clause (1.), leave out - 'as the Governor-General determines', insert 'as the Parliament provides, but until the first day of January, One thousand nine hundred and seventy-one, that remuneration shall be as is prescribed.' 
In clause 12, sub-clause (2.), leave out - 'allowances as the Minister determines', insert 'travelling or other allowances as are prescribed.' 
These amendments were debated fairly fully in the Australian Film Development Corporation Bill, so I propose to make no further comment. 
My question is directed to the Leader of the Government in the Senate. In view of the long service delays suffered by persons employed by the Commonwealth when having their claims for increased wages and salaries and better conditions of employment heard, will the Government consider establishing a second public service board to hear such claims and catch up with the huge backlog of claims now before the Public Service Board and not finalised? 
As mentioned by the Minister for Works  (Senator Wright)  in his second reading speech, the object of this Bill is to bring about progressively the use of the metric system of measurement in Australia as the sole system of measurement of physical quantities and to this end to establish a Metric Conversion Board. This Bill has the support of the Opposition. Honourable senators will recall that the Bill is now before the Parliament as a result of recommendations made to the Government by the Senate Select Committee on the Metric System of Weights and Measures which was established under the chairmanship of the late  Senator Laught  in 1967. I express my regret that  Senator Laught  is not in the chamber to see the presentation of this Bill which provides for the establishment of the metric system of weights and measures in Australia because it is the culmination of the work which was carried out so well by himself, as  Chairman,  and by members of the Committee. He did a very fine job as did all members of the Committee and officers associated with it. I should like to remind the Senate that we were very fortunate to have  Mr Alan  Harper, a world authority on the metric system of weights and measures, as our adviser throughout the sittings of the Committee. 1 believe that the major reason why all recommendations submitted by the Committee virtually have been accepted by the Government is that his guidance was available on many matters with which the Committee had to deal. 
We on this side of the House are rather disappointed that it took so long for the Government to get around to submitting legislation of this nature. One of the major recommendations of the Committee - the Committee, in fact, believed it to be the major recommendation - was to the effect that we should like an early intimation to the people of Australia of the Government's intention because it was obvious from evidence presented to the Committee that each year of delay would increase greatly the cost of conversion. We were very strong in our views at that time that an early statement should be made but it was not until January this year that a statement of intention was made by the Prime Minister  (Mr Gorton).  We believe that it could have been made much earlier, ft would have saved a considerable amount of cost and would have assisted many industries which were in a situation of expansion in relation to the type of machinery that they would install, thus avoiding duplicating by conversion at a later stage. However, the Bill is now before us and we are pleased that the decisions of the Committee will be carried out. 
It iis true that conversion to the metric system of weights and measures will be far more difficult than was the conversion to decimal currency, but we have provided for that by allowing some 8 to JO years for complete conversion. As indicated in the second reading speech, in some fields it will be many years before complete conversion takes place. This was foreseen by the Committee and indeed commented upon in the report that came before the Parliament. Obviously conversion will take much longer in some fields than in others, but in the main I believe that, from experience overseas and from information that was made available to the Committee, as well as from my own reading since, 8 to 10 years seems to be a pretty fair period to cover the main conversion to the metric system. 
One of the major necessities for a reasonably smooth conversion is the appointment of the Metric Conversion Board for which this Bill now provides. The Board will have the major task of seeing that the conversion takes place as smoothly as possible. It falls into line with other boards which have been established in many countries in relation to conversion. Some countries are in the process of converting at the present time. England is a classic example. From my reading, and from information that I have been able to obtain, the conversion is going ahead rather more smoothly than people at first expected, lt is pleasing to note that conversion is taking place at less cost than was initially expected by persons in industry. The same evidence is emanating from South Africa, which is also going through a conversion period. In this country we are establishing a Board which, I understand, will create a number of committees to go into the finer details in various industries. Those committees will report back to the Board. This will allow the conversion to take place as smoothly as possible. 
The Senate Select Committee on the Metric System of Weights and Measures in its wisdom - I note this has been accepted by the Government - decided there should be no decision in relation to meeting costs and, in the main, these costs would not be met but the Board would have the right to recommend to the Government the meeting of certain costs in certain circumstances. To me this seems to be a very wise provision, lt is quite apparent that when other countries have faced up to the same position we are facing in Australia they have not met the total cost of conversion, nor could they, lt is equally apparent that in some fields a government may be prepared to meet the costs of conversion. This is provided for in this Bill. The Senate Select Committee has also made a recommendation in relation to the size of the Board. 1 hope the Government will take some note of that recommendation. The Committee recommended that a board of no more than 10 persons be appointed for this purpose. It thought it would be detrimental if a very large board was appointed to introduce this system. It fell that any further assistance could come through certain committees appointed by the Board in the various States and in separate fields such as primary industry. This is the type of thing I envisage in relation to this matter. 1 want to stress one or two matters in relation to the persons who will comprise the Board. Recommendation 5 in the report of the Senate Select Committee states at page 1 10: 
That the members of the Board be drawn, amongst others, from manufacturing, commerce, education, rural industry, trade unions, the National Standards Commission and the Standards Association of Australia. There should also be a representative from the Commonwealth Government and one member as a direct representative of the State Governments. At least one member of the Board should be a woman.  1 want to  stress  the point in relation to trade union representation and the representation of women on this Board. One thing that concerned members of the Committee was the great impact the conversion would have at the level of workers within the community who throughout the years, have worked solely with the imperial system. We feel that we need and should welcome the full co-operation of the trade union movement over the conversion period of 8 to 10 years. Another matter which came forcefully before the Committee was that in Australia there are many skilled workers from Europe who are well acquainted with the metric system. They will be of valuable assistance in industry in assisting conversion and training employees in the fields of engineering, electronics and so on. We desire to see this training take place at many levels, and this can be done with the co-operation of the trade union movement. It can be done with the co-operation of the various States by adult education. Most States have indicated their approval of such a plan and have indicated their desire to co-operate in the field of adult education. 
The Committee believe that a woman representative on the Board would greatly assist in presenting the point of view of females in the community and, what is probably far more important, would protect the consumer interests. The Committee recommended that consumer interests should be watched very carefully by the Board and that it should report to the Government in all cases where it considered that conversion was being taken advantage of to the detriment of the people in their everyday shopping. This is a very real fear of people in the streets in relation to the metric system. Evidence was given by the Decimal Currency Board that it believed there was no exploitation of people during the decimal currency conversion. Many people believed there was. Personally, I felt that in some fields advantage was taken of the changeover to decimal currency to enforce price rises which were not necessary. Members of the Senate Select Committee wanted this aspect watched extremely carefully by the Board. We would like some assurance from the Government that if the Board indicates that unfair advantage is being taken appropriate action will be taken to stop it. 
In response to quite a number of requests from people who are probably tired of hearing me 1 have decided not to speak at great length on this Bill. The Australian Labor Party is supporting the principle. It has been debated on 2 previous occasions in this Parliament. The Labor Party and the Leader of the Opposition  (Senator Murphy)  have seen the need for a conversion to the metric system for some considerable time. The late  Senator Laught  was the man who initiated action in the Senate for the appointment of a Senate Select Committee. In 1963  Senator Murphy  raised this matter when he asked a question of the Minister representing the then Prime Minister seeking Government approval for the consideration of the introduction of the metric system of measurement. He was advised that the Government thought the job was far too big to attempt in association with a decimal currency conversion. Also in 1965  Senator Murphy  asked whether this matter had been considered by the Government. This shows that there has been interest in this question on both sides of the House. This is one of the few matters which come before Parliament in which politics are not played. 
Australia has joined the vast majority of nations in deciding to lake upon itself the metric system of weights and measures. The reasons for this decision are many, and it would lake too long to go into them; they have been canvassed before in this place. The United States will bethe only major trading nation which has not initiated a programme of conversion.I have seen Press reports emanating from the United States of America which makes it clear that the United States will eventually lake the same step as has been taken by the United Kingdom, South Africa, New Zealand and Australia within the last 2 or 3 years. We believe that great advantages will flow to Australia, not only internally but externally.I sincerely hope the conversion will operate as smoothly as it is obviously operating in the United Kingdom and South Africa.I believe that with a Board  at  competent people as provided for in this Bill, and with theco-operation of many other people, including the public of Australia, the conversion can lead Australia into many savings in the future. This statement is borne out by the fact that many industries in England are saving money already as a result of conversion to the metric system. A report from which I had intended to quote indicates that many of the materials which these countries thought would be of no use to them in the metric field can be utilised and that the cost associated with the conversion is far lower than they anticipated. I,too, express the support of the Opposition to this Bill. Except for an amendment to clause 12, we will give it a speedy passage. 
-I rise on the first reading of this Bill to speak briefly to a matter which gives me great concern. Some 3 or 4 weeks ago 1 asked the Leader of the Government in the Senate  (Senator Anderson)  2 questions in relation to Government policy concerning the visit to this country of a South African touring cricket team and also in relation to teams from South Africa that may visit this country in the future. The Minister on that occasion would give no indication of what Government policy would be but did indicate his personal view that politics should be kept out of sport. I agree completely with the Leader of the Government and for that reason I think we as a Commonwealth Government should indicate quite clearly to South Africa and to people who invite teams from South Africa to this country that in no circumstances does the Commonwealth Government support such visits. I believe that the intervention in sport by the South African Government in the manner in which it, firstly, selects the teams that it sends overseas, and, secondly, denies the rights of people other than white people to go into that country to engage in competition in sport is a very sound and valid reason why we in Australia should refuse at all times to support the visits of such teams to Australia. I think there are very sound grounds for this attitude because if we examine the situation on a world wide basis today we find that almost every world sporting organisation is taking decisions to bar South Africa from international competition. 
The  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Bull)  - We are debating the first reading of the Bill on which a senator can raise any matter. 
IfI may continue, the point that I was making at the time of interruption was that many world organisations which conduct international sport have banned South African teams from competition because of the method by which they are selected within their own country and the denial of entry of many fine coloured sportsmen into that country for competitive sport. Honourable senators would have noted that as recently as 3 weeks ago the United Kingdom Government was forced to intervene in relation to a pending visit  by a touring South African cricket team. lt had very sound reasons for doing this because, at the same time as this controversy was taking place in the United Kingdom with the threat of demonstrations that would have seriously upset a tour by such a team, it was faced with holding the Commonwealth Games in Edinburgh, lt is true to say that those Games would have been a complete farce if the South African cricket team had entered the United Kingdom to play on this tour. The simple reason is that some 14 or more countries had indicated quite clearly that they would boycott the Commonwealth Games if the South African cricket tour took place. 
We are now in a similar situation in this country because Melbourne, if one reads the Press reports, is favoured to obtain the next Commonwealth Games in 1974. We as a nation will face the same fiasco as England would have faced if we continue to play competitive sport with a country that is using the most vicious form of racial discrimination against the indigenous and other coloured people who live within that nation. So 1 believe it is time that the Commonwealth Government made a very clear statement of policy and I would hope, in the interests of Australian sport and in the interests of sport generally, that it would come down on the side of discouraging - until such lime as South Africa alters its policy - the visits of any such teams to this country in the future. This attitude is supported not by just a few people in the community but has the strong support of many good Australians. I do not wish to delay the Senate al any great length on this matter other than to say that there was a leading article in the 'Australian' of 30th January 1970 which indicated clearly that it believed that no further visits should take place by South African sportsmen while their apartheid policy continues. There was a similar leading article in the 'Canberra Times' of 31st August 1968 and on 18th May of this year a statement on this matter was made by the Reverend Alan Walker in the 'Sydney Morning Herald'. Those articles support my view. They support the attitude of leading newspapers and leading citizens of this country that no tours by any sporting organisations from South Africa should have the imprimatur of this Commonwealth Government. With the concurrence of honourable senators, in an endeavour to expedite proceedings, I incorporate in Hansard those 3 articles. They read: 
APARTHEID  TURNS TO ASH K 
"Keep politics out of sport' is the cat:hen the South African Government and its apologists have used every time they pui politics into it. 
South Africa's refusal to grant a visa to the American Negro tennis player Arthur Ashe h»&gt; surely brought the hypocrisy of this plea to such heights that it can never be used again. 
In making its political decision to bar Ashe from the South African tennis championships. Pretoria used the excuse thai he made political statements criticising racism, lt is true that, as a Negro and a sportsman, Ashe has in the past said he thought it wrong that black athletes should be excluded from South Africa because of their color. Mc could hardly say less. lt was South Africa's politics, nol New Zealand's, which effectively killed trie All-Blacks Rugby Union tour of 1960. lt was the reaction of his own sportsmen against his own policies that forced  Mr Vorster  to relent last year and concede that Maoris could come to South Africa as 'honorary whites' in this year's tour. 
The Springboks were faced with ugly demonstrations throughout their UK. lour; the MCC is forced to consult with the Home Secretary on the advisability of receiving the South African cricket team; the Olympic Committee and six other international sports organisations feel obliged to exclude South Africa because of the Political attitudes the Vorster Government takes towards colored sportsmen. 
All this time South Africa has claimed that it is others who have been putting the politics into sport. This falsehood, always evident, is fully exposed by the Ashe incident. 
Perhaps it would not look good, politically, if the black man who regularly beats the best any nation can oiler went on to beat die best white men in South Africa. 
More significantly, a national election is coming up in which  Mr Vorster  fears a drift of voles from his party to  Mr Hertzog's  arch-racist rebels. Barring Ashe is a show of strength which may appease these potential drifters. 
Sport should therefore leave South Africa to stew in its own politics. But let us have no more pious, 19th-century illusions about sport promoting international brotherhood. 
There is hope, meanwhile, thai the course of isolation South Africa has chosen will be reversed against its will. Man is a political animal, sportsmen no less so. A growing number of South African sportsmen are already speaking out against their country's policies. 
The South African Government may find that, whatever part politics plays in sport, it cannot keep sport out of politics. 
A BATSMAN'S COLOUR 
Why was Basil d'Oliveira, a naturalised Briton of Indian descent, dropped from the English Test cricket team that will tour South Africa later this year? The  chairman  of selectors, anticipating controversy, has tried lo explain d'Oliveira's exclusion on technical grounds. We are advised that, while he has proved himself a world-class batsman, he is no all-rounder by international standards. We are reminded of his disappointing performance during last year's West Indian lour. These statements have failed to convince either cricketers or political observers. It seems likely that, in excluding d'Oliveira, the MCC was less preoccupied with his competence as a sportsman than with the colour of his skin. Have the selectors tried to make a discreet concession to the South African policy of sports apartheid? If so, they have cast doubt not only on their own integrity, but on the proposition that it is worthwhile for any country to continue to compete with South Africa - on her terms - in international sports events. 
The South Africans may not have been directly responsible for d'Oliveira's exclusion. The Vorster regime, in contrast with that of  Mr Verwoerd,  has shown at least an elementary subtlety in international affairs. When the US aircraft carrier Franklin D. Roosevelt stopped off the coast in February on its "way home from Vietnam, it was nol the South African Government that denied shore leave to the mixed crow of whites and Negroes.  Mr Vorster  simply made it clear that US mixed personnel could not expect to participate in integrated activities on shore and left the decision to the US State Department and the Pentagon. They responded by shortening the stay of the Franklin D. Roosevelt and denying shore leave to everyone on board. Have the South Africans explained to the MCC on this occasion that d'Oliveira could not expect to eat with his team in white restaurants, take part with them in public functions, or change into his flannels beside them in while locker-rooms? 
Not an isolated case 
There were excellent reasons for the final decision of the International Olympics Committee to withdraw from South Africa the invitation to compete in this year's Olympic Games. The reasons were human rather than political. Despite  Mr Vorster's  statement of sports policy on April 2, 1967  -  which implied that racially mixed teams from selected countries would be allowed to tour South Africa - there has been no relaxation of the rigours of sports apartheid in South Africa. 
During the first months of the Vorster regime it seemed that South Africa was edging towards  a  long-due compromise with world opinion.  Mr Vorster's  April statement on sport did not promise much, but it could at least be regarded as a beginning. He made it clear that South Africa was still not interested in competing bilaterally with non-white teams. The acceptable sports partners were still the 'traditional' ones, such as Britain or New Zealand. He did nol say specifically that racially mixed teams would be admitted to tour South Africa. And the pro-Government Press hinted that such concessions as there were would apply only if South Africa were admitted to the Olympics. Still, it was possible to interpret the more flexible sports policy, together with the concern to take part in the Mexico Olympics, Vorster's advances to the black African States, and the opening of diplomatic relations wilh Malawi, as signs of a new readiness in the South African Government to stir from her postwar isolation. 
We have learned that these measures represented a concern with face' rather than a truly outward-going policy. South Africa has begun to fabricate disguises, nol to respond to world opinion. The doctrinaire application of apartheid has gone further under  Mr Vorster  than under  Mr Verwoerd,  so that today the Cape Coloureds as well as the Bantus are disenfranchised and herded off into their segregated residential districts. There is no room for racism of this sort in international sport, which ideally provides a way for men to meet and test each other on their merits, without the intrusion of politics or racial inequality. 
The d'Oliveira affair has brought these things home to us. The d'Oliveira case is not isolated. To preserve a theory of white supremacy, the South African Government refuses to submit its athletes to the challenge of coloured men. If world sport is to mean anything, we cannot continue to play Test matches with South Africa. 
SPORT BAN URGED 
Aust. Should Follow Lead on S. Africa' 
Australia should follow the lead given by the international Olympic committee and break all sporting ties with South Africa, the Rev. Alan Walker said yesterday. 

 Mr Walker, president.elect of the N.S.W. Methodist Conference, was speaking at the evening service at the Central Methodist Mission, of which he is superintendent. 
The overthrow of apartheid has become a world-wide moral crusade in which Australia must join',  Mr Walker  said. 
Apartheid is the most iniquitous form of government in the world. While the rest of the world is seeking to overcome racialism, South Africa is applying it with increasing ruthlessness 
By choosing only white teams it is South Africa which has introduced politics into sport'. 
A sporting ban was one of the few ways open to the world to influence opinion in South Africa,  Mr Walker  said. 
Force was unthinkable, while sanctions would fall heavily on the black people it aimed to help. 
A sports boycott hurts only the whites, and registers world revulsion at a sensitive point in the mind of South Africans', he said. 
To refuse temporarily to play games with white South Africans is a small price to pay in the struggle to end a great wrong and set people free. 
Humanity cannot find the power needed for progress while the disunity of racialism remains'. 

 Senator CAVANAGH (South Australia) 15.151 -  Mr Acting Deputy President,  I wish to raise briefly 2 matters. I take advantage of the opportunity to raise them during the first reading stage of the Dried Fruits Export Charges Bill 1970 because the normal procedure of the Senate - namely, the motion for the adjournment of the Senate - by which honourable senators may raise grievances seems to bc in abeyance for the remainder of this session.  Senator Webster  is trying to interject. Neither of the 2 matters which I wish to raise concerns the incident at Yuendumu which I have mentioned previously. 1 wish to refer to matters equally as important and grave. 
Speaking in the debate on the Supply Bill (No. 1) 1970 on 12th May of this year, 1 referred to conversations that took place between a group of unionists, including myself, and 2 persons who had been Australian soldiers and who had seen service in Vietnam. Those conversations took place at the South Australia Hotel in Adelaide during the weekend when the Vietnam Moratorium Campaign was conducted. The information gathered from those conversations would suggest that, in the minds of those soldiers, Australian servicemen in Vietnam had been engaged in the shooting of civilians including women and children. In other words, Australian soldiers in Vietnam had been engaged in activities similar to those engaged in by the American forces, one of which we now know as the disgraceful and alarming massacre of My Lai. One of the soldiers staled certain questions that he was asked when leaving for Vietnam which suggested that Australian military personnel were carrying out  a  campaign which indicated that they expected such action and conduct from our soldiers when they went to Vietnam. 1 told the Senate that. if an inquiry was held for the purpose of investigating the truth of those allegations, the names of the 2 soldiers who spoke to me about them would be supplied so that they could be interrogated or interviewed about their allegations. I did state that I would nol supply those names to a military tribunal which would have as its purpose the exoneration of the Army and from which the question of the imposition of penalties on the 2 soldiers who spoke to mc might arise. That was on 12th May. 
On 25th May. I received  a  reply from the Minister for the Army  (Mr Peacock).  The reply reads: 
My dear senator. 
During the Senate debate on the Supply Bill (No. 1) on 12 May 1970 you made certain allegations concerning the behaviour of 2  exservicemen  who had served in Vietnam. 
I do not recall any allegations that I made which would justify the belief that I was making allegations about the behaviour of those 2 men. I was reporting their conversations in which allegations were made about the behaviour of Australian soldiers in Vietnam. The letter continues: 
You will appreciate, I am sure, that these allegations are regarded most seriously by myself and the Army and yet I note that you are not prepared lo supply any information lo an Army inquiry. In the circumstances I regret that there is little which I can do, without your cooperation, lo verify or refute your .statements. 
On the night I reported these conversations, the Press Secretary of the Minister for the Army and the Press Secretary of the Minister for Air - the Minister for Air  (Senator Drake-Brockman)  represents in the Senate the Minister for the Army - rang me to ask whether they might have my permission to have released to them that night the Hansard duplicate of my speech. This illustrates the concern shown by the 2 departments involved in those statements. I gladly agreed to release the Hansard report of my speech for their perusal. 1 did not expect that the Minister for the Army would agree to a full public inquiry into this question without further probing. I expected that he would inquire among his Army officials to find om whether they knew of any truth in such allegations about questions asked of Australian soldiers before they embarked overseas. I fully expected a denial from the Minister of these allegations if discussions with officials of his Department or an inquiry within that Department showed that those allegations were without truth. I was hoping for that. 
Despite the statements made by these soldiers - the fact that those statements were made can be verified by half a dozen reputable trade union leaders in South Australia - and despite the fact that in those statements were allegations which were very damning to the prestige of Australia, I think, in the world. I receive a reply from the Minister for the Army which stales that unless I give these names to him he can do very little more about t-he matter. Apparently, he is not going to ask the Army about the allegations. 1 quote his letter: 
In the circumstances I regret that there is little which I can do. without your  co-operation  to verify or refute your statements. 
The position is this: lt is alleged that Australian forces in Vietnam are engaged in committing atrocities and massacres, lt is suggested thai the military leadership in Australia condones this conduct and entices soldiers to engage in it by questions asked before those soldiers embark for Vietnam. But the Minister says that there is little that he can do to refute those statements. The Minister for the Army cannot refute those statements! I leave the matter there hoping that, after the publicity concerning it, we will get some further action by the Government on these most serious allegations concerning Australian soldiers. 
The other matter that I wish to raise concerns the injustice that has been done to a group of employees, who were unemployed for a period in South Australia, by the refusal of the Department of Social Services to grant those employees unemployment relief. In South Australia there is a trade union known as the Amalgamated Society of Carpenters and Joiners. That Society has a membership of some 4,000 to 5,000 persons, lt is. not affiliated with other Australian unions represent. ng carpenters lt is registered in the State Industrial Court as an Association of Employees Among its 4,000 to 5,000 members, the Society has 1 member who works at the cement works at Angaston. Some 2 months ago cement workers at Angaston and Port Adelaide held a joint meeting. The decision of the employees concerned - the group included the carpenter to whom I have referred although I do not know whether he voted on this decision - was that they should stop work in support of a wage claim. 
The dispute continued for a month. In South Australia, according to the policy of the Trades and Labor Council, when a dispute occurs and it is reported to the Council, the Council calls a disputes committee together on which all unions involved in or likely to be affected by the dispute are represented equally. As cement is an important item in the building industry, the Amalgamated Society of Carpenters and Joiners was included among the trade unions which comprised the disputes committee. 
As 1 have said, the strike continued for a month. Over this period, the building trade in South Australia practically closed down. Men in many sections of the building industry, including Government employees were unemployed, because materials were not available. Among those men were 9 carpenters, from various jobs, who had no association with the strike at all. Their union had never instructed its member at the cement works to go out on strike. 
The man of whom I have spoken went out on strike by decision of the men on the job concerned. His union certainly never condemned him for going out on strike; but at no time did it approve of his action in going out on strike. The union was a party in the discussions of the disputes committee. At the only 2 meetings at which the delegate of that union was present, the disputes committee brought back a recommendation to the striking cement workers that work should be resumed pending negotiation. Everything would indicate that the union did not participate in this strike and that it was anxious to get the cement workers back to work for the purpose of permitting the carpenters to resume work. 
The 9 carpenters made application for unemployment benefits, but their applications were refused in Adelaide. I took the matter up with the Secretary to the Minister for Social Services  (Mr Wentworth),  and under date of 9th June 1970 I received a reply from the Minister indicating that he had refused to grant unemployment relief to these particular carpenters. He said: 
The relevant provision of the Social Services Act, section 107 (c), requires as a condition of eligibility to receive unemployment benefit that an applicant show that he - 
is unemployed and that his unemployment is not due to his being a direct participant in a strike. 
Obviously these men were not direct participants in a strike. But the Minister interprets that section of the Act as follows: 
In accordance with the policy which was laid down by the then Prime Minister, the AttorneyGeneral and the Minister for Social Services in April 1947, applicants for unemployment benefit who are members of a union that sponsors or supports an industrial dispute are not entitled to unemployment benefit. 
The only conclusion to be drawn is that because one member of the union was on strike without the support of his union, all the other 4,000 members of the union could not qualify for unemployment bene- 5.. The Minister continued: 
This policy has been followed by successive Governments since that time and as the  applicants  concerned are all members ofthe Amalgamated Society of Carpenters and Joiners, and this union supported the recent strike . . . 
Only today I contacted the AssistantSecretary of the union to ascertain whether the union supported the recent strike, and he said:'We have never expressed support for that strike.' But the Minister arbitrarily has decided that the union did support the strike, despite all the evidence from the union that it did not. The Minister concluded: 
unemployment benefit is not payable to the persons concerned. 
The Minister has decided, despite all the evidence to the contrary, that the union supported the strike, and he has applied a false interpretation  to  section 107 (c) of the Social Services Act. If we can get no rectification of the situation for these particular employees who were out  of  work for 3 or 4 weeks,  it  shows the importance which the Senate must attachto the wording of Acts of Parliament. 
The attitude of the Senate to the amendments to the Commonwealth Serum Laboratories Bill which we discussed today and to other amendments is that one must always have access to law, if necessary, for the purpose of obtaining justice. Therefore,  if  these particular individuals could take court action to recover the unemployment benefit to which they believe they are entitled and which was refused by the Government, and if they established their case at law, they would receive payment. But if we look at the Social Services Act we find that this right to take court action is denied to these employees because the Senate on a previous occasion was not sufficiently carefulto ensure that criteria were established to enable the employees to take court action if they could not satisfy the Minister that they had complied with section 107 of the Act. That section states:   . . a person . . . 
is residing in Australia on the date on which he lodges his claim for a benefit 
satisfies the Director-General that he - 
is unemployed andt hat his unemployment is not due to his being a direct participant in a strike; shall be qualified to receive an unemployment benefit. 
Of course, it is not a question of establishing, as a fact, whether the person was a direct participant in a strike. It is a question as to whether he can satisfy the DirectorGeneral. All the proof in the world that the person was not a participant ina strike may never satisfy the Director-General. The Minister has taken the attitude that because one out of 4.000 or 5,000 members of a union acted in accordance with the decision of the men on the job where he worked, no-one dismissed from employment because of shortage of materials or for any other reason qualifies for unemployment benefit. This is an entirely incorrect interpretation of the Act. The situation should have been rectified by law if it was not necessary to satisfy the Director-General. It is not a question as to whether the employee was justified in doing what he did or whether what he did was in accordance with the Act. It is a question as to whether the DirectorGeneral is satisfied. The Director-General can. say:'He did not satisfy me', and there isthe operation of the Act.It shows the necessity for us to give closer scrutiny to future legislation that comes before this chamber. 
I am raising this matter today because everything that is done under the Handicapped Children (Assistance) Bill occurs on the say-so of the Secretary of the Department. We must be more careful not to leave these questions to the prerogative of the Minister. If this Parliament passes legislation it must ensure that the people whom it. wishes to benefit from the legislation will receive the benefit. We must ensure that decisions are made not at the whim of the Minister but in accordance withthe entitlement and the qualification of the person to comply with the Act which we pass. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a first time. 
asked the Minister representing the Prime Minister, upon  notice 
In view of the long delays in the hearing of claims lodged by persons employed by the Commonwealth for increased wages salaries and conditions of employment, will the Government consider establishing a second Public Service Board to hear such claims and catch up with the huge backlog of claims which are before the Public Service Board and not yet finalised. 
I am advised by the Public Service Board that there is no substantial backlog of claims before the Board. As at 8th June 1970 there were 17 outstanding pay claims lodged directly with the Board by staff associations. If pay claims by several staff associations covering the same group are taken into account, the number of outstanding pay claims at 9th June 1970 was11. 
In addition, there were at this date 84 pay claims to which the Board was a respondent listed with the Public Service Arbitrator and which had not been finalised. However, it appears that not all of these claims were actively being pursued by the relevant staff associations, and in no case had an applicant sought a conference or public hearing on a claim and been refused. 
My question was intended for the  President  but in his absence I address the question to you,  Mr Deputy President,  and ask you to pass it on to him. By whose authority were pensioners visiting Canberra to lobby for increased pensions denied entry into Kings Hall yesterday morning and why was such entry refused to them? 
The  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Bull)  - This question will be referred to the  President  for a reply which the honourable senator will receive in due course. 
asked the Minister representing the Postmaster-General, upon notice:  (1)Is ita fact that the programme "This Day Tonight' on Australian Broadcasting Commission television arranged for 27 May 1970 was cancelled at the last minute at the direction of the Postmaster-General because  Sir Henry  Bolte declined to appear. 
Is it a fact that leaders of all political parties were advised prior to the day of the programme (hat the programme would proceed provided two party leaders were prepared to appear. 
Is it a fact that the Leader of the AustralianLabor Party, the Leader of the Democratic Labour Party and the Deputy Leader of the Country Party arrived at Ripponlea ABC studios to take part in the programme and were only then advised that the programme had been cancelled. 
No. At 4.00 p.m. on 27 May the Executive Producer of the programme decided not to proceed with a planned segment because  Sir Henry  Bolte and other members of the Victorian Liberal Party had decided not to appear in the programme. 
Yes. However it was later realised that under the provisions of Section 116(4) of the Broadcasting and Television Act no right of reply after the scheduled telecast of'This Day Tonight' of May 27 would have been available to the party not represented. The ABC expressed its regret to those inconvenienced. 
Yes. Because of the late decision in Sydney to cancel the segment it was not possible to advise the party representatives before their arrival at the Ripponlea studios 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Indust ry, upon notice: 
How many complimentary copies of the book 'Wool Disposals 1945-52' have been made available to: 
individuals; 
federal woolgrower organisations and their respective State affiliated bodies: 
members of the Commonwealth and Stale Parliaments; 
capital city and country libraries: 
the Australian National University; and 
any other individuals and/or organisations, including members  of the  Australian Wool Industry Council. 
How many copies of the Australian Wool Board publication 'Wool Digest' are distributed, and how often has the availability of 'Wool Disposals 1945-52' been referred to in this publication. 
How many bookseller organisations have been informed of the availability of 'Wool Disposals 1945-52'; and if these organisations have not been advised of its availability, why not. 
How many copies of the book were distributed by the Wool Secretariat, or any other authority, to the wool boards of South Africa and New Zealand, and the International Wool Textile organisation. 
Will the Government arrange with the Australian Wool Board for the distribution of the book, free of cost, to all woolgrowers as one of the essential elements of study on effective Wool marketing. 
My question is addressed to you,  Mr President.  On Tuesday of last week I asked you why people were being denied entry into Parliament House unless sponsored by a member of 
Parliament. Again today people were being denied entry on the grounds that the House of Representatives galleries were already full and no further people could be admitted unless sponsored by a member of Parliament. 1 observed this procedure myself and protested against the practice to the doorkeeper. Is this a new policy to exclude the people from the people's Parliament? If so, on whose authority has this procedure been introduced? 
My question is to the Minister for Supply. What firm contracts have been obtained from overseas and locally for the Australian aircraft industry, particularly the Commonwealth Aircraft Corporation and the Government Aircraft Factories, for the construction of aeroplanes and/or component parts? Are there any prospects of further contracts being obtained? What stage has project N reached? Is there any truth in rumours that the Department of Civil Aviation will take over Avalon Airport and its facilities from the Government Aircraft Factory? 
There is no truth in the rumoured takeover of Avalon by the Department of Civil Aviation. The rumour may have arisen from some proposal associated with upgrading Avalon. As to the balance of the question, I have a prepared statement which goes fairly well across the board in relation to the aircraft industry. 1 think it would be more appropriate for me to give this information in a ministerial statement. I may do this today or. if not today, tomorrow. Then the matter will be on the business paper and if honourable senators want to have some debate on it they will be able to do so. I will try to make the statement today, subject to my availability, because I have to be in another place at a certain time. 
Yes. I for one would not support cutting down our present privileges. If we desire to use the time, it is available to us to speak for longer periods. I can visualise a return to the situation that exists in another place, where a time limit of half an hour instead of an hour is imposed. Should that method be introduced here I could visualise that the guillotine, which has been rarely used in my time in the Senate, would be used more frequently to enable the Senate to get through the business. Under the new system we would be sitting far fewer days, if flexibility was retained and the numbers in the Senate were great enough to force an adjournment on Thursday nights. 
The first that I heard of the proposal was at a meeting in the Senate Club Room called by the Labor Party. Our aim was to introduce more sanity into our sitting hours. It was proposed that members stay in Canberra over the weekend, perhaps using that time for party committee work, and not necessarily for parliamentary committee work. If it were to be used for parliamentary committee work that would be an imposition on the staff that I would not care to support. We now sit on 3 days for each of 3 weeks and then have off a period of about 10 days. If we are to have off a period of 12 days after sitting for 2 weeks our present privileges will have to be cut if we are to get through the business of this House. 
Certainly. We will rise on the Thursday night instead of on the Friday night. Senators who live in the closer States to Canberra will be home early Friday morning, while others will be home a little later. We will not then return to Canberra until the following Tuesday week. This is the general proposal. We will be sitting far fewer hours than we sit now. This involves a tremendous danger because in the Senate we will have to cut our speaking times to suit the sitting hours. I appreciate that there are members who are willing to leave this place the day after they arrive here if it is possible to do so. I want to see that the privileges we now enjoy are not cut back. 
I understand that in the early days of the Senate no limitation whatever was placed on the length of speeches and that a filibuster could take place on a matter of principle. That situation no longer obtains in the Senate. Perhaps it is a move for the better, perhaps for the worse. Let us not make today a decision that on some future occasion will limit this House to a continuous sitting period of only 3 days a week until the last fortnight of the session when we will be sitting 4 days a week, and around the clock. Associated with a system like this there has to be a real attempt by the Government to bring business before the Senate, in the early stages of the session. Unfortunately I was not able to attend here in the last week of the last session when the Senate sat for greatly extended hours. We on this side of the chamber and many Government members have often pleaded for action to be taken in respect of the method of presentation' of business in this Parliament. 
Perhaps so, but there is also the danger I have suggested, of a cutting back of our privileges in association with it. Last session Bills were introduced in the House of Representatives which did not see the light of day in the Senate until 6 or 7 weeks, later although in the early stages of the session we could have handled those Bills without any trouble. 1 agree with the principles that have been laid down by  Senator Sir Kenneth  Anderson. I would like the Senate to have an opportunity to vote also on the days of sitting but my first thought is to ensure that our rights to speak, at question time particularly, and our other rights will not be interfered with in order to tailor the business of the Senate to the times that members want to sit. That is my only fear. I think we are now approaching with more sanity the problems of travelling that face members coming from Queensland and Western Australia, for instance, but let us not make that approach at the expense of cutting back, our privileges. 
Can the Minister for Housing tell me why officers of the Department of Housing refuse to disclose to unsuccessful applicants for homes savings grants the departmental valuation placed on a property, when the valuation by the Department is above the amount prescribed by the Act? Does not the Minister consider that this information should be available to applicants to enable them to put rebuttal evidence before the Secretary of the Department? I refer particularly to applicants who have either built their own homes or have had homes constructed by sub-contract. 
1 present from 423 citizens of Victoria the following petition: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate in Parliament Assembled. 
The petition of the undersigned citizens of Victoria respectfully showeth, 
That due to higher living costs, persons on social service pensions, are finding it extremely difficult to live in even the most frugal way. A parity allowance should be paid to pensioners in remote areas. 
We therefore call upon the Commonwealth Government to increase the base pension rate to 30 per cent of the average weekly male earnings plus supplementary assistance and allowances in accordance with the A.C.T.U. policy and adopted as the policy of the Australian Pensioners' Federation and by so doing give a reasonably moderate pension. 
Your petitioners most humbly pray that the Senate in Parliament assembled, will take immediate steps to bring about the wishes expressed in our petition; so that our citizens who are receiving the social service pensions may live their lives in dignity and your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
The discussions that have taken place on this matter in the short time that it has been before the Senate show quite clearly that the Senate is simply wasting its time on the 3 points under discussion. The simple fact is that on the ruling of the  President  we are now in the situation that we are expressing an opinion. If we take the matter to its logical conclusion, we are virtually giving a direction to the Standing Orders Committee to bring down certain recommendations which, in my belief, will take rights away from senators and will move us closer to Executive control of the Senate, as is the case with the House of Representatives. I think it is a scandalous situation for the Senate to be debating these 3 items separately. 
Sentaor POYSER- Shocking or terrible.  Senator Sir Kenneth  Anderson - Regrettable. 
Incredible, if you like. Any word will suit me. We have 3 items for discussion. It is hoped that we will conclude the debate on them tonight. We are being confined to a separate decision on each item although they are all intertwined. It means, I suggest, that if we go through these items seriatim instead of in globo we will be debating this question for the next 3 or 4 months. The Senate is making a decision tonight, not on the curtailment of question time, debates on urgency motions or the length of speeches, but on the basis of handing over to the Executive of this Parliament rights that senators have held for many years. That is the situation we face. 
We are being asked to vote on whether questions on notice should be automatically included in Hansard when answers are supplied by Ministers in another place. We are in an unfortunate position in the Senate because only 5 Ministers are senators. Many questions that we ask of Ministers in the Senate obviously cannot be answered by them off the cuff because they relate to portfolios held by Ministers in another place. Time after time our questions are partly answered by Ministers in the Senate and then we are asked to put our questions on the notice paper. This practice has been carried out by some Ministers. Now we are being asked to approve a system whereby none of those questions and answers will see the light of day again. 

 Senator Sir Kenneth Anderson said that we are getting 2 bites at the cherry. That is nol completely true. Immediately I can think of 2 of my colleagues -  Senator Mulvihill  and  Senator McClelland  - who before the beginning of a session place on the notice paper a number of questions that are never asked in the Senate. We are now asked to approve of the automatic system thai operates in another place, lt would curtail our rights and that is the situation that every honourable senator faces - a curtailment of rights that we have held for a Jong, long time. 
A few days ago I spoke on this matter. I said then that we should never give away a privilege that we already hold. We face the situation that we will discuss in Committee many matters that should be discussed openly in public, before the public galleries and members of the Press. This whole matter is tied up in a report that will nol be discussed tonight, although we thought it would be. In that report we are told that we will have additional hours to discuss the Estimates, but an examination shows that in reality the additional hours we may have will be spent in Committee. No senator can be in 3 places at the one time. It is a physical impossibility. I personally will not be a member of any of these committees because of the restrictions that 1 believe would be placed on me and the obligation, which 1 could not fulfil, to attend all sittings of a committee of which I was a member. 
The fact of the matter is that subjects that have been openly discussed in the Senate since Federation will be discussed in a small room in this building. The public will have right of entry to that room, but if it will accommodate more than 6 people it will be a lucky thing. If there is room for members of the national Press to listen to the discussions, it will be an even luckier thing. Then a report will come back to the Senate and we are told that we will have a second opportunity to debate the matter. I warn the Senate that these are inroads into the privileges which at present keep this House a workable House. If we become a complete replica of the House of Representatives we have no right to exist, lt is clear to me that the private members' notices on the notice paper have been segregated so that the full implications of the 3 notices now before us cannot be debated at the one time. We are being asked to debate them separately. Of course this means that there will be limitations on speakers on both sides. 
I implore the Senate not to give way on the first, second or third matters. Let us hang on to the privileges that we hold now. If we do not, we will reach the stage in this House where the guillotine and the gag will be applied ruthlessly at the end of the session and all the tricks that are played in the other House to get dozens of Bills through in the last fortnight- 
I believe that if we accede to the propositions before us tonight the very things which happen in the other place will happen here. That is why 1 am so strongly opposed to them. The simple arithmetic of this operation is that we sit for a certain number of weeks each session and into those weeks we have to squeeze a certain amount of business. Some 64i hours of our time will be taken from us; the privileges that we already have in relation to question time will be taken from us and, if the other proposals are carried, still more privileges will be taken from us. In the end we will become a complete replica of the other House which is controlled by the Executive which uses the forms of the House to deny people the right to speak. I oppose the proposal most strongly. 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry. What stage has been reached in negotiations between the Government, the Australian Wool Industry Conference and other wool grower organisations in regard to the introduction of a single statutory wool selling authority? 
1 present from 82 citizens of Victoria the following petition:  To the Honourable the  President  and members of the Senate in Parliament assembled. The petition of the undersigned citizens of Victoria respectfully showeth: 
That due to higher living costs, persons on social service pensions, are finding it extremely difficult to live in even the most frugal way. 
We therefore call upon the Commonwealth Government to increase the base pension rate to 30 per cent of the average weekly male earnings plus supplementary assistance and allowances in accordance with the ACTU policy and adopted as the policy of the Australian Pensioners' Federation and by so doing give a reasonably moderate pension. 
Your petitioners most humbly pray that the Senate in Parliament assembled will take immediate steps to bring about the wishes expressed in our petition; so that our citizens who are receiving the social service pensions may live their lives in dignity and your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
My question is addressed to the Leader of the Government in the Senate. Can the Minister tell the Senate why the former Minister for National Development and Prime Ministerial challenger,  Mr David  Fairbairn, has resigned from the Government committee to inquire into Communist influence and law and order - the committee known to the national Press as the 'Kick the Communist Can Committee'? Did  Mr Fairbairn  leave the band wagon when the committee found nothing of importance to investigate because the Government's law and order campaign is a phoney issue? 

 Senator Sir KENNETH ANDERSONAs to the first question the answer is no. In view of that answer the subsequent question has no relevance. 
asked the Minister for 
Housing, upon notice: 
Why do officers of the Department of Housing refuse to disclose to unsuccessful Home Savings Grant applicants the departmental valuation placed on a property which is valued by the Department above the amount prescribed in the Act. 
With particular reference to those applicants who have either built their own home or have had it constructed by sub-contract, would it not be more satisfactory if this information were available to enable applicants to put evidence by way of rebuttal before the Secretary of the Department. 
It has not been a general practice for officers of the Department of Housing to' refuse to disclose departmental valuations when asked by an interested applicant. I am advised, nowever, that there have been instances in which valuations have not been disclosed. 
Yes, and arrangements are being made to ensure that this information is made available to interested applicants. 
Firstly, i should like to congratulate the Senate Select Committee on Water Pollution for the report which it has presented to the Parliament. I refer not only to the contents of the report but also to the novel way in which it has been produced. I think ils production is most interesting and has received a great deal of favourable comment throughout Australia. In my capacity as a senator I have never been called upon to supply so many copies of a report to the general public as 1 have of this report. In fact, it is well known that supplies of the initial publication of the report were quickly exhausted and that a large second edition, if one likes to call it that, has had to be produced. This has happened because this Committee has awakened the whole nation to the great problem which is created by water pollution. 

 Senator Rae and  Senator Mulvihill  in their remarks have stressed that a national pollution problem exists not only with water but also with air. This chamber has done something about both of these matters, by having reports on them presented to the Parliament. It is obvious to me that this is a national problem and that it has to be tackled at that level. Apart from the pollution which comes from our land, we are now reaching the stage where pollution is occuring in our streams. Rivers and underground water resources in this country are being polluted because of mining operations. We, being now in the early stages of our development, have an opportunity to do something that people in many other countries fervently wish had been done by their predecessors two or three centuries ago. This is an important opportunity that Australia has today. I was greatly disappointed by the attitude which the Premier of Victoria adopted towards this report. He virtually said that he would not read the rubbish; that the Committee had wasted its time. 
 I doubt that he can read anything except comics. The simple fact is that he was not prepared to read a document which had been prepared by the Committee to ascertain whether he in his State could assist in overcoming this pollution problem. This is one of the reasons why I rose to speak. If ever co-operation is needed from all States, it is needed from the 3 States in the southern part of the Commonwealth. I refer to New South Wales, Victoria and South Australia. We are using extensively for stock, domestic and irrigation purposes water from the River Murray which flows through 3 States. Into the River Murray flows water from the Barwon River and the Darling River whose sources are in Queensland. If we cannot adopt a national policy to ensure that these streams are free from pollution, as far as it is possible for them to be free, from the source to the mouth, we will be in the situation where one State can do all it can to prevent pollution while another State fails to assist, and efforts of the first State will be to no avail. For instance, South Australia, which is at the bottom end of the River Murray, will be in a terrible predicament as regards water pollution if Victoria is not prepared to do anything about it. This is why a national approach has to be adopted to this major problem. 
You.  Mr Acting Deputy President,  are very well aware of the salinity problem in the River Murray. The greatest pollutant of the River Murray is the State of Victoria, which over the years has done very little, other than what was done recently when Commonwealth funds were made available, to try to prevent pollution in the River Murray. Fortunately this year salinity in the River Murray will not be as great a problem as normally because at the moment the river is running a banker and naturally this cuts down the salinity in the river. Perhaps in 2 or 3 years drought will reoccur and the river level will reach an extreme low, and all the people in the lower reaches of the river, the New South Wales, Victorian and South Australian growers, will be in the same predicament as they were previously as regards getting pure clear water for irrigation purposes. 1 remind the Senate once again that the problem does not stop there because these waters are also used for stock and domestic purposes. But we have the situation where a State Premier, in a fit of pique, virtually has stated that as far as he is concerned he does not want any intervention by the Commonwealth in this very important field. I believe that if the Commonwealth is placed in this position it has to grasp the nettle and in a referendum ask the people to give it the power to exercise complete control over air and water pollution in the Commonwealth. It is far too dangerous for us to say that we will do it purely by co-operation and co-ordination. If one State decides that it will not co-operate to the full, we have to take national action to ensure that we have the power to legislate to prevent pollution. 
We must have an overriding power in this very important national field. This is the situation which could face this Parliament in the next 6 to 8 months or the next 2 to 3 years, if and when the Commonwealth acts on the recommendations contained in the report. Also we have in Victoria the situation, which possibly exists in other States throughout the Commonwealth, that there are far too many authorities involved in policing water pollution. Far too many authorities are involved in the prosecution of offenders who are caught polluting the seas and the rivers. This in itself is a weakness. The Minister for Health in the State of Victoria has overcome this problem by deciding to set up a telephone in Melbourne so that every person in the community can become a policeman; when a person sees an act of pollution in the Bay or in a waterway he can ring a central telephone number in the city of Melbourne. This is puerile action which will not defeat pollution. It cannot defeat pollution. This is another instance of closing the stable door after the horse has bolted, as happens in respect of so many issues which face the community. 
We had a situation as recently as this year when a tanker became stuck on the Great Barrier Reef. In this Parliament we were faced with a major problem at that time because of the escape of oil from the tanker. We facilitated the passage of legislation through the Parliament within a matter of hours to ensure that the Commonwealth could take action to save the Great Barrier Reef for the nation. We were assured that although that legislation was passed, more legislation which had been well thought out at the national level would be brought before the Parliament within 6 months of that time. We are hopeful that the legislation will come before the Parliament this session so that we may ensure that a disaster of this kind cannot occur again. We are in the situation that pollution does not affect only the nation at large; it is affecting many individuals in their ever)' day means of earning a living. 
We have the situation at Geelong on Corio Bay where the fish which are caught now have to be tested. Boxes containing hundreds of pounds of fish are being rejected by the market every year because of the taint of kerosene that comes from either shipping in the harbour or the Shell oil refinery and other industries in that centre. The fishing industry which operated in that port with a number of vessels is now dwindling to the stage where only 3 or 4 ships are employed because great batches of fish, particularly fish such as trout which feed and swim on the surface, are full of the stench of kerosene and cannot be processed or cooked. This is driving people out of the industry. But no compensation is payable to these people who arc affected by this great disaster which is occurring in Corio Bay. They lose every cent that they have put into the industry and receive nothing in return for the many hours that they put in to net their catches. 
We believe that if the blame could be sheeted home to a particular person or shipping company, each and every one of those fishermen who have lost because of the pollution of the Bay should have a legitimate claim against the polluters for compensation and recompense of the money they have lost. It is an absolute tragedy to see dozens of boxes of what would otherwise be beautiful fish thrown into the tips because of the effects of pollution, and it is a tragedy also that hours and even days of work can be lost by the men who are engaged in this industry. This' is a situation which cannot be tackled at a State level unless the States are prepared to take action. It is necessary that all States introduce uniform legislation and a uniform system of policing. I hold the very strong view that the penalties now being imposed for pollution are peanuts and are not commensurate with the offences committed. A ship from the wealthy oil companies can pollute Corio Bay, or any other bay, and as a penalty be fined $200. It can pay this amount from the petty cash tin. The companies are not showing a great concern about the safety measures required to prevent the pollution of the sea. I certainly hope that any legislation which comes as a result of this report of which we are asked to take note will be introduced very quickly. We cannot allow the situation to go on and on. We now have a golden opportunity to ensure that we do not find ourselves in the same situation as many other older countries of the world. We have an opportunity now to act and to stop pollution at its birth. If we do not act swiftly we will face the insoluable problems that are now being faced in Europe, the United States of Ameria and many parts of Asia. 
As indicated by  Senator Cavanagh,  this afternoon I accompanied him for the specific purpose of attending the meeting of Committee 'B'. What he has outlined is exactly what happened. When I went downstairs I saw near enough to 100 officers of departments milling around the corridors. They looked very angry, not knowing where to go. For a moment 1 thought we had been invaded by a Moratorium protest committee. Subsequently I learned that these gentlemen were departmental officers. They were milling around the corridors because there were no seats or no facilities whatever to accommodate them while they, too, were locked out of the room. I can understand that departmental officers would not be required when a  chairman  is being elected - obviously he had been appointed in the Government party room before the Committee met - but I cannot understand why honourable senators were refused entry to the meeting to listen and to perhaps make suggestions in relation to procedures to be adopted. If this afternoon's procedures are to continue each Committee will decide its own procedures and methods of operations, which means that honourable senators will have to become au fait with the procedures adopted by the individual  chairman  of each of the 5 Committees. This kind of system is obviously wrong. I believe, as  Senator Cavanagh  believes and has stated, that if these Committees are to be successful the procedures to be adopted must be discussed in the Senate and not in 3 separate rooms on the lower floors of the building. 
I believe I had the right, as indicated by the Leader of the Government in the Senate  (Senator Sir Kenneth Anderson),  to participate in these proceedings. Like  Senator Cavanagh,  I do not intend to attend any of these Committee meetings, but I will exercise my right in this chamber to question the Minister when the Bill is being considered in the Committee of the Whole. Instead of saving time we could well be spending the 60 hours forecast for the Committee work and another 30 or 40 hours here discussing the same Estimates. I believe the system cannot operate successfully because honourable senators who want to examine a series of departments and matters cannot be in 3 places at once. I. did not choose to serve on a Committee for that very purpose. I could see that if I was a member of 1 Committee I would be duty bound - and I think any Committee member would be duty bound - to attend the meetings of that Committee and noi to slip off to another room where another Committee was meeting. If an honourable senator wanted to attend the 3 Committees that were sitting, he would be in an intolerable and unfortunate position. The system must break down because the rights of honourable senators must be preserved. I am certain that honourable senators will exercise their rights when the appropriate occasion arises in this place. 
I, too, was rather angry that at no stage were we told by the  chairman  of the Committee that there would be no open session and that we would not be admitted to the room. A parliamentary officer told us that. From the brief glance I had inside the room into which I looked in an endeavour to obtain entry, I could see that considerable difficulties will be encountered in accommodating the people who may be required to attend these Committee meetings. It is obvious that the facilities in this building do not lend themselves to a system of Estimates Committees. I, too, raise a protest at the manner in which we were treated. I know that in the initial stages of such a project procedural matters have to be determined, but I think that too little thought was given to the operation of these Committees prior to getting them moving. I add my protest to the words of protest expressed by  Senator Cavanagh. 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Health. Is it a fact, as reported in the latest issue of the Adelaide Sunday Mail', that the smoking and/or possession of marihuana is not a breach of the law in South Australia? If so, does this place Australia in breach of the United Nations Single Convention on Drugs, to which Australia is a signatory and has ratified? Was the South Australian Government advised early last year that a prosecution for smoking or possessing marihuana could not succeed? 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the 
Postmaster-General. Would the Minister bring to the attention of the Broadcasting Control Board the latest gimmick used in wrestling matches shown on GTV Channel 9, Victoria, in which a wrestler appears to use a cigarette lighter for the purpose of burning the eyes of his opponent? While most adults would be aware that these matches and the gimmicks used are faked, does the Minister agree that such exhibitionism should not be shown at 12.30 p.m. on Sundays when large numbers of children would no doubt be viewing this programme? 
asked the Minister  representing the Minister for Trade and Industry, upon notice: 
What quantities of earthmover, tractor, omnibus, truck, aeroplane, motor car and motor cycle tyres were exported to the United States of America during the periods July to December 1969 and January to June 1970. 
What quantities of tyres, in the abovementioned categories, were exported to the United States of America by each of the following companies during the periods referred to: Goodyear Tyre &amp; Rubber Co. (Aust.) Ltd; Dunlop Australia Ltd; S.A. Rubber Mills Pty Ltd; Firestone Australia Pty Ltd; and Olympic Tyre &amp; Rubber Co. Pty Ltd. 

 Senator Sir KENNETH ANDERSONThe Minister for Trade and Industry has supplied the following answers: 
Statistics of Australia's exports of tyres are not recorded separately. The statistics available refer to rubber tyres, tyre cases, interchangeable tyre treads, inner tubes and tyre flaps, for wheels of all kinds. Information according to type of usage is not available. 
Preliminary export figures of the above group of products to the United States of America (in quantity terms) are as follows: 
July to December 1969-10,769,041 lb. 
January to June 1970-10.652,685 lb. 
Information is not available as to the quantity of tyres exported by individual companies. 
I rose before the sitting was suspended for lunch to oppose this motion. 
The  DEPUTY PRESIDENT-  Yes.  Senator Poyser  is in order in speaking to it. 
1 oppose the proposal submitted by the Leader of the Government in the Senate  (Senator Sir Kenneth Anderson)  because I believe this is one of the moves that will take away many of the privileges about which, over the last 3 weeks, we have warned the Senate. The situation Ls that we are only in the fourth week of this session and already the privilege of general business has been taken away from this House on the pretext that there is urgent business to be passed by the Senate. Perhaps there is urgent business, but the Senate is working only 3 days a week as against the 4 days being worked by the House of Representatives. On the planned sittings of the Estimates Committees, 64i hours will be lost to the Senate. The Senate has to discuss the legislation and other matters associated with the Budget, together wilh other matters on which no doubt the Government will wish to legislate. This is the first week in which legislation emanating from the Budget is before this chamber. 
The Senate is being asked to forgo something on which I have seen many divisions in my short period in this chamber - preservation of the opportunity to debate the general business of the ordinary members of the Senate. If we give away our right tonight as easily as it appears it will be given away I can see a procedure being adopted in this place until the Senate election, if there is one this year, whereby no more general business sessions will be held because while we are sitting as a series of committees and not as the Senate we will always be faced with this urgency of legislation coming from another place. I believe that the test tonight is whether the Senate shall retain 
Its general business format or surrender it. My personal belief is that we are not sitting long enough to deal with all the business that it is necessary for us to consider in this chamber. We leave this place to go home on Thursday nights or Friday mornings when we could well be occupied in this chamber dealing with legislation that comes from another place. 
If  Senator Young  wishes to interject 1 suggest that he should return to his own seat or forever close his mouth. 
The  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Bull)  - Order! 1 remind  Senator Poyser  that f can look after the conduct of the chamber. 
In my view the present situation is quite clear. The method of handling the Estimates by the committees today was opposed by honourable senators on this side of the chamber. Every honourable senator knows that the purpose in putting proposals before the Senate for the establishment of the committee system was to defeat proposals which had been placed on the notice paper by the Leader of the Opposition  (Senator Murphy)  in relation to the setting up of a number of standing committees. On the occasion when those proposals were before the Senate we had the situation that so many Senate committees were to be formed that a ludicrous and silly position was developing. 
Now that the committees have been established by a vote of the Senate we have a situation in which 5 of them are meeting, taking the business of the Senate out of this chamber and into rooms in the lower section of this building where there are few facilities for the Press and certainly no facilities to enable the public to listen to the debates. Later it is proposed that we shall have a miniature debate in this place when the Estimates come before us. This miniature debate will be occurring in the place where the major debate should be conducted. If we continue with the proposal to have 64-i hours of sittings by the Estimates Committees and the 40 hours that we have averaged in discussing the Estimates in this place we shall leave no time at all to discuss the important legislation that we will be required to pass before the Senate rises. Tonight we are in the situation where we can vote to retain the privileges that the Senate has or give them away for the remainder of the session. I oppose the resolution and I certainly hope that the Senate will defeat it. 
Question put: 
That Government business lake precedence over general business after 8 p.m. this day  (Senator Sir Kenneth Anderson's motion). 
I did not intend to speak on the Repatriation Bill (No. 2) which is now before the Senate. I was more interested in Notice of Motion No. 1 relating to an inquiry into repatriation which has now been coupled with this debate. I intended to speak to Notice of Motion No. 1. I will speak briefly to the Bill because I believe that  Senator Bishop  and other honourable senators on the Opposition side of the chamber have been able to point out to the Senate the lack of attention and consideration that has been given to ex-servicemen in the Budget. 
I believe it is now very important that the Standing Committee on Health and Welfare . should examine the whole question of repatriation, lt is true that I would have preferred the establishment of a select committee of the Senate to do this job in accordance with the resolution carried by the Senate on two occasions but refused by the Government. I would prefer that course to be taken because the issues relating to the operations of the Repatriation Commission are extremely broad. I think an examination in depth of the Repatriation Department would result in it being modernised and streamlined. Because the Government refused, on the two occasions that that resolution was carried by the Senate, to put this matter up for investigation by a select commitee 1 wholeheartedly support the motion before the Senate tonight. 
I do not think there would be one honourable senator in this chamber who has not on numerous occasions dealt with cases which he believed in his heart should not only receive sympathetic consideration by the Repatriation Department but which should in fact result in the applicant being granted the benefits to which he was entitled under the Act.  Senator Keeffe  mentioned a number of cases tonight. If I had the time f could duplicate them three or fourfold from the cases T have in my files. When an ex-serviceman comes into my office to put up a repatriation case I generally feel that I cannot do any good for him. This is the first reaction. I think that Christmas Day has arrived when 1 win I case out of the many about which I make representations to the Minister for Repatriation  (Mr Holten). 
The repatriation appeal tribunal system needs a very close examination. One of the frequent complaints 1 receive about the War Pensions Entitlement Appeal Tribunals is that people who appear before them feel that they have not been given a reasonable hearing. They believe that their cases have not been given the close attention that they deserve. I raised this matter only a fortnight ago with the Minister. The man involved in the case travelled about 150 miles to appear before a tribunal. He firmly believes that the tribunal made its decision before he entered the room in which it met. He told me, in substantiation of his belief, that one of the tribunal members left the room with him, descended with him in the lift and left the building at the same time. Yet the next day he received a rejection notice dated the day of the hearing, lt was mailed to him at his home. No-one will ever convince him that the decision was not made prior to his appearing before that tribunal. If tribunal members are not sufficiently interested to remain and consider the evidence then you would think that at least they would be decent enough to wait until the man concerned left the building before going on their private way. No-one will ever convince that man that his hearing was fair or the matters he put before the tribunal were considered. 
Not as yet. I have asked for the case to be investigated but have not yet received a reply. The point I am making is that I believe that an examination in depth would find many instances of ex-servicemen who feel that their appearance before tribunals has not been considered in a correct and proper manner. I have other examples, as, no doubt, have other honourable senators, of the lack of sympathy extended to many elderly pensioners, particularly those with total and permanent incapacity and those receiving the 100 per cent pension and who are hospitalised in the late years of their lives, f know of cases of men in their 80s who receive either a Service pension or a TPI pension and who are entitled basically to full medical and hospital benefits but whose illnesses have been declared to be chronic and who have had all payments taken from them at the time when they have a few weeks to live. We find that the Repatriation Department does this. 
Quite recently the Minister upheld representations by me relating to an elderly gentleman who died in Warrnambool hospital. The position now is that the Repatriation Commission has agreed to reverse the decision made in this matter. This has relieved the worry of this poor woman whose husband, a TPI pensioner aged 85 years, had been admitted to hospital. She knew he would never come out alive. That man was advised by the Repatriation 
Department in a roneoed letter - and that type of letter also is a disgrace to the Department- of the simple fact that he had been declared chronically ill and that no further hospital and medical benefit payments would be made. That letter was sent to this man, aged 85, who had been a TPI pensioner for years and years. 
Why not have an examination in depth into these things? I think the Minister clearly realised when that case was put before him that the action taken was most unjust. All these matters should be examined in depth. The Returned Services League would then be able to put very clearly before a select committee the reasons why it wants urgent amendments to the Repatriation Act. More importantly, the people who feel that they have been aggrieved could appear personally to give evidence. I feel that that is most necessary. A type of ombudsman obviously is needed at repatriation level at this stage of history because there are so many people who feel they are not getting a fair crack of the whip. Also, the Senate has agreed with submissions by the RSL relating to medical treatment for all persons over 70 years of age who served in the First or Second World Wars. It amazes me that the Government will not agree to this proposition. Very little cost is involved. When the position is assessed, many of these people would already have this entitlement because they receive a service pension or because they receive an age pension. There are a few left over in this aged group. If one looks at the lists in RSL clubs one sees the dwindling list of membership every year because of the death rate among both First and Second World War veterans. The cost would not be great, but it would give some recognition to those mert who fought for their country. 
The widows and dependants of those who died should be given some recognition. Many veterans died from injuries they received, which were not recognised - and I believe this to be a fact - or illnesses they contracted which were not recognised by the Department of Repatriation. I believe this to be a fact also. In the last 5, 6 or perhaps 7 years of their lives ex-servicemen over 70 should be entitled to this benefit. In the Senate the Opposition has sought, by resolution, that all persons Over the age of 70, irrespective of which war they fought in, should have this type of benefit extended to them. There would be very little cost in comparison with the total Budget of this nation. I do hope that the Senate will, in its wisdom, if a vote is taken tonight or if not tonight tomorrow, carry the amendment referring the matter to a committee. I believe that if a committee Ls set up we will get back from the committee a report that will substantiate that the many things about which we have spoken tonight show that the Act needs a complete review and that perhaps an entirely new Act may be required. Certainly the present Act needs many urgent amendments. 
The benefit of the doubt has been referred to by honourable senators on this side of the chamber. I want to add my voice and my views to the belief that the benefit of the doubt provision is not being followed in the spirit in which it appears in the Act but that in fact it is being carried out in direct contradiction to the intention of the Labor Government which inserted this clause in the Act after the Second World War. Let us get to the position where we can examine these things properly and in depth. After we have examined them in depth we should ensure that the proper legislation giving these men their entitlements is carried through both Houses of Parliament. 
My question is directed to the Minister for Civil Aviation. It could also attract the attention of the Minister-in-Charge of Tourist Activities, ls the Minister aware that inexcusable and gross exploitation of air travellers and others attending airports is taking place in the licensed refreshment rooms situated at commercial airports? Is he aware that the bar known as the Backbench at Canberra Airport is charging double the price charged in normal hotel bars for Scotch whisky. Is he aware that the Melbourne Airport bar on the ground floor at Essendon Airport charges 30c a nip for Australian whisky which is only 19c a nip in normal hotel bars? Has the Minister any jurisdiction over the prices charged by licensees at airports? If so, will he initiate a full investigation into prices charged by licensees who hold a franchise for the sale of liquor at commercial airports and, if he considers that the public is being exploited, direct those concerned to lower their prices to near normal hotel charges? 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for External Affairs. Has the Minister seen the Press report in today's issue of the 'Sydney Morning Herald' which quotes the  President  of the United States of America as saying that the United States intends to maintain the necessary strength in the Mediterranean to keep the peace? The  President  was referring to the deployment of the naval fleet of the United States. Will the Minister agree that in most places where forces of the United States are stationed to keep the peace war breaks out which invariably involves other nations that are tied - mainly on economic grounds - to the policy of the United States? 
I do not accept and I am sure the world at large - certainly those honourable senators who sit on this side of the chamber - does not accept the proposition which has been put forward by the honourable senator. However, I do accept the proposition that Australia was on the brink of disaster during World War II when the great United States of America came to our aid and defended us. We should not ever forget that. I am surprised that the honourable senator does not have that in his mind. In postwar years the United States has a magnificent record of aiding reconstruction in Europe and in Asia following the depredations of the Second World War. I hope the honourable senator will not forget that. Whatever the situation in Europe today, the really great factor in the recovery of Europe after the War was the help that the United States Government gave. We should remember that to our dying day, as we should remember what the United States did for us in our hour of trial. 
Having said that and having put that on the line as a starting point, I also make the point that the United States has been effective and will continue to be effective in keeping peace in the free world. Whilst I saw the article - and I have not had a chance to read it in depth - I accepted it on the premise on which the  President  of the United States of America made it and that is that the United States contribution to the North Atlantic Treaty Organisation and to the peace of the world is probably the most significant contribution of any nation. 
I direct my question to the Minister representing the Minister for Health. I ask: What criteria are laid down by the Department of Health in relation to granting or refusing to grant the additional subsidy of $3 a day payable by the Commonwealth to certain patients in registered nursing homes? Are applications for the subsidy accepted or rejected by layman public servants despite the fact that applications in all instances must be supported by evidence submitted by a doctor? 
Will the Leader of the Government in the Senate initiate an immediate top level inquiry into allegations made in a report in this morning's issue of the Melbourne 'Age' that Commonwealth employees are receiving valuable prizes as rewards for placing orders with Magna Alloys and Research Pty Ltd, a Sydney based company which has extensive dealings with Commonwealth and State governments and semi-government authorities? Will he also initiate inquiries as to whether the directors of this company have committed any criminal offence in offering valuable prizes which are at best only thinly disguised bribes to public servants? 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry. Is it a fact that the Government placed a ban on members of the Liberal-Country Party coalition attending today's rally of farmers at the front of Parliament House? Is it also a fact that 12 members of the Government parties rejected invitations from the farmers to address the meeting, mainly on the excuse that they had other commitments? Did these commitments involve watching the rally from afar, that is from the steps of Parliament House and from the window of the Australian Country Party meeting room? 
asked the Minister representing the Prime Minister, upon notice: 
Are Commonwealth security tiles made available to State Public Service Boards for the purpose of screening applicants for State public service positions; if so, was information from a Commonwealth security file provided to the Victorian Public Service Board and did this result in the rejection of the application of  Mr Robert  Muntz for a permanent position with the Victorian Department of Agriculture and the termination of his temporary employment with that Department. 

 Senator Sir KENNETH ANDERSONThe Prime Minister has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
I am informed that the answer is no. 
My question is addressed to the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry. Is it a fact that a Wimmera wheat grower has had withdrawn from the Dooen wheat silo in Victoria 2,770 bushels of wheat as reported in the 'Wimmera Mail-Times' of Friday, 9th October? If so, was this wheat withdrawn on his own application because it was to be used for stock food on his own property? Was this wheat immediately sold on the black market and not used for the purposes for which it was withdrawn? Is the person concerned a member of the Legislative Council in Victoria, representing the Western Province? 
asked the Minister  representing the Minister for Customs and Excise, upon notice: 
Is it a fact, as reported in the last issue of the Adelaide 'Sunday Mail', that the smoking and/or possession of marihuana is not a breach of the law in South Australia; if so, does this place Australia in breach of the United Nations Single Convention on drugs, to which Australia is a signatory and has ratified. 
Was the South Australian Government advised early last year that a prosecution for smoking or possessing marihuana could not succeed. 
My question is addressed to the Minister-in-Charge of Tourist Activities. He is aware that a positive proposal to establish a Geelong regional tourist committee has been made by local municipal authorities and other interested organisations. If this is successful  -  I am confident that it will be - can the Australian Tourist Commission give assistance to the committee with overseas, promotion and publicity? 
 Are we discussing the 4 Bills together? 
The ACTING  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Sir Magnus Cormack)  - As far ls I know, we are only discussing one.  Senator Bishop  forecasted the attitude of the Opposition. He said that it would oppose the 4 Bills. As far as I am concerned, we are discussing Government Business No. 3, on the notice paper, the Excise Tariff Bill. 
As has been indicated by  Senator Bishop  and other Opposition speakers, the Opposition opposes this legislation. 1 think the Opposition has every reason to oppose it because it will provide for yet another increase in indirect taxation, lt may be argued that the world trend is towards indirect taxation. The simple truth is that the more indirect taxes are imposed on the community the more the ordinary people are being hurt. The Government claims that it has provided assistance to these people by decreasing the level of personal income taxation, but in reality the increased indirect taxation will more than account for the so called rebates which are provided under the new income tax scale. The Government's actions wilt almost certainly cause inflation. In fact the people who need  most  assistance will receive the least. Those people who need the least assistance have received greater rebates than those who can ill afford to be taxed. The people who can ill afford to be taxed are paying the piper through this indirect, system of taxation which is being favoured by the Government. in my view one of the most important features of the indirect tax schedules is the increase in the excise on petroleum products. The  Government is in  effect destroying any chance of real decentralisation in Australia because of the increase in excise on petroleum products and the increase in the post and telegraph charges. The Government is, by its actions, making it increasingly difficult for any industry to operate in the provincial areas of Australia. The Commonwealth and State governments have on many occasions indicated their great support for the decentralisation of industries. In actual fact the people who suffer most from any increases in post and telegraph charges, sales tax or excise are the people who live in the remote areas and the provincial cities of Austrafia. 1 have spoken to many of the small manufacturers in the country towns of Victoria, f have found that their two most serious problems are the post and telegraph charges - the telegraph charges in particular - and the increasing cost of freight to and from their localities, ls it any wonder that quite a number of industries in country areas have decided that their future lies in or close to the metropolitan areas of Sydney and Melbourne. The provisions of this legislation will in fact increase the problems of the people who live in rural areas, ft is quite obvious that this system of indirect taxation increases administrative costs at every level. If a direct form of taxation were to be applied in accordance with the ability of the people to pay, the rich would be paying the most taxation and the less affluent would be paying the least. (Under the present system of imposing excise charges and sales tax it is the family man with children who pays the most tax. 
The situation is, as everybody knows, that these increases are borne by the people who have the least money in their pockets. To illustrate my point  1  refer to the increase in the sales tax on electrical  goods.  Everybody in the community knows that if one has enough cash in one's pocket one can walk into the shop of any electrical retailer and get -at least one-third - 33$ per cent - off the price of most electrical goods. The only people who have to pay the full amount are those on the lower income level who are paying off a refrigerator or something similar under a hire purchase contract. They are the people who are in fact financing the 33$ per cent rebate to the people who can afford to pay cash, lt is quite clear that the present system of indirect taxation works against the ordinary people and in favour of the people who have the most money in their pockets. 
Many items are covered in the schedules. Cigarettes and tobacco are two such items. I must admit that I am not greatly concerned about the increase in the excise on these 2 items. I am a smoker. I smoke far too heavily. However,. I firmly believe - as the medical profession has indicated - that smoking is a health hazard. Therefore, the increase of excise on cigarettes and tobacco does not concern me greatly. But I am concerned about the imposition of extra charges on other items which place a burden on these people in the community in the lower income bracket. I. am also concerned about the increasing difficulties of those industries which have tried to establish themselves in country areas and have struggled on for years only to find that all the help they get from the Commonwealth Government is increased charges. This makes it extremely difficult for them to be able to continue in business. 
Let us examine the excise which has been imposed on the wine industry, lt seems to me that in seeking a method whereby it could obtain additional revenue the Government looked at one of the few primary industries which is paying its own way at present and said: 'We must get some money out of this industry, lt is doing quite all right, lt is not broke, lt is not like the wheat . industry or the wool industry, which are going broke. We are experiencing great problems in the dairying industry. Therefore, we will impose additional burdens on the wine industry.' The result could be that it will be the next primary industry to go cap in hand to the Government for some kind of handout. The wine industry is standing on its own feet at this point of time. However, the excise which the Government is imposing on wine could well result in the wine industry, which is one of the few viable primary industries in Australia, being in a situation where it will have to seek direct assistance from the Commonwealth Government to keep in business. This is another example of the burden which the present system of indirect taxation is placing upon a section of the community. 
One of the worst features of the excise which has been imposed on wine is that although it has been put on at a level of 50c a gallon the mark-up has in fact been $1.50 a gallon. The retailers have increased the excise by 200 per cent. Our table wine is equal to any in the world. In fact, it is beginning to be claimed that we have the best table wines in the world. The Government could have imposed a duty on wine in a far more simple manner. It could have imposed sales tax at the bottle level. 
In this way the impost would have been equal throughout the whole of the industry. However, the Government has not chosen to do this, lt has by its actions permitted the situation to occur whereby the Australian product is at a disadvantage to the wines which are being imported. Imported wines enjoy an absolute advantage because the impost on them is less than that which is levied on our own Australian products. People who have built up an industry from nothing, who have had to fight to gain recognition not only in this country but throughout the world, are being hampered by the actions of a government which made a promise in the election campaign to decrease income tax and which has had to find a way out. In doing so it has decided to take more from the people than it was giving to them by any income tax reductions. Today we find that this Parliament is about to give approval to a series of increases to indirect taxes which will not assist anybody. The only assistance given will be to the revenue of this country. 
In fact it could well be that in the long term the Government will find itself in very serious trouble. On every occasion that it wants some money it looks at the petrol tax. This is one of the most inflationary taxes that one could imagine. Petrol is not only inflammable but also inflationary. Every time a cent is added to the price of a gallon of petrol people find, themselves paying 4c for some other commodity. This is because goods have to be transported long distances before reaching the point of sale. When freight rates rise the costs of goods rise proportionately. Anybody who lives in Canberra will tell you of the great disadvantage of living in this very lovely city. Every item which is brought into this community for retail sale is increased in price because of freight costs. I have heard, for instance, that it costs J 9c to bring to Canberra a case of sauces, although the cost of a single item in that case might be only 11c. It is well recognised that because of the freight costs and increases in the price of petrol Canberra is the dearest etty in Australia in which to live. If one goes to Townsville, Cairns or other outlying places one finds the same problem. The freight costs which people have to bear in those areas place them at a very serious disadvantage. 
These increases in indirect taxation are not helping anybody at all. As 1 said earlier, they are imposed on the people who can least afford to pay them. 1 am strongly critical of the Government for imposing this kind of indirect tax. People say that this seems to be a world-wide trend, but any responsible government which thinks about these things should be thinking in terms of decreasing indirect taxes and increasing direct taxes. It may be that the Government would get into trouble with people earning $30,000, $40,000 or $50,000 a year because they might find themselves paying 90c in the Si in income tax. But many of them are paying that now through indirect taxes. lt must be obvious to anybody who thinks about this matter, that the system of indirect tax also increases the cost of collection of the taxes, lt becomes necessary to set up new departments and increase the numbers of employees in order to collect the increased taxes. On the other hand I am quite certain that if taxes are increased at the income tax level the computer will find it no more difficult to tax the rich at 90c in the $1 than it does to impose taxes on others at 30c in the $1. However, this system of building  up the cost of  administration will go on. What we are seeing is a demonstration of Parkinson's law. We are building up a big and powerful bureaucracy and executive to govern this country without any real reference to those elected  to  this Parliament to make decisions for the country. 
I and my colleagues strongly oppose this Bill. [ believe that if the South Australian senators on the other side are mindful of the welfare of the wine industry they will join us on this side of the chamber when the vote is taken later today. 
Will the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry agree that collusion between wool buyers now purchasing under the so-called free auction system has been the cause  of  the sharp drop in wool prices in recent weeks? Will he agree also that, this collusion is designed deliberately to scare wool growers and the Government into dropping the proposed wool marketing scheme which is based on a statutory selling authority? 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Treasurer. In view of the 46c increase in the cost of living, will the Minister recommend to Cabinet that a supplementary Budget be presented to increase pension rates by at least SI a week to allow for increases flowing from the Budget and this present cost of living increase? 
We are currently in the Budget session and therefore it would be quite in-appropriate for me to suggest that we should vary the Budget on a matter related to policy at this time. 
-Like  Senator Cavanagh,  1 am disturbed by 

 Senator Sir Magnus Cormack's request because 1 believe that whole system of committee work in the Senate will become a complete farce if the present situation is allowed to continue. Standing committees, select committees and all types of persons desire to sit at the same time as the Estimates Committees. 
There are standing committees of the Senate. Next week an application could be made by one of those committees to sit at the same time as the Estimates Committees. 1 am tot concerned about the present request. Like  Senator Cavanagh,  I  am not prepared to oppose it by voting against it. 1 want to say quite clearly that if this is to be the pattern I most certainly will be opposing, by my vote, any further requests. It is quite obvious that, if the Senate Estimates Committees are to sit and if honourable senators who have volunteered to sit on those Committees are drawn away to sit on other committees of which they are members, we will have a complete shambles. I believe that that exists already in any case. 
The present situation is that the Senate will not have a proper opportunity, as a Senate, to discuss the Estimates, lt is quite clear and obvious to every honourable senator that, if we are to rise, as is indicated, at the end of next week, the Estimates will be discussed not at length in the Senate but very briefly indeed. Honourable senators who have not been able to attend all Estimates Committees - and it is physically impossible for them so to do - will not have any opportunity in open Senate meetings to have the discussions that they may desire. On this occasion there may be very good and sound reasons for agreeing to the motion put by  Senator Sir Magnus  Cormack. I will not oppose it on this occasion, but 1 add a word of warning. The reasons for making similar applications in future will have to be very strong indeed before they should even be considered by any honourable senator. 
My question is addressed to the Minister for Civil Aviation. 
What are the qualifications required of a person seeking a position with the Department of Civil Aviation as a qualified radio telephone operator? Is there any age limit on persons who apply for such positions? If so, would that age limit apply to a former Royal Australian Air Force flight sergeant who could establish,  by  records and test, an efficiency in this field beyond the requirements of the Department of Civil Aviation? 
 I support the amendment moved by the Leader of the Opposition  (Senator Murphy)  because it is quite obvious to all honourable senators that the reason why the Minister for Air  (Senator DrakeBrockman)  curtailed his remarks and virtually moved a gag on the debate in progress at that time was to do what the Government does with most other Bills - that is, to put them at the bottom of the notice paper to ensure that the topic will not be discussed again before the end of the session. It means in effect that we will go to the Senate election and will wait until next February before anything whatever is done for the rural industries, either by way of debate or by way of action, which is far more important. 
The fact is that the people within the rural industries are sick and tired of the Government's attitude towards them. They are sick and tired of waiting for something to happen and they will finally have an opportunity, if this resolution is carried today, to put their grievances before a standing committee of this Parliament. What are the issues about which they are worried today? Every primary industry that I can think of, with the exception of two or three, is in dire trouble. But members of the Government parties do nothingabout it other than to wring their hands in horror and say: 'We wish we could do something'. 
One of the major things that are facing the people of this country and the whole economy of this country is something that does not ever receive any consideration at all from the Government side. No action is being taken to try to circumvent this happening. I refer to the entry of Britain into the European Economic Community. All that has happened in relation to this matter is that the Minister for Trade and Industry  (Mr McEwen)  has gone overseas and spent thousands of dollars of the Australian people's money during the winter recess and come back to Australia and said: 'Things could not be gloomier'. What has been done to try to overcome or to prevent the damage that will be done to Australia in many industries as a result of the inevitable entry of Britain into the European Economic Community? The Government is just fiddling while Rome burns, as far as the rural producers of this country are concerned. 
So we want debated as a matter of urgency the motion which is before the Senate and which will give a committee constituted by the Senate the opportunity at least to start thinking about this matter, to get together its ideas and finally to be in a position to make recommendations to the Parliament on what should be done. Tt could b-j that the committee would recommend that certain types of action be taken at other levels in relation to a royal commission on some aspects. The committee might be able to make some immediate recommendations on short term cures for these industries. We are facing a real crisis, but nothing is being done about it. We will have to leave until the autumn session the opportunity for any further discussion of this matter if the amendment that is before the Chair at the present time is not carried. It is obvious that the Minister for Air, when he sought leave to continue his remarks later, did so deliberately so that this matter would disappear until after the end of this session. 
The situation is that every major industry, perhaps with the exception of the wool industry in this instance, will face almost ruin overnight if we do not do something to combat the position of Britain when she becomes a member of the European Economic Community. The simple fact is that if she is accepted - there is no doubt that she will be - Norway and Denmark are more than certain to  b't  accepted also at the same time. We will then be in the fantastic situation of losing overnight almost the whole of the. dairy industry preference that we have in the British Isles today. 
In 1974, when the sugar agreement between Britain and Australia ceases, it will not be renewed. At present one-third of the total sugar production of this country is sold in the British Isles. The preference that will be given for sugar in the British Isles after Britain's entry into the European Economic Community will be for European beet sugar. That is inevitable. We will throw one-third of our people to the wolves because the Government is not acting now in an endeavour to find other markets. The Minister for Trade and Industry wrings his hands and says that we are doomed, but he does nothing whatever about the situation. He wasted thousands of dollars on an overseas trip and came back with a sorry story and crying in his beard. 
Today we are being asked to give away the opportunity to do something positive,  rt  is positive action that we are taking on this occasion, lt will give an opportunity for positive decisions to be made. It is quite obvious that such decisions will not be made at the level at which the matter is being dealt with at the present time. So, we virtually have to take out of the hands of the Minister for Trade and Industry and the Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Anthony)  the task of rehabilitating Australia's primary industries. Up to the present, every time an industry has become troubled the Minister for Trade and Industry has said: 'I think the best thing you can do is diversify'. We had this problem of diversification when the wool industry first started to lose its buoyancy and wool prices started to drop. Wool growers were advised and encouraged to go into the wheat industry. 
That was the attitude until there was overproduction in the wheat industry. At the present time we have the problems of quotas, overproduction and shortage of markets. When people diversified from the wheat industry they went into growing oats ami barley. The prices for both those commodities are the lowest for many years and they cannot be sold. So. where do people diversify to next? People on wheat farms in Victoria have diversified to the next obvious industry - beef production. In Victoria we have seen the crazy situation of wheat farmers paying $20, $30 and even $40 for any type of dairy calf with any type of colour al: all in it. Wheal farmers are paying S30 to $40 for a day-old or week-old calf of a dairy cow and a beef bull in order to diversify into the beef industry. 
What will we see in 24 to 3 years time? We already have problems in relation to the American beef market. Within the next 2 to  2i  years we will have a flood of beef from people who have endeavoured to earn a living from wool, then have endeavoured to earn a living from wheat and now are moving into the beef industry in an endeavour to earn a living from it. The situation will be that they will turn full circle. At the same time as they are doing this, members of the Government parties are sitting in this Parliament and saying: 'It is an important matter but it should not be discussed today'. Tomorrow they will be saying: 'lt cannot be discussed today. We will wait until next week'. Then, when next week comes the Parliament will rise and in February we will come back and go through all these processes again. 
The honourable senator should cry. He should have some kind of conscience in relation to what he is doing against the interests of the primary producers. Being a farmer, he should be crying very hard. He is assisting to destroy them or to break them. We now have before us a motion that will give us an opportunity to really assist them. 
We have been hearing for months and months about how the dairy industry will be reorganised to make it a viable proposition. What docs the Government propose to do? It proposes to say to all the smaller farmers: 'You have to get out and give your farm to the big man'. That is the way the Government, is solving the problems. That is the way it is solving them in the Northern Territory. Whenever any leases are available there the people who get them are the big American ranchers - nol the Australian people who can do the job and who know the country. The Government is doing the same in the field of rice. Eventually the Americans will own as much of our primary industry as they do of our mineral resources. Then the Government will not have to worry about primary producers at all because they will all be in the cities looking for jobs that do not exist. 
That is the situation that is developing in some of the smaller rural towns now. People are moving into the cities. They are certainly getting some type of work at the moment. But the day the farmer is not able to be productive and is not able to pay his way is the day when industries in the cities start to wind down. We saw a real example of that in 1961 when a city as large as Geelong, because of the effect of the drop in primary industry, had the highest ratio of unemployment in the whole of the Commonwealth of Australia. 

 Senator Poyser is giving in the general context important and urgent reasons why actions should be taken now to set up a committee, rather than have the matter placed at the end of Orders of the Day. That, is what would happen if the Minister had his way. It. would never come on for discussion again, despite the use of the expression 'adjourned to the next day of sitting'. We know that it would be listed at the end of Orders of the Day and that in practice it would never come up for discussion. I submit that  Senator Poyser  is in order and should be permitted to proceed. 
The ACTING  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Laucke)  - Order! I give my ruling. Quite a degree of latitude has been allowed in this debate this afternoon. 1 ask  Senator Poyser  to relate his remarks more closely to the immediate question before the Senate. 
I bow to your ruling in this matter,  Sir, but  my guidelines were set in the main by  Senator Wright  who argued right across the spectrum on the value of the proposed committee and on whether it would be worth while. Other speakers in this debate have done likewise. The relevance of my remarks to the matter before the Chair is based on the urgent need to establish the committee that we propose. The delay that is sought by Government supporters is not until tomorrow, as they would wish us to believe, but until after the Senate election. A delay of 4 months is involved, not a delay of 1 day as might appear to be the case from a reading of the motion. 
Apart from the 7 Bills that arc to come before the Senate, 13 items are listed on the notice paper that have come up for discussion before and have been adjourned to the next clay of silling, in accordance with the terms of the motion that is formally required. After a Minister has made a statement, usually it is formally adjourned to the next day of sitting. Let us have a look at some of the items on the notice paper. The debate on a ministerial statement on Cambodia was adjourned on 5th May, on a formal motion to the next day of sitting. A ministerial statement on defence was adjourned on 10th March, in accordance with the formal motion that it be adjourned to the next day of sitting. We of the Opposition are under no illusions as to the effect of the motion we are debating. We have no doubt about whether we will be given an opportunity to vote on this matter tomorrow. 
We know that the Country Party is completely dodging the issue. It is avoiding a debate on this matter because it is vulnerable, particularly in Western Australia, the State which the Minister for Air  (Senator Drake-Brockman)  represents. He is fighting for his political life in an attempt to retain his seat, lt is obvious that the motion for adjournment is not really based on the purpose of adjourning the debate until tomorrow. Only 3 speeches have been made in this debate. Perhaps 1 should say that only 21 speeches have been made, because it appeared that the Minister was only half way through his speech. When 1 examined the list of speakers who were to take part in this debate in order to ascertain my position, I noticed that not one honourable senator opposite appeared on thai list. 
The name of no member of the Liberal Party or Country Party was on the list at the time that f studied it. It was obvious that honourable senators opposite saw no necessity to put down their names to speak because they knew that the debate would nol be permitted to continue. Bui they did not have the courage to follow the practice that is usually followed when the gag is applied. No honourable senator opposite moved that the question be put. We are debating now whether this matter is to become item No. 21 on the notice paper, or be discussed and decided upon today. 1 apologise to some degree if I have wandered a little in my remarks, but I am very annoyed to see members of this House running away from an issue of such importance, not only to individuals in the community but also to the economy of this country generally. 
I wish to speak on the motion for the first reading of this Bill in relation to a question that I asked the Minister for Civil Aviation  (Senator Cotton)  about 3 weeks ago. The Senate will recall that 1 questioned the price of liquor sold in the Flight Bar at the Melbourne Airport and the Backbench Bar al the Canberra Airport. On that occasion the Minister undertook to examine the matter and to see what was happening in this field. In last Saturday morning's Melbourne 'Sun' the following article appeared under the heading 'Whisky Sour': 

 Senator Poyser (Labor, Victoria), who complained last month about the price of Scotch whisky at the Canberra Airport cocktail bar, has paradoxically brought about a further price rise. 
At the direction of the Department of Civil Aviation, the cocktail bar has raised its price for Scotch from 37c a nip to 38c. . . . 
I did not do much good at all. The matter that I question is the parity that is claimed by the Department of Civil Aviation to exist between prices in the bars at the Melbourne and Canberra airports and prices in the cocktail bars in the hotels adjacent to those airports. 
 Purely as an academic exercise, on Monday evening 2 of my colleagues and I went to several of the bars in Canberra to examine this matter at first band. I am certain that one of my colleagues was very reluctant to go on this tour with me, and he became even more reluctant.. as honourable senators will find out in a few moments. In accordance with the customary Australian habit of shouting, I took the honour of shouting at the Backbench Bar at the airport and found that 38c was the price of whisky and 24c was the price of a 10 oz glass of beer in that bar. We then went to the Carlton Bar in the Ainslie Rex Hotel, where it happened to be one of my colleague's shout. On that occasion the prices were 34c for a Scotch and again 24c for a beer. Then we went to the plush Washington Bar at the Canberra Rex Hotel. This is where my other colleague was very shocked indeed. On that occasion we paid 45c for a whisky , and 45c for a small can of beer. The sum total of that was that my colleague was 35c out of pocket. He accused me of planning it in advance. 
The people in the Washington Bar were very nice about it, of course. They gave us receipts. Obviously the receipts are for persons who can claim in their taxation returns. I am quite certain that nobody drinks in that bar for the pleasure of drinking: people drink there for business purposes only. I know that no taxation assessor would reject this as a taxation deduction. Once he saw the prices that are charged he would say: 'They must be drinking there of necessity*. 
I think it includes much more than full board. 1 assure honourable senators that we could not afford to have more than I. drink at each bar. We took only 1 hour to do the course, and we did it in par. The reason why we did all this was to examine this so-called parity that is claimed to exist between the cocktail bars in Canberra and the Backbench Bar at the Canberra Airport. Of course, there is no comparison between the facilities provided in the 2 kinds of places. On the one hand, at the Canberra Airport the bar is without any table service and without any seating to speak of. lt has a few stools and, 1 think, 3 seats. While we were there about 50-odd persons were trying to get a drink in a bar in which 2 people were serving. 
Yes. The position in Melbourne is even worse because there is no comparison between the bar at the Melbourne Airport and the cocktail bar in any hotel I know of. I refer the Senate to an article written by John Sorell which appeared in the 'Herald' of 30th September. He wrote: 
I bave often waited for more than five minutes to buy a drink at Essendon airport. The bar facilities downstairs- 
That is the one to which I am  referring - are poor. So is the service. The decor is shabby. And the drinks expensive. Buying a beer is a  difficult,  frustrating labour of love. 
At peak times the crush in the tiny Flight Dar recalls the six o'clock swill at Young am) Jacksons. 
The bar is understaffed. No-one tries to relax the traveller. The bar is frequently choked wilh airport workers. Airline passengers have to battle for a drink. Drinkers spill out into the terminal area. This is against the law. 
The situation is that, in accordance with this report 1 have, the Department of Civil Aviation is directing the operators of airport bars to charge cocktail rates for service that is no better than that in the normal public bar in any hotel. Indeed, it is much worse because of the crushed conditions under which a person drinks if he so desires. 

 Mr Acting Deputy President, this very impressive looking document sets out  the  liquor prices for New South Wales endorsed by the Australian Hotels Association.  The  charges are based on zones and f understand thai the Canberra area comes under zone 4. On the cover of this document it states: 
This schedule must always be available for customers' inspection on request 
On page 3 there appears the set prices for bars, lounges, saloon bars, parlours and dining rooms, lt also sets out the amount by which the management of such places is able to increase prices above the bar prices. I will quote the bar prices in a minute. For saloon bars and parlours the stated increase is lc above the ruling bar price. For dining rooms and lounges it is lc to 2c but not exceeding 2c. On page 6 of this document it is stated that Scotch whisky in zone 4 is 28c a nip and 15c for half a nip. If we accept the proposition that the bar I refer to is a lounge, which it is not in any circumstances, the most that could be added to the ruling price of 28c would be 3c, bringing the price to 31c and not 38c as has been directed by the DCA. 
I am worried about the evidence I have. You will note,  Mr Acting Deputy President,  that I said that 15c is the price for a half nip. The honourable member for Port Adelaide  (Mr Birrell)  has indicated to me that I may use this example and that he is prepared to swear an affidavit that at the Back Bench he paid 27c for a half Scotch and water. When I made my original statement I said that the operators were charging almost double bar prices. That would make the price of a full Scotch and water 54c while the ruling rate at a normal bar is 28c. Therefore my figures were not far out on that occasion. One staff member of a member of this House as recently as last week bought a Scotch and water and a Scotch and soda there and she received 6c change from $1. It cost her 94c for 2 nips. 
That is the situation. We know that if we go to the 'Washington' Bar at the Canberra Rex we are going to be fleeced, and we deserve to be. But the travelling public, many of them tourists who have saved for a long time to take a holiday at Canberra or Melbourne, should not be exploited in this way. I strongly suggest to the Minister for for Civil Aviation that if there is to be any added charge at these places it should be no more than the 3c allowed in a lounge. The best the Department could ask for would be the 2c allowed in respect of saloon bars because that is all that these places are. There are no tables and there is no table service. The conditions are very crowded. I believe it would be a fair thing if the increase was no more than the 3c above the present rate of 28c. 
This debate is reminiscent of the debate we had in this chamber on the establishment of the estimates committees.  Mr President,  you will recall that on that occasion honourable senators were given an undertaking by the Leader of the Government in the Senate  (Senator Sir Kenneth Anderson)  that they would be given an equal opportunity to discuss the Estimates in this chamber as was given in the estimates committees. It is quite obvious now that the Estimates will be pushed through this chamber in a matter of hours instead of days. 
They have not been before this chamber. They have been discussed by the estimates committees. Honourable senators have been denied the right to question the Estimates because 4 estimates committees have on occasions sat simultaneously. How can any honourable senator be in any four places at once? I have said before and I repeat it again that the place to discuss the Estimates is in this chamber before members of the Press and the public. 
Yes, an undertaking was given to the Senate that the Estimates would be brought back here and discussed. The Leader of the Government said that honourable senators would have the same opportunity to discuss the Estimates in this chamber as they had to discuss them in the sittings of the estimates committees. The Estimates were discussed for  40i  hours by the estimates committees. They should be discussed in an open sitting of the Senate and not in small committee rooms behind closed doors. 
Members of the public were allowed to attend but there was no room for them in the committee rooms because they were full of public servants who were waiting their turn. I have no criticism to offer of the public servants in this regard because they were only carrying out their duty. The simple fact is that the facilities of Parliament House are no* geared to the type of hearings which have been conducted. 
 I would not have entered this debate except for the provocative altitude of  Senator Greenwood  in regard to this matter. The renegade senators whom  Senator Greenwood  referred to have made their position quite clear in relation to the Estimates Committees. I support the committee systems as they operate, particularly the select committees and the standing committees. Over the years I think the Senate will enhance its role in federal government on this basis. But 1 do not believe that this Parliament as yet has the facilities to conduct 4 Estimates Committees at the one time. 
The first time 1 went to see a committee operating the  chairman  of the committee instructed that we be not admitted. The Leader of the Government in the Senate  (Senator Sir Kenneth Anderson)  apologised in this House for that action. 1 think it is inept at this stage for  Senator Young  to raise this matter. If the committee system is to work it has to work in relation to the decision which has been made in this Senate. There has to be completely free access by all persons who desire to go to those committee meetings including the public. It is quite obvious that visitors to Parliament House have no opportunity under the circumstances and system which operates now to observe how these Committees work. The committee rooms, small as they are - some of them arc no larger than a normal office - have to accommodate quite a number of public servants, honourable senators, people from the Press if they desire to attend and Hansard. It is obvious that members of the public will not have the opportunity to attend the hearings of the Committees as is outlined in the decision of this House. I had 21 school lads come to see the sitting of the Senate on an afternoon when the Committees were in session, lt was suggested that some 5 lads go to each committee room but it was obvious that this C0t id not be done because there was no room even for 5 students to attend. This would have been a breakthrough for this school because it would have been the first school in Australia to observe the committee system operating. 
They were from Geelong Grammar. They could not attend the meetings of the Committees because there were no facilities to enable them to observe the system in operation. I think it is important that people who are interested in the operations of parliament have the right to enter a committee room, in the same way that they can enter the galleries of this chamber, to watch the operations of those committees. This is not possible under the present system. I hope that next year, if a decision is again made to set up a system of Estimates Committees, fewer will meet at the one time. On this occasion I agree with  Senator Greenwood.  No more than 2 should meet at the one time. I hope that facilities are available so that when the 2 committees are sitting people off the street can enter and in comfort observe the operations of those committees. 
It is quite obvious now, at this late stage of the sittings of the Senate, that the opportunities which were promised us by the Leader of the Government in the Senate will not be available to us. We were told that we would have ample opportunity to discuss the Estimates, in the Committee of the Whole. If we were given that opportunity the Senate would sit for at least another fortnight. The Estimates debates in the Committee of the Whole have taken from a fortnight to 3 weeks in the past. I repeat that it is a physical impossibility for any honourable senator to be in even 2 places at the one time. If an honourable senator accepts the responsibility of being on one committee, I believe it is his responsibility to attend the meetings of that committee. This denies him the right to attend the meetings of at least 2 other committees and, on occasions, 3 other committees that are sitting simultaneously. 
I wish the committee system well. I was aggrieved because I was denied the right of entry into a committee, but I did not take my bat home and sulk. 1 made a deliberate decision that ] would not be a member of any committee because I wanted the freedom to move from committee to committee. If I had accepted the responsibility of being a member of a committee, I would have attended religiously its meetings andwould not have moved from committee to committee. I believe the obligation is on any senator who accepts the responsibility of being on any committee of the Senate, irrespective of whether it is an Estimates Committee, a standing committee or a select committee, to attend the meetings of that committee on every occasion that it is possible for him so to do. I believe that this is the only way in which the committee system will work. We do not want a system of committee meetings in which 3 is a quorum and only 3 attend because the whole system will fail if that is the case. I think the present method has to be streamlined to the extent that, as far as is practicable, every honourable senator is able to attend and to participate in the hearings of the Estimates Committees. I hope that the Government will consider providing better facilities for next year, if these committees operate, and will make absolutely certain that all persons who would like to see how Parliament operates can participate. 
The Bill now before the Senate is designed to allocate to the States the sum of $1 42.5m for housing mainly in connection with projects undertaken by housing commissions and housing trusts. This is the last Bill of this kind which will come before the Senate under the present 5-year housing agreement so it seems to me that this is a golden opportunity for a national inquiry into housing requirements throughout the Commonwealth. The last inquiry of this nature was conducted in the late 1940s. There has. been no assessment since then of the kind of housing that is required, the number of houses that are needed and the slum reclamation that is necessary to raise the standard of housing. This is a real opportunity for the Commonwealth Parliament to initiate an inquiry which will deal in depth with all of the problem associated with housing in this nation. I would not confine the inquiry to housing coming within the control of the housing commissions and housing trusts in the various States. I would extend it to the field of war service homes and to the application of the homes savings grants which were introduced in 1963. I would conduct a full and complete inquiry to ascertain our housing requirements at this stage in our history. lt is obvious that there is no relationship between State and State and between the Slates and the Commonwealth in regard to housing requirements. There is no modern thinking about what is happening in the field of war service homes. No attempt has been made by the Government to iron out the anomalies which exist in the homes saving grants scheme. Year by year we pass Bills relating to loans for housing and allow the States to spend the money as they wish without inquiry or investigation from the Commonwealth Government. Some of the things that are happening in the States should be investigated by the Commonwealth, which is providing the money in the form of interest bearing loans, with the object of mak ing some decisions on the type of housing that should be built. Even now the Housing Commission in Victoria is saying that there is not enough research into housing. A statement by the  Chairman  of the Housing Commission  Mr Gaskin  was reported in the Melbourne 'Sun' in the following terms: 
The Housing Commission was not doing enough research into housing needs, the Commission  Chairman, Mr P.  i.  Gaskin, said yesterday. 
He said legislation to be introduced in this session of State Parliament would enable the Commission to do more. 
If the Housing Commission in Victoria proposes to do more along the lines of what it is doing now, I want to see some action taken to ensure that it ceases. The Commission has undertaken a programme of building high density, high rise flats. By putting family units into the environment in which it is now putting people, it will create in Victoria in 50 years time the type of Harlem slums that exist in New York today. There is no concern about providing the small suburban home that each family should have. 
The Housing Commission is not concerned about the welfare of people, lt is concerned about getting bodies into the metropolitan area to encircle the Golden Mile for the purpose of putting money back into the pockets of the big business interests in Bourke, Swanston and Collins Streets. If one goes to Melbourne today one will see the whole of the centre of the city encircled by blocks of flats up to 20 storeys high, in which families are to live, in which the facilities are poor, in which the recreation facilities are almost nonexistent in relation to the numbers of people who live in the flats and in which assistance to young mothers in the form of creches and facilities for looking after their children at pre-school centres are almost non-existent. The Housing Commission is building a giant concrete jungle to house people who should be living on suburban blocks. 
The situation has now been reached where the State Government, in its mad desire to build up a great population again in the centre of Melbourne is prepared lo bulldoze down homes which the people within the inner area of Melbourne are not convinced should be bulldozed down. There are people in authority  -  I will refer to them in a few minutes - who are quite satisfied that rehabilitation or renewal programmes could be undertaken in some of the inner suburbs; that the housing areas that are to be demolished as slum areas could be renewed and made habitable by the expenditure of about half a million dollars. Yet in one case the Victoria Housing Commission is proposing to destroy 170 homes and to build in their place 4 blocks of flats, each of which will house 200 families. 
The State Government is prepared to allow this development to occur within the centre of the city so that people can move in and look after the Nathans, the Myers and the other people who already have their businesses there. We can recall what happened when there was an exodus of people from the centre of the metropolitan area and the inner suburbs. There was a great howl from the business interests in Bourke and Collins Streets, or what is known as the Golden Mile, because the retail trade was going to businesses in the suburbs. The lobbying ability of those business interests in the Golden Mile with the State Government is obviously sufficient to ensure an increase in the population of the centre of the metropolitan area. The proof of that is the 20-storey high rise units that are now being built in that area to house families and people with young children who are not able to live in a normal suburban home and enjoy the kind of life that we believe everybody should enjoy. 
This problem is worrying not only the working class and the Labor movement but. also people who have given a considerable amount of thought to these matters. The latest project to be announced by the Victorian Housing Commission involves going into the Fitzroy area and destroying 170 homes, as f mentioned earlier. This is an area in which the Victorian Chapter of the Royal Australian Institute of Architects is very interested. It believes that the area could be rehabilitated by the expenditure of about half a million dollars, that every home in the area would be able to be used and that there need be no destruction of any of the homes there. The Chapter has said that it is not a slum area and that it is in a pleasant environment. A newspaper report of its statement reads as follows: 
The Housing Commission wants to acquire 16 acres in the area - bounded by Church, Reid, Rae and Nicholson -Streets. 
About 170 homes would be demolished. 
Several months ago the Fitzroy Residents Association spoke to members of more than half the households in the proposed redevelopment area. 
Most were reported to have said they were happy there and did not want to move. 
The Institute Chapter says the scale and arrangement of bouses in the area is intimate and involving. 
The people are not living in sub-standard conditions, but are housed at a standard well above the minimum levels', it says. 
The Institute Chapter estimates the Commission could redevelop the area with 4 high rise blocks, each containing 200 flats. 
This would cost about $!4m, it says. 
For the same amount it could build about 1,270 houses in suburban areas. 
The Institute estimates it would cost only $500,000 to conserve, repair or replace the 170 houses marked for demolition. 
So the position in that area is that about $14m could be spent on building high rise flats that would provide accommodation for 800 families. By spending about the same amount of money on taking those people out to suburban blocks to live in an environment in which family life can develop in much more congenial circumstances, an additional 400 homes could be made available. 
That is the type of planning that is going on in Victoria. That Ls the type of planning that will continue if we as a nation do not examine in greater depth the requirements of the nation as a whole, lt is quite obvious to people who have examined the situation that the high rise flats problems are huge and growing. The environment in which the people in those flats are living is such that normal family life is almost non-existent. We are creating the concrete jungles that have brought about the downfall of many people in countries on the other side of the world. It is not as though Australia is restricted in terms of the availability of land. When one goes to countries such as Japan and Hong Kong, where land is very scarce and some facilities are almost non-existent, one can understand why those countries have to move into high rise development. But in Australia that is not necessary at this point of time. 
Some people may say that if family units are taken from the centre of Melbourne out into the suburbs the breadwinners will have long distances to travel to their employment. But there is still plenty of land within 6 or 8 miles of the centre of Melbourne which would be available for this type of development. 
In the Avondale Heights area plenty of land is available. 
Well, about 8 miles. I referred to land within 6 or 8 miles of the centre of Melbourne. The district near Avondale Heights and out towards Laverton, the other side of Footscray, is where the newly developing industrial areas are, as  Senator Little  will realise if he drives through that area and sees the industrial development that is going on there. If we continue to build these high rise flat units within the centre of Melbourne we will probably finish up with a situation in which the workers living in them will have to travel further to their place of employment than if planned suburban development had been undertaken. I suggest that the position should be examined at a national level to ascertain what are the nation's real housing requirements. We have an opportunity to undertake an examination now because no doubt at this time next year we will be debating a 5-year renewal of the Commonwealth and State Housing Agreement. 
The first agreements between the Commonwealth and the States were made at the instigation of a Labor government, and agreements between the Commonwealth and the States have been made regularly ever since. At the time of the first agreements the main aim was to provide homes for rental for people in the lower income groups. Now it is almost impossible for people in Victoria to rent home units in single suburban blocks because all units that are built are offered first for purchase. This applies not only in the metropolitan area of Melbourne but also in the City of Geelong. If a purchaser for a home unit cannot be found within 3 or 4 weeks the unit is offered for rental, with the result that there is a long list of people in the very low income group who have been waiting for 2 or 3 years to rent a home. Those who can afford to purchase a home unit - good luck to them - are able in some cases to get a home reasonably quickly. 
At present the only units being built by the Housing Commission are for rental purposes, and it is those units which are creating the problem. These are blocks of units in which as many as 2,000 or 3,000 people are living, where everybody is in everybody else's kitchen, where the people on low incomes are worrying because they have nowhere to leave their children and nobody to look after them. In many cases both parents have to go out to work. The situation of people living in these conditions was highlighted by an examination carried out by the Melbourne Apex Club some months ago. Part of the findings were reported in the Melbourne 'Sun' of 5th September under a headline 'High-Rise Problems are Huge'. It is obvious that the problems are huge. Investigators associated with this examination of the Housing Commission's development area were overwhelmed by the huge problems facing parents in a Fitzroy high rise development area. The report states: 
The investigators said: 'We are overwhelmed by the huge problem which will face parents of children to be housed in this area.' 
The report says there are unsatisfactory facilities for family recreation in all inner Melbourne's high density residential areas. 
In 1972, Fitzroy's main Housing Commission development area would house 1,560 children. About 720 children would be of pre-school age. 
About 550 people, including 206 children, were displaced by the Commission's development,' the report says. 
A City Council creche formerly in the area had taken 55 children. The new creche next tothe Town Hall could handle only 65. 
The sister in charge of the creche has already turned away 70 children,' the report says. 
The Park Towers building in South Melbourne was on a site which originally contained 64 dwellings housing 178 people. 
The new 30-storey building housed 1,028 people. The number of children alone was more than double the total number of displaced people. 
The total recreational facilities provided by the Housing Commission in the project are three traditionally-equipped play areas, a 'rocket' costing $2,000 and two bare -rooms on the ground floor,' the report says. 
The report is the result of a year's study by members of Apex. 
This report has been confirmed by a sister who is in charge of one of the creches and who is vitally concerned about the problems of the families living in home units in the high density flats area. At the top of the report which appeared in the newspaper is a photograph which obviously I cannot speak about tonight, but the newspaper gives a report of what the sister said. The article states: 
 The two children left on their own in high-rise flats hung on the creche gales and gazed sadly at others playing inside. 
. . Until the sister in charge of the Fitzroy creche, Margaret Paine, rang the Immigration Department and reported the parents. 
It's a monstrous situation,' Sister Paine said yesterday. 'It's criminal.' 
She said the Apex Club's report that she had turned away 70 children from the Fitzroy highrise estate was correct. 
The report says that in 1972 there could be 720 pre-school children living in the estate and the creche catered for only 65 youngsters. 
At the moment, we have room for only six children from the Housing Commission's estate,' she said. 
I started a waiting list, but when it got into the 80s I decided it was time to call a halt.' 
She said many families could not make ends meet unless both parents worked. 
I know that some parents go out to work and leave young children on their own all day,' Sister Paine said. 
This is the kind of situation that is developing in the field of housing. But in addition to this aspect, the erection of high-rise flats in these areas is having an effect also on the cost of housing generally. We have reached a situation where as a national Parliament we should be examining this question at all levels. We should not he just handing out millions of dollars in loans, willy nilly, without making some kind of investigation or giving some kind of direction as to the way in which the money should be spent. 
I am a director of 3 co-operative housing societies in the City of Geelong and we are finding it increasingly hard to make funds available to people who need homes. When we formed the first co-operative society our capital was $200,000, from which we were able to lend money to enable 29 persons to build homes which they would pay off. The second loan that we received was for, 1 think, the same amount, but with that we were able to provide for only 24 people to build homes. Recently under the Commonwealth and State housing arrangement we received $300,000 for a co-operative housing scheme, the money to be advanced over a 3-year period with $100,000 being made available each year. We find now that we are able to finance the construction of homes each year for 9 or 10 people only. This is because of the high cost of housing. This situation must be examined in relation to the inflation that exists. We heard inflation discussed in another connection yesterday during the debate on a proposal which was then before the Senate. We were told that inflation is not very severe in this country and that in many other countries inflation is at a much higher rate. 
When we examine the field of housing we find that the rate of inflation is rising and that the position has now been reached in Victoria where the State Government has found it necessary to lift the limit on housing loans from $8,000 to $10,000 in many spheres, including the co-operative housing scheme area. The State Government has been forced to increase the loan limits to this level only because of the high cost of housing throughout the Commonwealth. Figures which have been supplied to me indicate that from 1968-69 to 1969-7(» the average cost of timber framed A.C. sheeted 1.2- square 3-bedroom homes increased by about $900. In the same period a timber framed home with varied patterned sheeting increased on an average from $8,330 to $9,1)0. 
If the honourable senator asks the Parliamentary Library research people they will probably be able to tell him. 
That is the information it has given to me. Building costs for these homes have risen by more than $800 a year. Brick veneer seems to be the most popular type of construction today. People like to build a brick veneer home because of its comfort, and because the cost of painting them is negligible compared with that of weatherboard homes. The cost of this type of home has gone up by $1,000 in just one year. 
Yet some people try to tell us that inflation is of minor importance. Apart from building costs continually increasing, this Government has been increasing interest rates. The increase in interest rates has caused the cost of a home to rise to a staggering level at the present time. Between 1966 and the present time permanent building societies increased their interest charges from  6)  per cent to 7 per cent. To a person buying a home over a 20-year term, this means an extra $71 3 in total repayments. If the home is being bought over a 30-year term the extra cost is $1,197, and a home bought over a 40-year term costs an extra Si, 727. I do not propose to mention every scale of charges. It is my intention to request at a later stage that this document be incorporated in Hansard. When interest rates are increased from 7 per cent to  H  per cent, a home bought over a 40-year term will cost an extra $1,758. The 1 per cent increase in interest rates over the last 4 years - from  6i  per cent to 7i per cent means that the purchaser pays an additional $3,485 for his home that he may have purchased some 5, 6 or 10 years ago. 
The people of Australia have had confidence in the Commonwealth Savings Bank over the years. I will quote only one example of increased interest rates in connection with this bank because, as I said, I will have this document incorporated in Hansard. Over the last 5 years the interest rates of that bank have increased from 5i per cent to  6i  per cent. As a result a person will pay an additional $4,204 for the home that he has purchased. This figure is based on an average loan of $10,000. The interest rates for other savings banks have increased from 5J per cent to 7 per cent. A home purchased over a 40-year term would cost an additional $4,250. Under the life assurance companies loan system interest rates have increased from  6i  per cent to  Ti  per cent. On a loan taken out over a 40-year term, the increased charges would be $3,485. This is the imposition that has been placed on working class people in the community who have been purchasing their homes under long term agreements. After all, this is the only way in which the average working class person can hope to purchase a home. We have heard in this Chamber on many occasions that Australia is very proud that its home ownership rate is higher than that of most other countries. But what many people and the Government do not realise is that many of these homes are never paid for finally by the people who take out the contracts because they do not live long enough to meet the final payments. 
With the imposition of these increased interest rates the purchase price of a home is getting further and further away from the average Australian. If we look at the increased monthly payments that home purchasers have to meet because of increased interest charges imposed on them by this Government, we find that a person purchasing a home through a permanent building society will pay an additional $3.59 per month when the loan is taken out over 40 years. This additional payment is due to the increase from  6i  per cent to 7 per cent in interest rates. When the increase in interest rates is from  6)  per cent to 7 per cent, the purchaser has to pay an additional $7.26 per month on a 40-year loan. On a loan obtained from the Commonwealth Savings Bank, with its interest charges rising from  5i  per cent to 6) per cent, the increased monthly payment is $8.76, or an additional $2 per week. So to those who want to examine the situation, it is quite obvious that the high interest charges that have been imposed on these people are placing a heavy burden upon them. In many cases the total cost of their homes has increased by one third. People who paid £4,500 some 8 or 10 years ago are finding that they have an additional burden of $4,000 imposed upon them for the balance of the loan. 
So we have to examine the whole situation in a new light. We have to examine a method whereby some kind of saving in cost can be created. We have to find a new system of construction - probably the modular system. Its implementation would not necessarily mean that every home would be a box, but it would cut costs. I must say that the Minister for Housing  (Senator Dame Annabelle Rankin)  has placed before this chamber an excellent booklet on standardisation of home construction. I have passed a copy of it on to a highclass housing builder in Geelong. He has nothing but praise for the recommendations contained in it. He believes that this is the type of thing that must come. This does not patternise home building.  It  does not mean that we will have thousands of little boxes in an area. It means savings to purchasers by standardisation of construction. I congratulate the Government on bringing forward this proposal. I hope that the State government will co-operate in ensuring that the standards that have been set at this level will be accepted. 
I want to revert to the position of the Housing Commission in Victoria. In recent weeks the Commission and the Victorian Government have been under criticism for the sale of certain areas for development by private enterprise. I believe that this is totally wrong. If there is to be slum reclamation the Housing Commission itself should undertake it and not hand it over to private speculators who are looking for opportunities to make large profits. As a result of the South Melbourne deal in which the Commission sold an area that it had reclaimed under its slum reclamation scheme it has been disclosed that the Commission lost §269,000. This area has been handed over to a private enterprise company for redevelopment. 1 accept the fact that some loss has to be associated wilh a slum reclamation plan because the people who are living in the areas have to be compensated and the buildings have to be demolished if in fact slums exist. But- I cannot accept that, a State government should be able to sell its properties to private investors so that they can make a profit, because it is quite obvious that whatever private investors can do the Housing Commission has equal opportunity and equal ability to do without incurring a huge loss. Instead, it is allowing private enterprise to make huge profits. The disclosure which has emerged since the south Melbourne racket was discovered has shown that the Victorian Housing Commission has lost about $1.6m in similar deals over the last 8 to 10 years. I cannot accept this as a real approach to the problem. It is quite obvious if the Housing Commission can sell at a loss to private speculators it can do the work itself. It does not have to build high rise flat units to do it. If private enterprise can build a number of home unit blocks of 2 or 3 storeys on a nice little area in south Melbourne - I do not take any exception to that - surely the Housing Commission has the capacity to do the same. 
This situation reminds me of what happened at the lime the Ford Motor Co. of 
Australia Ltd left the Geelong area to develop its operations at Broadmeadows. The area the company took over was sold to it by the Premier of Victoria,  Sir Henry  Bolte. He sold Housing Commission land to the Ford Motor Co. which constructed the big factory which exists there for the assembly of Ford motor vehicles. Before the announcement was made about the sale of this land people closely associated with the Ford Motor Co. at Geelong - I shall name the area specifically - were able to buy tracts of farm land around the proposed factory area at farm rates or a little higher. After the announcement was made many thousands of pounds, as it was at that time, were made by those people who obviously had advance information that the Ford Motor Co. was going to the Broadmeadows area. That is the kind of trouble governments get into when they are involved in this kind of dealing. We had similar situations itv Victoria in relation to the Education Department. Land was handed from person to person. Rowville was a case in point. Each person involved was making a profit before the Education Department finally purchased the land for the development of the school. I believe governments have to be careful when they are moving into this field that they operate at a level where they reclaim slum areas and construct family units. 
As I said earlier we have a situation now in Victoria where the population living in these areas are living in units which can only create slums of the future. Would any honourable senator in this chamber by choice take a wife and 3 children into a 20-sloried concrete building? Would anybody ask people to live their family life in these buildings? Of course they would not. The problems of looking after a family under those circumstances are so big that even the Apex clubs at this stage have moved into the field. They are closely examining the social problems which exist. 
We have a situation in relation to service homes where an examination in broad terms should be made. We should re-orient our thinking to today's world and not think in terms of regulations which were probably made in the 1940s for persons eligible for war service home loans. This should be part of the inquiry into the housing needs of the community. I have' 2 cases to which 1 wish to refer. One case has been finally replied to in the negative by the Minister. Returned soldiers are being refused a loan on the basis that they live in remote areas. 
The loan is a war service home loan. 
I know it is not but I am trying to relate my remarks to the necessity for a full inquiry into housing generally. I was careful in my opening remarks to say that this inquiry should embrace not only the Commonwealth-State housing agreements but also the position of war service home loans and even the homes savings grants. If I am ruled out of order I can say what I want to say on this matter until the debate on the Estimates. 1 ask whether the Minister would be happy for me to mention them now because I wish to make a few remarks in this regard. 
I am prepared to talk about this matter because in one case we have a situation where a man has approximately 200 acres in the western district of Victoria. I have the right to use his name which is  Mr Kilpatrick.  The Minister knows of this case.  Mr Kilpatrick  has been asked not only to provide his home as equity but also 150 acres of land as an additional equity before a war service home loan will be paid to him. 
The area is near Dartmoor. 
That is what the honourable senator is saying. I do not agree with that proposition. The position is that a new home to the value of about §10,000 to S 12,000 will be built on this area. The 150 acres is being asked for as equity. Because this person is 5 miles from the nearest post office he is being asked to provide double the equity which a person in the city is required to provide. He has to put 150 acres of his land on the line plus a home which will be valued between $10,000 and $12,000. This is not the horse and buggy days where it took 2 hours or li hours to travel to a post office 5 miles away. It is a matter of 6 or 7 minutes by motor car. People are buying these kinds of homes in remote parts of the State, if they are good and comfortable. They commute from one area to another even if their livelihood is involved. I will not accept the fact that there is not sufficient equity in the home and that the Department should have double the value of the home. I believe this is horse and buggy day thinking. This situation could be examined by a full inquiry. We have an obligation to examine the operations of the homes savings loans on which I will have more to say in the Estimates debate. Within the next 12 months there should be a broad examination of the housing needs and requirements of the community, how various housing operations are working not only in relation to Commonwealth and State agreements but also the war service homes and the anomalies which exist under the Homes Savings Grants. No doubt this legislation will be before us next year to renew another 5-year agreement. I support this Bill. The Australian Labor Party is not opposing the legislation that is before us now. 
Sentaor POYSER - Several amendments were made but the Minister is still tough on some people. 1 will talk about this matter on the Estimates debate. 
I have some specific cases in mind in which the Minister has been very hard. 
The honourable senator had the cases and she has rejected them all. 
It is because the valuations made by the officers have been far too tough. But we will argue that point at another level. The Minister has been cruel to young people who have been trying to do something for themselves. She has been extremely tough. But I will raise this matter at another stage. In the long term I am asking for a complete examination of the housing needs of the community. An examination should be made of the requirements of the people who are being put into these high rise monstrous concrete buildings at the present time by the use of Commonwealth money. The Minister should talk to the States and say: 'This is not the type of development required in this country'. If Australia had a pocket handkerchief area like Japan or Hong Kong I would certainly be in favour of those buildings. 
An examination carried out by the Royal Australian Institute of Architects has clearly shown that for the amount of money that would be spent to build accommodation for 800 people 400 additional home units could be built on suburban blocks. The Institute of Architects is a responsible organisation, ft knows what it is talking about; it is not inexperienced in these matters. I believe it would be far better to put 1,200 people into a normal suburban area, each person having his own garden plot and some room, than to put 800 people into the inner suburbs of Melbourne to fill the purse of  Sir Maurice  Nathan, Myers, Coles and other people. 
The ACTING  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Laucke)  -  Senator Poyser,  during your speech you intimated a desire to have certain material incorporated in Hansard. 
With the concurrence of honourable senators 1 incorporate in Hansard the following tables: 

<graphic href="046232197010296_82_4.jpg"></graphic>


<graphic href="046232197010296_82_5.jpg"></graphic>


<graphic href="046232197010296_83_6.jpg"></graphic>


<graphic href="046232197010296_83_7.jpg"></graphic>

asked the Minister representing the Minister for Education and Science, upon notice: 
What funds have been supplied to each of the States for the establishment of school science blocks since the inauguration of the relevant scheme in 1964. 
In these amounts, what moneys have been made available to State governments for government high and technical schools. 
What moneys have been made available to independent schools in each of the States and. of these sums, what amounts have been made available to (a) Roman, Catholic, and (b) non-Roman Catholic schools. 
Which schools in the Commonwealth have been assisted under the scheme. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Immigration, upon notice: 
Is it a fact that Government policy prevents assisted passages being granted to coloured persons; if so, does this same policy apply to a person of European blood and colour, who is a British subject and has an Indian wife and three children who are all British subjects. 
Yes. It is a matter of general policy to grant assisted passages only to persons of European descent. 
Assisted passages are intended to assist Australia obtain migrants whom it would not otherwise secure to meet its defined needs. 
Financial assistance has never been given to migration which has been limited or restricted by the policy of successive Governments. 
Normally assisted passages are not granted to a family in which one or more members are ineligible. 
 I move: 
That the House of Representatives be requested to amend the Second Schedule by reducing the vote - Division 310, Department of  Housing  $6,314,000 - by $1 - until a national inquiry is initiated to ascertain the nation's housing needs in the future; to identify the shortcomings of the building industry so that they may be quickly removed; to establish beyond doubt the priorities which should be observed in the provision of funds for housing; to overcome interest and deposit problems; and to provide land and housing at low cost by means of appropriate agreement between the Commonwealth, the States and local government authorities. 
This proposed amendment covers much of the ground that f covered when I spoke to the Loan (Housing) Bill which was before the Senate last week. 1 repeat now that it is the belief of the Opposition that a national inquiry is needed urgently to ascertain the needs of the people of Australia. There has been no such inquiry since the late 1940s - it was about 1947, I think - and I am certain that the position now is such that a complete investigation of our housing needs is imperative. The investigation should be associated with the grants that the Commonwealth makes to the States. We grant moneys to the States in accordance with the Commonwealth and State Housing Agreement and to meet the requirements of the War Service Homes Division. We also provide money in the form of homes savings grants. 
We are not able to ascertain whether we are forcing people into purchasing a home for which they cannot afford to pay. We are very proud of the fact that some "5 per cent of our people either own their own home or are in the course of purchasing it, but there has not been any investigation into the situation which arises when young people endeavour to purchase a home in their own right. I believe that they get too little encouragement in this regard. The Commonwealth Government is largely to blame for rising costs because of its recent decision to increase interest rates, the effect of which has been that some homes will cost in excess of an additional $4,000 on the original cost. Every honourable senator no doubt is aware that a young couple who wish to purchase a home in the early years of their marriage have to plan their family to the extent that the wife must work for 3 or 4 years, or even more, in the initial stages. We still have the tremendous problem of the deposit gap despite the fact that in Victoria, at least, the maximum loan that can be obtained under the housing co-operative  legislation and from lending insititutions has been increased to $10,000. But $10,000 today is little enough when it comes to building a home which will meet the needs of a family for many years. 
In 1963 the Government endeavoured to assist by initiating the homes savings grant of $500- £250 as it was then. It will be recalled that at that time I pointed out that before one of those grants had been made the building industry had absorbed it. The Commonwealth's handout of $500 was grabbed quickly by the industry as an extra donation to put into its coffers. Since 1963 costs have risen to the extent that $500 means very little to a young couple attempting to buy their own home. Probably $500 would not pay for half a square in a present day home. I established last week that the cost of an average I2i square 3 bedroom family home has increased by from $800 to $1,000 in the last 12 months. We must come to grips with these things. That is why we have proposed this amendment to the Appropriation Bill. 
We need to assist the building industry, as [ am sure we can, by getting the States to agree to standardise building construe-; tion. That would reduce the cost of construction,  i  am certain that we could do that if the inquiry envisaged in the amendment were instituted. As I have indicated previously, I know that the Government has done something in this regard by issuing a booklet which indicates standards that it would like the States to accept, but very often we find that 2 or 3 years elapse before the States examine the proposals properly and introduce them. The Government could move very quickly into this area in an endeavour to get some degree of standardisation. It would not mean a series of homes that were exactly alike: it would mean a standardisation in the construction of homes. An inquiry such as we have suggested could do nothing but good. lt could even provide guide lines for the Government when the Commonwealth and State Housing Agreement comes before us within the next 12 months. The present agreement between the Commonwealth and the States expires at the end of this financial year. In this chamber last week we approved the final 12-month allocation under the present 5-year agreement. We are now faced with arranging a further agreement Whether it will be for 5 years or more is difficult to tell. I believe that we should examine these matters very closely and present a type of agreement that will cure many of the ills that exist at the present time. Later I will be having a few more things to say on the estimates themselves under the various headings. For the moment, I commend this amendment to the Committee. 
I want to refer to homes savings grants under Division 310 - Administrative. I have raised with the Minister before the matter of a young couple who decide that they will build their own home or subcontract the various sections of that home in an endeavour perhaps to get it a little cheaper than by paying the full price to a building contractor. We find that in many of these cases, because there is no contract price before the Department in the State concerned, a valuation is made and very often the valuation exceeds the amount permitted under the Act at that time. I am concerned because it has been proved to my satisfaction in some cases that the valuation has been under that which would entitle the applicants to the grant of $500. They have complied in every other respect but have been rejected on the basis that evidence is insufficient to make absolutely certain that the documents they have submitted to the Department disclose all payments made. I want to refer to a case which I took up with the Minister about 12 months ago and I. want to quote a paragraph from a letter from the Regional Director to the people concerned. This is not the Ministers reply, but the Minister replied to me in identical terms on1 5th January 1970. The letter slated: 
Where the applicant is an owner-builder, it is not possible to establish with any certainty the actual cost of constructing the home. No matter what receipts arc produced there is no way of establishing that these represent the only amounts paid. Furthermore, it isunlikely that the cost to the applicant would represent a reasonable approximation of the value of the home. In such cases a valuation of the dwelling and other improvements erected is arranged by the Department. This valuation is based on what would represent a fair contract price had the dwelling been erected by a builder. 
I believe that if young people have saved and are endeavouring to establish a home by dint of hard work and are prepared, in some cases, to do quite a deal of the work themselves - and. in other cases, they are sub-contracting to save the 10 per cent or whatever margin a main contractor puts on a home - they should be given some consideration.I believe that the rule is applied far too harshly. In this particular case there is a full file of accurate evidence to indicate that, with the exception of perhaps very minor amounts, what was paid for the construction of the home can be established clearly. Receipts are held for all the sub-contracting jobs and they certainly do not in total exceed the then valuation of $15,000. 
It was $15,000 on this occasion. I am certain that these young people have been completely honest in everything they have presented to the Department in their application. I am equally certain that the valuation, particularly when compared with the municipal valuations in the area, is high. I think they have been denied the loan on the basis of the valuation of a house that is fully completed, whereas in many cases, as we know, a builder who accepts a contract will leave the garage or carport to a later stage. Perhaps the owner himself will do that work later. These people have had the value of the carport included in the valuation of the total home and this is one of the main reasons why, according to the Department, they have exceeded the departmental valuation. 
I have a similar case relating to a young couple at Grovedale in the City of Geelong. They have been able clearly to establish by receipts, and by accurate estimates of the electrical work that the young man did himself - he is employed by an electrical contractor and is qualified to do electrical work - that they qualified for the grant. He is able to indicate the amount he paid to sub-contractors. He believes that he has been wrongly rejected on the basis of the clause that I read out from that letter from the Department of Housing. He is extremely unhappy that he isbeing denied the $500 because he has been able to save a little by sub-contracting and not letting a major contractor get the 10 per cent additional to what he would normally get. Again, in this case, the Department has taken into consideration a carport at the side of the house that was erected, not at the same time as the house, but shortly after the house was constructed. I understand that the paths that have been laid around the home have been taken into consideration in the valuation. This means that a person who is not prepared to complete his home in the initial stages is able to comply with the valuation but someone who works hard himself and is able to complete his home in a comparatively short time pays a penalty by way of the valuation that is placed on his property and is denied the$500 grant. I believe that a more sympathetic approach should be made in relation to this matter. I think that more consideration should be given to municipal valuations, even it it is necessary to alter the Act or the regulations to make it clear - if the Minister feels that this is important - that a person must indicate that he is prepared to live in the home for a certain period of time. These people should not be denied their rights out of hand when they have believed from the start that they would be eligible. 
They have been able to submit evidence of the actual cost of the property. In some cases they have been able to submit the municipal valuation placed on the property, but the Department will not accept this. On the last occasion I mentioned, the valuer was from the Taxation Office. 1 presume he would look at it from the angle of probate and not from the angle of trying to help a young couple to make a start in life. If the valuation is to be made it should be made by a qualified person from the Department of Housing - not from the Taxation Department. A valuer from the Taxation Department would obviously be looking for the highest valuation that could be placed on the property. We all know that valuations differ greatly from one area to another. Even between sworn valuers one will find great differences. I say to the Minister: Do not deprive people of their rights by making too tight a valuation in these circumstances and please accept at their face value the honest submissions that are given to the Department supported by receipts and other evidence, lt is quite clear that these people have endeavoured honestly to submit the evidence to the Department. They have submitted honestly the total costs even to the extent, in the second case I mentioned, of the individual giving a very accurate cost for the electrical work that he did on the property. This cost included the margin of profit, lt was rejected. I think that the Department should be far more sympathetic in these cases. Valuations in relation to paths, garages or car ports that are added perhaps a few months later should not come into the initial valuation as far as the Department is concerned. 

 Senator Dame ANNABELLE RANKIN (Queensland - Minister for Housing) (5.27) - I had to obtain some information for  Senator Cavanagh  which was provided in the Estimates Committee. I have just received it. lt relates to Division 310, sub division 2, Item 04 - Payments to Postmaster-General's Department for the collection of repayments. Expenditure under this item represents commission payable to the Postmaster-General's Department for the collection of repayments by War Service Homes purchasers and borrowers at money order post offices. The additional provision in 1970-71 reflects the additional charges payable on increased collections for 1970-71 which it is anticipated will be $5m more than last year. The rate of remuneration or commission is 84c per SI 00 received by the Post Office. The Post Office receives this money right throughout Australia. The money is forwarded daily to the head office branch of the State concerned. 
asked about valuations on owner built homes in respect of which the owner applies for the homes savings grant. I refer him to the book which is published and which is based on the requirements of the Act. When the value of a home is being determined regard must be had to the value of the land, the house and all other improvments on the land. This means all those items of improvements which  Senator Poyser  was discussing. These are referred to in the Act and so have to come into consideration when the value is being considered. 
In cases where the applicant is an owner builder, it is not possible for the Department to determine with any certainty what the home actually cost. No matter what receipts or other evidence the applicant produces, there is no way of establishing that these were all the payments made. Owner builders set about the process of building their homes in a variety of ways. A skilled tradesman may do much of the work himself and the cost to him may be less than to an unskilled owner builder who merely takes the place of the builder and sub-contracts all the work to tradesmen. Between these two extremes, the extent of the work performed by the owner builder himself may vary considerably. I think all senators would agree with that. 
If these factors make it impossible for the Department to determine the precise cost of a home to an owner builder, there is no alternative but to value the home. The valuations are made by experienced officers who estimate what the house and improvements would have cost had they been constructed by a building contractor. In assessing the value of the dwelling, the builder's profit margin is excluded so that the value of the house and improvements corresponds to the net cost to the builder. The cost of the land to the applicant is then added to arrive at the value of the home for purposes of the Homes Savings Grant Act. This basis of valuation is considered to be the- fairest that could reasonably be adopted for owner builders. The valuation represent the approximate cost of the home to an owner builder who subcontracts most of the work himself and who is as skilled as an experienced builder in keeping costs to a minimum. It also allows an applicant who - undertakes most of the work himself, ample scope to build a good quality home and still remain within the statutory limit. 

 Senator Poyser referred to valuations. The usual arrangement is for the valuer to be an officer of War Service Homes. If there is a feeling that a valuation is not a satisfactory one the Department of Housing has a check valuation carried out by the Taxation Office. If the Taxation Office valuation is lower than the valuation made by the Department of Housing we look at that because we are anxious to assist the young applicant. We endeavour first of all to determine a proper valuation and then, if required, we arrange for a check valuation in order to do our best to assist young Australians to receive this $500 gift. I think it is interesting to note that since the homes savings grant legislation was introduced more than $80m has been paid out to young Australians in the form of home savings grants. When we realise that the young couples who have received this grant have saved 3 times that amount of more than $80m so that they would be eligible for the grant, we see that this is a first class exercise in which young people can save for homes of their own and invest in those institutions which help people to obtain homes. I congratulate young Australians on what they are doing in this respect. 
 I want again to raise very briefly the matter of homes savings grants and more particularly a matter under Department of. Housing - Administrative. I refer to the case of - a couple residing in Townsend Road, Whittington. The municipal valuation of. their boms at the end of July 1969 - was $10,800. The Department's valuation was more than $15,000. There seems to be a remarkable difference between the 2 valuations. I realise that some municipal valuations are lower than the value of the home involved but I see no reason in this case for a difference of about 33 per cent. The Minister's reply indicates to me that the only advice that can be given to young people ' in similar circumstances is not to finish their home. This seems to be the obvious thing to do. Young people must he told not to improve, their properties in any shape or form until they have made an application for a grant, had a valuation made, then make an application to obtain the money and complete their homes, at a later date after they have received, the money. This seems to me to be a very roundabout way for people to put in a valid claim. It would mean that they would not build a garage or would not put paths down, but make their claim and then have this work done at a later stage. If I understood what the Minister said, it is possible to do this. 
I have a very brief question' relating to migrant transitory accommodation. I would like the Minister to give any information that she may have relative to applications by the Geelong Chamber of Com merce, manufacturers, and others concerning the construction of transitory flats in the city of Geelong. I understand that reprresentations have been made to the Minister and to the Department on this matter by the Geelong . Chamber of Commerce and other interested people - the representations have been - made direct to the Department at least - concerning the allocation of Mats for transitory purposes for migrants in the Geelong area. 
Geelong is a city that in proportion to its population, attracts an extremely high percentage of migrants; I think that at one stage of our immigration programme Geelong was attracting the highest proportion of migrants in the Commonwealth. I can recall that at one- stage 60 per cent of the employees of big industries such as the Ford Motor Co. of Australia Ltd and the International Harvester Co, of Australia Pty Ltd were migrants, mainly from the Continent. 
The feeling, in Geelong for a long time has been that we should participate in the building of flats for transitory purposes. The migrant hostel there is the type of hostel that still exists at Maribyrnong. I believe the hostel still operates there but the one at Braidwood does not. The type of hostel I refer to is the Nissen hut with additions built on, I understand. I believe that the flats at Geelong are . in better condition than the accommodation provided at Braidwood. But this. still is not the type of home unit accommodation that we- believe will settle migrants more ' quickly in the community. We in' Geelong believe that, because of its size, its industrial background and the high percentage of people from Europe who are attracted to it, our city should participate in any programme in which the construction of flats for temporary accommodation is undertaken. I would like the Minister to indicate at this stage whether any moves have been made for these flats to be provided in Geelong? 

 Senator Dame ANNABELLE RANKIN (Queensland - Minister for Housing) (5.48)  -  Mr Temporary Chairman,  first, I wish to make one comment to  Senator Poyser  because I would not like him ever to mislead - and I know he would not want wittingly to do so - young people who wish to apply for a homes savings grant. I wish to repeat what I said before: In determining the value of a home regard must be had to the value of the land, the house and any other improvements on the land. These are the factors which are introduced in the valuation of houses which are the subject of an application for a homes savings grant. 
I say to  Senator Poyser  that, if he knows of young people who are interested in this scheme, who are not quite certain about matters relating to the building or the purchase of a home, and who want advice on the subject, my Department is most happy for them to- go to it and to discuss the matter with an officer. In this way they will discover the things that they need to know so thai, when they do apply for a grant, they will not be disappointed. 
The honourable senator raised the matter of transitory flats for Ihe accommodation of migrants. I think that I should mention first that the section of the Department of Housing concerned with this matter is associated closely with the Department of Immigration and the Department of Labour and National Service. Decisions as to where flats of this type to assist migrants are to be located are made finally after consideration by the 3 Departments which are interested in the subject. Flats have been mentioned in conversation to me when 1 have been in Geelong but I have not received any official request. I think it is quite likely that representations were made to the Minister for Immigration. 
Or to the Minister for Labour and National Service. 
.1  did not intend to speak again during the consideration of the estimates of the Department of Housing but  1  have been brought into the debate by the remarks made by  Senator Webster  prior to the suspension of the sitting.  Senator Webster  implied that senators on this side of the Senate who have spoken to these estimates have been deliberately delaying the Senate and in fact that all matters that have been raised by senators on this side were raised earlier before the Estimates Committees. Of course, this is not so because none of the matters that I raised was raised before the Estimates Committees. In any event, I believe - and I may be in the minority on this - :that the place these matters should be raised is in the open Senate. 1 do not intend to speak on this matter at great length because 1 have already expressed my opinion on numerous occasions in the Senate, but honourable senators will recall that when the Estimates Committees were first mooted in the Senate the Opposition voted against them. Despite that fact many senators did become members of the Estimates Committees I chose not to be a member of any of the Committees because at that stage I preferred to be able to attend all of the meetings, or as many as possible, to express my point of view. Honourable senators will recall what happened on the first occasion when, in company with  Senator Cavanagh  and  Senator Keeffe,  I attended a committee meeting. On that occasion we were not able to attend the meeting. In any event we have now reached the stage in the discussion of the Estimates where we have an undertaking from the Leader of the Government  (Senator Sir Kenneth Anderson)  that these matters will be heard before the open 
Senate and 1 will not be intimidated by any remarks that  Senator Webster  may make on this matter. If we believe that things should be examined within the Committee of the Whole we intend to examine them and I have some remarks to make about several other departments as they come before the Committee. 
I will not unduly delay the Senate but I believe that all senators have a right to be heard. The Minister for Housing  (Senator Dame Annabelle Rankin)  has indicated this in (he manner in which she has attempted to answer questions. She has not at any stage, except by direct answer to  Senator Webster,  indicated that our discussions within the Committee will be hindered by her referring to things that have happened before. This would be completely wrong because no senator could be at 3  meetings at the one time - and, in one instance.  4  meetings - and if a senator decides to publicly and openly probe matters about which he feels concerned then I feel he has every right to do so without any interference from senators who may have been members of a committee and who may attempt to indicate to any senator on this side of the chamber that he has no rights to speak on a certain matter. 
 I am very disturbed by an answer I received this morning to a question I asked on notice some two or three weeks ago. The Senate will recall that I asked the Minister for Housing  (Senator Dame Annabelle Rankin)  who represents the Minister for Immigration  (Mr Lynch)  the following question: 
Is it a fact that Government policy prevents assisted passages being granted to coloured persons; if so, does this same policy apply to a person of European blood and colour, who is a British subject and has an Indian wife and 3 children who are all British subjects. 
The Minister representing the Minister for Immigration today provided the following answer: 
Yes. It is a matter of general policy to grant assisted passages only to persons of European descent. Assisted passages are intended to assist Australia obtain migrants whom it would not otherwise secure to meet its defined needs. Financial assistance has never been given to migration, which has been limited or restricted by the policy of successive governments. Normally assisted passages are not granted to a family in which one or more members are ineligible. 
This is the first time in my recollection that we have had a clear-cut statement of policy from the Minister on this matter and it disturbs me greatly to see that it is no longer based on economics but is a clear case of racial discrimination. This means in fact that if any man of European descent applies for an assisted passage, irrespective of whether he has the qualifications or not, he is refused if he has married a person of non-European descent. Of course, this means that if they have a family, this stigma of racial prejudice is passed on to the children of that family. This is a disgraceful state of affairs. It is bad enough to refuse a West Indian, a British subject, from receiving an assisted passage, as happened some weeks ago. We have now moved into the field where, if a person of white race has married outside the pure white race he will be refused assisted passages. If we take this to its logical conclusion it means that even if a person of white race who had married another person of white race adopted an Asian or coloured child, they would be prevented from receiving assisted passages to this country. No longer can the Government claim this is based on an economic policy. It is quite clear from the answers given by the Minister today that it is determined purely on a racial basis.In my view it is entirely immoral in every respect and 1 want to voice my protest not only in relation to the specific case 1 have mentioned but also in relation to all persons who find themselves in a similar position. The final paragraph of the Minister's answer is one of the most disgraceful sentences 1 have ever read. It said: 
Normally assisted passages are nol granted lo a family in which one or more members are ineligible. 
The Minister in the first paragraph of his reply made it quite clear that Government policy now is that a person of coloured race who is not a European cannot receive or obtain- an assisted passage to this country. I want to protest against this and I hope the Government's adamant attitude will be tempered by some humanity when applications of the type 1 have mentioned here are before the Department. 
I want to express my complete dissatisfaction with the reply I received from the Minister for Housing  (Senator Dame Annabelle Rankin)  on the matters I referred to earlier and to which other honourable senators have since referred. The only reply I could get from the Minister in response to my queries in relation to this matter was that the only concession that would be made is that sympathetic consideration would be given to a child adopted by European people. The answer is obviously a flat 'no' in relation to a European who has married a non-European and then has children. The answer by the Minister to my question is clear: it is a matter of racial discrimination. There can be no other construction which can be placed on it because the first part of my question said: 
Is it a fact that Government policy prevents assisted passages being granted to coloured persons? 
The Minister made the following reply: 
Yes. It is a matter of general policy to grant assisted passages only to persons of European descent. 
Take that to is logical conclusion and let people say: 'Well, that is fair enough; this country should or should not have a White Australia policy'. But we get to the situation where a British subject born in England and of European race has married an Indian lass and is denied an assisted passage to this country because one or more of his family are ineligible. I presume the one or more in this case would be the wife and the 3 children. This disgusts me beyond all belief because the person I speak of is fully qualified to come to this country. I will be prepared to give further details concerning this person when I have authority to do so. It is a disgraceful situation when, because he chose somebody he desired to spend the rest of his life with and because he chose to have a family and bring young children into this community, the Government says 'No' because the colour of his wife's skin is different, and because the colour of his children's skin will be different, from the colour of his own. This is a most disgraceful thing and cannot be fobbed off as far as I am concerned by the Minister saying that if it was an adopted child- 
 I use this only as an example. 
The only reply the Minister gave me in relation to the whole matter that I raised was that sympathetic consideration would be given. It astounds me that a government can be so inhuman in a matter of this nature. 
In dealing with Division 290  -  Administration, J want to raise a matter relating to the administration of the nursing homes subsidy paid by . the Commonwealth to patients in nursing homes who are considered to be intensive care patients, I refer to the methods whereby decisions are made by the Department in relation to some of these patients. I have had a number of people come to me and complain about the fact that persons have been admitted to these private nursing homes on a doctor's certificate verifying the need for intensive care, have been accepted by the Commonwealth Department as being eligible because of the condition of their health for the additional subsidy, and after 3 or 6 months, without any examination by a medical practitioner, without any visit to the hospital by any member of the Department, correspondence has been received from the Department indicating that the subsidy is to be no longer paid. There are many examples of this. I am very disturbed by the fact that a departmental officer can make a decision contrary to the medical evidence, submitted by a qualified doctor, that the person needs intensive care. 
Recently in the city of Geelong we had a doctor and a clerk, from the Department go through all the private nursing homes in that area and delete from the list quite a number of patients who were receiving the additional subsidy. This resulted in some cases in extreme financial hardship and seemed to be based on anything but medical grounds. In many cases the relatives of the aged person concerned have not been in a position to subsidise the fees charged in these hospitals. The result has been that serious financial embarrassment has occurred to the inmate and his or her family and there seems to be no reason in the administration of this section for the removal of those persons, in many cases without any medical examination whatever or, in some cases, a visit from  a  doctor. 1 am on the Committee of Grace McKellar House in Geelong. This is a big aged persons home and hospital. I have ascertained that persons there have been declared to be ambulant and not eligible for intensive care subsidies when they have been confined to a wheelchair. But the application for subsidy has been rejected even though in some cases mechanical hoists have to be used to take those persons out of a wheel chair and to put them back in a wheel chair because they have physical disabilities. I want to know why there is a ruling to say that these people are ambulant patients just because they can move around in  a  wheelchair. I. want to quote a Press article in the Geelong News' of 2nd September this year which indicates the great disturbance which was caused in Geelong over the removal of these aged persons from the extra subsidy' list. It reads: 
Several private hospitals  in  Geelong have joined in a strong protest lo  local  Members of Parliament over the Government's action in chopping back benefits to chronically ill patients. 
The hospital matrons claim that some patients are being financially victimised because the Government has got itself into a muddle with its commonwealth and supplementary benefits. 
A Department of Health doctor has recently been through the private hospitals in Geelong with a tine  tooth  comb. 
Patients well enough to sit up in be or to feed themselves, get their benefits reduced from $5  a  day to $2 a day. 
Sister E. Moodie, Matron of Hillcrest Private Hospital, said the situation was a disgrace. 
We have written to the Prime Minister and spoken to the Minister for Health. 
We get nowhere at  all.  When the Department of Health doctor came through here he saw one 95-year-old woman who was silting up reading a paper. 
He said she would no longer be eligible for the S5 a day supplementary Government benefit. 
Another woman, partially blind and stone deaf had her benefits reduced from $5 lo  $1  a day. 
Our fees are $10.50  a  day. so  that eeven  on the higher benefits, it is  a  tremendous burden for the relatives.' Sister Moodie added hat t the same patient had been paying into  a  medical benefit fund for 40 years. 
She could not get  a  penny back because the benefit organisations would not pay out on chronically ill cases. 
Sister S. C. Ball, Matron of Pine Dene Hospital, said that both the hospital and the patient's own doctor were required to fill out a detailed form on the patient s condition when applying for the higher benefits. "The higher benefits were made available for the first time early last year. All the cases we applied for were granted. 
But now the Department of Health  docotor  without any medical examination of our patients, has refused higher benefits for 2 of them. 
In one case it was because the woman was sitting in a chair. 
In fact,' said Sister Ball, 'she is hopelessly crippled with arthritis and can hardly walk/ 
Sister Ball said she and several other matrons hud approached  Mr A.  A. Street, MHR and intended to present their case to other local parliamentarians. 
It is beyond my understanding how these aged people can be removed from the list which would entitle them to receive the special supplementary payment. 1 cannot understand how this can be done by a decision of a clerk or a doctor in the city of Melbourne and by simply writing to a hospital advising that the benefit is no longer available. There is ample evidence that this does occur not only in relation to private nursing homes in the city of Geelong but also Grace McKellar House, of which I am a committee member. This seems to me to be a situation in which the Department is cutting its cloth io suit its budget rather than treating this matter with due consideration for the health of the people. We have the situation now where many people who did receive this benefit - and I repeat that this is with a fully qualified doctor's certificate indicating that they need intensive care and are chronically ill - are being removed from the list of persons eligible for the additional $3 a day, leaving their relatives to face with the added burden of meeting the costs. I would like the Minister to give an indication. I have a question on notice in regard to this matter. I have been awaiting a reply. As yet,  a  reply has not eventuated. I want an answer as to how it is possible for the Department to remove people from the classification of those eligible to receive this additional subsidy without any medical examination and indeed, in many cases, without even a visit to the hospital concerned. 

 Senator Dame ANNABELLE RANKIN (Queensland - Minister for Housing) (10.0) - I have some information to give the honourable senator but I feel that, after I have given it, there -might still be some further information that he would like to receive. Therefore I believe that it would be best if he were to give to the Minister for Health  (Dr Forbes)  details of the specific cases which he has mentioned so that the Minister might look at those cases. 
It is important to note that, prior to the introduction of the supplementary benefit, it was recognised that the care required and received by nursing home patients varied from little more than personal care and attention to the intensive nursing home care which requires constant supervision and all the skills and resources of the nursing staff. The supplementary benefit now payable in respect of this latter class of patient represents a substantial and more realistic contribution towards the upkeep of these cases while the ordinary benefit of S2 per day provides a reasonable contribution for the care required and received by other nursing home patients. 
I think that the honourable senator would be interested to know that over 42 per cent of patients in nursing homes are approved for the benefit of S5 per day. The classification of patients as intensive nursing home care cases eligible to receive the supplementary benefit is undertaken on an individual basis by Department of Health medical officers. In making their decisions, these medical officers take into account the nursing requirements of each patient as stated by that patient's own doctor. Where there is any doubt, approval is given to the patient. So, might I suggest again to the honourable senator that, if he has individual cases, he make details of them available to the Minister for Health so that they may be considered. 
Motion (by  Senator Sir Kenneth  Anderson) agreed to: 
That further consideration of the estimates of the Department of Health be postponed until  a  later hour. 
Department of Housing 
Proposed expenditure S6,314,000. 
Reconsideration. 
I will be very brief, but I should like to clarify the matter which I raised earlier. I believe that it has not been clarified yet. I refer to the case of an elderly person who is receiving an additional subsidy of $3 because she is in a nursing home or in an aged persons home which has hospital wards. A decision is made in Melbourne and conveyed by letter to the hospital to remove that subsidy from an aged person, who, at her age, obviously will not get any better. As some matrons have indicated to me, the health of such aged persons is deteriorating. 
In the initial stages the Department has accepted a form filled in by the matron and supported by a medical practitioner in which it is stated that a person desires and needs intensive care. In 6 months time that hospital can receive a letter indicating that the person is no longer eligible to receive the subsidy. This decision is made without the patient being examined by a department doctor. Earlier the Minister replied that the decisions based on the opinion of the medical practitioner. Obviously, the medical practitioner makes his decision in an office in Melbourne without making any examination of the person concerned. 
I understand from certain matrons that in some cases they have reported that the condition of a person is worse, not better, yet a decision is made to withdraw the subsidy in respect of that person. The matrons are terribly disturbed. Most of us accept the fact that when people enter nursing homes in their late 70s, 80s and even 90s they do so because their condition has gone beyond the stage where they can be looked after at home. Their condition deteriorates. Some matrons have expressed to me very grave concern at the fact that a decision can be made to withdraw the subsidy without any additional evidence being provided. In some cases where assistance for intensive care is granted, 1 understand that the hospitals have to re-apply in 3 months in order to continue to receive the subsidy. In some cases they have to re-apply in 1 month. It seems to me that an officer should have better evidence than this before him when he decides to withdraw a subsidy for which the matron has reapplied. Although there is the evidence of the medical pratitioner to the effect that this intensive care is required, on this occasion it will be rejected again. The matrons and the doctors do not put in facetious reports in these matters. They are serious in relation to submitting an application because they know the condition of that aged person is such that intensive care is needed and it is beyond me how, after 3 or 6 months, such a decision can be made when a medical practitioner from the Department makes no examination whatsoever but makes a purely administrative decision from 48 miles away. 

 Senator Dame ANNABELLE RANKIN (Queensland - Minister for Housing) (10.16)  -  I am very conscious of the points brought forward by  Senator Poyser  and the concern that I am sure he and other people who are dealing with these patients feel. I can only say again that in making their decisions the medical officers take into account the nursing requirements of each patient as stated by the matron of the home and the medical condition as stated by the patient's own doctor, and where there is any doubt the approval is given to the patient. However the honourable senator has drawn my attention to areas where he says this may not in fact have been the case. 
As advised by matrons from these hospitals. 
I wish to refer to the reply given by the Minister for Supply  (Senator Sir Kenneth Anderson)  concerning overtime rates. I know of no industrial award that exists in which one can balance the hours worked in 1 week against the hours worked in another. This is a practice that was eliminated by the trade union movement many years ago. It has even gone to the extent that one cannot balance 1 day's work against the other in any 1 week. No employer can work a person for 10 hours on 1 day and 6 hours on the next to make a total of 16 hours for 2 days, to my knowledge, in the normal industrial awards. I cannot see why this Parliament should be any different and have persons working 43£ hours in a week before normal overtime rates apply, even suggesting that they work shorter hours while the House is not sitting. It seems to me to be a wrong process to balance weeks against each other when in some cases they may be months apart. This is not a procedure that the trade union movement has supported. I am certain that it would not support it now whether it be inside or outside the Parliament. It is a procedure that we have, by conciliation and in some cases by industrial action, eliminated from the industrial awards of the community. I believe that procedures of this type should not apply to persons who work in this building. 
I also believe that the long hours that are worked, particularly by some female staff, when this House is sitting are beyond their capacity. We should have a look at this matter. I understand that when the other place sat until 18 minutes to 5 last Thursday morning some girls bad been working in Parliament House for 18 or 19 hours. This is not the type of thing that should be tolerated. I can appreciate that there are difficulties in trying to maintain facilities for members of Parliament. But surely there must be a system whereby these long hours can be avoided and the hours that are worked can be arranged in such a manner that they will not be as fatiguing as they obviously are. I believe there needs to be a closer examination of working conditions generally inside Parliament. 1 have, raised this matter before during the Estimates debate and on other occasions. 1 believe that some of the methods that are adopted in this House should be eliminated and normal industrial agreements should be reached, particularly in the case of those who are working in association with the refreshment room section of Parliament House. 
I would like some answers to matters appertaining to Division 231 - Metric Conversion Board. I would like the Minister to advise me, if he is able, whether the Board is in operation yet, whether it has offices and is staffed and, if so, the address at which it is operating. I am quite certain there are many people concerned with conversion. They are interested to get information of value and I would be interested to know how far the establishment of the Metric Conversion Board has progressed. I know we appointed it but whether it is working at full pace is not yet known. 
I refer to Division 172, item 06 which deals with development grants for aerodromes. I ask the Minister for Civil Aviation  (Senator Cotton)  whether it is not yet too late to reconsider the decision of his Department and of the Government, no doubt, to expand the activities of pilot training at Avalon airport. Associated wilh the expansion of this training will be the expenditure of about $6m to extend the tarmacs. The introduction of the 747 and the Concorde at a later date is associated with this extension work. The Avalon airport is only 1 1 miles from the city of Geelong, which has a population of 130,000 people - it is rapidly expanding - about 2 miles from the township of Lara, which already has 3,000 people and which will expand further, and 3 or 4 miles only from the township of Little River. The people of this area ;*.re very much afraid that if operations at Avalon are extended it will not be as a temporary measure but that the position will become permanent, at least for many years to come. 
The figures provided by the Minister's predecessor showed that there were 41,000 aircraft movements at Avalon in 12 months. Honourable senators should understand the procedures at Avalon. The aircraft being flown are mainly Boeing 707 jets in which pilots are training. The aircraft never fly at a height of more than 1,500 feet during touch-down and take-off exercises, which continue all day. The noise in the area is continuous and is far greater than that experienced at Essendon, the Sydney airport, or any other airport in Australia. 1 understand that at the moment Avalon is geared to about 24 movements an hour and that it is proposed to improve facilities to bring the number of movements to 38 an hour, that is, 19 touchdowns and 19 take-offs, with their associated noise. 
Our information is that if pilot training continues in that area when the Concordes are introduced the noise level will be far higher than that produced by any aircraft that have ever flown in Australia so far. We know from experience in the city of Geelong that tremendous development will continue in the area, particularly in the vicinity of the airport. We have no objections to the airport being operated as it is at the moment in relation to the Government Aircraft Factory, where the assembly of aircraft such as the Mirage took place and where a very fine job was done by Australian workmen, but we look with grave concern at the development of the airport as a pilot training centre. Other factors associated with this development should be mentioned. I refer to the nearness of a big city, the nearness of a township of 3,000 people at which there is an aged person's centre conducted by the Brotherhood of St Laurence, and to the possibility of human error while pilots are being trained even though nothing has happened yet. 
The training of pilots does not involve normal take-offs and normal landings; it is obvious that the pilots must be trained to cope with many types of landing. It is obvious that they conduct these exercises with one motor not operating or perhaps with two engines out. They practise all types of emergency landing which might be required of an ace commercial pilot. It is our view that the development of Avalon for this purpose is not in the best interests of our people. Although we sincerely hope that there is never an accident while these pilots are being trained, we believe that if an accident did occur untold damage could be done to the area and untold lives could be lost because of this airfield's proximity to residential areas Which, as I mentioned earlier, are develop ing. This development will continue at a much faster rate than we have seen so far, especially when the West Gate project is completed and travel between Geelong and Melbourne becomes much quicker. The main development of industry in the Geelong area has been to the north or north west, towards or very close to the area which is now used as an airport. 
We believe that the $6m which it is proposed to spend to extend the runways at Avalon could well go towards the development of a proper training centre in a more remote part of Victoria. I understand that permanent facilities for such a centre could be provided for between $15m and $20m. With a project such as I envisage there would not be the risks that will be associated with the development at Avalon. Can honourable senators understand that 24 times each hour and, subsequently, 38 limes in each hour, there will be a landing and take-off involving aircraft flying over the homes of people at Lara and Little River, and that this noise will be continuous for between 8 and 10 hours a day? These people will be worse off than any people who are at present affected by the noise from a major airport in any capital city of Australia. I hope it is not too late to re-examine the decision to develop Avalon in the manner intended. I know that the Parliamentary Standing Committee on Public Works has investigated this matter and has made its recommendations in support of the project, but 1 feel that in the interests of all those who are concerned the proposal should be re-examined. In any event, I do not believe that this is the ideal place for this type of training. Nor do I believe that it is too late to develop a training centre on a permanent basis in a far more remote part of the State. 
We are afraid that with the expenditure of the $6m which is proposed for extensions at Avalon a permanent temporary facility will be created. I remind honourable senators that this Parliament House was built as a temporary measure and was opened in 1927. It is now 1970 and it is anybody's bet as to when the new and permanent parliament house will be built. I feel that if we extend the runways at Avalon we will be in a similar situation in respect of the training of pilots for the larger aircraft which will be developed. The high noise factor associated with these aircraft must be very disturbing to all people who are concerned, but I think it will be far more disturbing when there are 41,000 aircraft movements in 12 months or, as expected, 38 movements in an hour. This will be 19 take-offs and 19 landings each hour with aircraft flying no higher than 1,500 feet. 
Anybody who has driven along the Melbourne to Geelong road when one of the 707 aircraft has flown low overhead will know that it is like being hit by an atomic bomb. The noise is tremendous. I have actually seen motorists who have not been aware of an approaching aircraft run partially off the road because of their fright from the scream of the aircraft flying immediately over them. Although I am used to this because 1 have driven along that road for many years, most people get a tremendous fright when this happens. I have seen cars slew off the road as an aircraft has flown very low immediately above them. This is another factor which makes that site most unsuitable. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Repatriation, upon notice: 
Have many ageing ex-servicemen who have been hospitalised and accepted as having warcaused injuries then been declared by the Department to be chronic cases and had their medical expenses and sustenance payments withdrawn. 
On whose authority are these decisions forwarded to ex-servicemen and on what criteria are such decisions made. 
My query is very brief. I refer to Division 925  -  Capital Works and Services - in the appropriation for the Department of Works and mention specifically sub-division 1, item 01 relating to the Parliament. I note that $85,000 is allocated for capital works and services associated with the Parliament this financial year. Does this mean that no extensions will be made on this House in the foreseeable future to overcome the crowded conditions that are being suffered not only by members but also by staff, particularly in the Parliamentary Library, at the present time? I understand that there were plans for extensions to the Senate side wing to accommodate members, the Committee system that has been established and also to alleviate the problems of over crowding that exist in many of the sections of the House where staff are employed. It would appear from this allocation which is $1  4,946  below actual expenditure in  1969-70  that no immediate plans have been made for an extension of the facilities in this building. Is this so- 
The other query that  I  have is in relation to forward planning of a new and permanent parliament house. Has that matter been discussed in relation to the Estimates also? Has there been any allocation for forward planning for the building of a new and permanent parliament house which will take probably  10  to  1 2  years to complete? 
Yes. lt comes under the Department of Works. 
 I ask the Minister representing the Prime Minister whether the Prime Minister has received from the Premier of Victoria an application for financial assistance in respect of huge losses incurred in the recent Hoods in the Gippsland area of Victoria? If so, what grant has been made? 

 Senator Sir KENNETH ANDERSONI have here a brief on this matter. The Commonwealth has already offered to join with the Victorian Government in the usual way in financing a scheme for the relief of personal hardship and distress in the areas affected by floods in Victoria. The Prime Minister had a letter from the Premier of Victoria regarding damage to public structures and the destruction of crops. The information furnished by the Prime Minister's Department of 15th February states that the Prime Minister expected to be replying shortly to the Premier of Victoria. 
asked the Minister representing the Prime Minister: 
Will the Prime Minister initiate an immediate top level inquiry into allegations made in this morning's issue of 'The Age' that Commonwealth employees arc receiving valuable prizes as rewards for placing orders with Magna Alloys and Research Pty Ltd, a Sydney-based company, which has extensive dealings with the Commonwealth and State Governments and semi-government authorities. 
Will the Prime Minister ascertain whether the directors of this company have committed any criminal offences in offering valuable prizes, which are at the best only thinly disguised bribes, to public servants 

 Senator Sir KENNETH ANDERSONThe Prime Minister has provided me with the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
and (2) I refer the honourable senator to statements made by representatives of the Public Service Board to the Senate Estimates Committee A on 22nd October 1970 (Hansard p. 535-537). The Public Service Board has informed me that it is discussing with the Attorney-General's Department and other relevant Departments the documentation received by the Board. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry, upon notice: 
Is it a fact, as reported in the 'Wimmera Mail Times' of 9 October, that a Wimmera wheat grower has had 2770 bushels of wheat withdrawn from the Dooen (Victoria) Wheat Silo; if so, was this wheal withdrawn on his own application on the understanding that the wheal was to be used for stock feed on his own property. 
Was the wheat immediately sold on the black market and not used for the understood purpose; if so, is the person concerned a member of the Legislative Council in Victoria representing the Western Province. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Defence, upon notice: 
What has been thetotal expenditure by Australia in Vietnam on (a) action by all arms of the Services, and  (b)  civil aid, since military intervention in that country. 
From the time Australian troops were first posted to Veitnam up to 30th June 1970, an amount of $163.119m on action by all arms of the Services has been incurred by the Australian Forces. This amount represents the excess over normal costs in Australia of the Services. In this time period, an amount of $1 5.187m has been spent by the Australian Government on civil aid in Vietnam. 
asked the Minister for Education and Science: 
What progress has been made by the Metric Conversion Board towards the introduction of metric weights and measures in Australia? 
My question is addressed to the Minister representing (he Minister for Health, ls it a fact that many pensioners previously eligible to hold a pensioner medical card have had this entitlement withdrawn as a result of the tapered means test which was introduced in the 1969 Budget? Is it also a fact that these withdrawals took place about 12 months after the Budget announcement and that this action was contrary to the statement of the then Treasurer,  Mr McMahon.  that fringe benefits would not be available to persons who became pensioners for the first time as a result of the introduction of the tapered means test? 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Prime Minister. Is it a fact that as part of the austerity campaign lawns surrounding Parliament House are now being cut only once a week instead of twice? Is it also a fact that these lawns are now being cut by 4 men with hand motor mowers instead of a mobile mower drawn by a tractor?  Is  it also a fact that the cut grass is being heaped manually for disposal later? If so, can the Minister tell me what savings have been made? 
I do not know whether the question is intended to be in a flippant vein or is intended to be a serious one. All I know is that because of the phenomenal rains we have had in Sydney one has to cut the lawn more often. However, I suggest that this is a normal matter within the department or authority concerned. I certainly will not direct the question to the Prime Minister's Department because it has no relationship at all to the austerity aspect. If the honourable senator wants certain information because of a change in procedure, I will attempt to obtain an answer for him. 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry ls it a fact that the Australian Wool Board is considering proposals for the centralisation of the disposal of wool? Is it also a fact that if this centralisation takes place it will be a severe blow to decentralisation in many provincial and country towns throughout Australia? is the Minister also aware that widespread unemployment will occur in some centres if such a proposal is carried out? If so, will he use his good offices to ensure that such action is not taken lightly and without a full investigation into the possibility of centralising wool disposal- if this becomes absolutely essential - in a provincial centre which has adaquate port facilities? 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry. What stage has been reached in negotiations between the Commonwealth Government and the Government of Victoria in relation to the proposed reconstruction of the wool industry in Australia? ls it a fact that Victoria is the only State which has refused to be a party to the plan? If so. will the refusal of Victoria to participate hold up the necessary legislation, which must be submitted to the Commonwealth Parliament for its approval? 
On behalf of  Senator Murphy,  I move: 
That there be referred to the Standing Committee on Social Environment the following matters for inquiry and report as soon as possible after the appointment of the members of the Committee 
forecasts of housing demand in Australia: 
the capacity of thebuilding industry to meet future demands for housing: 
the extent to which private capital can be expectedto finance future demands for housing; 
the role of Commonwealth finance in housing; 
allocation of Commonwealth finance between housing for private owners, rental housing, housing renovation and urban renewal projects; 
the extent to which the allocation of Commonwealth finance for housing to the States should be made conditional upon compliance with standards of town planning and the provision of urban services; and 
land costs. 
I think the Senate is well aware that for many years now the Opposition has been endeavouring to have an examination of the housing needs of Australia made in some depth. On a number of occasions we have moved amendments to appropriate legislation to this end. Up to date we have not been successful in having a committee of the Parliament established to investigate this matter. We now believe that this is an opportune time for such an investigation to be made. We believe thisfor a number of reasons which are outlined in the motion itself and also because, by decision of the Senate in August last year, we now have an appropriate committee ofthe Senate formed but not yet established. We believe that the time is now ripe for the establishment of that committee. 
The situation that exists now is that, probably during this session and certainly no later than the Budget session, the Parliament will have before it legislation to renew or re-establish the Commonwealth and State Housing Agreement which has existed since 1945 when the then Labor 
Government initiated the Agreement for the purpose of providing homes particularly for persons in the lower income groups. We all recall that at that time the basis of the plan was mainly to provide homes Tor rental and to eliminate the lag that existed after the war years, when the construction of homes was very limited because of the lack of materials and manpower. 
Since that time, every 5 years the Commonwealth has renewed this Agreement with the States. Various innovations have been introduced from time to time, perhaps to take the emphasis away from the rental section and put it on the purchase section and also to lay down other conditions associated with the loans that are made to the States. We believe that because the Commonwealth has not been able to assist sufficiently to overcome the housing lag that still exists in the community an investigation in depth should be made. The committee whose establishment was proposed in August last year is to have the task of looking into the social environment of people. Its terms of appointment state specifically that it should consider the housing needs of the people. They refer to it as: 
The  Standing Committee  on  Social Environment (this shall include Housing, Transport, Communications and  the  provision of other facilities). So, it is quite obvious that it is the appropriate committee to examine this matter. A further resolution of the Senate, carried in August, slated that the method of setting up the committees would be as follows: 
The  actual establishment  of the  total number  of 
Committees, including the appointment  of  senators  to the  various Committees, shall  be  done over a period of not less than  12  months and not before  2 of the  said Committees selected  by the  Senate for first' establishment have actually operated and a report of the operation  of  those Committees has been presented  to  the Senate  by  the  President. 
The Senate has received the report of the  President  in accordance with that resolution, and the operation of the 2 committees selected for first establishment has been reported upon, as suggested in that resolution of 19th August 1970. 
We members of the Opposition believe that it is now incumbent upon the Senate to commence to form and establish these other committees gradually, as suggested by the Senate by resolution, and in a man ner that will increase the number of committees sitting. We believe that the Senate should establish a committee in this field as a first priority. We are bolstered in our view of this matter by a paragraph in the report that the  President  has submitted to the Senate. Paragraph 54 states: 
It is suggested for consideration that, with the successful launching of the first stage of the Senate's committee system, and the experience gained from the operation of both the Estimates Committees and the 2 Legislative and General Purpose Standing Committees, the Senate might during the autumn sittings of 1971 embark on the next stage by the full establishment of certain of the 5 committees yet to become operative. For committees vet to be fully established, see page 23. 
One of the most important committees remaining to be established is that associated with social environment. I have indicated before in the Senate that the Government's approach to housing begs the question of what action it will finally take. I believe that the Commonwealth should take a greater part not only in the provision of finance through loans to the States but also in the creation of a standard of housing acceptable throughout the Commonwealth. 
That point is also applicable, particularly in respect of people who have been forced to pay increased interest rates on their home purchase loans over the last 9 or 10 months. The motion indicates that an inquiry into these matters should be established. The States are moving into the housing field, mainly in the area of home ownership and particularly in respect of home units. Government supporters are fond of saying that 70.6 per cent of Australians own or are in the course of purchasing their own homes. They are not so ready to tell us of the tremendous debts that our young people must incur to purchase a home. That is another matter worthy of investigation, particularly as it concerns young people wishing to purchase homes under various schemes, not the least of which are the housing co-operative schemes and the operations of State housing commissions. 
If I remember rightly it is  6i  per cent, which is far too high for a young couple to pay. On a previous occasion I cited figures which I do not propose to repeat today as they are incorporated in Mansard. The effect of the last increase in interest rates imposed by the Government is to raise the cost of a home valued at $10,000 by about $4,000 over a 40-year term, and by more than $3,000 over a 30- year term. A home costing about Si 0,000 to build  -  I think, all honourable senators will agree - is a very modest home. Under present interest charges people buying such homes will pay almost two and a half times the amount of the purchase price before they become the outright owners. 
Difficulties occur also at the municipal rates level. People who have fought and battled hard all their lives to raise families and to buy a home strike difficulties when the breadwinner dies. The surviving partner finds that on an income of the pension it is impossible to pay the municipal rates. Many such examples can be found throughout the nation, particularly in the older established areas of Melbourne and of Geelong, the city where 1 live. Such areas often are re-zoned. The residents there do not want to sell their homes. Often they cannot sell because their neighbours do not wish to sell and one small housing block is insufficient for the commercial enterprise that may be interested. The properties of these people are rated according to the prices that can be obtained for the land when it is used for purposes other than housing. 
The Victorian Valuer-General is directing that the valuations of old homes in the inner parts of the cities are to be based on their rental capacity. In the cities of Geelong and Geelong West the old homes are mainly owned by elderly pensioners. The last rating notices issued showed an increase in rates of over 100 per cent. Some of the more modern houses in these suburbs have had the rates reduced. The elderly pensioners are finding that the increase of 50c a week in the pension included in the last Budget will be more than offset by the increased rates they have to pay. These people have battled for 30 or 40 years under difficult conditions to own a home. 
Young people today will be infinitely worse off because of the high interest rates imposed by the Commonwealth Govern ment. Their situation is made more difficult because no control has been exercised over land prices. The greatest racket in Australia is the buying and selling of land for home building. Prices have skyrocketed with the result that people are moving into the outer areas of the big cities and into the small towns where cheap blocks without services are available. Within a few years they find that they are in exactly the same position as they would occupy if they had purchased a block of land in a more established area. Almost overnight they face the costs of construction of footpaths and roads and the provision of sewerage and other services. A detailed investigation of these matters is required. 
We have now a golden opportunity to set up a Senate committee which, with expert assistance, could bring to light the facts associated with .home construction, purchase or rental before a final decision is made on the renewal of : the Commonwealth and State Housing Agreement. 1 do not think that many honourable senators are completely happy about the method of construction of rental accommodation, particularly in Melbourne . where there has been a tremendous increase in the construction, of high rise housing, lt is hardly a suitable environment ici which to raise families. High rise buildings of over 20 storeys are being constructed. The Melbourne Apex Club has clearly established that inadequate amenities are provided for young people in those buildings. The Apex Club has gone to great trouble to compile a report that every honourable senator should obtain and read. 
The increased high" rise development in the centre of Melbourne means that children must play in pocket-handkerchief sized areas. The experience of the Harlem area of New York will be repeated, I believe, in the inner suburbs of our big cities. We are not giving bur children a real chance because associated with high rise development are existing inadequate schooling facilities. State., governments cannot or will not at this stage increase education facilities and improve the environment of the inner suburban schools to enable proper education to be given to children living in these sub-standard areas. The construction of these concrete jungles is not the way to solve the housing problem of people who are paying rent. This has been clearly indicated. Also, it is not necessarily the most economic way. It may appear to be economic when you say that you can put 2,000 or 3,000 people in a huge concrete block in these suburbs, but you cannot build the type of home unit that Australians wish to have. 
At the moment the Victorian Government wants to acquire 15 acres in the area bounded by Church Street, Reid Street, Rae Street and Nicholson Street in Fitzroy. About 170 homes would be demolished. Several months ago the Fitzroy Residents Association spoke to members of more than half the households in the proposed development area and most were reported to have said that they were happy and did not want to move. The Victorian chapter of the institute of Architects said that the scope and arrangement of houses in this area is intimate and involved. The people are not living in sub-standard conditions but are housed al a standard well above the minimal level. The Institute estimates that to redevelop the area with 4 high rise blocks each containing 200 Mats would cost about $14m. For the same amount it could build about 1,270 houses in suburban areas. Const ruction of these high rise jungles is not necessarily the cheap way out of the problem of finding accommodation for those who have fo rent homes. 1 suspect that the move back into the centre of cities such as Melbourne has been designed by the big business magnates who control the golden mile. They want people back in the central part of the city in order to sell their goods. They do not want lo develop other areas that are available, lt may bc said, and it has been said previously, that by moving into outer suburbs and other areas we would be taking people away from the centre of employment. 
I would say that would be so in Melbourne and Geelong. The industrial development of Melbourne is going on in .outer areas such as Dandenong and Laverton where land is still available for the. construction of suburban home units and where families have' a chance. These are the things that the Standing Committee on Social Enrivon- ment should investigate and report on to this Parliament prior to any further agreement with the States on housing. The motion is quite clear. 
The unions in Victoria are associated with retail trade because of the gross and unfair exploitation by existing retailers of the workers in that State and other States. Among the worst offenders in the field of land costs are the farming communities close to the metropolitan areas. They have split up huge areas of farm land valued at about S200 a block and have sold it for $2,000 and more. Sometimes the price gets as high as $5,000 a block. Other exploiters besides the retail traders are involved in  this  question. That is- another matter that needs examination. Of course, the developers have to provide roads and other services. 
The ACTING  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Lawrie)  - Order! lt being 2 hours after the time of meeting of the Senate, orders of the day will be called on pursuant lo standing order 127. 
Motion (by  Senator Dante  Annabelle Rankin) agreed to: 
That intervening business of the day be postponed until after further consideration of Business of the Senate, Notice of Motion No. 1. 
 I will not delay the Senate much longer because the motion I read, and which is printed on the notice paper, sets out quite clearly the matters that the Opposition wants investigated. There has not been an investigation into housing in Australia since 1947. At that time there was an investigation in depth which developed what we have today - a system of home ownership and of rental accommodation. But today major things are needed to assist people to obtain adequate housing and there must be some decentralisation of industry in the suburbs. 
Some of the major problems facing an industry that wishes to establish itself in an area other than the big metropolitan areas of Sydney and Melbourne, and to a lesser degree the other capital cities, are the availability of labour and houses and other facilities for workers. England tackled this housing problem, and others, immediately after World War II and established 15 new towns. She was able to provide housing, hospitals and educational facilities which enabled industry to go to those new areas. She was eminently successful in this project and took industries away from the swollen purely industrial cities. We in Australia should be tackling this problem in a similar manner. These things could be examined in depth by a committee appointed by the Senate. 
All that is necessary now is for the personnel to be appointed to the Committee.  Senator Byrne  was not present earlier when I read from a report which indicated quite clearly that this was the present situation. We have the opportunity to carry out the gradual development of our committee system as suggested by the words contained in the report of the  President  of the Senate. What more important question should we look into than the very vital one of housing? As I said earlier, it will be the subject of legislation in this Parliament this year when the housing agreement with the States is to be renewed. This Federal Parliament has the right, under the original agreement of 1945  -  it was subsequently renewed from time to time - to discuss with the States not only the amount of money that the Commonwealth will lend to them for housing but also the type of housing that we believe is needed and the type of environment required. We should not merely provide a lot of boxes in a concrete jungle. We could provide homes at no extra cost to the people, if the Institute of Architects is correct. This is particularly so in Melbourne. I commend the motion to the Senate. 
My. question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for the Interior. Has the Minister's attention been drawn to a Press statement which appears on the front page of today's issue of the 'Daily Telegraph' and which quotes a 'confidential report' on abuses of the use of Commonwealth cars in Canberra? If so. can the Minister verify that this report exists, and advise the Senate how this 'confidential' report found its way to the 'Daily Telegraph'? If this report is now in the hands of at least one newspaper, will the Minister table the report in this chamber so that all members of the Senate can be as well advised as the newspaper? 
1 ask the Minister for Air: ls it a fact that the Royal Australian Air Force concert band under the conductorship of Squadron Leader Mitchell will fly to Malaysia on 28th February to give a concert and will return almost immediately after the performance? In view of the economy campaign now in operation, can the Minister indicate how much the trip will cost and whether it is really necessary? 
Tonight we are discussing a report presented hy the  President  of the Senate together with a motion submitted by the Leader of the Government in the Senate  (Senator Sir Kenneth Anderson)  relating to the 2 systems of committees that were established last year. In effect wc are reviewing the establishment of our estimates committees and the progressive establishment of our standing committees. I have expressed my views before in this chamber about the estimates committees and they have noi changed materially since the last time 1 spoke on the matter. I still believe that the proper place to discuss the estimates of the nation's expenditure is this chamber. 1 would be opposed to any method devised - indeed, it has been devised - to curtail discussion in this chamber of the expenditure for the nation. 
It is true that those of us who oppose the establishment of the estimates committees and support the establishment of standing committees were given certain undertakings last year to the effect that our rights in this chamber would not be cut short and that we would nol be denied the opportunity of discussing, al length and in full, the Estimates presented to the Senate. In reality what happened was that the gag was moved to terminate discussion on certain of the Estimates. The gag was imposed on discussion of certain of the Estimates last year, particularly those relating to defence - the Estimates for the Army and the Royal Australian Air Force. We had no opportunity to discuss them at all. 
I will come to that in a moment,  Senator Young.  The Leader of the Government will recall that he gave an undertaking that there would be no curtailment of discussion in this chamber on the Estimates. He qualified his statement by saying that there would be no curtailment unless there was a filibuster. That is what he said on (hat occasion. I did not attempt a filibuster in relation to the Estimate but I sought information. There were 3 estimates committees sitting simultaneously - on one occasion there were 4 - which meant that it was a physical impossibility to attend every one of them. One honourable senator was a member of 2 committees that were sitting simultaneously. What an impossible situation that was for an individual who wished to carry out his duties. He had to bc in 2 places at once. 
What disturbed nic most about the whole business was thai the gag was applied to the discussion of the Estimates in this chamber, the House of review in which every honourable senator should have the opportunity to ask the questions he wishes to ask the Minister at the table. We should have been given every opportunity to carry out the normal procedures which apply in this chamber, li' ever we get to the stage where committees carry out the functions of the Senate 1 suggest we will be closer to executive government than we are at the present time. 
I have examined in some detail the system of committees operating in the United States of America, in some regards 1 think it works excellently but on many occasions the committees have been used as a means of holding back vital legislation that should have been passed. I remind honourable senators of the action of the committees which operated in the United States immediately after the assassination of  President  Kennedy. The new  President, President  Johnson, endeavoured to introduce legislation to control the availability of weapons to the people within the United States. The matter was referred to a committee which procrastinated for over 2 years and prevented the passage of legislation controlling arms held by the people. Opposition came from sporting clubs, socalled veterans and organisations that had some vested interest in the production of arms and their use. It is well known that private armies have been established in certain parts of America. Extreme right wing sections of the American community have been able to establish private armies, particularly for the purpose of subduing the coloured races. These things have been going on for years. It is no good honourable senators denying that certain people attempted to establish this type of thing. They used the committee system in that nation to stop  President  Johnson introducing legislation to control the use of weapons there after one of the best Presidents they had ever produced was cruelly assassinated by a person or by persons unknown. I am not satisfied, and I do not think any honourable senator in this chamber is satisfied, that the mystery of that assassination was ever solved. 
I think the operation of the estimates committees will improve only slightly as a result of the undertaking that only 2 will meet simultaneously. In that case a senator will have to chose between the 2 committees that are sitting and will attend the one in which he has the greatest interest. He may well be denied the right of questioning the estimates dealt with by the committee that he could not attend when they are presented in this chamber. Therefore I have grave reservations about the estimates committees - although every honourable senator may be patting himself on the back and saying how well they worked - being in the best interests of government in this country. 
The position of the standing committee is quite different. Standing committees arc appointed for the specific purpose of inquiring into certain aspects of the nation's affairs. They may inquire into legislation brought before the Senate. They may inquire into a statement by the Minister for Air  (Senator Drake-Brockman)  about the recent negotiations with Cambodia and other people relating to the purchase of aircraft in this country. They may inquire into a statement which the Senate feels should be investigated. They may inquire into a. matter raised by a backbencher in the Parliament about some of the social welfare problems that arise. I believe there is a great role for standing committees in Australia. However I suggest that the Leader of the Government issued a word of warning in the second last paragraph of his motion and to some degree I agree with him. lt reads: 
That, unless otherwise ordered, matters referred to Standing Committees should relate to subjects which can bc dealt with expeditiously. 
This in itself is not something that can be achieved simply by carrying this motion. However, it does need serious consideration, because I believe that the Senate should examine whether, when it refers a  matter  to a committee,  it  should not stipulate when the Committee should report back to the Senate. The committee might then submit only a preliminary report or an interim report or it might seek leave to continue its investigations. We should not permit a situation in which, as I mentioned earlier, important legislation, statements to this House, or issues relating to the social welfare of the nation could be hidden by referring them to a committee. The Government could use its numbers to enable the committee to continue its inquiry for months without reporting back to the Senate. 
One of the great dangers that has arisen in the United States of America with the committee system, which has functioned well in some fields, is that it has been used as a means of delaying for long periods action by the Congress on vital and important matters. This has happened on a number of occasions. It happened in relation to the repeal of the Taft-Hartley laws, when the United States had repressive legislation against the trade union movement. Honourable senators will remember how the United Stales Government avoided its obligations by using the committee system. 
I think there is some merit in the suggestion that when the Senate refers a matter to a committee it should stipulate a period of time in which at least a preliminary report should be presented to the Senate for its consideration. If the committee sought leave to continue its examination, the Senate could make its decision on the basis of the report it had received. I believe that this is the only way in which the standing committees can exist and operate successfully. 
As has been mentioned by other speakers, we have a system whereby we can appoint select committees also. I should like to refer briefly to this matter, because everybody speaks very highly of the work thai standing committees and select committees have done in the past. I have been a member of one select committee and one standing committee and I have been involved in many debates in this chamber on resolutions providing for the referral of matters to Senate select committees and standing committees which the Government has opposed to the bitter end. Only rarely has the Government supported the establishment of either a select committee or a standing committee. Honourable senators opposite have used many arguments agains! their establishment, because they believe  -  I presume it is at the direction of the Prime Minister  (Mr Gorton)  or, at le;iiI by direction of the Cabinet - that Executive control should continue. 
Let us noi become too pious when we praise ourselves for how well these committees are working, because had it not been for the Opposition, supported on some occasions by the Australian Democratic Labor Party, none of these committees would have existed, examinations of vital issues would not have taken place, and we would be in a position where the system of committees would not be working at all. Honourable senators will recall that the proposal to establish the standing committees was vigorously opposed by the Government. The only reason why the esti mates committees were established was because the Leader of the Government in the Senate  (Senator Sir Kenneth Anderson)  brought forward a proposal for their establishment which he thought would stymie the Opposition's move. At one stage we had the ludicrous situation that it appeared quite likely that, on the one night, the Senate would vole for the establishment of  17  committees. On one vote there was a dead heal. The DLP's motion was defeated. Because the numbers were even, the motion was negatived. If the motion to appoint the committees that the DLP wanted to establish had been carried, as well as the other 2 motions that were carried on the same night, we would have established  17  committees. That was a deliberate attempt to destroy for all time the establishment of committees. It was done deliberately in that way to ensure that the committee system would nol be introduced into this Parliament. Fortunately, on that occasion the numbers were such that  Senator Murphy's  motion was carried. 
I turn now to what happens to the reports that committees present to the parliament. We can recall the excellent work that has been carried out by committees appointed by the Senate. Before I was a member of this chamber I remember reading an excellent report presented by the Senate Select Committee on the Encouragement of Australian Productions for Television. The late  Senator Vincent  was the  Chairman  of that Committee. I have read wilh great interest that excellent report which made recommendations about the future of our television industry. I regret to say that all the recommendations made, with the exception of a few minor points, have been ignored completely by the Government. In about  1958, 1  think, a report on the Constitution wa.s presented to this Parliament. An all-party committee examined this matter in great detail. It made many recommendations that would have revolutionised government in this country. Had its recommendations been adopted Australians would have been given an opportunity to vote, by referendum, for many changes in the Constitution. With the exception of 2 matters, one of which related to the Commonwealth's control of the welfare of Aboriginals, none of the matters recommended by that all-party committee was presented to the people. 
Many committees sat long hours, at great disadvantage to their members. They put a lot of hard work into the operation of the committees. They put a. lot of their spare time, as well as time that would normally be spent with their families, into sitting, investigating and reporting to the Parliament, only to see the report finish up in a pigeonhole and lost forever. If that is to be the fate of reports to be made by the standing committees that have been appointed - and I support the scheme completely and fully - the whole system will break down because no senator will be prepared to give the time that he must if he is to serve properly on these committees, only to see his work thrown aside and complete frustration put in its place. The system of standing committees should be given an opportunity to work by giving to those committees some direction initially as to the presentation of a preliminary report. If the committees want further information, they can make a decision to hear further evidence. If they have heard sufficient for them to present a report, they should do so. The standing committee system should not be used as a means of delaying action that is needed now. The committees should make recommendations that will be acted on by the Government. The committees should operate so that the work that is carried out by their members will be of some advantage to this nation. [ repeat that I am still not convinced that the present system of examining estimates and appropriations is a proper system which gives an opportunity to all senators to participate. The present system has involved the gag being applied when senators are examining the most vital sections, in my view, of expenditure. This happened with the estimates for the Services. When the estimates to be presented by the Minister for Air  (Senator Drake-Brockman)  were before the Senate the gag was applied and not one question was permitted to be asked of that Minister on that occasion. Subsequently there was a change of heart and we, perhaps half facetiously and perhaps half seriously, suggested at that time that the Government gagged the debate because it was afraid the new Minister would not be able to stand up to close examination in this open Senate. 
I want to see this Senate in control of affairs that it has the right to examine. I do not want to see those affairs put into the hands of committees which will sit in small rooms that will not be able to accommodate the number of people necessary to have a full discussion. I do not want to see - and I appreciate that the Leader of the Government in the Senate has noticed this - our Party room used as a committee room. We already give up that room two nights a week, I understand, by agreement and quite willingly to show films. But we do not want to be put in a position where we are locked out of that room for lengthy periods while estimates committees are sitting. The Leader of the Government in this place has seen that that would not be wise. I say again that the only way the committee system can operate properly and successfully is for this Parliament itself to have the final say, unfettered and ungagged, in relation to the appropriation of expenditure for this nation. I wish the committees well. I am a member of a standing Committee that is working very hard at this moment. I do not want to see the report of that committee thrown into a dusty pigeon hole. 1 know that other reports have been thrown into pigeon holes after previous committees have spent many months of hard work in examining matters and reporting to this Senate. 
I am concerned about this and the Senate will recall that I spoke on this matter on the first occasion it was debated and expressed my views on the subject of obtaining reports fairly quickly from committees.I am concerned that the  President  may be asked to rule in terms of whether a matter that is presented by a senator is a matter that would be treated expeditiously or otherwise. That is why I have some concern about this resolution staying in its hard form. 
My question is addressed to the Minister representing the Minister for Health. Is it a fact that tests carried out in New South Wales and Victoria have found that higher concentrations of the pesticide DDT exist in human mothers' milk than dairy marketing authorities accept in cows' milk? Is it a fact that more detailed tests just completed by the Victorian Department of Health are understood to confirm these tests and that the concentration of DDT in mothers' milk could be up to 20 times more than the acceptable amount in cows' milk? If this information is factual will the Minister advise the Senate of what action is contemplated by the Commonwealth Government to place a complete ban on the use of DDT in Australia as has happened in some other countries, including the United States of America? 
Minister for Health an accurate statement of the amount of DDT which has been detected in the milk mentioned by him. Also I shall inquire whether any action is contemplated by the Government in respect of this matter. As soon as I have this information I shall supply it to the honourable senator. 
I direct my question to the Minister representing the Minister for Labour and National Service. Has any provision been made at the Enterprise Migrant Hostel at Springvale, in Victoria, for teaching migrants English? If so, why must teachers teaching advanced students in one section of the gymnasium have to compete with a junior grade in another section? Why must classes and teachers be constantly inconvenienced by having to  move all their gear and equipment so that the gymnasium may be used for the purpose for which it was built? 
asked the Minister  representing the Minister for the Army, upon notice: 
Is it a fact that Army DUKWs were provided to the authorities for rescue work and other purposes during the recent serious flood in the Sale district of Victoria; if so, was there also an application from the same authorities within a matter of days for similar assistance in the Orbost district of Victoria. 
Is it a fact that this assistance could not be given because all Army DUKWs, including those used in the Sale district were not available because they were unserviceable. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for the Interior, upon notice: 
Is it a fact that as part of the austerity campaign the lawns surrounding Parliament House will now be cut only once a week instead of twice as previously. 
Are these lawns now cut by 4 men with hand mowers instead of a tractor-drawn mower as before. 
Is cut grass being heaped manually tor disposal. 
Will the Minister advise that savings will be made if these statements are true. 

 Senator COTTON: The Minister for the Interior has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: (1), (2), (3) and (4) The programme for cutting lawns in front of Parliament House has not been  changed. Irrigated lawns  in  the  area are cut by tractor drawn mower on an average of once weekly subject to the seasonal rate of growth of the grass. 
Men with small motor mowers cut grass around trees and edges. 
When the grass has become overgrown between cuttings it is often necessary to rake up surplus grass clippings and remove them for composting. 
Savings are mainly evident in the reduced frequency of mowing unwatered grasslands where overgrown grass does not cause such a problem of removal to avoid the permanent deterioration of better quality irrigated lawns. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry, upon notice: 
What is the total area  of  rural land owned or leased  by  foreign companies. of investors in Australia. 
My question is addressed to the Minister for Civil Aviation. Will the cutting of Trans Australia Airlines schedules give a decided advantage to Ansett Airlines of Australia on certain routes, including the Melbourne to Canberra service? Has TAA Flight 496, which normally leaves Melbourne for Canberra at approximately 7.15 on most evenings, been permanently cancelled? ls Ansett Airlines now the sole company operating a flight at approximately this time to Canberra from Melbourne? ls it also a fact that Ansett Airlines Flight 396 left Melbourne last night with a near capacity load and that more than 50 per cent of the passengers would normally have travelled with TAA? Does this mean that rationalisation of flights on economic grounds will be carried out to the advantage of Ansett Airlines? 
1 wish to bring to the notice of the Senate and the Government the crises now occurring in the hospital services in Victoria. I am referring not only to the general hospitals that look after the health and welfare of the ordinary citizens -but also to the homes and hospitals for the aged and infirm. These institutions in Victoria, and no doubt similar institutions in other States, are facing great financial difficulty. They have reached the stage at which in some cases the beds that are urgently required cannot be filled because of lack of finance to employ sufficient staff to care for the patients. The situation has been reached where many of the hospitals which could and would willingly expand their services are unable to do so because of a lack of finance, despite the fact that an expansion of these services is vital. The situation has been reached where hospitals in Victoria for the aged and infirm - I can refer to one in particular because I am a member of its committee - have been instructed by the Victorian Hospitals and Charities Commission that under no circumstances are they to employ any more labour during the current financial year. 
The hospital of which I am a committee member is not permitted, as a result of a direction of the Hospitals and Charities Commission, even to replace its wastage of staff. The hospital is Grace McKellar House, which is in the city of Geelong. lt is controlled by the Hospitals and Charities Commission. The members of the committee of this hospital and the citizens of Geelong have worked very hard over the years to make it probably the best hospital of its kind in Australia and probably one of the best hospitals of its kind in the southern hemisphere. We are very proud of what we have been able to achieve over the years since the initial public appeal for the establishment of this very fine hospital. 
At the moment it has in the vicinity of 234 beds for aged and infirm patients. The number of beds should be at least trebled. We are in a situation where we cannot proceed any further with the expansion of this hospital because of financial difficulties. The 54 beds which we have added to the establishment over the last few months - I might say that we have been able to do so only a.s a result of the assistance of the Commonwealth in the form of subsidies - will be available for occupation in May of this year but they will not be occupied because of the direction of the Hospitals and Charities Commission that staff must not be engaged. The result is that these beds will have to remain unoccupied. 
I am able lo inform the Senate that, tragically, there are 800 aged and infirm persons on the waiting list of our hospital. A total of 250 of the SOO persons waiting are urgent cases who should be hospitalised immediately. Many of the people who arc on the waiting lists of hospitals are dying because they are unable to gain the medical attention and hospital accommodation they need. Part of the reason for this is the fact that insufficient finance is being made available by the Commonwealth to the States for the servicing of hospitals. Urgent meetings have been held by 2 organisations which are associated with hospitals in Victoria, namely, the Country Hospitals Association and the Association of Victorian Homes and Hospitals for the Aged and Infirm. Both organisations have met recently. The Association of Victorian Homes and Hospitals for the Aged and Infirm met on 25th March of this year to study the serious crisis which is facing the administrators of homes at the present time. Tn the course of that meeting 3 resolutions were unanimously carried. The first resolution was that there should be an increase in the personal care subsidy and a reduction in the age qualification. The second resolution was that there should be an increase in the Commonwealth's nursing home benefit and supplementary nursing home benefit. I will  go  into these matters in a little more detail later on. The third resolution was to the effect that there should be an extension of hospital benefits to patients accommodated in nursing homes. I wish to quote 2 sections of the address which was given by the  Chairman  of the Association of Victorian Homes and Hospitals for the Aged and Infirm when he opened the meeting. He said: 
Our executive has obtained figures from som; 21 member institutions. This has revealed that at the 30lh June 1970 their  combined  overdrafts were S355.000- 
I will speak in round figures for the purposes of this quotation -  but by the end of December last it had increased to 5762.00(1, an increase of 5426.000 and 127 per cent. To turn to the operating costs these again are alarming, because the actual combined deficits of these 21 institutions was $431,000 as at 31 st December last, but according to budget estimates the combined deficit as at 30th .lune 1971 will be Sim. This will be an increase of $655,000 and 152 per cent. 
I know from experience that many of these hospitals, because of their financial difficulties, have approached their banks for increases in their overdrafts and have been told quite clearly that no further financial accommodation will be made available to them and that they will have to exist on their present overdrafts. The situation is being reached where these hospitals are unable to pay their creditors. If something is not clone urgently - it can only be done at this stage by the Commonwealth making an urgent grant to these hospitals - the situation may well arise where the wages bills will not be met by the end of the current financial year. The  Chairman  of the Association went on to say: 
The executive committee considers that the Commonwealth Government's claim that it provides for pensioners is most unrealistic with the allowances made for nursing homes and other benefits. It is 8 years since the S2 per day nursing home benefit was introduced. There has been no change except that the Commonwealth Government pays $3 per day for a limited number of cases which the Commonwealth claims are intensive nursing care patients. Commonwealth officers carry out the assessment of these cases and they do not give approval lightly.  1 repeat that I will deal with these matters later in my remarks. He went on to say: 
Those of our member institutions which are State subsidised have found that the additional Stale grants made available through the  Hospitals  and Charities Commission are quite inadequate to counter rapidly rising costs because of the limited amount made available by the Commonwealth to the States. 
I repeat that I am quoting a part of the address which the  Chairman  of the Association of Victorian Homes and Hospitals for the Aged and Infirm gave when he opened the special meeting which was set down to consider the financial difficulties of homes for aged and infirm people. In moving a resolution later in the meeting  -  I think it was the third resolution, which related to extension of hospital benefits to patients accommodated in nursing homes - one of the delegates to the meeting stated: 
Because of the lengthy waiting periods prior to admission - 
He was referring to the long waiting lists of homes for the aged and infirm -  these patients, who, for various reasons, cannot be kept or nursed at home, must necessarily be admitted to private hospitals or nursing homes. The present nursing home benefit of $2 per day or $5 daily for the relatively low percentage of those accepted by the Commonwealth Department of Health as intensive nursing care patients, is far from sufficient to cover the fee costs involved. 
People who are active in the conducting of homes for the aged and infirm are well aware that the Common-wealth's subsidies are not providing sufficient finance for them to be able to meet the additional costs which are accruing in both administrative expenses and the field of expansion. I make a plea to the Minister for Health  (Senator Greenwood)  to take up with the Government as an immediate objective the making of an emergency grant to the Victorian Hospitals and Charities Commission, earmarked for providing the financial relief that is urgently needed by both the homes for the aged and infirm and the general hospitals. 
 I think the need is Australia-wide as I mentioned earlier in my remarks. That would be the position, but as a Victorian I speak for that State. I want to make a further plea to the Minister to look more closely at the way in which the granting of the S3 per day supplementary allowance for intensive care patients is being administered by officers of his department, lt is generally felt by people associated not only with the larger hospitals controlled by the Hospitals and Charities Commission but also with private nursing homes that there are many patients who should be receiving that extra $3 per day supplementary allowance but who are being denied it by departmental officers and/ or medical officers without any proper or adequate examination of (hose patients. In fact, in many instances it is done administratively by an officer in Melbourne. 
Honourable senators will recall that I raised this matter late last year during the debate on the estimates for the Department of Health. I was advised by the Minister representing the then Minister for Health that I should take up - specific cases in which 1 felt some injustice had been done. I have done this in two or three of what I would term glaring cases. The most recent of these was the case of an 86-year old lady who was an inmate of a private nursing home in the city of Geelong. This lady broke her hip and is in no way ambulant at the present time, as I am able to indicate from medical evidence which I have in my possession. This patient was refused the supplementary allowance initially, despite the fact that a qualified medical practitioner who had treated her for many years had submitted a comprehensive report indicating that she needed intensive care. This opinion was supplemented by the matron of the home. The Minister indicated that he would investigate the case. Finally 1 received a reply from him. 1 do not wish to go into the detail of the reply because I have already made a copy of it available to the present Minister for 
Health, and he has been able to examine it. 1 was most disturbed that this plea of mine had been rejected. I found that as part of his inquiries the then Minister for Health had sent a doctor from the Department of Health to Geelong to investigate this case. 1 learnt, and I have it in writing, that the doctor did not even have the courtesy to go to the matron when he visited this nursing home. 
When he arrived there he simply found this 86-year old lady who had been lifted physically out of bed and placed in a chair in the sun. He spoke to her for a short time and indicated that she was reasonably healthy and would not require the intensive care supplement, despite the fact that there was ample evidence that she needed a tremendous amount of physical care from at least 2 nurses when she had to be moved for various purposes. 
Yes, that was definitely under the previous Minister. 
We are hoping it will not. During this visit the doctor indicated verbally that this patient was fit to go home and that they, whoever they may be, could well look after her. As far as I am concerned the word 'they' is in inverted commas, because there is  noboty  else who is able to look after this lady in her present slate of health. The previous Minister indicated in the final paragraph of his reply to me that the doctor suggested that if  Mrs B's  condition deteriorated they could reapply for the supplementary benefit. Of course, if there is any further deterioration in the condition of this 86- year old lady I am afraid that she will no longer require any type of benefit. This is the type of case that has been treated very cavalierly by members of the administration. 
I have received evidence and  submissons  from persons closely associated with the management of aged and infirm hospitals in Victoria that they believe that the payment of this additional supplementary allowance is based on a percentage of the number of persons who are inmates of aged and infirm hospitals rather than on the merits of the cases concerned. In relation to Grace McKellar House my own personal investigations indicate that despite the fact that people are moving in and out of that hospital - some are rehabilitated and able to leave it and many die there - there is an almost static figure of  33  per cent of the inmates who are receiving the additional  S3  supplementary allowance. Obviously the allowance is being paid on the basis of a budget rather than on the needs of persons who are in these institutions. 
I had intended to quote from a medical report that I. have in my possession relating to the old lady about whom 1 spoke previously but 1 have made it available to the Minister concerned and I am certain that he has all the information he requires without my quoting directly from the report this evening. This evening I am in the position of not only appealing to the Minister to have another look at this case, because I believe it merits a closer investigation, but also to look at the general administration of the fund to determine how allowances are allocated to the various people who apply for them. I have said before and I repeat it, that the doctor on the spot, who is able closely to examine his patient and who has had that person in his care often for a number of years, and the matron of a hospital, who is equally closely associated with an aged person who is ill, frail or infirm are in a far better position to decide whether that person needs intensive care than an officer or a medical practitioner who may be sitting in an office 45 miles away. 
Far too many patients have their claims rejected without any medical examination. It is on record in relation to the case that I. have quoted this evening that when the doctor came from Melbourne to see- this patient he made no medical examination of her. He simply spoke to her for a short time and made his decision on that basis. It is the height of rudeness for any officer of the Commonwealth department not to have even the courtesy to advise the matron of a hospital that he has arrived for the purpose of seeing one of the inmates of the hospital. If this is the type of administration that we are to have, people will lose complete confidence in the  operation of such a fund. Again J refer briefly to the points that have been made about aged and infirm persons homes by the association which looks after these people. That organisation is asking for direct Commonwealth finance immediately, ft is asking for an increase in the subsidies that are now being paid and it is asking for it urgently. 
Another aspect on which it. wants urgent action is the promise made during the last Senate election campaign by the then Prime Minister  (Mr Gorton)  to do something about the availability of hospital benefits to persons who are chronically ill and who are forced to remain in aged persons homes or private nursing homes. It  seems  that 1 am always talking about exMinisters and ex-Prime Ministers. There is such a turnover at the moment that we can hardly keep up with the new Ministers and Prime Ministers. In the short period that I have been a senator - about 4 years - 1 have seen 4 Prime Ministers. That is not a bad effort. In many cases, the people who are chronically ill and who are forced to remain in these homes have paid into hospital benefit societies or similar benefit societies almost all their lives. When most reach the last years of their lives and need urgent medical attention, after 3 months the benefit is taken from them and the burden that should have been carried by the organisation to which they have perhaps been paying for a lifetime has to be carried in part by the families; many of whom can ill afford to meet the cost of hospitalisation of their aged parents, aged aunts or aged relatives. I appeal to the Minister to ascertain when the legislation will be forthcoming. It has been promised. When will there be an extension of hospital benefit payments to those people who are urgently in need of financial assistance and who are probably in more need of it now than during the years when they were paying into the societies to which they belong? 
I refer again to the position of general hospitals. Recently urgent special meetings of the Country Hospitals Association in Victoria have been held because its memben are facing a similar situation to that which effects the aged and infirm homes. Again I shall cite the position at the General Hospital at Geelong. It supplies hospital facilities for a population of about 120,000. If it cannot get finance within the next 3 months, it will be forced to close down large sections of the hospital. It has reached that stage. A warning has been given by the  chairman  of the hospital committee. I have permission to quote him. He has put. on record these words: 
The Committee may at some future time have to consider the propriety of remaining in office if they find themselves unable to pay wages and other creditors. The question is the same as in business. We, as the board of management, have to pay our debts  or go  out of business. 
The hospital's deficit this year, will be $250,000. It also has been advised that no further finance will be available in the current financial year and that it is anticipated that the allocations of finance will not be made until about November. This hospital has approached its bankers and has sought an extension of the overdraft on which it operates, lt has been refused, and I presume that it has been refused because hospital management committees are now bad risks. They are bad risks because they have no foreseeable way of raising the finance necessary to pay the normal maintenance costs associated with hospital care. 
A similar position applies al Ballarat also. The stage has been reached where the services required in an expanding community cannot be provided. The Ballarat Hospital has written to ali Victorian parliamentarians in similar terms to those which I have indicated. Its problems are similar to those that exist in the Geelong Hospital. We could well find that within 3 months not only will the hospital not be able to meet its creditors, but even dismissals will be taking place at the Geelong Hospital. The situation then will be that large sections will close and the need for beds which exists at the moment will be far more urgent. We will find that persons who need urgent hospital care will bc unable lo get it. They may, in effect, end up like many of our aged people now and be dying before they can obtain the care so vital to their rehabilitation and their return to good health. So I make a plea to the Minister to place before the Government the urgent need for a direct grant in the immediate future to the State Government for allocation to the Hospitals and Charities Commission. This will enable direct financial assistance to be given to those hospitals that are in such urgent need. 1 also make an appeal to the Minister to submit to Cabinet the other matters that I have mentioned in relation to increased subsidies associated with the care of the aged and infirm. I sincerely hope that my plea will not fall on deaf ears and. as 1 said earlier, that the administration of the supplementary allowance will be treated in a more humane and practical manner than at the present time. 
I preface my question to the Minister for Civil Aviation by reminding him that  1  asked a question of him yesterday regarding the cut back of Trans-Australia Airlines' services between Melbourne and Canberra. I now ask: Is it a fact that the TAA early morning flight from Canberra to Melbourne on Friday has been cancelled and that the only flight out of Canberra to Melbourne on Friday mornings before  9  a.m. has been allocated to Ansett Airlines of Australia? 
My question is addressed to the Minister for Civil Aviation. Have secret negotiations taken place between the Department of Civil Aviation or any other Commonwealth department and a company known as the Tullamarine Syndicate or any other company for the purchase of land near the Tullamarine Airport? If so, was the purchase price of this land approximately$2. 6m plus 100 acres of land situated in Milleara Road, Avondale Heights, which at present is occupied by the Army? Does the total price, including the 100 acres of land, reach the figure of approximately S3m? Was the land near the Tullamarine Airport purchased for $300,000 8 years ago, when it was zoned as rural land? Has this land been bought and sold on a number of occasions since its original purchase? Were the companies that bought and sold this land interlocking companies? If so, will the Minister initiate a full scale inquiry into the deals, which will cost the Commonwealth $3m for land which was purchased originally 8 years ago for a tenth of that amount? 
I address a question to the Minister for Health. On 16th March I addressed a question to the Minister who then represented the Minister for Health concerning tests in New South Wales and Victoria which indicated that human mothers' milk could contain up to 20 times the amount of DDT that is acceptable to dairy milk marketing authorities. Can the Minister provide me with any further information on this matter, as I regard this as a very serious situation? If the information contained in my question is accurate this matter should be the subject of urgent action by the Government to ban the use of DDT in Australia. 
My question is addressed to the Lender of the Government in the Senate. Has the Commonwealth Government any control over the merger of large companies, including banks and other commercial institutions as well as mining companies? Can it veto decisions by industrial unions to merge in the common interest of their members? If so, under what legislation does this right of veto exist? 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Foreign Affairs. Has the Minister seen a Press report to the effect that when the South African Minister for Sports entered the arena to present trophies to Australian tennis players Margaret Court and Evonne Goolagong he was booed by the segregated coloured spectators and a substantial number of the white spectators in the exclusive white section? Does he agree that the adverse reception received by the Minister was justified because of the. South African Government's political interference in the selection of sporting teams? 
asked the Minister for Civil Aviation, upon notice: 
How many aircraft in the following categories are registered under Department  of  Civil Aviation Regulations in Australia - (a) Cessna, (b) Piper and (c) other foreign built aircraft. 
How many light aircraft manufactured in Australia are registered under Department of Civil Aviation Regulations. 
Has the Leader of the Government in the Senate seen a report in today's Press that the Australian Council of Churches has called on all Christians to boycott tours by South African sporting teams which are selected on a racial basis? Does he agree that the decision of the Australian Labor Party and the trade union movement to boycott such tours is gaining great public support from many influential quarters? If so, will he use his endeavours to convince the Government that these tours should not receive its support or approval and should be officially condemned? 

 Senator Sir KENNETH ANDERSONI have seen the headlines about the decision of the Australian Council of Churches. Nobody denies the right of that body to express its view, but often I have been amazed at some of the decisions it has reached in many fields. However, I suppose that does not mean very much. The Australian Labor Party is also entitled to adopt an attitude, but I think it is a wrong attitude, just as I think the attitude of the Australian Council of Churches is wrong. I believe that the people of Australia overwhelmingly think that both attitudes are wrong. 
Will the Minister for Civil Aviation submit to the Senate and to the people of Australia a comprehensive and frank statement on the crisis which is obviously facing Qantas Airways Ltd? Will he explain, in his statement, how Qantas has overnight become almost bankrupt and why it is contemplating wholesale retrenchment when this company has a good record of viability over many years? Is it because too many overseas companies now have the right to operate services to Australia or has the service of Qantas been reduced to such an extent that it has lost the support of travellers? 
Can the Minister for Civil Aviation advise the Senate whether the policy of the Government to reduce the migrant intake into Australia is one of the factors associated with the reduction of travellers on aircraft operated by Qantas Airways Ltd? Are foreign shipping companies still carrying to Australia under our assisted passages scheme large numbers of migrants who could be transferred to our own airline? 
I wish to add my remarks to those of the Leader of the Opposition  (Senator Murphy)  against the simultaneous sitting of the Senate and the Estimates Committees. lt is true that the Leader of the Government in the Senate  (Senator Sir Kenneth Anderson)  indicated that this is not to be taken as a precedent. But in fact it is a precedent, a very dangerous one that I think will be repeated many times in the future when the Government puts itself in a position similar to that which it is in at present, ft desires to close up shop in a week's time although there is at least 3 to 5 weeks work ahead of both Houses of the Parliament. 
The situation is that if this motion is adopted we will be dividing the sitting of the Senate into 2 or 3 parts. The Estimates Committees are discussing legislative matters. They are not discussing something referred to them along the lines of a reference to a standing committee or to a select committee. The Estimates Committees are discussing things that will come back to this chamber. We were given an undertaking previously 'by the Leader of the Government that there would be no restriction in this chamber when the Senate sat as a Committee of the Whole. It is quite obvious, if these Bills must be passed by this House tomorrow, that again this undertaking will be repudiated. If honourable senators on both sides of the House wish to pursue their right of discussion of the Estimates in the Committee of the Whole, there is only one way by which those Bills can be passed through this chamber and that is to do what was done in the Budget session last year, apply the gag on senators who wish to question the Government on matters related to the Estimates. 
This would be too dangerous a precedent to be even considered by any honourable senator. It would mean the beginning of the end for either one of two parts of the Senate; it would mean the end of the Estimates Committees or the end of the authority of  the  Senate. I am not referring at this stage to the standing and select committees. It would be a most dangerous precedent which we should never consider establishing in any circumstances, even taking into account the undertaking given that this is not to be taken as a precedent. The precedent was established a fortnight ago when, in certain circumstances, the Senate allowed a standing committee to sit- 
The precedent was established a fortnight ago when, in certain circumstances, the Senate allowed a select committee to sit while this chamber was in session. On that occasion we considered the matter to be so important that we gave permission without opposition. Now, within a matter of days in terms of the sitting days of the Senate, we find a similar motion in relation to estimates committees coming before the Senate. 
We are creating a situation in which this happens every time the Government gets itself into a jam through its own inability to provide the business to keep the Senate going for the number of weeks we come to Canberra. In order to get the Government out of a hole once more and so that it can conclude its business on a certain date decided by it as being the date by which it wants to get out of the Parliament or out of Canberra, it decides not to give the Senate the opportunity to examine matters that are very important to it. The prestige of the Senate has been lifted very high over recent years - not because a certain party has become represented but because it is a House which is now debating matters seriously and is not operated on the old  system  of being purely a rubber stamp in relation to legislation. We are now in a situation in which this chamber could revert to that position very quickly and easily. 
As I said earlier in my remarks, we will face a situation in which we will have one 
Senate sitting and three or four small Senates sitting in small rooms at the bottom of this building where access is not easy, members of the public are not aware that such meetings are open to them to attend and the members of the committees are not interested in attending. At 8 o'clock last night I heard that a quorum could not bc obtained to commence the sitting of one of the estimates committees. That was indicated quite clearly over the internal sound system which we have here and by means of which we can listen to the proceedings of a committee that is sitting in this chamber. The interest of senators is flagging in this regard. We should be in the position that the estimates of expenditure are considered to the utmost extent in this chamber and not in small rooms where two or more committees may be sitting and honourable senators have not the opportunity to attend. 1 oppose the motion as being a dangerous precedent and as taking genuine business from this chamber into rooms that are inaccessible to the public, i believe that the precedent is too dangerous for the Senate to contemplate. 
1 wish also to oppose the proposal which has been submitted by the Leader of the Government in the Senate  (Senator Sir Kenneth Anderson).  I do not oppose the extension of a quarter of an hour from a quarter to 6 until 6 o'clock or the other minor adjustments, but I do oppose the giving of facilities to the Government to rush through this Parliament the number of Bills it is hoping to deal with in one short week. I have examined today's House of Representatives notice paper and found that there are still' 28 . Bills on it. These Bills will have to pass "through the Senate within - if we do. not sit any longer than the House of Representatives; - trie next week if the full legislative programme is to be carried out. There are only 3 Bills on the notice pape of the Senate for consideration. One of those Bills is at the Committee stage. The debate on the motion for the second reading of that Bill has been completed and all that is left is its consideration in Committee. Only , 2 other Bills are on the notice paper. However, the document which I have in front of me indicates that, if the normal processes of the legislative programme are carried out, 28 Bills will be introduced in the next few days. I am told that more Bills are to be introduced in the other place, too. 
That makes a total of 33 Bills which have to be dealt with in a little over a week. In' addition to that there is the fact that under General Business on the notice paper of the Senate alone are 32 items which should be discussed. It is obvious that the matters which are on the notice paper under General Business - private members' Bills, ministerial statements and so on - have been placed there because honourable senators consider them to be of some importance and to be matters that should be discussed in this chamber. It is  quite  obvious now that none of the matter's under General Business on the notice paper will see the light of day in this session. Included in these matters is  a  ministerial statement on which we had  a  little bit of  a to do last  night. I refer to the ministerial  statement  on Papua New Guinea. Honourable senators' on this side of the chamber WiN want to debate the ministerial-  statement  about independence, that finally  will' be  granted to Papua New Guinea. ... 
The Senate is being asked now not only to carry these items of legislation in this short period  of time  but also to consider what I, believe  to be  3 extremely important items  of  legislation which honourable members  on this  side of the chamber believe should  be  examined and debated at some length.  The first,  item to which I refer is the Public Order (Protection of Persons and Property) Bill, which is now on the notice  paper.  The second item is the Compensation (Commonwealth Employees) Bill, which is of tremendous importance to members  on  this side of the Senate. We should have a full debate on that Bill and we should be able to propose the amendments that we feel should be submitted to the Senate for its consideration. The third item which I think is of some importance and which should take some time to be considered  is  the Commonwealth and State Housing Agreement, which will be renewed for the next  5  years. They are only 3 items that  1  can see by glancing very quickly through the notice paper that could take probably the rest of the time that has been allocated for the remainder of this session. 
We on the Opposition benches find that we are almost being politically blackmailed in relation to our ability to amend legislation. I recall  on  one occasion, when  a 
Wheat Industry Stabilisation Bill was before the Senate in the last few days of the Senate sitting - the other place was not sitting. We sat on for a few days longer so that we could complete the business of the chamber. The only valid excuse that was given for rejecting an amendment that was moved by a senator from this side of the chamber was that the other place was not sitting and that if the amendment were carried the legislation could not be finalised until the next session of Parliament and we would be denying the wheat growlers of this country a stabilisation scheme for that period.. No Opposition, wherever it may be or whoever is in .government, should be blackmailed into carrying legislation that it believes should, be amended. _We are now in this position, particularly in relation to. the workers compensation legislation. . We. may be forced into a situation of not being permitted or not being able to amend it as we wish, on the ground that the benefits contained in the legislation will be withheld from the workers of this country if we insist on pursuing amendments when the other place has risen. 
I say: without hesitation - and without apology that the Senate should not under any circumstance relate its sittings to those of the other place. If we, as a Senate, decide to. amend legislation, the alternative should be adopted and the other place should be recalled to consider the amendments that we have passed. We are in an intolerable position. By acquiescing at any time to this type of motion we are perpetuating something which is creating a situation in which this country is being governed by the Executive and not by the Parliament. The Government rushes legislation through. It is not examined properly. Who can examine properly 28 Bills in a few days? They will be carried through this chamber. On a subsequent occasion, when we decide that certain clauses in legislation are not fit and proper to be in legislation, the Government will refer to a Bill that was carried through this place under these circumstances - in the rush of the last week of sitting - and will say: 'Here is legislation in which this principle has been carried unanimously and without opposition by the Senate'. The Government uses these tactics as a precedent to get under the guard of vigilant members of this Parliament. 
I say that under no circumstances should the Senate agree to the extended hours of sitting, with the exception of the few minor alterations of quarter of an hour here and there. I recall that during the last session the Senate, by an overwhelming majority, agreed that we should sit in cycles of 2 weeks on and one week off. The sitting days would be Tuesday, Wednesday, Thursday and Friday of the first week and Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday and Thursday of the following week. That would give us about 10 days off in which to look after the business for which we were elected and other business such as committee work. We have not observed that timetable since the motion was carried by the Senate. We have never observed a 4day sitting week simply because the Government has not been able to provide the Senate with business for it to be able to sit 4 days a week. As was said earlier, if it had not been for the Opposition and members on the corner benches providing business for the Senate, the Government would have had to close shop because it is obvious that the Government has no intention of permitting much of the general business on the notice paper to be debated. I ask the Senate to give consideration to meeting at the normal hours decided upon last year 2 weeks sitting and one week off. 
 On this occasion we have agreed to sit for a third week: When we did this we did not expect that we would be confronted with the proposition that is now before us of extending the sitting hours further. At that time we were not confronted with the proposition that we would have simultaneous sittings of different sections of the Senate, as has been brought about by the carriage of the previous motion. I ask the Leader of the Government to reconsider this proposal and to return to a system of sane consideration of legislation.I know that each year the Opposition and members of the Democratic Labor Party have protested against this rushing through of business in the dying hours of the session. The position has not improved. I think that on this occasion the situation is far worse than it has ever been because the Government has kept until the last week all the important and controversial legislation. It has kept until the last week all the legislation that may cause heated debate or amendments to be moved so that it can do what it did with the Conciliation and Arbitration Bill, which was gagged and rushed through without proper consideration being given to it and without permitting members of the Senate to put the points of view which they have been elected to put. I oppose the motion. 
Can the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry advise the Senate whether all States have implemented the dairy industry reconstruction plan? If they have not, which States have implemented the plan and what stage has been reached in the States which have not yet implemented it? 
asked the Minister  representing the Minister for Immigration, upon notice: 
Has any provision been made at the Enterprise Migrant Hostel at Springvale, Victoria, for teaching migrants English; if so, why must teachers of advanced students in one section of the gymnasium have to compete with a junior grade in another section. 
Why must classes and teachers be constantly inconvenienced by haying to move all their gear and equipment so that the gymnasium may be used for the purpose for which it was built. 
Under Division 480, subdivision 2, item 08, professional services - fees and expenses, I want to raise a matter in relation to marine search and rescue work. I would like to know the figure which has been spent on this work for the whole year. Also I would like to know in some detail the type of work which is carried out because I believe the time has arrived in Australia when the Commonwealth Government should convene a conference of all States in relation to the operation of small craft. Each State has its own regulations, its own method of registration, of licensing and of testing drivers of small craft. I believe that much of the money spent on marine search and rescue could be saved if the Commonwealth were to convene such a conference and attempt to obtain some standard regulations throughout the Commonwealth in this field. Every honourable senator in this chamber is aware of the tremendous advances which have been made in the small craft industry. They are aware of the number of people throughout Australia who own small boats and use them. Every year we find that more and more people are losing their lives or are being lost from the small craft. They have to be found. They go out in unsuitable weather and unsuitable boats. Both the States and the Commonwealth have to find them at a tremendous cost. 
In Victoria all small craft are required to be registered but no test is required in relation to the type of boat which a person may own. People are still using belly tanks from aircraft in the sea which are totally and absolutely unsuitable and tremendously dangerous. Because a stupid person used this type of boat in which to go fishing a life was lost at Port Arlington last' summer. This type of craft may be allright for a small lake or small river. This person lost his life because he used this type of craft and was able to use it under the regulations which operate in Victoria. No test is carried out in relation to a person's ability to drive one of these boats. Nor is a test carried out in relation to the sea road laws which are required to be known and observed in other States. On many occasions I have seen children of 8 or 10 driving 16 foot and 18 foot cruisers with their parents beside them. Honourable senators may say that they are doing this under supervision. But when we make an observation of this nature we know that that child cannot see in front of it at all. The child may be able to see another boat which is in the water but when one is at sea in a small craft there are many other hazards which one has to watch for. Floating planks and other type of debris can destroy a boat and sink it very quickly. We find that under Victorian regulations no licence is required and no knowledge is needed. Any person can be put into a boat and he can set off. There is a great danger that finally they will get into trouble and the search and rescue work which is done magnificently has to be carried out at great cost to the community. 
I believe the time has arrived when the Commonwealth should convene a confer ence on this matter and seek some standard operation of regulations throughout Australia. I believe that every person who is in charge of a small craft should be tested in relation to his ability to control a boat just as he is tested in relation to his ability to drive a motor car. I believe he should be tested in the rules of the road of the sea just as he is tested in the rules of the road of the land. At sea one sees some fantastic things done. During the summer months one has  to  watch carefully, particularly during the holiday periods in some areas - even more carefully than, when one is driving a car along the road. I suggest that much of the money which is expended at a State and Commonwealth level on this type of work could be cut back tremendously if people were fully acquainted with the rules and had the ability to drive. I commend the Department of -Shipping and Transport for the excellent book which it produced about safety in small craft. I understand it has proved so popular that a third or fourth edition is : now contemplated. It is an excellent book which should be read by everybody who. goes out in a small craft. The matters which are referred to in that book should be compulsorily applied throughout the Commonwealth by all States. I ask the Minister for Civil Aviation  (Senator Cotton)  to convey to the Minister for Shipping and Transport  (Mr Nixon)  my wishes that such a confer*ence be held.  
My question is directed to the Minister for Health. When can I expect an answer to a question I asked on 17th February, which was the day after the beginning of the session? It is question No. 866 and it reads as follows: 
Is  it a fact that many pensioners previously eligible to hold a pensioner medical card have had these withdrawn as a result of the tapered means test introduced in the 1969 Budget? 
Did these withdrawals take place about 12 months after the Budget announcement contrary to the statement of the then Treasurer,  Mr McMahon,  that fringe benefits would not cease to be available to persons who were pensioners at that time? 
As this is a most important question in relation to those who have had their medical care taken away from them, can I get an answer to that question before the session closes? 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Immigration, upon notice: 
Has any provision been made at the Enterprise Migrant Hostel at Springvale, Victoria, for teaching migrants English. If so, why must teachers of advanced students in one section of the gymnasium have to compete with a junior grade in another section? 
Why must classes and teachers be constantly inconvenienced by having to move all their gear and equipment so that the gymnasium may be used for the purpose for which it was built? 
asked the Minister for Health, upon notice: 
Is it a fact that many pensioners previously eligible to hold a pensioner medical card have had these withdrawn as a result of the tapered means test introduced in the 1969 Budget? 
Did these withdrawals take place about 12 months after the Budget announcement contrary to the statement of the then Treasurer,  Mr McMahon,  that fringe benefits would not cease to be available to persons who were pensioners at that time? 
Is the Minister representing the Minister for Trade and Industry aware that  Mr Geoffrey  Rippon, Britain's chief Common Market negotiator, is now in Brussels to commence talks on what could be the decisive phase of Britain's entry into the European Economic Community? Are Press statements true that the main issues will be New Zealand's butter exports, Commonwealth sugar and Britain's financial contribution to the European economic community? What steps have been taken by the Australian Government to ensure that matters of great importance to Australia are considered? I refer to our dairy produce exports, the canning industry, the meat industry, the sugar industry, the dried fruits industry and many other industries which export substantial quantities of goods and produce to Britain. 
I associate myself with the remarks that have been made today in relation to the retiring senators. For you,  Mr President,  I wish a long and happy retirement, as I wish for every senator who is retiring from this House. I make particular reference to the 3 retiring Victorian senators because they have given very many years of service in public life in both the State and Federal Parliaments. I express my sincere hope that  Senator Dame  Ivy Wedgwood will have a very long and happy retirement, because she has thoroughly earned and deserved it. She has been most active over the years, particularly with the problems of the sick and the aged. She has left monuments in this place to her efforts in that regard. 
I want to make some very personal references to  Senator Kennelly  and  Senator Bert  Hendrickson who are retiring, because I have been closely associated with them in the Party and in this House for a period of 25 years. We have had our ups and downs. Pat and I have not always agreed on political issues but we have never lost the personal friendship that I hope will remain between us for the rest of our lives. Bert Hendrickson was a tower of strength to me in the movement before I came into this House, as was Pat in the organisational work I carried out on behalf of the Party. As a matter of interest, the other day I was working out the turnover of the Senate. I have been here a mere 4) years. In that time 30 senators have left this chamber - half the House in 4i years. We have had a remarkably high turnover in the last few years for various reasons, through the untimely death of some active and young senators, and through the unfortunate defeat of some at the polls, but fortunately most have retired after long and loyal service in this House. I hope that all the senators who are now retiring will have the long and happy period of life that they deserve and will never forget their associations with .honourable senators on both sides of the House who remain here. 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Postmaster-General. I refer to the Minister's answer to a question asked by  Senator Young  yesterday concerning the Australian Broadcasting Commission programme 'This Day Tonight*, ls the Minister aware that the political scientist at the University of New South Wales who is embarking on a study of alleged bias in the ABC pro-, gramme referred to, is one who is associated with a group at that university which is responsible for a steady flow of propaganda in support of the present Government's foreign policy, particularly in Indo-China? Has the Government encouraged this group, to undertake this socalled research? 
This Bill is an interim measure which has been introduced by the Government to continue the Commonwealth and State Housing Agreement which was introduced into this Parliament in 1966 and which is due for renewal this year. I understand that because of the troubles that occurred within the Liberal Party - the deposing of one Prime Minister, the appointment of another in the reshuffling of ministerial positions - a conference that was to have been held earlier this year did not take place. The result is that the agreement which should now be before us to cover the period decided upon - it would probably be a period of 5 years - is not before us. So, we are merely continuing the Agreement that was made between the Commonwealth and the States in 1966 for the purpose of providing moneys by way of loan to the States for the construction of houses and for allocation to housing co-operatives. We now find that we are to continue, probably for another 12 months, under the old Agreement with which some States certainly are dissatisfied. I can say that Victoria is very dissatisfied with the present Agreement, for many reasons which I will enumerate as 1 proceed with my speech. 
The new Agreement should now be given very serious consideration. I hope that the remarks I make tonight will be considered when the Agreement between the Commonwealth and the States is being finalised and the legislation is being presented to this Parliament for ratification. The Australian Labor Party will not oppose the extension of the 1966 Agreement in terms of the Bill now before us. But 1 move the following amendment to the motion for the second reading of the Bill: 
At end of motion add - "but the Senate, whilst welcoming the advances provided in the Bill, is of opinion that the Commonwealth should establish an appropriate instrumentality to bring about co-operation and co-ordination with the States and local authorities to: 
ensure that planning authorities are established or developed; 
ensure that all lands vested in the States or Commonwealth will be retained and that private rights to such lands is limited to leasehold; 
identify a number of appropriate sites for new cities and co-operate in their development; 
assist in shim prevention and renewal; and 
assist appropriate bodies to carry out comprehensive urban improvement and develop-  ment*. 
We, as a Party, believe that the matters referred to in the amendment are very essential and should be considered in depth when the Commonwealth and State Ministers meet to discuss the new agreement which, no doubt, will be initiated within the next 6 to 12 months. For a long time the Australian Labor Party has considered the problems not only of housing people but also of the environment in which they live. All honourable senators will be aware that  Senator Mulvihill  has taken a vital interest in this subject. He will speak in more detail than I propose to do on the environmental problems because I wish to address myself mainly to some of the problems which exist in the States under the present Commonwealth and State Housing Agreement. I shall refer also to the problems that face the States as a result of the interest rates which are now imposed upon them. 
I hope that by outlining some of these problems the Government will realise that if it is to be able to carry out the programme for which the housing agreement was initiated it will have to put into effect the plans which were initiated by the Labor Government in 194S. At that time the Labor Government lad down a broad principle that the Commonwealth would assist the States by way of loans to provide housing for people in the lower income groups at a weekly retal which was the equivalent of not more than one day's pay. This principle has gone by the board completely because of rising costs, and the suggestion of being able to provide housing on this basis for people in the lower income groups has become a joke. In Victoria the Housing Commission has entered the field of building houses for sale. It makes these houses available only to persons who can properly be described as being in the middle income group, that is, persons who earn $75 or more a week. Those are the only persons who are now eligible to purchase a Housing Commission home in Victoria. The Commission has had to apply this condition for the simple reason that persons earning less than that would not be able to meet their commitments in paying off the house over a period of 45 years, which is the maximum period allowed. 
Information which I obtained directly from the Department of Housing shows that in the last 18 months the interest rate charged to the State by the Commonwealth on loans for housing has risen from 4.4 per cent to 6 per cent. Honourable senators will be aware that the interest rate on advances made by the Commonwealth to the States for housing is 1 per cent below the long term bond rate and, under the housing agreement, can be altered at will by the Commonwealth Treasury. I know that my State of Victoria is very keen to negotiate an agreement which will provide for a stabilised rate of interest for the whole period of the agreement, I believe that it will be arguing for a rate of 4 per cent, which was the rate formerly applying. No honourable senator who thinks seriously about this matter can believe that the construction of homes for rental and purchase by people in the lower income groups will have an inflationary effect. The present system of fixing the interest rate payable by a State to the Commonwealth is virtually useless. 
We have now reached the position where a loan to the State at 6 per cent means a tenant or purchaser will be paying the equivalent of 7 per cent. Examples which are currently available in Victoria show that a house costing $10,848 which is available for rental from the Housing Commission and on which the money was made available at 4.25 per cent has an economic rent of $14.20 a week. If the finance for that house attracted the rate of 6 per cent interest the economic rent would be $17.50 a week. This is far more than one-fifth of the salary of a low income earner and the direct result of the 1.75 per cent rise in the interest rate has been to increase the rental by about $3.30 a week. On a purchase house which was available from the Housing Commission for $11,180, the monthly repayments, at 4 per cent interest, were $48.77, but with the new interest rate of 6 per cent, which becomes 7 per cent to the' purchaser when administrative and other costs are added, the monthly repayment will be $64.51. 
The situation now is that the State Government in Victoria is supplying an extremely small percentage of the housing that is required and the low income earners who are waiting for homes are in a desperate position. Persons seeking rental homes from the Housing Commission in country areas have to wait from 1 to IS months but in the metropolitan areas of Melbourne the waiting period is 20 months. The waiting period for homes in country areas has decreased alarmingly during the last few years because the problems in the rural industries have accentuated the population drift to the cities. Most farmers are short of the necessary finance to enable them to keep going. This has had an effect on almost every country town and city and the result ' is that in some country areas the waiting time for rental houses is only 1 month and there are no applicants for such homes. In city areas the waiting period is 20 months. This is not the whole story because in the suburban areas of Melbourne a person must have 5 or more children to be eligible for a rental house. High rise flats, which are mushrooming around the centre of Melbourne in particular, are available but the situation is not much better because there is a waiting time of from 12 to 15 months for 3-bodroom flats and 9 to 12 months for 2-bedroom flats. These figures were made available to me last week, on 6th May, so they do not represent a situation that may have existed some time ago. This is the present position. 
According to the information with which I have been supplied there are 52,400 people waiting for either a purchase or rental home in Victoria. This figure is based on the fact that 14,900 families are waiting for all types of units and it allows for 3£ persons to a family, which is low when we consider .the conditions of eligibility to secure a rental home. So, about 52,500 people are waiting for housing accommodation from the Housing Commission of Victoria. This number is equal to the population of a city of the size of Ballarat. These people are waiting for the accommodation which is provided under arrangements between the Commonwealth and the State. There are 4,613 applicants waiting for accommodation in lone person flats and Darby and Joan units, accommodation built by the Commission - sometimes by the municipalitiesin co-operation with the Commonwealth. 
Despite the efforts made oyer these many years we have not gone even close to taking up the lag in housing that occurred initially due to the war years. Therefore I believe that any new agreement on housing entered into by the Commonwealth and the States has to be on a new footing. We have to face up to the situation. Unless the Commonwealth and the States reach a basis of agreement that will enable land to become available to the States at reasonable prices, and unless money is made available to the States at a reasonable rate of interest, young people in Australia will not, in any circumstances, be able ' to get their own homes. I refer the Senate to articles that appeared this week in -the Sydney *$»' about the value of land in the Sydney Metropolitan area. Honourable senators who have been reading these articles would have been shocked to learn of the situation that exists there. In yesterday's issue cf *at newspaper it was stated that one speculating company alone held some 13,660 bouse building blocks. These are on the perimeter of Sydney. Although that company denies that it is going to hold those brocks in order to make big profits, the fact is that it will do just that. I will quote briefly from this article to show the estimation of this company in relation to the availability of land. The article states: 
This would mean that couples will have to pay $10,000 tor land at Mount Druitt or up to $18,000 around Liverpool and Blacktown districts in 2 or 3 years time. 
This was published yesterday, 11th May. If this prediction is true the people who are holding this land at the present time are going to be multimillionaires, and the State Government will have to look further and further away from Sydney to obtain cheap land on which to spend the money that it receives from the Commonwealth for home building purposes. It is predicted that in 2 or 3 years time a block of land will cost $18,000. 
No, that is in the Liverpool and Blacktown areas. The estimate for the Mount Druitt area is $10,000 a block. What chance has any young couple of moving into that field. 
I am talking about Sydney and am referring to an article in the Press. I am using this as an example of what happens as a result of the State Government not being able to move into the housing field, as many governments wish to do. Following on from that article, in today's issue of the Sydney 'Sun' there is a statement by the  President  of the Royal Institute of Architects,  Mr R.  A. Gilling; who advocates a massive government takeover of housing land on Sydney's fringes. This man clearly realises that if this does not happen and if land prices are not controlled in some manner the whole position will become chaotic within 2 or 3 years. He said that with, the way things are going people will not be able to afford to buy land. He said: 
The State Government should act as a land broker and absorb all the strategic developing areas. After intense individual planning for each community it could sell the land to developers. Because the .Government would pay reasonable but not ridiculous prices to acquire properties, land prices would be stabilised. 
Those views are supported by Professor Denis Winston of the University pf Sydney. This newspaper article states: 
Only price control can check the sky-high land prices in Sydney's outer suburbs. This is the view of Professor Denis Winston. 
He called for a full inquiry by the State Government into the present system of private land sales. Professor Winston is professor of town and country planning at Sydney University. 
But Sydney is not the only place in which land exploitation is going on at present and it is not the only place in which young people are finding it tremendously difficult to purchase a house at a reasonable rate of interest. 1 know from my own personal experience as a director of a housing co-operative society in Geelong that there is a waiting list as long as one's arm of the names of people who are trying to obtain loans for the purpose either of purchasing a house that is already constructed or of building a home. These people have to wait 7 or 8 years before they come to us for this purpose because it takes them that long to pay for the block of land that they have had to purchase. It is common nowadays to see land that is not in the most plush areas of the community but in the outer suburbs fetching up to $6,000 and $7,000. 
Young people are finding that both husband and wife have to work for many years just to purchase land on which to build a house. I believe that the Commonwealth Government will have to get around a table with the State Ministers for Housing and endeavour to get back to the basic principles that were laid down when the agreement was initiated in 1945. I spoke earlier of the agreement that was established for the provision of homes for the lower income groups. This is no longer possible for any State government mainly because of the interest rates that are being charged. 
I believe that the States could provide cheaper housing and the facilities that are required in housing areas if under the agreement they could get a reasonable rate of interest which was stable and on which they could plan. It is obvious that much larger amounts of money will have to be made available to the States if they are to keep within cooee of building the number of homes and flats that they are building at present because over the last 3 or 4 years general housing costs have increased by about 25 per cent. There has been a larger increase in general land costs. This means that if the plan is re-negotiated only on the basis of what already exists we shall fall further and further behind. At present the Victorian Government, in order to get out of its problems, is not building many houses in normal suburban blocks in the outer areas. It is moving into high density flat construction in the city area, which I believe is not the type of accommodation that lends itself to the proper bringing up of families. 
I have spoken previously in this chamber of the problem of high density housing and the fact that facilities and amenities cannot be provided in these areas. This fact has been confirmed by the Melbourne Apex Club, which carried out very extensive investigation of the recreation facilities of high density residential areas in inner Melbourne. Honourable senators who are interested in this problem should obtain the results of this investigation and see for themselves the problems that are associated with these immense concrete jungles that are now being built to house the people who I believe should be strategically housed in areas where the family will be a unit in its own right once more and not a unit amongst a great mass of concrete where home life no longer exists. I sincerely hope that the matters I have mentioned tonight will be very seriously considered when the conference takes place for the renewal of this agreement. I hope that very serious consideration will be given on that occasion to the interest rates that are charged. 
Debate interrupted. 
My question is directed to the Minister for Civil Aviation. On 6th April of this year I asked the Minister the following question: 
Have secret neogitiations taken place between the Department of Civil Aviation or any other Commonwealth department and a company known as the Tullamarine Syndicate or any other company tor the purchase of land near the Tullamarine Airport? If so, was the purchase price of this land approximately $2.6m plus 100 acres of land situated in Milleara Road, Avondale Heights, which at present is occupied by the Army? Does the total price, including the 100 acres of land, reach the figure of approximately $3m? Was the land near the Tullamarine Airport purchased for $300,000 8 years ago, when it was zoned as rural land? Has this land been bought and sold on a number of occasions since its original purchase? Were the companies that bought and sold this land interlocking companies? If so, will the Minister initiate a full scale inquiry into the deals, which will cost the Commonwealth $3m for land which was purchased originally 8 years ago for a tenth of that amount? 
The Minister indicated then, amongst other things, that he would give me a detailed answer to these questions. Is he in a position at this stage to do so? 
 I support the amendment that has been moved by  Senator Wilkinson  on behalf of the Australian Labor Party. It is obvious, in listening to this debate, that very few honourable senators in this chamber are satisfied with the legislation. Each  speaker,  with the exception of  Senator Lawrie,  has had critical things to say about the legislation. Some senators have been very critical and others have offered only minor criticism but it obvious that the legislation does not receive the full support of this house. It will probably be passed because, again, we are faced with a time factor in dealing with the Bills in this House which prevents amendments being considered in the other place because that has risen. But this should not be a reason why a positive amendment which has been submitted by the Australian Labor Party should not be carried by the Senate. It is more positive than the other amendments which are before the Senate for consideration. It asks that the Bills be withdrawn for the purpose of improving them. Some honourable senators from the Australian Country Party have been asking for that to be done during the debate on the motion for the second reading. On the other hand the Australian Democratic Labor Party has submitted 2 amendments. One provides for a long term project which would take quite a considerable time to introduce and to obtain a benefit from. The other amendment has been described as something which will immediately assist the rural producers of this country. But again we find that the amendments to these Bills are merely expressing opinions of the Senate. I am becoming disillusioned with any amendments which start with the words 'in the opinion of the Senate' whether they are submitted by the Democratic Labor Party or by ourselves. 
It is now traditional for the Government to reject any opinions which come in this way from the Senate. In the last few months, indeed, in the last 3 years, we have consistently taken a stand in relation to certain matters. We have consistently amended motions with an opinion addendum which has never been considered or implemented by the Government. We are faced with the position of either voting for an amendment which has positive attitudes and positive means of assisting the rural community or voting for 2 amendments which will not, in my view, be given any consideration by the Government. In this chamber we are debating 2 Bills which I think every honourable senator believes should give true and proper assistance to rural communities throughout the Commonwealth. As has been said by many speakers in this debate the rural industries are facing a crisis similar to, if not worse than, the crisis which they faced in the depression years in this country. Yesterday I was interested to hear  Senator Sir Magnus  Cormack refer to that terrible time that we went through in Australia. One of the tragedies of the present position is that the rural industries are going through these extremely hard times when this country is, to all intents and purposes, very affluent. We have an affluent society in which the farming community throughout the Commonwealth has debts amounting to something near $2, 500m. This is a fantastic situation. 
The Bill before us provides $100m, $75m of which attracts interest and $25m of which is a direct grant to try to solve the problems of great magnitude which are facing the rural industries. This is not the way in which we can solve the problem. This is the way in which we can get to a situation, as indicated by  Senator Prowse  last night, where only 10 per cent of the applicants who need assistance are going to be accommodated. When we read the fine print of this Bill we find that the method whereby a person can obtain some assistance is to walk around the town in which he lives or the capital city of his State begging and pleading for somebody to assist him financially. Only when he reaches the stage at which no other avenue whatever is open to him will he be in a position to obtain the assistance which he urgently needs. In my State of Victoria we find this situation. No doubt Queensland and other States have exactly the same situation in relation to drought relief funds which were made available by the Commonwealth. A person had to be destitute before he became eligible for assistance. It seems to me that under legislation like this we are putting shipwrecked fanners into a leaking lifeboat and pushing it off from the shore to float. This will create further burdens over a number of years for people who are endeavouring to make their properties a viable operation. 
It is equally tragic to me to examine the whole aspect of the viability of the rural community over the years. In the 1940s the Labor Government brought back to viability the major rural industries in this country at a, time when they were in a position such as they are facing now. The Labor Government introduced legislation which assisted the wheat industry and the dairying industry. It also brought in a marketing system that made sure that our wool was sold on the world markets to the best advantage of the growers in this country. In the 22 years in which the people in the country areas have relied on representation mainly from the Country Party and to some degree from the Liberal Party, and on a Liberal-Country Party coalition, the situation has returned to the stage of the depression years. All we hear is that things have caught up with us; that we have a cost price squeeze; that it is nobody's fault that this has happened; that it is one of those things that happen under the normal processes of supply and demand. 
In reality costs have gone so high in this country because of the inflationary policies of this Government. Those inflationary policies have continued since 1949, when  Mr Menzies  won office on the basis of putting value back into the pound. We have a situation now in which land values in the farming community are far in excess of the value of production. We have aided and abetted this situation by the inflationary manner in which we have allowed land prices - for instance in the cities - to raise sky-high. Who are the people who have built up the farm prices to this extent? In very many cases they are the city farmers who have made a million dollars or more out of land shark deals in the cities and who then go out and buy these farms as a hobby and as a tax dodge. 
There are many hundreds of such farmers throughout the community - doctors, dentists, lawyers and all kinds of people who have not the ability to operate these farms. They put in managers and are able to take vital taxation from the coffers of the Treasury. They are able to do this with the ill-gotten gains which they, particularly the land sharks, have been able to obtain in the city areas. There have been and there still are too many of them operating land deals and holding the ordinary people to ransom as far as their housing needs are concerned. So we have a situation now in which we are bringing in legislation of a depression year nature to save once magnificent industries that were of great value to Australia. We are giving too little far too late to help the small farmer and the people in the small towns and cities associated with rural production. 
We are now paying the price for allowing big American, Japanese and other combines to come into our country and take most of the mineral wealth out of the ground. They are moving at a great rate to take over the vast rural producing areas of this nation. Apparently our only remedy is to say to the dairy farmer: 'You sell your dairy farm to the fellow next door'; or to say to the sheep farmer: 'You sell your sheep property to the fellow next door; we must make the farms bigger'. This country was built up on the basis of the small farmer who worked hard and efficiently and was able to gain the great export earnings that we have lived on for so many years. Now we have reached the stage where we have to do something desperately, and quickly. 
If  Senator Sim  looks at the Opposition's amendment he will see that is contains positive references which will assist greatly. The advice that farmers have received from Country Party Ministers for Primary Industry over the years has been to diversify. The attitude has been that if the wool industry dropped, the farmers were advised to diversify into dairying and wheat. When the dairying industry got into an adverse situation it was advised to turn to beef production. When the wheat industry got into trouble it had no product into which it could diversify. 
Then the Government had to start introducing systems of direct assistance. 
The only industry of any magnitude which has a basis of viability at the moment is the beef industry. I want to give a word of warning in relation to that industry because at present there is great diversification into it.  Senator Webster,  as a Victorian, knows the situation in relation to this matter because there are many wheat farms in our State which had never carried one head of cattle in their history but which are now carrying 50, 60, 100 or more head of cattle in an attempt to make ends meet. 
The situation we have reached is due to the failure of this Government to control inflation over a period of 22 years. That is the real reason why people are in such trouble. It is true that costs have risen, but they have been allowed to rise because this Government believes that everything will find its own level. Things are now finding a level that is putting the rural industries of this country into complete bankruptcy. The real answer to our problems at this late stage lies in the Senate supporting the positive matters contained in the Opposition's amendmentmen t. I commend the amendment to the Senate. 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Trade and Industry. Is it a fact that New Zealand's  Deputy  Prime Minister and Minister for Overseas Trade,  Mr J.  Marshall, has been invited to Britain to hold urgent talks on the European Common Market? Has the Australian Government received a similar invitation or has it been left out, as stated in an article in the Melbourne 'Herald' of Saturday last? If no invitation has been received, will the Government press strongly for similar talks to take place between the Minister for Trade and Industry,  Mr Anthony,  and the United Kingdom Government? 
Has the attention of the Minister for Health been drawn to a letter in yesterday's issue of the Melbourne Age' outlining the total cost of a hernia operation and the return received by the person concerned from his benefit organisation? Did he note that, despite the claim of the Government that very little would have to be paid by patients for such operations, this patient paid out of his own pocket $66.55 and that this charge had been met by him despite the fact that all the charges made for the operation were based on the most common fee? Does this indicate that the claim made by the Government when it introduced its health legislation that medical and hospital care would be almost free is not in fact justified? 
This Bill virtually validates the action of the Commonwealth Government last December in making available $4.2m to the State of Victoria for the purpose of a loan to the Shepparton Preserving Company Ltd. The Opposition raises no objection to the Bill being carried in the Senate but wishes to make some comments in relation to the general situation of the fruit canning industry. This legislation was rushed into the House of Representatives on the last day of its sittings and no opportunity was afforded the caucus of the Australian Labor Party to examine the Bill and its contents prior to its submission to the House of Representatives and its passage on the same day. Consequently the Opposition had no alternative but to move an amendment in the House of Representatives. It was moved by the Labor Party's shadow Minister .for Primary Industry,  Dr Patterson,  and it read: 
That all words after 'That' be omitted with a view to inserting the following words in place thereof: further progress of this Bill be deferred until a financial analysis of the 5 canneries in the Goulburn Valley, Upper Murray and Mumimbidgee Irrigation Area has been completed and a report presented to the Parliament. 
This amendment was moved because of the inadequacy of information in the second reading speech of the Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Sinclair).  The Opposition decided, because of the paucity of information, to seek more detail concerning the reason for the introduction of the Bill at such a late hour of the sittings after a decision had been made as early as December of last year to make the grant available. At that time the Opposition believed, and we still believe, that it was not a coincidence that the grant was made to the Shepparton Preserving Company almost simultaneously with the announcement of the retirement of the then Minister for Trade and Industry,  Sir John  McEwen, and of a pending by-election for the electorate of Murray. As all honourable senators know, Shepparton is the centre of that electorate and is the area with the highest population in that electorate. Members of the Opposition suspected that there was some relationship between this direct grant to the Shepparton Preserving Company and the pending by-election. From an examination of the Minister's second reading speech members of the Opposition believed, until explanations were given at a later stage of the debate, that the decision to make a grant available had been made without any adequate and proper examination of the affairs of the Company. It is only rarely that the Government decides to make a loan to a private company. Such decisions have been made previously, but not often. In his second reading speech the Minister for Air  (Senator Drake-Brockman)  said: 
Honourable senators will be aware from public reports of the extent of the difficulties that the Company has encountered over the last 2 years, extending to the Company's inability to finance in full payments to growers for fruit delivered in the 1970 season. 
The history of this situation goes back to the 1970 season, which includes the spring and early autumn periods of the year before the grant was made. Yet the Minister later indicated that the Bill would have retrospective application to 1st December last when a crisis situation had developed in the affairs of the Company. We are now, 2 years later, validating something that happened 1 2 months ago as a result of a crisis situation that arose 12 months earlier than that. Members of the Opposition believe that this action was taken for political reasons as well as for the purpose of assisting the growers. 
The Opposition admits that the growers need assistance, but we seriously doubt that they would have got it if there had not been a by-election pending within the Murray electorate. The Minister's second reading speech was extremely short. What concerns me most is the last sentence of that speech. It reads:. 
I note from recent public statements by the Company authorities that despite the losses of the last 2 years the directors anticipate an early return to profitable trading.  
Did the Government base its decision to lend $4.2m to this Company on the grounds that public statements had been made by the Company that it would soon again become a profitable organisation? If that is the sole basis for lending large amounts of money I can envisage the day when some stockbrokers will make public statements that they soon will be making fabulous profits but at. the moment they are in difficulties because they have been short selling. Will the Government then come to their rescue with loans of this nature? I am not in any. way deprecating this grant to growers because it is obvious to anybody who is familiar with the situation at Shepparton that not only will this loan be needed to assist the area but also that far more will have to be done if the industry is to be saved. The simple fact Is that this grant will alleviate the situation in relation to fruit that was delivered to the factory in the 1970 season. 
Honourable senators know from replies to questions that have been asked in this House, from information that they have received through the mail and from their own personal observations that hundreds and hundreds of tons of wonderful, high quality fruit has been allowed to rot on the ground in the Shepparton area this season because of the incapacity of the canneries not only to can the fruit but also to find overseas markets. A far graver problem exists in this area than that of the actual saving of this Company. Many growers, although they have quotas governing the fruit which can be sent to the Shepparton Preserving Company and other canneries in the district and in other States, have a far greater production capacity than the capacity of the canneries to can or sell the fruit. 
In the very near future - according to Press reports, in 1973 - Britain will join the European Economic Community and the advantages that Australia has gained in the marketing of its fruits in Britain and in other parts of Europe will be lost. Australia will be facing a far greater crisis when this occurs than the industry is facing now. South African producers already enjoy a big advantage over Australia in marketing their fruits in Great Britain and Europe. They will have additional advantages because many of the protections that Australia now enjoys obviously will disappear. The Government cannot get out of its obligations simply by making a loan of $4.2m available to one canning company within Australia. 
In the Schedule to the Bill - I will not speak at great length on it - provision is made for interest on the grant at the rate of 7 per cent per annum. The Company will repay the loan through the State of Victoria. As we have said on many occasions not only in relation to housing loans but also in relation to other aspects of assistance to primary industries - this is a direct form of assistance to primary industry - this is a usurious rate of interest. It is a crippling rate of interest. It will not give this company a great opportunity to recover as quickly as it might, particularly if it faces the problems which I have outlined and which may occur in the years to come. 
The first payment made by this company will be at the end of 1973. I assume this means that for 2 years the company will be paying interest at the rate of 7 per cent on §4. 2m. I have not seen any suggestion that there will be a rest from interest payments over that period. The company will then be in the position to make 8 halfyearly payments until the debt is resolved. To me it seems that this interest rate will not help the growers in this area. It is not something which will let the company get on its feet quickly. From information we have gathered I believe that the reason for the debt which the company has accumulated over the past 2 years is not entirely associated with natural events. There is some evidence that despite the good management which this company enjoyed over a number of years, some bad decisions have been made and there has been bad management in recent years in relation to the expansion of the company. About $300,000 was lost in a project in Western Australia which was never really examined properly. No feasibility study was carried out. This money has gone down the drain. It was spent in this area which it is not intended now or in the foreseeable future to develop. 
Earlier I spoke of the amendment which was submitted by the honourable member for Dawson in another place and the reason why it was not pursued to the full. It is true that a vote was taken on that amendment but no division was called for. The Bill was carried unamended on the voices. The reason for this situation was that in the other place the Australian Labor Party sought to gain additional information in relation to the amount of $4.2m which was included in the Bill. It was not until the Minister was replying to the motion for the second reading that any indication was given that other people would be assisted also. A situation has evolved where many other canning companies, not only in non-citrus areas but also in other areas, are in a similar position to that which exists with the Shepparton Preserving Co. Ltd. 
This applies not only in Victoria but also in Western Australia and South Australia. I understand also that the apple canning industry in Tasmania is facing similar difficulties in relation to its operations. It was not until the Minister replied - I hope this will be of some comfort to people in Victoria and the other States - that we as a Party decided to withdraw from pressing the amendment. There was no intention on behalf of the Labor Party to delay this legislation except for the reason I have given in my previous remarks. The Minister said: 
There are, as the honourable member for Sturt  (Mr Foster)  and the honourable member for Riverina  (Mr Grassby)  have mentioned, a number of other canneries that are in very similar circumstances. Indeed the honourable member for Dawson also referred to this fact. I understand that similar agreements are to be concluded with the other State governments concerned. This, of course, is an agreement with the Government of the State of Victoria with respect to Jon's cannery. In respect of the Riverland cannery, an agreement will need to be concluded with the Government of the State of South Australia and I understand a sum of the order of $1.29m will be payable to that Government. Similarly, with respect to fruit growers in Leeton, there will need to be an agreement entered into with the State Government of New South Wales. An amount to be determined will be made available to the New South Wales Government for the Letona cannery for payment to growers. 
At the conclusion of the Minister's speech the question was put. The original question was resolved in the affirmative and, I repeat, that happened without any division. At the third reading stage of the' Bill  Dr Patterson  said: 
In view of the explanation given by the Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Sinclair)  that not only has the Shepparton Preserving Company Ltd been involved in this matter but that in fact other companies in South Australia and New South Wales also have been involved, and some advances already have been made, the Opposition is satisfied. Our principal objection to this Bill, was that it looked as though preferential treatment had been given to one company as opposed to other companies. 
The reason why I have gone into detail on this occasion is that the honourable member for Murray  (Mr Lloyd)  in subsequent radio broadcasts deliberately attempted to mislead the people within his electorate by claiming that the Labor Party attempted to block this legislation in the House of Representatives and that it was not prepared to assist the growers in that area. 
I think it is now clearly on the record that it was never the intention of the Opposition to block this legislation when a proper explanation of the Bill was given. That did not occur during the Minister's second reading speech. I am not one who advocates long second reading speeches from Ministers but I think a second reading speech should give adequate descriptions of what is intended, what the purpose of a Bill is and, what is far more important, the basic reason why it is necessary. That did not occur on this occasion. There was no indication that other assistance would be forthcoming for other areas. It left us with no alternative at that stage but to submit such an amendment. 
The situation arose in which the report of the debate appeared in 2 Hansard numbers. The second part of the report of the debate was unavailable to me, as the person who took the adjournment of the debate in this place, - for ' almost a week after the debate was held in the other place. This debate was held on Thursday, 7th May, and the daily Hansard was not available to honourable senators till the following Wednesday. I. understand that this was because of the late sitting of the House of Representatives and the fact that the latter part of the proceedings on the last day of the sitting was tape recorded and not taken in shorthand,, as is the normal custom. But even allowing for that, I believe that the long delay in producing the Hansard, not only in relation to this matter but in relation to other matters that we have discussed in this House, is something that the Senate should not see go unattended. An explanation having been offered by the Minister in the other place and accepted by  Dr Patterson,  we could well have found a situation in which I would have been moving an unnecessary amendment if this legislation' had come on, as it may have, before the Hansard report was available. It must be remembered that all members of the House of Representatives had left this area. I even made an application for a copy of the greens' of the relevant speech to see whether I could ascertain what had finally happened in relation tq this matter. They also were unavailable to me. I wish to put the record straight in this regard and to indicate that the Opposition is prepared to give this Bill a speedy passage. 
I  present the following petition: 
Tothe Honourable the  President  and members of the Senate in Parliament assembled: The Humble Petition of citizens of the Commonwealthrespectfully sheweth - 
W hereas 
the Commonwealth Parliament has acted to remove some inadequacies in (he Australian Education system. 
a major inadequacy at present in Australian education isthe lack of equal education opportunity for all. 
200.000 students from Universities, Colleges of Advanced Education and other Tertiary Institutions, and their parents suffer severe penalty frominadequacies in the Income Tax Assessment Act 1936-1968. 
Australia cannot afford to hinder the edu cation of these 2.000,000 Australians. 
Yourpetitioners request that your honourable House make legal provision for - 
The allowance of personal education expenses as a deduction from income for tax purposes. 
Removal of the present age limit in respect ofthe deduction for education expenses and the maintenance allowance for students. 
Increase in the amount of deduction allowable for tertiary education expenses. 
Increase in the maintenance allowancefor students. 
Exemption of non-bonded scholarships, for part-time students from income tax. 
And your petitioners, as in duty bound, will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
I present the follow  ing petition: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate in Parliament assembled. The Petition of the undersigned citizens of Victoria respectfully showeth. 
THAT due to the higher living cost, persons on Social Service Pensions are finding it extremely difficult to live in even the most frugal way. 
We therefore call upon the Commonwealth Government to increase the base pension rate to 30 per cent of the Average Weekly Male Earnings for all States, as ascertained by the Commonwealth Statistician, plus supplementary assistance and allowances in accordance with A.C.T.U. policy and adopted as the policy of the Australian Commonwealth Pensioners' Federation and by doing so give a reasonably moderate pension.' 
Your Petitioners most humbly pray that the Senate and the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled will take immediate steps to bring about the wishes expressed in our Petition: sothat our citizens receiving the Social Service Pensions may live their lives in dignity. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound willever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
I desire to support  Senator Keeffe  and  Senator Cavanagh  on the matters they have brought before the Senate tonight. On examining the unanswered questions on the notice paper I find that on 7th April this year I asked, questions in relation to actions which, it was implied, could be taken against the trade union movement of this country because certain trade unions, as of right, held a ballot among their own members for the purpose of deciding whether they would amalgamate. On that date  Senator Kane  asked a question in some detail. It seemed to indicate that there was something radically wrong with trade unions wanting to amalgamate because they had common interests. The amalgamation referred to was based on a ballot of members of the unions concerned. lt was implied in the question that some great monolithic organisation was to be created in this country, under the control of the Amalgamated Engineering Union, by virtue of the proposed amalgamation. So I immediately asked questions in relation to the amalgamation of certain commercial interests in this country, including banking institutions. I asked where they stood in relation to this matter and if, as was implied in the question asked by  Senator Kane,  the Commonwealth Government could interfere in the decisions of unions made democratically by the rank and file, why did it not or could it not equally interfere in the amalgamations of these great monolithic organisations, such as the banks and other companies that have amalgamated not only with organisations in this country but also with overseas organisations. 
None of these questions has been answered by the Government, lt has had a very long time to get to the kernel of the questions that were asked on that day. 1 suggest that, had I not asked those questions following the question asked by  Senator Kane  on that day, we would have had an answer to  Senator Kane's  question telling the people of Australia how terrible the trade union movement was because it carried out a democratic ballot among its members in order to amalgamate certain organisations and how terrible it was that finances would be amalgamated to fight the cause of the workers in this country. No doubt that was a leading question which would have been answered in kind. But, because I was able to follow that question with similar questions in relation to amalgamations by big business, neither  Senator Kane  nor 1 have received an answer. 
If that is the kind of thing that is to occur in this chamber, we will have a situation in which it will be useless for members of the Opposition to ask any question of any Minister unless it relates to a portfolio that is held by a Minister in this chamber. We become dizzy in trying to find out who holds which portfolio. We become dizzy in trying to find out which Minister in the Senate represents which Minister in another place. The situation is that if questions are not answered more expeditiously by the Ministers concerned in another place it will be completely useless for us to ask questions of importance. 
There is a matter that concerns me greatly. 1 desired to ask the Minister representing the Minister for Foreign Affairs about it today, but I was denied that right because question time was curtailed. I understand that now I will have to wait until tomorrow to find out whether 1 can receive an answer to the question I wish to ask. I will bet my bottom dollar that I will not receive an answer to it for at least 3 months. What I want to know is: What is Australia prepared to do to help the Pitcairn Islanders who are virtually isolated on a small island in the Pacific Ocean and ships will not go there and supply them with food and other requirements because the French Government is carrying out nuclear weapons trials in that area? The situation is that a group of people who have a great heritage - their ancestors were in the mutiny on the 'Bounty' and they are proud of the fact that on that occasion their ancestors were able to fight and get some kind of freedom - is now in an isolated corner of the Pacific without any prospects of receiving supplies because the Australian Government has not taken strong enough action at an international level to ensure that the nuclear tests which the French have carried out over a period of time are discontinued. Because of the nuclear tests ships will no longer visit the area to supply the essential goods of life to these people. 1 know that the population of this small Pacific island has dwindled to only 85. I wanted to ask a question about this earlier today because 1 believe this is tremendously important. This population of only 85 people- the very old and the very young - has no possible future of being able to continue living on the island. Australia has a vested interest in this matter because I understand that the Norfolk Island Council has offered these people a life on Norfolk Island where they will be able to join their sisters, brothers, cousins and uncles. However some assistance will be required of the Australian Government. Norfolk Island is a mandated Territory of Australia and these people are not only physically incapable of transferring themselves to Norfolk Island but they are also financially incapable of doing so. The Australian Government should give a lead to ensure that these people do not starve because some international power wants to exercise its rights to carry out nuclear tests which are designed to destroy and not to enable human beings to survive. 
I believe that the processes of this House should be utilised, as  Senator Keeffe  and Cavanagh indicated, to permit senators to express their views when they want and not when the Government decides to let them do so. It is a denial of democracy when the Government cuts across our Standing Orders and the principles that have been established and shortens the period allowed for question time. Probing questions would have been asked today on other political matters which certainly would have embarrassed the Government. I believe this is one of the major reasons why senators were denied the right to continue asking questions earlier today. I hope that the procedure which was adopted today will not be pursued in the future because there are many people in Australia who want democracy to operate as it should operate and not as the Government believes is best for this country. 
I ask the Minister representing the Minister for the Interior whether it is a fact that  Sir Robert  Menzies and  Sir John  McEwen have each had allotted to them a Commonwealth car for their personal use? Is it also a fact that the drivers of these cars carry out no other duties even when they are not required by  Sir Robert  and  Sir John  and that this principle applies even when  Sir Robert  and  Sir John  are absent from Victoria or Australia? ls ex-Prime Minister  Mr Frank  Forde provided with similar facilities? Who are the ex-members of this Parliament who receive facilities and privileges? What privileges and amenities are provided? 
My question is addressed to the Minister representing the Minister for External Territories. Is it a fact that the islanders of Pitcairn Island are virtually cut off from civilisation as ships are reluctant to call with supplies because of the French nuclear tests conducted in the Pacific area? Is it also a fact that their plight is becoming desperate and that the descendants of survivors of the Bounty' mutiny who are living on Pitcairn Island will be forced to leave their homes permanently? Has the Norfolk Island Council invited these citizens to settle on that island? If so, will the Government give every possible assistance in helping the Pitcairn [slanders to settle on Norfolk Island, if that offer is accepted? 
Is the Minister representing the Minister for Shipping and Transport aware that the radio operators' organisation involved in a dispute over the manning of the 'Echuca' originally considered stopping all Australian National Line ships in support of its claim and that the intervention of  Mr Bob  Hawke resulted in the dispute being confined to the 'Echuca' only, thus preventing a major problem for Tasmania in relation to imports and exports? 
1 rise to support the submissions which were put forward by  Senator Sir Kenneth  Anderson tonight in relation to this matter. I can see some grave dangers in the position as it is presented to the Parliament under the proposed amendment. If the amendment succeeds we are in a situation where this chamber, by virtue of a vote which is compulsory, is asked to decide an issue which, if paragraph No. 10 which we are to debate later is agreed to, the matter will be subject to only 2 hours of debate in this chamber. Honourable senators will be allowed 10 minutes to debate the matter except for the honourable senators who move the motion or reply to the motion. They are given more than 10 minutes. I suggest the position could arise where every day in the week pet hobbies would be pushed. That could happen where 5 honourable senators in this chamber are prepared to support a resolution. 
It is the mover and 4 supporters as the honourable senator knows quite well. With 4 people in support of a mover attacks can be made on individuals in the community at a personal level. As of right, the decision can be made and the force of numbers in this chamber could be almost terrifying. I am not thinking so much of the present but rather later, perhaps what may happen in 10 years. I believe that as it stands standing order 64 has been clarified by the Committee. I think that  Senator Cant  was quite right in raising this matter. Clarification has been reached. If we want something entirely different we are going to carry the amendment which has been proposed by  Senator Murphy.  But it comes out of a concept of the purpose of this provision and what it was meant to be. As indicated earlier by both  Senator Sir Kenneth  Anderson and  Senator Cavanagh  it was to be a vehicle to allow matters of urgency to be presented to this chamber. I disagree with the system which has been adopted of forcing votes by giving only 1 minute's notice of the gag. In effect it means that if 1 minute's notice is given and the gag is denied by the Senate there is still no opportunity for any other person to enter the debate. I think that if a gag motion is to be moved it should be moved with sufficient time for at least one more honourable senator to speak. A moment ago  Senator Little  interjected. I and many others have been in this chamber when  Senator McManus  has expressed the view quite clearly that under no circumstances would he or his Party ever support the gag. On many occasions they use this view to dodge a vote on vital issues. 
No, that is not what the honourable senator said. As I see it the position is that this standing order provides a venue wherein matters can be debated. If we move into a different situation entirely it can be used as a double edged sword by any party which may be either in government or in opposition. I support the proposals which have been submitted by the Committee. 
ls the Minister for Civil Aviation aware that the new, modern and sophisticated method of receival of passenger luggage at Canberra Airport holds up passengers for far longer periods than did the previous simple method? Is this not a retrograde step, particularly in the winter months when passengers are forced to wait out in the elements hoping against hope that their luggage will be in the first batch placed on the conveyor belt? 
Can the Minister for Civil Aviation advise the Senate whether there are any plans for the provision of a modern aircraft for services between Australia, Norfolk Island and New Zealand? If so, can he advise me when the new aircraft will go into service? 
My question is addressed to the Minister for Works. Are there any plans for the construction of an all weather bitumen highway between Port Augusta and Alice Springs? If so, when is the highway likely to be constructed and what period of time will be required for its completion? Will not such a road open up some of the most beautiful scenic and tourist sites known in the world to many Australians and world visitors? 
Is the Minister for Civil Aviation aware that a considerable amount of land adjacent to Avalon Airport in Victoria has been subdivided for housing purposes? Was the Department of Civil Aviation aware that an application had been made for the subdivision of this land? If so, did the Department intervene and give any evidence to the effect that this area was subject to extreme aircraft noises? Is it a fact that the airport at Avalon has more aircraft movements - that is, take-offs and landings - than any other airport in Australia and that according to present plans it will be the training airport for pilots of Boeing 707s, Boeing 747s and Concordes in the forseeable future? Has the Department taken any steps to warn would-be purchasers of this land that the properties concerned will be subject to extreme aircraft noise problems. 
My question is addressed to the Minister for Civil Aviation. Are there any plans to transfer the training of Qantas Airways Ltd pilots to any airport other than Avalon in the immediate or foreseeable future? If not, would statements to that effect to prospective buyers of land adjacent to the Avalon airport be untrue? 
Before going on to the main part of my speech I congratulate those honourable senators who have made their maiden speeches in this debate on the Budget. Honourable senators who have just been elected to this Chamber have made excellent speeches. In fact,  Senator Negus's  speech prompted me to make an extremely important decision. I have decided not to die because I feel that if I do the Government, with its sticky fingers, will get all of my $25.33. I am determined that this will not happen. Because of that speech by  Senator Negus  I have decided to become immortal. Actually, I suppose that someone else will determine whether I stay immortal. 
This Budget was brought before Parliament on the basis that it would be deflationary. There is no question that it has deflated many people within the community. It has deflated those who believe that something should be done for the sick, the aged and the needy  within  the community. It has deflated their ambitions to do something which would help materially in making the latter years of aged persons' lives a little more comfortable than they are today. At this level, the deflationary aspect of the Budget has been well achieved. Because the Government believes there is inflation in the community it has decided that the people who will pay and who will deflate our economy will be, not the people who have it, but the people who do not have it. This position applies throughout the whole strata of the community. 
As an excuse for this Budget, the Government has blamed entirely the people on wages. All the problems which this Government has created over the last 20 years it has blamed on the workers of the community. They decide to win before the courts and the State and federal arbitration system of this country a just return for their labours. Every time this has happened the Government says: 'These rises should never have occurred. The situation has now reached a peak and everyone has to work harder. Production has to increase because we cannot meet these commitments.' In fact since 1949 the Government has not tackled the real problem which is costs. The trade union movement will never reach the situation where it will sit idly by and allow its membership throughout the community to absorb all the increased costs which are built up by a system which has allowed inflation into the economy. There is no curb at all at the level of prices and consumer goods. As a movement, we believe that, if there is to be a system whereby we are going even to consider the pegging of wages of ordinary people, equally there has to be a system which will peg the costs associated with living standards. 
We can pick up the newspaper every day and see how the cost spiral is getting away from everybody. Young people have no possible hope in the future. Daily honourable senators can read of this situation in the capital city newspapers in relation to purchasing even a block of land for a home, let alone building a home on that land. In yesterday's newspapers there was a statement that the cost of land in New South Wales, particularly in Sydney, would treble in the next 3 years. In Victoria where subdivisions are available for young people in the capital city of Melbourne and the provincial cities of Geelong, in particular, Bendigo and Ballarat - the major areas where there may be some possibility of an increase in the population - the prices that people are asked to pay for their blocks of land are prices which, under any normal system of costing, would cover the total price of a house and land. Today we have the silly situation where house blocks are going to cost ordinary people $8,000 to $10,000. This is the cost of a house block. It is not the cost of a house and the block. The Government has no plan to curb this type of situation. There is no planning by the Government to ensure' that this type of cost structure can be brought back to a situation where the ordinary people in the community can look forward to some kind of future in relation to the purchasing and furnishing of a home. 
As everybody in this chamber knows when a young couple marry they plan on the basis that both of them will work for many years in order to establish themselves in the home which they have or the home which they hope to buy. The fact that they are fearful of starting a family before they arc able to establish themselves at this level is creating a situation in the home which is dangerous for the future. I and everybody else believes that no wife should have to work if she does not want to. This did not happen in my day even though we went through the depression years. It was unthinkable that a wife who did not want to obtain a job would have to obtain one. But today young wives have to plan on the basis of working a number of years before they can consider giving away their job. This type of planning has gone on for 20 years. This situation has resulted from an election in 1949 when a Leader of the 
Opposition became the Prime Minister. Basically he won the election on the promise to bring value back  into  the £1. Today as a society we have almost reached the stage - in country  areas  we have reached the stage - where severe depressions are operating within the economy. Honourable senators can go into country towns of any State and they will see empty houses and empty shops because we have not tackled this cost structure problem. One of  the  major  reasons  why  the  farming community is in trouble today is that it is a section of the community which has not been able to pass on costs which have continued to rise. 
It is wrong and I think it is political hypocrisy for any government to blame this situation on to the fact that workers are receiving too much in their pay packet. I challenge anybody in this chamber to examine closely what the average worker earns. I am not talking about the average wage because 70 per cent of the people working for their living are not receiving anywhere near the average wage as it is classified today. At the level of wages today people are struggling to meet commitments and to carry out the functions that they have at the family level. The people who have been neglected most are those whom I mentioned earlier in my remarks - the aged, the sick and the widowed. Today their pension as a percentage of the average wage is the lowest that it ha? been  in  the history  ot  this country. No compassion is being shown towards these people. Many of them cannot exist on the income that they are receiving. Many are living on handouts and hand-downs. They are able to use the pittance that they receive to buy clothing at the opportunity shops of the Brotherhood of St Laurence or of the St Vincent de Paul Society. Often the suit that is bought has come from a dead person. That is the seriousness of the situation today. Many are able to clothe themselves only because they can buy from these organisations other people's hand-downs. 
This  is  not the type of dignity  in  which our aged should be living today. This is an affluent society. I defy anybody to establish clearly that Parliament could not afford to increase the pensions to  a level  at which these people could live in some  dignity and  peace. This year the Government is budgeting for a domestic surplus of S630m. The surplus is allegedly for the purpose of stopping inflation. Can anybody tell me that an extra $2 or S3 a week for the pensioner today would be inflationary? This would enable these people to buy a dress off the hook in a shop instead of buying a second hand dress in an opportunity shop. Can anybody tell me that this is inflationary? A man could buy a pair of trousers from Fletcher Jones instead of from the St Vincent De Paul Society. Can anybody tell me that this is inflationary expenditure? Of course it is not inflationary for people who need it to get it to be able to spend it. 
The compassion that is not shown is admitted. It has been admitted by at least one honest member of the Liberal Party  Who  sits in another place. I refer to a  Statement  made on 22nd February - not 1871 but 1971 - by the honourable member for Holt,  Mr Reid.  In another place during an urgency debate on social services, he said: 
The urgency discussion initialed by the Opposition is a purely materialistic one because an additional $1 or so is not the greatest need of our elderly citizens. Pensioners do not live by bread alone. They are human, and they need love and affection. 1 am sure that u visit from a relative, or better still from their own children, would mean far more to our elderly citizens than would an increase of $1 a week. 
This is the kind of attitude that has grown among members of the Liberal Party - people who have never had to face the problems that exist at this level. One honest Liberal says: 'Give them love and tenderness. They do not need money to live on. Let them live on love'. Elderly people are struggling to meet the rentals and all the other commitments that people on far higher salaries have to meet. There are no rebates for pensioners when they buy a pound of butter or when they pay their rates. 
There is operating in Victoria a system which alleviates the full payment of rates to a municipal council, but the amounts not paid become a debt against the estate. Interest is charged on the outstanding amounts. A person who has paid off a home for about 40 years may suddently find herself unable to pay the colossal rating that is charged in some areas. I quoted some figures on this in this chamber last session. Elderly people who have taken 40 or more years to pay for their home suddenly find that they are in an area that has become very valuable because industrial enterprises have bought within the area and the land values have risen. Under the NAB system the land on which there are cottages that are 60 or 70 years old is being valued on the same basis as an industrial enterprise that has been built at the end of the street. The people who own those cottages arc in a fantastically impossible position. I spoke previously in this chamber about the situation. I got no result. 
There has been no direct assistance to municipal councils to alleviate this problem. They are in a real dilemma in trying to meet the problem. They must provide the bread and butter issues for the ratepayers in their communities. They have to build streets, look after creches and establish libraries. They have to do a million and one things that in the early years of municipal government it was never thought that they would be doing. They cannot give any relief to these people. As the Act in our State applies, a place such as a pensioner's home has to be rated not on the value of that property to that person but on the value of the land on which it stands or on the rental value of places in that area. People who have bought properties in the initial years of marriage and who have paid them off find that the town has grown out into the suburban areas. This has happened in Melbourne and Sydney. The inner parts of the city have become commercial areas. If they sell their property they have to spend more than they obtained for the property to build in another area. They are too old to shift. They do not desire to uproot themselves. They are in the fantastic situation that the rates are such that they are expected to find up to $4 or $5 a week in some cases out of their pension to meet their commitments. This is not an exaggeration. 1 can table figures to prove this beyond all doubt. Not only have they to meet their municipal rates, which in some cases are well over $100 a year, but they have to meet an almost equivalent amount for water and sewerage rates. 
The Parliament is showing no compassion to the aged. We are not considering their problems at the level at which they should be considered. The Parliament is making a decision which says: 'If we give them Si. 25 a week extra this will stall them off for another 12 months'. The Government has done even worse than that, lt has denied many thousands of pensioners an increase. Despite the fact that for many years the Liberal Party platform has been to lift the means test, the Government is now tightening the means test. It not only has done that; it has done something even worse. The Government, because of its decision to introduce a tapered means test, has taken from many aged persons the medical card that was their life blood. I have taken up this matter with successive Ministers for Health and I certainly will be taking it up with the new Minister for Health  (Senator Sir Kenneth Anderson)  to try to get some kind of common sense into the system so that a medical card will be made available to all pensioners. In 1969 the present Prime Minister  (Mr McMahon),  who was then the Treasurer, when introducing the tapered means test, said: 
Persons who become pensioners because of the proposed increases in basic rates of pension will become members of the Pensioner Medical Service, giving them entitlement to free medical and hospital treatment and free pharmaceutical benefits. They will be entitled also to other subsidiary benefits provided by the Commonwealth, such as reduced radio and TV licence fees, telephone rentals, hearing aids and funeral benefits. Persons who become pensioners for the first time- 
I emphasise the words 'for the first time' -  because of the introduction of the 'tapered means test' - to which I shall now refer - will not. however, be eligible for membership of the Pensioner Medical Service or entitled to any other subsidiary fringe benefits. 
I have taken up with the Minister 3 cases of medical cards being taken from persons who were pensioners prior to the introduction of the tapered means test. One case concerned a man on a very low income married to an invalid pensioner who was slowly dying from a disease certain to result in her death. At that time she was continuously in and out of hospital and that is still the position.  Her  husband needs additional assistance to look after her. He received an increase of $7 a week in his salary and because of it came within the terms of the tapered means test.  His  medical card was taken from him. 
Another case in my experience concerned an 85-year-old man who was hospitalised and needed a tremendous amount of medical attention. He lost his wife and their joint assets passed to him. Because they had been pensioners for many years they had not subscribed to a health insurance fund. They believed that their pensioner medical cards would last them, as very old persons, for the rest of their lives. This case was submitted to the Minister but received very unsympathetic consideration. This 85-year-old man lost his pensioner medical card because the joint assets of himself and his wife passed to him on her death. If that is compassion for aged persons, 1 will go 'he'. This action can be repeated many times through the system of the tapered means test. 1 discussed the matter with an officer of the Department of Social Services. I will not name him because he would get into trouble for talking about this matter with a member of Parliament. He said that it was the first time in his experience thai a fringe benefit had been taken from a pensioner after it had been granted to him. Even if decisions had been made by this Parliament in relation to the means test, a person who had received a pensioner medical card would keep it until he died. That is not so today. An 85-year-old man without the protection of a medical fund has had his card taken from him overnight after receiving a form letter from the Department of Social Services. He is faced with terrific hospital and medical costs that he sincerely believed he would never have to pay. As a pensioner he thought it was no longer necessary to remain or to become a member of a hospital benefits fund. 
I turn now to consider the broken promises of the Government. This afternoon the Leader of the Government in the Senate  (Senator Sir Kenneth Anderson)  said that the Government never breaks its promises. Tonight I will show conclusively that if it has not actually broken a promise it is taking so long to implement it that it is causing untold tragedy amongst the aged people within our community. In 1969  Mr Gorton,  when Prime Minister, made certain promises in his election policy speech. He said that only one problem of any significant size remained in relation to people with lengthy illnesses. I ask honourable senators to listen very carefully to the words of the then Prime Minister. He went on to say: 
Some people after paying health insurance contributions for many y/ears find that they are obliged to spend long periods under intensive care in nursing homes as distinct from hospitals.  We  shall negotiate with the health insurance funds to arrange for the payment of increased benefits, properly related to reasonable nursing home fees, for persons who have been regular contributors to health insurance funds and who need intensive home nursing care. 
Anybody reading that would judge that action would he taken almost immediately, but nothing in that direction has happened yet. During last year's Senate election campaign  Mr Gorton  made a similar promise. He said that his Government would tackle the problem posed because many people after paying health insurance contributions for many years find that they are obliged to spend long periods under intensive care in nursing homes as distinct from hospitals and do not receive hospital benefits.  Mr Gorton  went on: 
I renew those promises and reiterate that as promised we shall act on these matters during the life of the Parliament. 
The life of the Parliament is almost finished. This Parliament has only about 12 months to run and no alleviation has been granted to aged persons who are confined to nursing homes, lt is bad enough for people who are in State aged persons nursing homes or hospitals, but at least in those circumstances the State contributes to the upkeep and maintenance of the home. The aged persons do not have to make up the difference between their pension and what they receive in addition to the pension by way of special grants, an-l the cost of keeping them in the hospital. 1 have no doubt that the position in Victoria is repeated in the other States. In Victoria hundreds of families with their own problems, including the purchase of a home and children to look after, are subsidising the costs of nursing homes in which their aged parents are being cared for. The charge for a patient in a private nursing home in Victoria is between $70 and $80 a week.  In  addition to the pension, which is to be $17.25 a week, the Government pays $2 a day for a patient who does not require intensive care. That makes a total income of $31.25 for an aged person in that situation. When the minimum charge by a private nursing home is $70 a week, and many charge S80 a week, the balance of almost $40 a week has to be found for these people who require the care and attention of a hospital. 
How much less do they charge in a private nursing home? 
How much less do they charge? Put up or shut up. I have absolute proof of what I have said. Even if the charge by a private nursing home was only $50 a week, does  Senator Greenwood  believe that the balance of $20 should be found by a family that may be in circumstances making it impossible to meet its commitments? Does the Minister think that the Government should be generous enough to raise the payment of $2 a day to $5 or $6 a day, or even $8 a day? Onethird of the patients in these places on a strict rule require intensive care. Medical doctors from the Department of Health walk through aged persons nursing homes. On one occasion, upon seeing a 90-year- old woman reading a newspaper, a doctor from the Department said without conducting a medical examination: 'Take that woman off the additional $3 a day.' 1 have proof that that incident happened and I can produce it. 
I am a member of the committee of an aged persons home in the city of Geelong. Over a year an average of one-third of the inmates receive intensive care payments. An application is sent with a doctor's certificate to establish that a person requires intensive care. No doctor comes from the Department of Health to conduct an examination. A decision is made arbitrarily in an office in Melbourne as to whether the applicant is entitled to the additional $3 a day. We now have a situation in Which hospitals budget on the basis that I person of every 3 who apply will receive atd and 2 of the 3 will not receive aid. irrespective of their condition. This is the kind of treatment that these people are receiving from this Government. We have now reached the stage where many aged persons homes in Victoria which for many years have had help on a voluntary basis to raise funds and with assistance from the Commonwealth have been able to build accommodation have closed whole floors in their hospitals because they cannot get sufficient finance to keep them going. 
The figures for Victoria, so far as I have been able to ascertain them - they are accurate enough for me to cite them - show that at present at least 5,000 aged persons are on a waiting list for entry into an aged persons home or hospital; that at least 7,000 persons have made application but, because of the time that they have been told they will have to wait, have not proceeded with their applications; and an estimated 7,000 other aged persons have made no application. The figures show conclusively that of the 5,000 persons on the waiting list for attention in a nursing home in Victoria, 2 out of every 3 will die before they gain entry. 
It is absolutely wonderful! Two out of every three applicants die before they can gain entry to a nursing home. There are 800 persons awaiting entry to the nursing home with which I am associated. That is more than the total number for which we can provide accommodation. Of the 800 who are waiting, 240 need urgent attention and should be in the home. Again, in relation to that number, the same proportion of deaths occur before they are able to gain entry to the home. We have endeavoured to overcome the situation by establishing a day hospital which will operate within the framework of our aged persons home. Our purpose was to treat these aged persons on a day basis, even though many of them should be inmates in the hospital. We have made representations to the Government to assist this organisation. We have asked that consideration be given at least to the $2 subsidy per day which is granted to persons who enter an approved hospital. This would enable us to treat these people on a day basis until such time as we would provide accommodation for them in the hospital. Although we asked only for the $2 per day that applies in the case of inmates of a hospital, our efforts in this regard proved to be in vain. 
Consequently we in Victoria are in a desperate situation - no doubt this applies also to other parts of the Commonwealth - in relation to the treatment of aged persons whose only crime has been that they have grown old and become sick. They have committed no other crime, yet we continue with a system whereby if they are unable to fit into the accommodation which already exists they have to enter a private nursing home and become a charge upon their relatives who can ill afford to meet the cost. This year the Government is budgeting for a domestic surplus of $630m. Usually when we budget for a deficit the deficit at the end of the year is not as great as we budgeted for, and if we budget for a surplus the surplus at the end of the year is usually greater than anticipated. At a time when we are budgeting for a domestic surplus of $630m the Government allows a situation such as I have described to continue within our community. It is allowing old people who have become sick to be worried - in some cases worried to death - because they have nowhere to go. They have no-one to help them. They are in the situation where, unless they are on a waiting list for years or have a friend who can move them up the priority list, there is just no hope for them. If they do not have relatives able to afford hospital care and attention for them they are forced to lie at home with a day nurse attending them until such time as they die. 
Associated with the planning at the nursing home with which I am associated we have been able to establish a rehabilitation system for aged people which is one of the most modern in the Southern Hemisphere. The geriatrics clinic at our establishment is second to none in the Southern Hemisphere and we are able to do a tremendous amount of work for aged persons who themselves believe and of whom one, by looking at them, may believe that they will never get to their feet again. We are providing this service for people for whom we can provide accommodation. Although we have a dedicated staff and dedicated medical officers, we are frustrated all along the line because we are not able to get sufficient finance to carry out the capital works that are absolutely necessary and we are unable to get enough money from the Commonwealth or the State to cope with maintenance of the hospital. In March this year we were advised by the Victorian Hospitals Commission that we were not to employ any more persons at our hospital, irrespective of whether somebody left, unless there was an extreme staff emergency. We had almost completed building 2 new wards, financed by the Commonwealth subsidy of $2 for Si, from bequests and the fund raising efforts of our committee, but we were told that we would not be able to staff the 2 wards when they were completed. Yet we have a waiting list of 800 aged people. 
In the vicinity of 500 at present, and we have 800 on the waiting list. We were told by the Commission that because it had run out of money we would nol be allowed to employ staff to enable us to open the 2 new wards. Then, because of a Press report of our committee meeting which appeared in the local newspaper,  Mr Kopp,  the Director of Social Services in Victoria, wrote to us and said that we could not receive any more of the Commonwealth subsidy to enable us to complete the wards which were being built with finance raised by the committee's efforts and the Commonwealth subsidy of $2 for $1. Our committee was in a terrible situation for some weeks. Although we had received a subsidy from the Commonwealth to enable us to build additional accommodation for aged persons and although we had additional capacity for some of these people immediately the wards were finished, the State was denying us the right to employ staff and the Commonwealth told us that no more subsidy would be available until such time as we could guarantee that these wards would open. Although the building contractors had almost completed their work, the committee was left without money. 
Finally the situation was resolved when the State relented in its attitude. The committee was without money and owed money to which it was entitled from the Commonwealth as a matter of right under the legislation. It seemed probable that we would be in a situation where we could not meet debts that had been incurred as a result of a grant that had already been given to us - not a grant which was tied to what might happen in the future. The position in relation to staff was a temporary measure and in my view a political stunt by Bolte to enable him to get more money from the Commonwealth, to enable him to come to Canberra and be able to show a shortage of funds in Victoria so that he could pressurise the Commonwealth for more funds for these purposes. Ours is a voluntary organisation which, as I said earlier, has built one of the finest places of its kind in the Southern Hemisphere, yet we are completely frustrated all along the line by not being able to do something for the aged people who are most in need of aid. 
Promises were made by a former Prime Minister, (t was my understanding that when promises are made at this level they must be honoured by a subsequent Prime Minister. But they have not been honoured up to date. The $2 a day subsidy, which was given years and years ago, is still only $2. The extra S3 a day subsidy is being handled on the basis of economics and not on the basis of need. Aged persons who are chronically ill, after a period of 3 months at the most, although they may have paid into a medical benefits organisation all their lives, are cut off completely from any further benefits and can no longer meet their commitments. These promises have been made by a government which, although it has $630m to spare, has done nothing whatever to honour the promises which it made and upon which it was elected. 
I hope that some compassion will be shown by the Government. It is not too late for it to introduce amending legislation to increase the pensions that are made available to the normal pensioners. Also I make a very strong plea for direct assistance to persons who have grown old and become sick and who can do nothing for themselves. Let the Government give assistance where it is needed most, and I am certain that this country will not go broke because the Government has spent some of the $630m that it intends to hoard. 
Can the Minister for Health advise whether there is a chair of geriatrics at
              .any university in Australia? If there is not, will he take steps to have discussions
              with the appropriate authorities with a view to having such a chair established in all
              major universities? 
Primarily, of course, the question of setting up a chair of study at a
            university is the responsibility of the State concerned. However I will ascertain the
            facts for the honourable senator and they may prompt a further question. 
Is the Minister representing the Minister-in-Charge of Tourist Activities aware
              that the Premier of Victoria has imposed a 10 per cent bed tax on motels and hotels in
              that State? If so, does the Minister consider that such a tax will be detrimental to
              the attraction of tourists to Australia particularly if, as per.dicted by  Sir Henry  Bolte, all other States impose a similar tax?
            
I wish to ask a question of you,  Mr President.  At whose direction and for what reason was an attendant taking the names and times of departure of persons leaving Parliament House at 15 minutes past midnight this morning? 
I ask the Minister for Health: Is it a fact that medicines prescribed for pensioner patients in nursing homes do not come within the scope of the free pharmaceutical scheme for pensioners? Does this mean that if an indigent person requires extensive dressings and other pharmaceutical items whilst in a nursing home, he or she must meet the cost of those items? Will the Minister consider reviewing this unjust situation which is a source of great anxiety for many old and sick people in our affluent nation? 
There is a very wide and comprehensive list of pharmaceutical benefits which doctors can prescribe. If they prescribe them for pensioners there is no charge. It is true - I think this is the burden of the question which the honourable senator asks - that certain items are not on the list. I would be happy if the honourable senator would let me have the name of the drugs to which he is referring so that 1 may have their position examined. Last week or the week before, in answer to a question, I said that a board had been set up to examine submissions as to various drugs which could or could not be put on the list. If I could obtain particulars of the drugs which the honourable senator or some of his constituents have in mind I would have them examined in detail and obtain a reply for the honourable senator. 
asked the Minister for 
Civil Aviation, upon notice: 
Has the Minister received representations from the Shire of Warracknabeal requesting that Trans-Australia Airlines be granted permission to operate intrastate air services in Victoria? If so, what has been the result of these representations? 
Has the Council also requested that a' subsidy be granted to commuter air services? 
Are Warracknabeal and Horsham now without any air services to Melbourne, despite the fact that there are suitable airstrips at both centres and there is a demand for these services? 
What procedures must be adopted to grant Trans-Australia Airlines permission to operate within Victoria, and will the Government support any application by Trans-Australia Airlines to operate such services? 
Is the Minister for Health aware that a number of hospitals for the aged have established day hospitals for the treatment of aged persons? Is he also aware that the establishment of day hospitals is the result of lack of accommodation in aged persons' hospitals for those people who need medical attention? Will the Minister use his considerable influence within the Cabinet for the payment of at least the Commonwealth subsidy of $2 a day to institutions which conduct day hospitals? 
The honourable senator has asked an important but rather involved question. We would need to separate some points to ensure that we were on the same wave length. For instance, a pensioner patient in a nursing home attracts a Commonwealth subsidy of $2 a day, unless classified as receiving intensive care, in which case the subsidy is $5 a day. As I indicated yesterday, some critical situations are emerging and we are currently examining them. I am not quite certain that I am fully seised of the implications of the expression 'day hospitals'. I am not sure whether the honourable senator is talking in terms of out patients or ordinary hospital care. 
I am referring to hospitals where people are brought to a centre for treatment and later taken home because there is no accommodation for them. It is not an out patient centre. 
I see. This point may be linked with the provision in the legislation for domiciliary nursing under certain conditions. I have in mind where people are later brought back for treatment or treatment is taken to them in their homes. I will put the question to  a  complete study because I think this is warranted. I will get some background information and come back to the honourable senator to see whether we are on the same wave length. If we are not, we can discuss it again. 
I direct my question to the Minister representing the Minister for Customs and Excise. Has his attention been drawn to advertisements appearing in weekly magazines which advertise for sale replicas of pistols and revolvers which can be purchased by mail order for prices ranging from $6.95 to $39.50? Is he aware that these pistols can actually fire blanks and could be used as hold-up weapons, with very few people being able to distinguish them from conventional weapons? Are these weapons imported? If so, will the Minister examine the possibility of having the import licence withdrawn? If they are Australian made, will he examine the possibility of having a ban placed on their circulation through the post? I have copies of these advertisements, and 1 will make them available to the Minister. 
My question is directed to the Leader of the Government in the Senate. Can honourable senators now regard as practice the acceptance by a Minister of an interjection as part of the original question asked? If so can I, as one who rarely interjects, think up suitable interjections for consideration by the Minister? 
I oppose the motion for many of the reasons that have been submitted by Senators Cavanagh and Keeffe. One of the features of this chamber, particularly over recent years, has been the additional freedom that exists for senators to express their views on all manner of subjects. Obviously the Standing Orders of this chamber have been designed to give additional freedom to honourable senators to express their views on matters relevant and irrelevant. This pertains particularly to debates on money Bills that come into this place. We are now debating a proposed amendment to the Standing Orders which will bring about the very disability from which we believe the other House has suffered, that is, a restriction of speech. 
Al the moment 3 hours are allocated for the debate on an urgency motion. As has been mentioned by  Senator Cavanagh,  not a great number of such motions have been submitted to this House, but when they have been submitted it has been in the belief that they are important and that a debate will proceed. It is now being suggested that the  speaker  who introduces the matter should be limited to a speaking time of 20 minutes, and a later proposed amendment would reduce the time of speakers who follow in the debate from 15 minutes to 10 minutes. It is proposed that in total there should be 2 hours for the whole debate. 1 know some honourable senators who in 10 minutes could hardly state their name and address, because of the manner in which they develop an argument. But that is their right. 
That is right. If it were in Wales they might have difficulty even in pronouncing it. I do not think it is unfair or that it is unreasonable for an urgency debate in this chamber to take 3 hours. There is an old trade union axiom which applies in almost all circumstances. It is that you should never give away amenities and benefits that you have because the first inroad to those amenities and benefits leads the way to the second inroad.  Senator Jim  Keeffe expressed this matter very well when he expressed the fear that the Executive will finally take control of debate in this place. 
I have spoken on this subject on other occasions in relation to the establishment of Estimates Committees, which I believe was another inroad into the debating time of the Parliament. I have expressed my views on this matter, as have other honourable senators, by saying that we are taking into the corridors and the small rooms of Parliament House discussions that should be held here publicly and openly. It is proposed by this amendment to reduce to 2 hours the discussion that would normally take 3 hours. I suggest that the proper and perfect system would be one in which there was no restriction of the freedom of a member of Parliament to voice his opinion. This right has existed and still exists in some houses of parliament within the Commonwealth. 
I recall an occasion in Victoria when a member of the upper House spoke for more than 4 hours. Admittedly that was a filibuster for political purposes. But the freedom of that man to speak for 4 hours is very important within the portals of Parliament where democracy exists, or is alleged to exist. We have no right to take from a person 5 minutes of the time allowed to him to express the views of thepeople he represents or the State thai he represents, or even to express his personal views on issues of conscience. If the Committee wishes to extend the system of Executive control it will carry this amendment and restrict further the rights of members of Parliament. If it wants to make the Parliament more democratic with less control by the Executive it will extend the speaking time allowed to members. 
Any one of us could state a belief that a person has spoken for too long because we have not enjoyed or followed properly his speech, but his right to speak is paramount if we are to adhere to the system of democracy in this country. Every member of Parliament has that paramount right. Every decision and every action by the Parliament to restrict that right is a decision and an action in support of executive control. 1 oppose the amendment. 
1 was intrigued with the argument that was put up by  Senator Byrne  when he quoted from the notice paper to indicate to us how much business we already have on it, and he implied that we will have a lot more on it before this session is over. I ask him to declare honestly and sincerely whether he believes that if one hour is taken off the time allotted for the discussion of urgency motions in the Senate we will clear the business sheet before we rise for the summer recess. The answer of course is no, and it is an emphatic no. The argument that by cutting down by 1 hour on our 3 hour debates on urgency motions this is something that could be achieved is an argument that cannot hold water. 
Honourable senators know that during the early stages of the last session the Senate had no Government business with which to deal. The Government had no business to bring forward and I know that honourable senators on our side of the chamber  -  I presume the same applied to honourable senators on our side of the the chamber - were asked to speak on matters on which they had no intention of speaking so that we would fill out the day and appear to be working. At that time certain Bills that were presented in another place were kept for 6,  8  and 10 weeks before they saw the light of day in this chamber, and during that period we had no business at all. It was a matter of comment in this place on more than one occasion that the Government had no business for us to deal with. During the last fortnight of sitting in another place last session we had the shocking position when 20 or 30 Bills were forced through in one week. It was to the credit of the Senate that we sat an additional fortnight, and I give credit to all parties represented in the Senate for agreeing to do that. We were not panicked into the type of shemozzle that occurred in another place. I think each and every one of us - the Liberal Party, the Democratic Labor Party and ourselves - agreed that we were not going to run our chamber in the manner in which the other chamber was being run. In that additional fortnight we were able to go through the rest of the business paper without the use of the gag and without the use of any of the restrictive measures that were imposed in another place. We were able to complete all the business that the Government desired to be completed by the end of that sitting time. 
For any honourable senator to say that by denying ourselves an extra hour on urgency motions, which are not a regular feature of this chamber, we will attain something that has never happened in the history of federation is to put forward a fallacious argument that should not be considered by any honourable senator when he votes on this matter. The simple facts are that we should retain the privileges that we have. We should not under any circumstances, by making a decision tonight, place ourselves in a situation which will make it easier next year to make a decision that will cut back further the rights of honourable senators. I can see developing a situation in which someone will say: 'We were successful with getting the time allowed for the discussion of urgency motions cut back to 2 hours and the speaking time for each honourable senator speaking to an urgency motion cut back to 20 minutes and 10 minutes. We will introduce the Standing Orders of the House of Representatives in relation to the norma] debates that take place on legislation.' So the hour allowed for speaking goes back to half an hour. 
Honourable senators do not abuse their speaking time. Not- even the leaders of the parties in this place take the full hour in introducing matters that they desire to introduce unless they have a lot of say.  I  say that with respect. The 3 Party leaders in the Senate do not say: 'I have an hour. I will take the full time.' But if they need the time they have it. Then we could reach the situation where instead of having an hour for question time the Standing Orders Committee could say that the House of Representatives has only  45  minutes and that by adopting the same practice we could save another quarter of an hour which could be used to discuss the matters which  Senator Wilkinson  says are so urgent and with which we should be dealing instead of dealing with urgency motions. Then we would get to the stage of altering the Standing Orders that relate to ministerial statements, petitions and all the things that come before question time and we would find a Minister rising from his seat  45  minutes after the opening  of  the Senate and asking that all other questions be put on the notice paper. I have seen question time reduced to less than 30 minutes in the other House. The thin edge of the wedge is in this amendment. If we give now we will give later and we will give often, and we will become a complete replica in every respect of the other place, completely controlled by Standing Orders designed to meet the situation in the other place. Let us retain the Standing Orders we have now, which make us somewhat distinguished from another place, which in the last fortnight of the last session had the kind of situation that we do not see in this place. 
Leave out 'the mover and the Minister first speaking shall not exceed 30 minutes each,', insert The mover and the  Senator next  speaking shall sot exceed 20 minutes each,'. 
Question put: 
That the words proposed to be left out be left out. 
In supporting the amendment which has been submitted by  Senator Cant  I repeat what I said earlier tonight. The proposed curtailment of the rights of members of this House does not seem to concern many honourable senators to any great extent. I think it is tremendously important to preserve our rights because - I repeat this for the sake of emphasis - the moment we give way on this issue we give the green light to the Committee to bring in a number of other amendments to short cut the proceedings of this House and to take into other rooms of the Parliament discussions that rightly should be held in this House. 
The Minister in charge of these proposed amendments is not the Minister who was in charge of the amendments the last time we discussed them, and a different Minister was in charge of them the first time we discussed them. The Minister in charge of the amendments tonight said: This is a very important Committee. It has brought down very important amendments to the Standing Orders. The Committee has given the amendments great consideration. Therefore they should be carried'. On the last occasion that these matters were discussed the Minister then in charge of the proposed amendments - the Government soon will run out of Ministers who want to present the proposals - spoke to them and immediately led all of those behind him to vote against them, i can remember ordinances that have been opposed by notice of disallowance coming into the House with the full connivance of the Regulations and Ordinances Committee, and when the recommendations have been discussed Government members, including some Committee members who agreed on the disallowance, opposed it in the Senate. 
Consideration interrupted. 
The  CHAIRMAN  (Senator Prowse)Order!  In conformity with the sessional order relating to the adjournment of the Senate, I formally put the question: 
That the  Chairman  do now leave the chair and report to the Senate. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. (The  Chairman  having reported accordingly) 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Foreign Affairs. Are there any Australian servicemen held as prisoners of war, or missing believed to be held as prisoners of war, in Vietnam? If so, how many are there? What action is being taken by the Australian Government to have these prisoners released and brought home to Australia at the same time as our troops are withdrawn? 
asked the Minister representing the Minister-in-Charge of Tourist Activities, upon notice: 
Has the Premier of the State of Victoria,  Sir Henry  Bolte, imposed a 10 per cent bed tax on motels and hotels in that State; if so, does the Minister consider that this tax will be detrimental to the Australian Tourist industry particularly if all other States impose a similar tax, as predicted by  Sir Henry  Bolte. 
The Opposition has no objection whatever to the proposal made by the Minister for Air  (Senator Drake-Brockman),  who represents the Minister for Repatriation  (Mr Holten).  I understand that the votes on the 2 measures will be taken separately. 
The Bills that we are debating - the Repatriation Bill (No. 2) 1971 and the Seamen's War Pensions and Allowances Bill (No. 2) 1971  -  are machinery measures which will give legislative effect to the decision of the Government to increase certain pensions for persons who have served in the armed forces and at sea during wars in which this country has been involved. We on this side of the Senate will not be rejecting the legislation, although we will be moving an amendment to the motion for the second reading of the Repatriation Bill because we are very concerned about the erosion that has taken place in terms of the money value of the pensions that are now paid to exservicemen and seamen compared with that of the pensions that were paid as recently as 10 years ago. 
I will move it now. The honourable senator should have a copy of it in front of him. On behalf of the Opposition, I move the following amendment: 
At end of motion add: ', but the Senate condemns the Government because it has failed to restore the relative values of repatriation pensions. 
Copies of the amendment have been available since 3 p.m. today. We on this side of the chamber have compared very closely the pensions that have been paid over the years with those that are being paid now. These pensions are paid by an allegedly grateful nation by way of compensation to persons who have fought in wars in the defence of this nation. As was indicated in a previous debate in this chamber, over the years money values have eroded to such an extent that there is no value left in many of the pensions that are received by exservicemen today. One can start at the top rung of the pensions that are being paid, the special rate pension which is more commonly known amongst ex-servicemen as the TPI pension. Those pensioners will get an increase of $3.50 on this occasion and this will bring the top rate of pension, the TPI pension, to $42.50 a week. 
On the surface it would appear that the Government has held the situation, so far as relative values are concerned, in comparison with the pension as it existed 12 months ago. But if we look back 10 years to 1961 we find that then the pension for total and permanent incapacity was of the order of 55.7 per cent of average weekly earnings of that day. Today the situation is that this pension has decreased and represents 44.4 per cent of average weekly earnings. Every year we find, not only in the social service field but in the war service pension field, that there is a continuing erosion in the value of payments. A special rate pensioner, a totally and permanently incapacitated person, can no longer earn a living in any way whatsoever. Such people served overseas in a theatre of war and received injuries or suffered illnesses that prevent them from working at all and as a result they are entitled to the special rate or TPI pension. Australia, a grateful nation, is saying that the maximum amount that such a person may receive is $42.50 a week. This is even below the minimum weekly wage rate. The minimum weekly wage rate, State by State, as of June of this year, was as follows: New South Wales, S47.10 a week; Victoria, $46.30 a week; Queensland, $44.60 a week; South Australia, $45.90 a week; Western Australia, $46.90 a week; and Tasmania, $47 a week. Those were the minimum rates of pay received by people who work for a living. 
Yet we find that this grateful Government expects a person who is totally and permanently incapacitated to live on about $6 a week less than the average weekly earnings. This Government is saying to these people, in effect, that this represents what they would have earned had they not suffered these great disabilities. Of course, each and every one of them would be earning much more than that amount if they were able to work. The very lowest paid person in that group would have been receiving the minimum weekly rate applying under the awards of this nation. These pensioners could be earning up to the current average weekly rate of something like $93.10, which is the rate applying in New South Wales. 
Yes, he would be earning double what he receives at the present time. But in effect this Government says to these pensioners: 'This is all we can give you, no matter how grateful we may be. We expect you to live under the breadline on a sum which is something like 7 per cent or 9 per cent less than what you were able to live on in 1961-62.' The Government is saying to these people today that they need less to live on than they did 10 years ago, so far as the real value of money is concerned. 
But this Government has done far worse than that. Not only has it eroded the value of the pension received by TPI pensioners; it has given no consideration at all to the dependents of such people. It is so many years since this Government has looked at this matter that the situation is almost laughable. I ask honourable senators: Do you know the last occasion on which the Government was grateful enough to increase the amount paid for the dependent child of an ex-serviceman, whether in receipt of a TPI pension or a general rate pension? It was in  1952.  That was the last occasion on which there was an increase in the rate of pension paid in respect of a dependent child.  1  ask honourable senators: Do you know what amount is paid at the present time in respect of the dependent child of a TPI pensioner? It is  $1.38  a week. It was in  1952  that the Government decided to raise that amount from  $1.15  a week. No consideration has since been given to this situation. The last increase was almost  20  years ago in  1952.  The Government is so grateful that it has never given consideration to increasing the amount paid in respect of dependent children of ex-servicemen who are on the special rate or TPI rate of pension. 
The Government has been a little more generous to the dependent wife of a TPI pensioner because it granted an increase in  1964.  There has been no increase since then. In  1964  the Government increased that sum from  $3.55  a week to  $4.05  a week. It has remained at  $4.05  a week for  7  years. There appears to be no indication on the part of the Government to increase the amounts paid for dependents of people who are in receipt of repatriation benefits. The situation today is that a TPI pensioner can receive  $42.50  a week plus  $4.05,  making a total of  $46.55  a week. This is the sort of gratitude that this Government is showing to those who served this country so well - served it to the extent that they are no longer able to earn any kind of living in any way. 
I turn now to the general rate of pension which is paid to a person who is not permanently and totally incapacitated. I refer to those people who receive  75  per cent or more of the general rate. The situation is the same, so far as the gratitude of the Government is concerned, as that which applies to the dependents of exservicemen because there has not been a rise in the general rate of pension for the same period of time, that is, since  1964.  The rate has remained static for  7  years. We have received no indication from the Government at any stage that it intends to assist persons who receive the general rate of pension or who receive less than  75  per cent of the existing general rate of pension. 
There has been a complete and absolute erosion of the money values of pensions paid under the Repatriation Act. Let us examine the matter further. All honourable senators would know, from examining the files and from speaking to people who come to see them, that there are many thousands of ex-servicemen who receive nothing at all. I believe - I think all of us believe this as a result of knowing the histories of these people - that they should be receiving some type of pension for the disabilities they suffer as a result of war service. The Repatriation Act provides for the onus of proving whether a person is or is not entitled to some recompense for injury or illness suffered to be on the Repatriation Commission. But under the present situation this onus of proof provision is working in reverse. The situation today is that many people with cast iron claims, in my view, cannot get past first base when it comes to putting their cases before the tribunals. This is despite opinions expressed by many eminent lawyers - none more eminent, I suggest, than  Mr Justice  Spicer, who was a senator and sat in this chamber and who gave a legal opinion in relation to section  47  of the Act which specifies quite clearly and properly that the onus of proof is on the Commission when rejecting a claim made by a person. The onus of proof is not upon a soldier to establish his claim. In my view a legal opinion submitted by  Mr Justice  Spicer-  -Senator the  Honourable J. A. Spicer, Q.C.. Attorney-General, as he was then - makes it very clear that section  47  of the Act is not being administered properly at present. In clause  5  of his opinion  Mr Justice  Spicer said: 
The effect of this- 
He was referring to section  47  of the Act- 
Is that it is not for the claimant to prove that he is entitled to a pension, but it is for any opposing person or authority to prove that he is not entitled. In every case the question is not: Has the claimant satisfied the tribunal that he is right? but: Has the opposing person or authority satisfied the tribunal that the claimant is wrong? 
Of course, the claimant may find himself in  a  position in which it is greatly to his own interest to supply evidence in support of his claim. For example, the opposing person or authority may be able to supply evidence which, taken alone, might discharge the onus of proof which the opponent carries. In such a case it would be advisable for the claimant to supply evidence which would  at  any rate raise  a  doubt in his favour. 
The onus remains with the opposing person or authority throughout the proceedings. The claimant need not, but he may, if he so desires, furnish proof in support of bis claim. But, whether he furnishes proof or not, the onus will, at the end of the proceedings, still be upon the opposing person or authority to satisfy the determining authority that the claimant is not entitled. 
All members of this Parliament know from the case histories in their files that the onus of proof is at present fairly and squarely upon the claimant. Claimants who have to face a tribunal - some seek assistance whilst others believe they can handle their cases in their own way - find that the decision is invariably not on the basis of a doubt in the mind of the tribunal but of a doubt in the mind of the claimant. These claimants sometimes leave a tribunal knowing full well that justice has not properly been done. 
I am at the moment handling a case concerning a widow who is seeking a widow's pension for the death of her breadwinner. We have been able to obtain from one of the top specialists in Melbourne an opinion that her husband died from a war caused complaint. The specialist has not only given an opinion as the result of his own examination of the case but is able to quote directly from other medical authorities throughout the world evidence that the death of the ex-serviceman was caused by the original injuries and diseases. However, the Commission has said that this further evidence is of insufficient weight to permit the case to be reopened. That is an example of the kind of situation with which these people are faced today. Surely a woman who lived with a man from the day he came from war and who saw him deteriorate day by day, week by week and year by year until finally he died is entitled to more consideration from a Commission which is bound by an Act to interpret the onus of proof provision in favour of an applicant for a pension. If there is any semblance of doubt at all the Commission should, as indicated in the opinion of  Mr Justice  Spicer, act in favour of the person concerned. I believe that the Repatriation Commission is today working on a budget instead of on the basis of justice to those who submit cases. 
I turn now to a field which is of even more concern in some respects than the case I have just quoted. It appears that war widows who are in great trouble as  a  result of health breakdowns are finding that, although they are entitled under certain circumstances to hospitalisation, once they become chronic patients the Repatriation Commission is, under the present legislation, wiping its hands of them. After  3  months it says: 'You can no longer stay within a Repatriation hospital. However, we will pay the expense of keeping you in a nursing home for a fortnight and then you are on your own.'  I  wish to quote from a letter written by  Mrs Eric  Mayo, the National  President  of the War Widows Guild of Australia on this subject. No doubt copies of this letter were sent to all members of the Parliament. I shall quote this letter in full because it outlines some of the problems facing war widows: 
The War Widows Guild is, once again, asking the Government to give more consideration to Ihe conditions of the widows of men who gave their lives in the service of Australia. 
I think it is correct to say at this stage that a war widow is a person who has lost her husband because of injuries directly attributable to the service he has given to this country. The letter continues:  1 write to ask you to support our requests. There are almost fifty- thousand women in Australia whose husbands were killed on active service or died as a result of their service. These widows grow old now, often prematurely aged by hardship and loneliness. Many of them are now reaching the stage of being chronically and terminally ill and their position is desperate. A war widow may not stay longer than 3 months in a Repatriation General Hospital (where she receives absolutely first class treatment) after which the Department will pay for a fortnight in a good convalescent home. When she leaves this, still needing care, there is nowhere for her except a nursing home. The good establishments are so expensive that no war widow can afford them; the (so-called) nursing homes that are possible financially are, far too often, appalling. 
I hope that you will support the Guild in its endeavour to have an amendment made to the Repatriation Act to. enable the Department to assume responsibility for the chronically ill war widow. When the young men of Australia enlisted they were told that, should they die, their country would care for their widows and orphans. Their lives were war material and should be paid for as was other war material. We ask that a debt of honour should be paid. 
Surely we have got to the situation in this country where some kind of compassionate payment will be made to widows who lost their husbands as a direct result of war service. The situation should not be allowed to continue where the Repatriation Commission washes its hands of war widows who have become chronically ill and forces them to find some kind of accommodation that is commensurate with the pension they receive. The Opposition has moved an amendment which seeks to convince the Government that the pension and benefits that should be given with generosity and gratitude to ex-servicemen and their dependants are being seriously eroded. 
We have only to read the 55th annual report of the Returned Services League of Australia to see just how these benefits have deteriorated over the years. I quoted some figures earlier to give some indication of this erosion but I intend to quote a few more from the 1970 annual report, which is the latest available, to show how we have treated our ex-servicemen. In 1950, which is just about the time when this Government initiated its first Budget, the then basic wage  -  it is now the minimum wage - was $13.80 per week. As f indicated earlier, the minimum wage as at June last year was $46.40, which represents an increase of $32.60 per week or 236 per cent. The average weekly earnings per employed male in 1950 were $21 per week. At the present time it is $84.80 per week, an increase of $63.80 per week or 304 per cent. 
The table then gives the weekly rate of a private soldier and of a base grade clerk in the Public Service. The soldier's classification increased by 231 per cent over this period while the rate of a 21-year-old base grade clerk in the Commonwealth Public Service increased by 265.6 per cent. The TPI or special rate pension increased by 179 per cent, which is far behind the increases that every person in industry has been able to obtain. For those receiving the 75 per cent general rate pension the increase over that period of 20 years was 157 per cent. For those people who receive 70 per cent general pension rate or less, we find that the increase is only 71 per cent. I repeat that in that same period the basic or minimum wage has increased by 236 per cent and average weekly earnings by 304 per cent. 
In rounding off I think there is only one other example that it is necessary to quote to show the erosion, that is, in relation to the funeral benefits that are available for ex-servicemen. The current rate is $50. The RSL in its submissions indicates that this benefit was increased to $50 in 1953. To reach a comparable value today the amount would need to be $200. I think that the Opposition has made out a case for the carrying of this amendment. This erosion should never have been allowed to exist, any more than the erosion should have been allowed to exist in relation to the social service payments that we were discussing earlier. If we are grateful to these people who have served overseas and who in some cases have paid the supreme sacrifice and have left widows and children to battle alone, we should be grateful to the extent of at least keeping the money value of their pensions equitable with that of 10 years ago. 
That is absolutely right. If we do not believe that this country is grateful enough to meet the obligations that it accepted, no longer have we the right to sit in these chambers and make judgment as we do. I hope that the amendment will be carried and that this will be a clear indication to the Government that no longer are we prepared to sit by and allow the erosion of the social welfare benefits and the pension rates of exservicemen and seamen continue to the extent that they will be completely worthless within the next 10 or 15 years. 
My question is directed to the Minister for Civil Aviation. Has the Department of Civil Aviation entered info any arrangements for the purchase of land on French Island iri Western Port Bay in Victoria for the establishment of an airport? If so, what area and from whom has the land been purchased? If land has hot yet been obtained, are negotiations currently taking place between the Commonwealth and land  owners  for such a purchase? 
Has the attention of the Minister for Health been drawn to a statement made by  Mr P.  Giles, Secretary of the Private Hospitals and Nursing Homes Association of Victoria, that up to 40 Victorian private nursing homes would close by the end of October because of increasing costs and empty beds which are not occupied because of these costs? Will the Minister treat this matter as extremely urgent and provide an immediate substantial increase in Commonwealth subsidies to registered nursing homes? 
Yes. if the statement is the one that is referred to in the Press this morning, 1 have seen it. I think it is true to say that a certain situation is emerging in relation to hospital costs consequent upon awards that have validly been given. It is true to say that 1 am critically looking at this situation, as has been requested. At this point of time I would not want to say anything more than that but I am critically looking at the situation. 
Will the AttorneyGeneral initiate an investigation into charges made by  Mr Steve  Rooney, one of the Pakistan relief fasters who was arrested in Melbourne last Friday, that he and another faster,  Mr Nick  Nicola, were both assaulted behind closed doors by a police officer for refusing to answer questions when arrested? As  Mr Rooney  claims he could recognise this policeman if he saw him again, will the Attorney-General arrange for an identification parade of the policeman involved in the arrests and give  Mr Rooney  the opportunity to do so? 
Is the AttorneyGeneral aware that Professor John Andrews, the Acting Vice-Chancellor of the University of Melbourne, in a prepared statement issued on 1st October said that he had established to his satisfaction that the damage caused to Union House was excessive and unnecessary in view of the fact that keys were offered to members of the Commonwealth Police Force soon after they entered the building? Is the Minister also aware that the Secretary/Manager of the Union,  Mr Ron  Field, has stated that he offered keys to the building to 2 senior officers soon after they arrived? Is the Minister aware also that  Mr Field  has also stated that he opened one door while police officers were attempting to force it open? 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Prime Minister. Is it a fact that the Prime Minister has told  Sir Frank  Packer, the  Chairman  of Australian Consolidated Press Ltd and the proprietor of TCN9 Sydney and GTV9 Melbourne, that no action will be taken by the Australian Broadcasting Control Board when GTV9 Melbourne is turned into a relay station for TCN 9 Sydney, contrary to the provisions of the licence held by General Television Corporation Pty Ltd for GTV9? !s it also a fact that the Prime Minister has given  Sir Frank  Packer an undertaking that no action will be taken against GTV9 if that station fails to fulfil the new Australian content quotas set down by the Control Board? Further, is the Prime Minister aware that in the past 9 months 300 people have been dismissed - 
My question is addressed to the Attorney-General. In view of the recent upsurge in violence by the use of firearms, including the recent tragic deaths of 2 New South Wales policemen, will the Government act urgently to introduce stringent legislation for firearm control? Is it true that a meeting of Commonwealth and State Ministers last year agreed that uniform legislation controlling firearms was desirable? If so, what is preventing the Commonwealth from moving to avoid a situation such as that which exists in America today where gun control is becoming a major political and social issue? 
My question is directed to you,  Mr President.  You will no doubt recall that I asked your predecessor to examine the possibility of having speech timing clocks similar to those in another place installed in the Senate chamber? Will you also examine this matter with a view to determining whether such clocks should be installed for the convenience of honourable senators? 
I move: 
That the Senate take note of the statement. 
I seek leave to make my remarks at a later stage. 
Leave granted; debate adjourned. 
asked the Minister for 
Civil Aviation, upon notice: 
Has the Department of Civil Aviation entered into any arrangements for the purchase of land on French Island in Westernport Bay, Victoria, for the establishment of an airport? If so, what area has been purchased and from whom was the land purchased? 
If land has not yet been obtained, are negotiations currently taking place between the Commonwealth and land-owners for such a purchase? 
I had no intention of entering this debate. I have done so only because of the provocative statements made by the Minister now in charge of the Bill, the Attorney-General  (Senator Greenwood).  The position as I see it is that we are discussing legislation that will continue to call up 20-year-old Australian lads - people who have no right to vote on the type of government that they want in Canberra. On the other hand  I  he Government has a power that goes beyond the power that any democratic government should hold. 
Whether John Curtin or anyone else had this power, it is wrong for any government to have the power, upon declaration of the GovernorGeneral and without discussion in the Commonwealth Parliament, to declare a state of emergency or a war. lt should be written into the Constitution that this shall not or cannot happen. It is nol a matter of a Ministry or even a Cabinet making decision as to whether there is a state of emergency; one individual can do this, that is. the Prime Minister of the day. Out of pique, because he has had a row with some other nation, one individual can decide that a state of emergency can exist. It should be written into the Constitution that if this nation goes to war it does so upon a decision of the Parliament - the elected representatives of the people - and not by 12 persons tied up in a Cabinet or by an indivindual who can direct the Governor-General to proclaim a state of emergency which will mean the calling up of all 20-year-olds whether they have been called up for national service, whether they have opted to serve in the Citizen Military Forces or whether they have been members of the Regular Army Reserve, which was referred to by  Senator Sim.  These powers are too great to give anybody at any time. 
In a nation of this size, with the type of transport facilities that are available, in the worst emergency a meeting of this Parliament could be called within hours. The objectionable part of the legislation is that a state of emergency can be declared by the Governor-General. Only one person would advise him. Whether he would accept that advice is another matter. But this is the constitutional position. The Parliament should make these decisions when the lives of young Australians are at stake. 
 Can the Minister for Health advise the Senate whether legislation will be introduced, and if so at what date, to implement the election promises of the previous Prime Minister at the 1969 general election and the 1970 Senate election that the aged chronically ill who are confined to nursing homes will receive health insurance benefits beyond the period of 3 months now operative? I refer particularly to those people who have paid into health insurance organisations all their lives. 
 I will ask it again. 
Yes. 
Can the Minister representing the Minister for Supply give any further information concerning the acceptance or otherwise of the project for N2 aircraft by the Department of the Army and other Service departments? Can the Minister give any indication whether there is a likelihood of orders from commercial interests being received for this excellent aircraft? 
I support the amendment moved by the Leader of the Opposition  (Senator Murphy).  I remind honourable senators of the warning that I issued to the Senate in the early stages of our discussions on the appointment of committees. I repeat now that I supported the establishment of Standing Committees and that my views were different in relation to Estimates Committees. I have worked on one of the Standing Committees and I was in favour of them being established. During those early discussions I warned that the committee system should never be used in Australia as it is used in the United States of America for the purpose of burying legislation. I am convinced that the AttorneyGeneral  (Senator Greenwood)  had this purpose in mind when moving his resolution. I believe that he did so because he was unable to accept defeat in the Senate on a matter on which he holds strong beliefs. He is so strongly in favour of hanging persons who have murdered that he is fighting a last ditch fight against legislation at a Commonwealth level to abolish capital punishment. If he feels so strongly about this subject he has every right to use any tactic available to him to achieve his purpose, and I believe that  thi3  is what he has been doing on this occasion. 
I wish to refer to a situation which is worrying me very much, especially in the light of the remarks that I made initially in this chamber on the subject of committees and their reports to the Senate. An examination of the notice paper, which any honourable senator may examine if he wishes to do so, reveals a list of reports from Committees which are still buried on the notice paper. Because there are so many reports on which we will not be able to conclude debates during this session 1 become frightened about the committee system that we have adopted. In saying that I remind the Senate that I am still in favour of the system as it has been established by the Senate. Order of the day No. 18 under the Government Business relates to the report of the Joint Select Committee on the New and Permanent Parliament House. That matter has been on the notice paper for so long that it is a wonder that the print has not worn off the blocks that they use to print the notice paper. We have never had an opportunity to finalise our debate on that report. If we move further through the notice paper to order of the day No. 4 we find that it relates to a report on the milk industry by the Joint Committee on the Australian Capital Territory. The debate on that report was adjourned from 22nd May 1970- That debate has never been held, let alone concluded, yet I understand that the recommendations contained in the report have been implemented without the Senate having ever discussed the matter. 
Order of the Day No. 6 relates to the interim report of the Senate Select Committee on Off-Shore Petroleum Resources. That debate was adjourned from 24th September 1970, on which date the Off-Shore Petroleum Resources Committee tabled its report in this place. But the report has not been debated since it was tabled a little over 12 months ago. This is what happens in relation to reports which committees table in the Senate. Item 15 on the notice paper, which relates to the report on Sunday observance submitted by the Joint Committee on the Australian Capital Territory, has been there since 22nd April. Obviously the recommendations in the report have been implemented without this House having had an opportunity to debate them. 
 It is quite obvious that that is the purpose of referring the matter to the Committee. I have a long list of matters that appear on the notice paper. 1 remind  Senator Young,  who is attempting to interject, that I will be quite happy to discuss the Standing Committee on Primary and Secondary Industry and Trade. That Committee submitted its report on freight rates to and from Tasmania on 9th September and we thought we would be able to debate it. Now it appears as item 24 on the notice paper. A more important matter appears as item No. 20 - the report of the Senate Select Committee on Drug Trafficking and Drug Abuse. That report deals with one of the most important issues that the Senate has ever appointed a committee to investigate, but it has appeared on the notice paper since 6th May 1971. I venture the opinion that the report will not be debated in this session although it contains very important recommendations to combat the terrible operations of drug trafficking within the community. 
Men of goodwill sat as a committee and brought down a report of such importance to the Commonwealth that it should have been examined urgently. But what do we find? It is item 20 in the Orders of the Day. Honourable senators are aware of what happens to Orders of the Day. They are brought on for debate on alternate Thursday evenings because that is the measure of importance attributed to them by the Government. That is why this important Bill which was introduced by my Leader for the abolition of capital punishment is the subject of a proposal that it be referred to a committee. 
I will support the proposed amendment wholeheartedly but the Government can, and 1 believe it will, if a report is obtained within the prescribed time, include it as item 25, at least, on the notice paper, and thus bury it forever. I warned of this possibility when the Senate was discussing the setting up of the committee system. I was fearful because it has happened so often in the United States of America. My only concern about the committee system is that it will evolve in this country as it has in the United States. When the late President Kennedy was assassinated his successor, President Johnson, tried to change the laws relating to the carriage of guns and other weapons. The obvious thing happened. The lobbyists for the gun manufacturers moved in. They were employed by the people who sell weapons by mail order to anybody with the money to buy them. By their lobbying efforts they were able to force the question to a committee and there it has remained for over 2 years. 
Who are those little people who are yapping? I see. They are members of the Democratic Labor Party. They yap like poodles. The fact is that the suggested changes to the gun laws of the United States have been buried before a committee for over 2 years. The result is that the people who manufacture weapons can cause the deaths of innocent people in the streets. I read of a deaf and dumb lad who ran because everyone was running. He was shot dead because he was thought to be a criminal. Everybody has the right to carry a gun in the United States and the proposed amendments to the law have been buried in committee deliberations. I honestly believe that the conviction of the Attorney-General  (Senator Greenwood)  that capital punishment should continue has caused him to adopt a manoeuvre to ensure that the day will never come again when we can, as we did when  Senator Cohen  was here, carry legislation in the Senate for the abolition of capital punishment. 
I support the amendment moved by my colleague,  Senator Douglas  McClelland. It has been read and circulated and it is not necessary for me to repeat it at this stage. Suffice to say that the amendment was drawn up after a very close examination of the legislation that we are debating and the problems that face people under the present Government policy relating to medical and health benefits. The Australian Labor Party came to no other conclusion but that this House should condemn the provisions of this Bill for the reasons outlined in the amendment. As indicated by  Senator Douglas  McClelland, we propose to take action again at the Committee stage to see that some of the impositions introduced in this Bill are removed. 
I want to direct my mind and my remarks mainly to the position of private, public and charitable nursing homes within the Australian community. We will not refuse the passage of those clauses of the Bill that provide an increase of $1.50 to both categories of patients in nursing homes but we say unequivocally that it is too little too late. When we examine the history of the benefit given by the Commonwealth to patients in nursing homes we can see quite clearly that it has eroded to the extent that today it is almost a joke. In 1953 the benefit was the same as it is at the moment, lt was $2 a day when the fee in private nursing homes was $3 a day. This meant in effect that the Commonwealth was subsidising the nursing homes for aged persons to the extent of 661 per cent of the cost of hospitalisation. Today an increase of $1.50 is being granted. This will bring the current subsidy, in round figures, to something like 28 per cent of current charges in private nursing homes today. 
I have checked this out very closely and very accurately and I have been informed that the current daily cost in a private nursing home is $12 a bed, which is $84 a week. For an ordinary patient who does not have intensive care facilities and who cannot get into one of the State or charitable homes that are operating, there is a short fall of about $40 a week that somebody has to find to allow that patient to have adequate and proper hospitalisation. I am addressing my remarks at this stage particularly to the private registered homes and not the rest homes which, far too often, are the last resting places of persons who need urgent medical care. 
The position today is that ' those who cannot get into the State or charitable homes cannot afford to go to a nursing home that costs $84 a week. Those people often eventually find a last resort by living in what is known as a rest home. Some of the conditions in some of these rest homes are absolutely appalling. It would make you cry to see the conditions under which many aged people are left to die in this type of accommodation. They can stay there for $30 a week and there is no compulsion for any type of nursing assistance to be available. There is no compulsion for the people in charge of these rest homes to have any sort of nursing or medical knowledge. All they need is a few bedrooms. Any person who is prepared to hang up a shingle can say that he has a rest home for aged persons. In effect they are glorified boarding houses in which the facilities urgently required for aged people are not available. 
As honourable senators know, 1 have had a long and close association with this problem of the aged, their hospitalisation and their care. I have been able to obtain certain figures relating to the current position in Victoria where about 8,000 aged persons require immediate accommodation in a nursing home where there is some qualified person to look after them. There are nother 7,000 to 8,000 persons who inquire about admission to such a home and never repeat the inquiry because they realise the futility of continuing with their application. There are another 5,000 to 6,000 who never make any inquiry for the same reason. One of the most appalling things I came across in my investigations is that at least 2 out of 3 of the 8,000 to 10,000 people who are applicants waiting for accommodation will die before they have any opportunity to be admitted to one of these places. We face what is almost a crisis in this nation in relation to the hospitalisation of our sick aged. We are facing this near crisis because of the cost spirals that occur. For private and government nursing homes the total increase in costs in the last 12 months was 22 per cent, which is roughly the increase granted by this Government. 
I am pleased to see indications that this is to be purely an interim measure. I am hopeful that within weeks, not months or years, we will see fullfilled the promises made by the previous Prime Minister,  Mr Gorton,  on 2 occasions, that something will be done to allow persons who have spent a lifetime as members of a benefit society to utilise that membership when they become chronically ill in their old age. But we have been waiting now for some 2 years since those promises were made and nothing positive has occurred. I am bit afraid of interim measures. They are like temporary buildings. This Parliament meets in a temporary building and we look like being in it for the next half century because the Parliament has stopped considering its replacement. But interim measures and taxes imposed as an interim measure during wartime have a great habit of staying with us. The Government has only another 12 months - or less than 12 months if action is to be taken in the next Budget - in which to honour that promise. This is something that is urgently required not only in the field of which I am speaking now - the civilian aged person, male or female, who needs accommodation - but also in the field of the aged war widow. I spoke on this matter in this chamber recently. When people are ejected from repatriation hospitals after being there for 3 months and being declared to be chronically ill, the Repatriation Department pays for 2 weeks accommodation in a nursing home, and from then on they are on their own. 
We as a Parliament, collectively, have  a  responsibility to ensure that the aged people in our community receive a far better deal than they are receiving at the moment. I am gravely concerned when I read articles such as one which appeared in the Melbourne 'Sun' on 7th October this year and which was written by a reporter by the name of Sue Boyce. I propose to read from that article at length because of the tragedy that runs right through it and the need to bring home to every member of this Parliament the urgency of the need to assist the aged persons within our community. The article stated: 
Two Pensioners died In Melbourne last week. 
The first, a woman, 83, had bronchialpneumonia, dehydration, and gangrene of tha right foot. 
The second, a man about 65, died half-conscious, unable to swallow and with a nineinch incurable bed sore on his back. 
Neither need have died, according to the secretary of the Private Hospitals and Nursing Homes Association,  Mr P.  Giles. 
They were the result of lack of nursing care and lack of money. 
Both had been in rest homes where there is no nursing care and were transferred to registered private nursing homes. 
The man who died within six hours of the transfer had $70 saved - barely enough for one week's fees at a private hospital. 
The two cases are part of a dossier the Private Hospitals and Nursing Homes Association is compiling for the State Health Minister,  Mr Rossiter. 
The Federal Government on Tuesday announced interim increases of $1.50 in the subsidies for nursing-home patients. 
This brings the ordinary nursing care subsidy to $3.50 and intensive nursing care to $6.50. 
I seek leave to have the rest of the article incorporated in Hansard. 
The ACTING  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Davidson)  - Is leave granted? There being no objection, leave is granted. (The document read as follows) - 
The increases will cost about $24m a year. 
The increases are a step forward',  Mr Giles  said. 
But it does not materially assist the pensionerpatient who has no other means of income. "They still cannot afford to go into private nursing homes. "So they go to rest homes which are really only boarding houses with no nursing care at all'. 
He added: 'Any further increases should be directed at helping the pensioner'. 
The association believes its members cannot function at a fee less than $84 a week. 
The maximum aged pension is $19.25 and nursing home benefit is $24.50. 
The pensioner has to use his savings or ask relatives to pay the remaining $40.25 a week. 

 Mr Giles said members would not use the increased subsidies as an excuse for putting up fees. "This is purely a patient benefit', he said. 
The executive director of the Brotherhood of St Laurence,  Mr David  Scott, said the increases highlighted the need for a complete review of health services. 
The Government has a very patchwork approach. 
The wrong people are in the wrong places. 
If there was a good domiciliary service and more hostel-type accommodation forthe aged, there would be beds free for those who need them in nursing homes. 
The emphasis should definitely be put on helping the pensioner patient', he said. 
Two social workers at Austin Hospital,  Mrs N.  M. Bower and  Mrs N.  Smith, said the increase did nothing to help pensioners. 
They say in a letter to The Sun: 
It finances private enterprise but in no way docs it bridge the gap between the present pension and the cost of private nursing home charges. 
As an emergency measure it would be preferable for the Federal Government to approach the owners of some of the larger privately-owned nursing homes with an offer to purchase.' 
Private nursing homes provide 25,378 of the 46,750 geriatric beds in Australia. 
Statements by social welfare workers in Victoria clearly indicate that the increases that we have before us today are totally and absolutely insufficient to solve this problem. I give the Government full marks, as I have done on many other occasions, for subsidising, on a $2 for $1 basis, the construction of homes for the aged, hospitals for the aged and nursing homes if a committee or a charitable organisation is able to raise the necessary funds. Many thousands of dollars have been raised by good people in this field. These organisations receive a subsidy from the Governmentto erect the necessary accommodation. But, once that is done, the maintenance costs are such that some of them, particularly in the city of Melbourne, find that they have many beds vacant. I know of one very important hospital which has about 100 beds vacant. Although these hospitals have received the subsidy, they are not in a position to meet the maintenance and staffing costs. 
In the city of Geelong we, in our own small way, have moved into the field of day hospitals in an attempt to solve this problem. 1 have referred to our position before, but at the risk of being repetitive I want to emphasise it because ours is not an isolated case. We have 800 persons on the waiting list for entry into our home, and 240 of those persons need admission urgently. Our committee believes - we have been ableto do surveys on this - that at least 2 out of every 3 of those 240 people will die before they can be admitted to our home. This is the tragedy that is facing people who have grown old and become sick. It may be said - it has been said by people who do not think very deeply about this matter - that the children of these aged persons have some responsibility to look after them when they are ill. I believe that the children do that, to the very limit of their capacity, until it is quite obvious that hospitalisation is necessary. But what young family is able to find up to$40 a week to subsidise the cost of private nursing home accommodation? Very few families can meet that kind of cost. The intensive care subsidy should be raised to at least $10 a day on the basis of a comparison of cost factors as at the time this subsidy was initiated and as at today. 
What disturbs me in relation to this aspect of hospitalisation is the rule of thumb method by which this fund is administered. I think  Senator Guilfoyle  said that about 40 per cent of people in nursing homes receive the extra S3 a day. My investigations show that 331/3 per cent receive it, almost as a rule of thumb, and 66) per cent do not. This has always disturbed me. The Minister for Health  (Senator Sir Kenneth Anderson)  probably is disturbed, too, about the administration of this aspect of the scheme. Many letters are written, many cases are put forward and many applications are made to the Department of Health for the additional intensive care subsidy. A properly filled in application, with a medical certificate indicating that intensive care is required and a statement from the matron supporting the medical certificate submitted by a qualified doctor may be made; yet the Department, without any further investigation or examination, will reject that application. 
Only very recently 1 sent the Minister a letter concerning a blatant case of bureaucracy. 1 am sure that he will agree with me when he carries out his investigation of that case. It is of very recent origin, and at this stage I am not saying anything critical of him. He has had the letter for only 2 or 3 days. It concerns the case of a very old lady having the intensive care subsidy taken from her. I believe that we have to examine this matter more closely in an effort to arrive at a workable system under which a doctor's word is accepted by the Department, or at least there is another check at the medical level and with the patient personally - not by looking at medical books, reading the document and saying: 'We do not think  Mrs Brown's  condition is bad enough for her to receive the full subsidy'. I do not want to see this subsidy administered on the basts of economy. 1 want to see this administered on the basis that everybody shall receive that to which they are entitled. I firmly believe that the Minister will do everything possible to see that this is done. 
I refer again to a matter to which I referred earlier in my speech. The assistance given in relation to the establishment of day hospitals is totally inadequate. Because of a lack of accommodation for people who need hospitalisation, we have had to establish day hospitals in a church hall and in another place so that we can give urgently needed treatment. We have approached the Government to consider at least granting to us the $2 a day subsidy, which will subsequently be S3. 50 a day, for the patients whom we are treating at the day hospitals because we treat them in an almost identical manner to that in which we treat persons who are in the home. In many cases the only difference is that we cannot give them accommodation in the ward of a hospital. We believe that we have a case to submit. We believe that it should be investigated. We believe that the subsidy of S3.50 a day, as it will be when this legislation is passed, or even part thereof could be granted to organisations which have established day hospitals which provide services for our sick aged. 
I raise my objection to that portion of the legislation which increases by 100 per cent the cost of prescriptions. It would appear that the reason for this increase of 1.00 per cent, as is stated in the second reading speech, is that the cost has not been increased since 1960. That seems to be a good enough reason for adding 50c per prescription. As I stated earlier, the subsidy paid for aged persons was $2 a day in 1953. It was not altered until this legislation was presented to the Parliament. The Government has seen fit to increase the subsidy by less than 100 per cent. If the argument is valid in relation to the cost of prescriptions, at least a 100 per cent increase should have applied to both subsidies. That should have been the very least, on the argument that has been raised in relation to the increase in the cost of pharmaceutical prescriptions. 
What disturbs me much more is that  I  believe that the high cost of pharmaceutical benefits should be examined very closely to see whether the Government could manufacture more pharmaceuticals in its laboratories. An examination of the structure of the drug industry .shows quite clearly that the people who are getting the big rake-off are the overseas companies. The latest information, as at 4th June 1969. shows that 141 listed companies supply pharmaceuticals under the pharmaceutical benefits scheme. Of these, 53 are Australian, 33 are American including 2 which are Australian-United States joint owned, 27 are British. 9 are German, 6 are Swiss, and 13 are from various other countries. Although the number of Australian companies is relatively large, they are mostly small companies. Australia captures only 7.3 per cent of the total prescription market in this country, the United States of America 53 per cent, the United Kingdom 10.2 per cent. Germany 6.2 per cent, Switzerland 9.9 per cent and other countries 0.8 per cent. It seems to me that an increase in the cost of prescriptions will give these overseas companies a golden opportunity to increase their charges beyond all reason. 1 can recall some years ago, before I was elected to the Senate, an investigation at the top parliamentary level into the price that the overseas drug companies in particular were charging. Subsequent investigations proved that some were charging 3 to 5 times the reasonable prices that they should have been charging. To its credit, the Government did something on that occasion and had the price of many of those drugs drastically reduced. 1 believe that the situation has got out of hand again. In some instances - not many, admittedly, because of the high cost of the preparations - a prescription is not written because it is cheaper for the patient to buy a proprietary line from the chemist. This happened to me on one occasion. I was given that advice when the cost of the prescription was only 50c. The doctor said: lt is far better for you to buy what 1 want you to take as a proprietary line'. I had to pay about 72c. If a prescription had been written, I would have had to pay the SOc plus the 72c- a total of $1.22. With the proposed increase it is obvious that this situation could continue. A doctor who knows his prices will be able to advise his patients, if the drug can be provided without prescription, to purchase it for less than they could purchase it if a prescription were written. 
I hope that the Minister will examine very carefully what I have said about the plight of aged people. I know that he is aware of many of the existing problems and that he has an extremely humane approach. I ask him to make a very close examination of the figures that I have given about the needs of the community. I hope that there is some way in which he can initiate talks with State governments so that they will take up all the grants available to them. I know that in some instances this is not done, to the detriment of the aged. Above all, 1 hope that the scheme promised by the Prime Minister  (Mr McMahon)  on 2 occasions will be initated quickly to ensure that persons who have spent many years in homes run by organisations which have attracted the benefit, will not find themselves in a situation, when they are ill, of paying high private nursing home fees, after 3 months of receiving the benefit. I hope that we can move on to the introduction of an adequate and proper system of health care, particularly for the aged sick. 
My question is  addressed to the Minister for Civil Aviation. Earlier this session I asked him a question about the replacement of the Qantas Airways Ltd DC4 aircraft which currently services Norfolk Island. On that occasion he indicated that a replacement aircraft was being examined and that a decision as to a suitable replacement would be made in the 'reasonable future'. Has he any further information as to when a suitable modern aircraft will replace the one now operating between Australia, Norfolk Island and New Zealand? 
asked the AttorneyGeneral, upon notice: 
Has the Commonwealth Government any control over the merger of large companies, including banks and other commercial institutions and mining companies. 
Can the Government veto decisions of industrial unions to merge together in the common interests of its members; if so, under what legislation does this right of veto exist. 
asked the AttorneyGeneral, upon notice: 
Are there any cases where mergers of commercial banks, other commercial or manufacturing interests, or mining companies have been vetoed by the Commonwealth Government. 
Are there any cases where the Commonwealth Government has vetoed mergers agreed upon between industrial unions after a ballot of rank and file members has been held and carried in favour of such mergers. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for the Army, upon notice: 
How many prisoners at the Military Corrective Establishment at Holsworthy are (a) members of the Royal Australian Army (b) the Royal Australian Navy and, (c) the Royal Australian Air Force. 
Can the Minister representing the Minister for Housing advise the Senate whether finality has been reached between the Commonwealth and the States concerning the new Commonwealth and Slate housing agreement? If so, can he provide any information on the terms of the new agreement? Can he tell us whether legislation ratifying it will be presented to this Parliament before it rises in December? 
I ask the Minister representing the Minister for the Interior: Have representations been made to the 
Commonwealth Government to resume or purchase land owned by Tullamarine Estates Pty Ltd or for the Commonwealth Government to exchange land at Essendon Airport for the land known as the Keilor Estate7 Did the Tullamarine syndicate to which 1 have referred recently send personnel to study large developments overseas with a view to planning a large complex for the Essendon Airport site? 
ls the Minister for Civil Aviation aware that 19 pieces of passengers' luggage were off-loaded from Trans-Australia Airlines flight 437 from Canberra to Melbourne last Friday? Is he also aware that passengers were not advised that that had been done until they reached Melbourne and the last piece of luggage loaded for the flight had been collected? Can the Minister explain why the ticket numbers of the off-loaded luggage were not announced during the flight so that the passengers concerned could have arranged for the forwarding of their luggage to their respective destinations, thereby avoiding a delay of 20 to 30 minutes in Melbourne? By way of explanation 1 wish to advise the Minister that my wife and I missed our train to Geelong because of this unnecessary delay in Melbourne and we were seriously embarrassed in meeting an important engagement in that city on time. 
 I direct my question to the Minister representing the Minister for Supply. Is it a fact that negotiations between the Commonwealth Aircraft Corporation and the Government Aircraft Factories for amalgamation of the 2 organisations have received a severe setback because Broken Hill Pty Co. Ltd.. one of the major shareholders in CAC, is demanding a 51 per cent equity in the new company? Can the Minister advise me of the assets currently held by both organisations? 
asked the Minister representing the Postmaster-General, upon notice: 
When is colour television likely to be available in Australia? 
Has any progress been made towards giving some indication both to the trade and the public as to when the Government will approve of the introduction of colour television? 
asked the Minister representing the Postmaster-General, upon notice: 
Are the postcodes to be changed throughout Australia? If so, what period of warning will be given to industry and commerce or, alternatively, what compensation will be paid to industry and commerce for stationery which will become outdated by the change. 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Prime Minister. On Wednesday, 18th August, which was the second day of sitting of the Budget session, I asked the Minister the following question which is now No. 1250 on the notice paper: 
Have  Sir Robert  Menzies and  Sir John  McEwen each had allocated to them a Commonwealth car for their personal use; if so, do the drivers of these cars carry out no other duties, even when they are not required by  Sir Robert  and  Sir John  and when these gentlemen are absent from the State of Victoria or Australia? 
I now ask: Has the former Prime Minister, the Right Honourable E. M. Forde, been provided with similar facilities? Which former members of this Parliament receive Commonwealth facilities and privileges? What is the nature of any such privileges and amenities provided? When can I expect an answer to this question, as I believe the information sought on 18th August should be quickly and readily available? 

 Senator Sir KENNETH ANDERSONI regret that the question which was posed to me as the representative of the Prime Minister, as I understand it, on 18th August has not yet been answered. I can understand that whilst it is proper to pose it to the Prime Minister's Department there are certain elements of the question which require that the information be obtained from both the Department of the Interior and the Department of Supply. In any event, I will reassert my influence to obtain an answer for the honourable senator as quickly as possible. 
asked the Minister representing the minister for Foreign Affairs, upon notice: 
Are any Australian servicemen held as prisonersofwar  or  missing, believed to be prisonorsofwar, in Vietnam; if so, how many such servicemen are there, and what action is being taken by the Australian Government to have them released and repatriated to Australia at the same time as Australian troops are withdrawn? 
I ask the AttorneyGeneral: Is it a fact as reported in a weekend publication that the Australian Security Intelligence Organisation is tapping telephones in at least one State, namely, Western Australia, without seeking his permission as Attorney-General? If so, will he give strict instructions that the practice is to cease immediately? 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Acting Minister for Repatriation. How many totally and permanently incapacitated pensioners have lost their part Service pension as a result of the increase in repatriation pensions and the operation of the tapered means test? 
 My question is directed to the Minister for Health. When will the Government implement the promises made by the former Prime Minister,  Mr Gorton,  which were contained in 2 successive election policy speeches, that aged persons who became chronically ill would be able to receive some benefits from health insurance organisations or medical benefit societies of which, in many cases, they had been members for most of their lives? Is the Government holding back on the implementation of this most urgent reform so that it can be used again as an election gimmick for the general election which is to be held in 1972? 
I do not suggest for one moment that the Party to which I belong deals in election gimmicks. 
As someone has said, one has to keep one's sense of humour. I shall not make any prognostication as to the part of the year in which the election will be held. Having muddied the waters sufficiently with that statement I shall give consideration to the matter of substance in the question and respond to it at the appropriate time. 
Is the AttorneyGeneral aware of the decision made last night by the Victorian District of the Australian Journalists Association to protest strongly about his attempt to intimidate AJA members in the performance of their journalistic duties during his appearance on 
This Day Tonight' last Tuesday night? Does he deny the right of the news media to enlighten the public? Does not his attack on the Australian Broadcasting Commission after the Michael Matteson incident amount to an arrogant and unjustifiable attempt to intimidate the media; or does he believe that the media should raise or discuss only issues which do not embarrass the Government? 
Has the AttorneyGeneral received a statement which was made lust Sunday by the  President  of the Australian Union of Students regarding the unwillingness of the Government to prosecute draft resisters? Is the immunity from prosecution that many prominent students and other draft resisters so obviously enjoy conditional only upon these people not seeking undue publicity for themselves as being persons in breach of the National Service Act? Does the Government's unwillingness to prosecute all but the most brazen draft resisters arise from fear of swamping the gaols of Australia with essentially political prisoners? 
 I rise to speak in this debate because of the reference by the AttorneyGeneral  (Senator Greenwood)  to 2 members of the Australian Labor Party in Victoria,  Mr Crawford  and  Mr Hartley.  I thought that  Senator Wheeldon  handled the reference to  Mr Hartley  very well, and I concur with what he has said in relation to it. But the Attorney-General has made an attack on  Mr Crawford  in relation to his entry into a Commonwealth building, an action for which he was charged and on which charge a court in Victoria found him not guilty and freed him, a charge that the Attorney-General now reintroduces into the Senate tonight. This is a most contemptible act for any man in office in any Parliament. He used this place to attack a man on a matter about which he has been charged and on which he has been found to be not guilty. 
The Attorney-General has also, as  Senator Wheeldon  has said, introduced another matter which would, if it came from this side of the Senate under any other circumstances be declared completely subjudice - but not as far as the AttorneyGeneral is concerned He is hoping by these references that he will influence a jury in Victoria, if he can get sufficient publicity to find guilty a man who is not guilty and who will be proved to be not guilty when he goes before the court. 
This is the law and order campaign that the Attorney-General is conducting tonight in a debate which started by virtue of the fact that  Senator Cavanagh  sought certain information about the number of persons who have evaded their obligations under the National Service Act. lt has been said repeatedly by speakers here, in Press reports and reports from many sources, that at least 11,000 young men have refused to carry out their obligations under this Act. Up to this stage the Government has taken action to the extent of gaoling for the maximum of 2 years - now 18 months - fewer than 10 individuals. What is happening today is almost comic opera. Either  Senator Greenwood  is playing games, as suggested by other speakers on this side, or the Commonwealth police force is incompetent enough to be reminiscent of the Mack Sennett cops in comics made in the old still movie days. 
I believe that the original position - the first position - is the case. The Government is playing games to try to look as though it will do something but it does not want to do anything because if it took action it would have to take action against many thousands of people, lt would have to build new gaols to put them in or concentration camps like the ones it has helped to build in Vietnam. This is called pacification of the people. The people are taken from their villages, their homes are burned and the people are put behind barbed wire somewhere else in the country. That is the type of action the Government will have to take in this country. 

 Senator Douglas McClelland spoke about another aspect of this matter. He referred to the Australian Broadcasting Commission and challenged the Minister to declare affirmatively that no officer of the ABC put any impediment in the path of any Commonwealth policeman in relation to the execution of his duty. The AttorneyGeneral very conveniently forgot to mention that matter when he replied. Yet when he is replying to the debate on a Bill which he is handling in this chamber he needs an extension of time to tell us all the facts. If I suggest that a comma has been left out of a sentence it takes him 20 minutes to tell us why it was left out. But tonight he conveniently forgot. 
The Minister would be carried out of the place and given a glass of water. Tonight he conveniently forgot to face the challenge from  Senator Douglas  McClelland in relation to this charge. Obviously no impediment was placed in the path of any Commonwealth policeman at the ABC studios in Sydney. We hear all this talk about the ABC and what a terrible thing it has done, but no mention is made of the fact that  Mr Michael  Matteson appeared on channel 0 and another channel in Melbourne. Did the Attorney-General send the Commonwealth police to those stations when  Mr Matteson  appeared? Did the AttorneyGeneral miss him again? He could not catch a mouse if it was caught in a trap. It is obvious that the Government does not want to catch these people. 
Last Sunday night in Melbourne on the news service I saw an interview between  Senator Greenwood  and 2 gentlemen from channel 7. One of those reporters was able to tell the Minister that he had had a long conversation with  Mr Matteson.  Will the Attorney-General charge that reporter under the Crimes Act because he talked to one of these boys whom apparently everyone can find except the Commonwealth police and the Minister? People can ring them on the telephone, have a discussion with them and make arrangements with them to come to the television station to be interviewed or to the radio station and have a chat. They can obtain a report in any newspaper they desire but the Attorney-General cannot catch them. Who is he kidding? He must be kidding himself in relation to this matter. Either it is palpable incompetence or the Minister is not trying. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Senate adjourned at 12.19 a.m. (Wednesday) 
Can the Minister for Health advise the Senate how far his investigations have proceeded in relation to the payment of Commonwealth subsidies to organisations which are conducting day hospitals? He will recall that he indicated to me during the recent debate on the National Health Bill that he would examine that proposal. 
In addressing a ques  tion to the Attorney-General I refer to my question yesterday regarding the statement by the  President  of the Australian Union of Students and, in particular, to the list in that statement of 7 student leaders whom the Government is unwilling to prosecute, namely, Messrs Yates, Zerman, McLean, Marginson, Varley, Joyce and McDougal. In the Minister's reply he dealt with these 7 cases without specifying which names applied to the case histories that he purported to outline. I refer to the single case which the Minister said had been subject to prosecution for failure to register and attend a medical. Is it a fact that this student. John Varley, received a call-up notice dated 8th April 1971 and that no attempt has since been made to enforce that notice? Further, will the Minister specify which other  names apply to the case histories he quoted in his answer so that it may be determined whether this information accords with the documents in the possession of the 7 young men whom I have mentioned? 
 My question also is addressed to the Attorney-General. I refer again to the two questions that I have asked the Minister regarding the charge by the  President  of the Australian Union of Students that the Government, for political reasons, is not proceeding against prominent student draft resisters. Has the Minister seen the statement issued last night by the  President  of the AUS in which he charges the Attorney-General with having misled the Senate in answering my two previous questions? Will the Minister, since he failed to do so yesterday, now specify by name which of the 7 draft resisters were referred to by the various anonymous case histories that he outlined in his answer to my question on Tuesday last? 
I table the following paper: 
Statutory declaration by Ian Garth Yates dated 25th November 1971. 
My question, which 
I direct to the Attorney-General, relates to my questions of last week concerning statements made by the  President  of the Australian Union of Students that the Government is not proceeding, for political reasons, against prominent student draft resisters. Will the Attorney-General table the national registration card of  Mr Ian  Garth Yates of Euchunga, South Australia, in the Senate tomorrow? If he will do so, I am prepared to table a sworn affidavit signed by  Mr Yates  to the effect thathe has never registered for national service. In that way a comparison can be made of the signatures appearing on the 2 documents. 
I direct a question to the Attorney-General. Am I to understand from previous answers of the AttorneyGeneral that he will not investigate the sworn statement by MrIan Garth Yates that he has never registered for national service? Is he prepared to accept a position that anybody can forge the name of another person when he is called upon to register? As the Attorney-General appears determined not to have the signatures on the 2 documents examined, 1 now seek leave to table a sworn affidavit from Ian Garth Yates and give him an opportunity to change his mind. 
asked the Minister representing the Prime Minister, upon notice: 
Has the Prime Minister told  Sir Frank  Packer, the  Chairman  of Australian Consilidated Press and proprietor of TCN9 Sydney and GTV9 Melbourne that no action will be taken by the Australian Broadcasting Control Board when GTV9 becomes a relay station for TCN9 contrary to the provisions of the licence held by the General Television Corporation for GTV9. 
Has the Prime Minister also given  Sir Frank  Packer an undertaking that no action will be taken against GTV9 if that station fails to fulfil the new Australian content quotas set by the Control Board. 
Is the Prime Minister aware that in the past 9 months 300 persons have been dismissed from the employment of GTV9 and that because of this, GTV9 is not physically capable of producing the programmes required to attain the new quotas set down by the Controal Board. 
Will the Prime Minister explain the circumstances in which  Sir Frank  Packer acquired the licence for GTV9. 

 Senator Sir KENNETH ANDERSONThe answer to the honourable senator's question is as follows: 
and (2) No. (3)I have been informed that the Australian Broadcasting Control Board is aware that there have been reductions in the number of staff employed in the production and presentation of programmes in the fields of variety and light music and that the reductions reflect a world-wide trend of loss of viewer interest in that type of programme. In this regard, the Board recently varied its Australian content requirements with a view to encouraging musical and variety programmes. Statements have been made that GTV employs more staff than the other commercial television stations in Melbourne and is producing as many programmes as any other station. The Board believes these statements to be factual. 
I am informed that at the time of the grant of the licence for station GTV in December 1955 Electronic Industries Ltd held 62.5 per cent of the issued capital in the licensee of the station, General Television Corporation Ply Ltd. Following the transfer of large shareholdings held in Electronic Industries Ltd by, the Abrahams and Warner families to Pye Ltd of England, GTV was deemed, in accordance with the provisions of the Broadcasting and Television Act, to be controlled byPye Ltd. This situation placed Electronic Industries Ltd in breach of the Act. In order to correct this position Electronic Industries Ltd sold Its shareholding in General Television Corporation Pty Ltdto Independent Television Corporation PtyLtd. a subsidiary of Television Corporation Ltd licenseeof TCN Sydney. There being no contravention of the Act involvedthis transaction was approved by the then Postmaster-General on 2nd August1960. 
I have listened with great interest to what  Senator Little  has had to say in relation to this legislation. It is quite obvious that the Government can give no answer to the questions he has asked. It is a fact of life that people who are now buying a housing commission home are now paying between 6 per cent and  6i  per cent on the loans they have obtained. Persons who are able to purchase a home with the finance that flows through from the Commonwealth Government to a housing cooperative are able to obtain the homes savings grant. The position is that persons who are purchasing a housing commission home are being discriminated against under this legislation. Also, as has been indicated, high interest charges are absorbing the S500 grant. The grant was £250 when it was introduced by the Prime Minister of the day,  Sir Robert  Menzies. Really that sum was absorbed by the industry before the first loan was granted. Substantial figures are available to prove quite conclusively that the building industry was able to increase the price of a home to absorb completely the £250. 1 have cited figures in this House to prove beyond all doubt that the purchaser of a home never got any advantage out of the £250 grant. 
The other disadvantage is that inflation within the industry flowed through to persons who were able to purchase homes from the various State governments. They were denied this right on the spurious argument that they were getting some advantage in relation to the interest rate being charged on the homes they were purchasing. The situation now is that the general interest rate for the major part of the money that will come from the Commonwealth will be 7 per cent. That is the charge that the Commonwealth will apply to the money it will make available to the States. It is true that in the Bill we just dealt with certain grants were made allegedly to overcome the problem associated with the interest rate being 1 per cent below the bond rate. That is the rate which was in the legislation prior to that agreement being reached. The simple fact is that a person buying a home from a State government on the arrangements that now exist is very little if any better off than a person who is able to purchase a home through a housing co-operative which is an organisation established under State government legislation. 
I happen to be a director of 3 of these co-operative housing organisations and all the money that they have been able to raise has been raised through the Victorian Government or the Commonwealth Bank of Australia. We never have been able to get any money from insurance companies or any other private investors. Our organisation is known as the Labor Housing Co-operative Society and we have not been able to raise any money at all other than through the Commonwealth Bank and through the State government under legislation passed by this Parliament. We believe that our people who are able to obtain the $500 grant are almost in the same position as persons purchasing a home from the State. I cannot see any reason why the Government should discriminate at this level. If the grant is available it should be available to all persons who purchase a home within the ambit of the legislation irrespective of from whom or where they are purchasing a home. This discrimination will not face up to full and proper examination. 
May I ask the Attorney-General a supplementary question? 
My question is addressed to the Attorney-General. I refer again to the case of Ian Garth Yates. Is it a fact that 2 Commonwealth police visited  Mr Yates'  mother late yesterday afternoon, endeavouring to ascertain whether the signature on the national service registration card for  Mr Yates  was false? Did the police have with them the registration card that the Minis er refused to table in this chamber? Does this sudden frantic activity by the Commonwealth police indicate that the Minister realises that the signature on  Mr Yates'  registration card may be false and that his unwillingness to table this card in the Senate is designed to avoid the embarrassment of having this falsity proved to the Parliament? 
Appropriation Bill (No. 1) is now before the Senate. I understand that in the first instance the estimates of the AttorneyGeneral's Department will be considered. I am concerned that the Attorney-General  (Senator Greenwood)  is not present at the moment. I wonder whether he will be here. I see that he has now arrived. I shall place a few remarks on record in relation (o the Estimates Committees as they have been operating. I am concerned at the fact that again this Senate will not be able to debate properly the Estimates which are going to carry the burden of meeting the financial problems of the Commonwealth over the next 12 months. Again we have seen discussions taking place at a committee level over a long period of weeks. The public has no real access to the areas in which the committees sit. The Press has taken very little notice of the committee sittings. 
Now we are in a position that if the schedule of this Parliament is carried out we have less than one full week of 5 days to complete the business of the Parliament. The Leader of the Government in the Senate  (Senator Sir Kenneth Anderson)  promised that we would have as much time to debate the Estimates in the Senate as we had previously. But again the situation will be that we will miss out. !f one listens and observes at the Estimates Committee's hearings one finds that there is no real debate. It is purely a method of continuously questioning the Ministers and officers of the departments. 
It should also be an opportunity for members of this Senate to express their views one way or the other in debate as to how the money will be spent. It is not purely a matter of questioning how many dollars are going to be spent. One should be able to bring in political questions - if honourable senators want a true expression of it - on matters of importance and matters of policy in relation to the Department of Health, the AttorneyGeneral's Department Or any department. Honourable senators should not be confined to the type of questioning used in the committees. Listening to the questioning that went on during the hearings of the Estimates Committees one could observe that in many cases very unsatisfactory answers were given. 
Honourable senators were very conspicuous by their absence. 1 shall repeat what I have said in the past. 1 believe firmly that the Estimates committee system is not helping this Parliament. I stand firmly behind the standing committees and any committees which are established for special purposes such as select committees. I think that they are excellent and that they can serve a good purpose. But I am still of the opinion that the Estimates committee system is not in the best interests of democratic government, lt does not give the stimulus which was given previously when the Estimates were debated by the Committee of the Whole. I would not mind in the least if the original undertaking were kept and if in fact we received time to debate these matters equal to what was available prior to the new system being introduced. T think this would be a complete duplication of the work of the Senate, but it would at least establish the fact that the undertakings which were given were being carried out. 
The strongest objection I have to this matter is that with the position as it is now. with 2 committees meeting at the one time, as no person can be in 2 places at once this means that if an honourable senator is interested in housing and in health and the Estimates Committees dealing with those matters are meeting at the same time, he is denied the opportunity of attending one of the committees. He is denied the open discussion to which he is entitled. I believe that while this system continues many honourable senators will be disgruntled with the operation of the committees. Indeed, already some honourable senators who in the initial stages supported the establishment of the Estimates committees are now having second thoughts. I believe that the Government has to examine the present position closely with a view to bringing the Estimates back into this chamber for discussion, as was done prior to the establishment of the committees, so that there will be completely open and frank discussions and all honourable senators will be able to be present if they so desire, lt is for those reasons that I have briefly addressed myself to the second reading of this Bill. 
I support the motion moved by  Senator Mulvihill  on behalf of the Australian Labor Party. I believe that the time has arrived for a joint select committee of the Parliament to examine all aspects of immigration in this country. I say this because I believe that, despite the fact that we have opposing political parties in this chamber and in another place, we would obtain a completely new and, I venture to suggest, unbiased look at the migration problem if such a committee were to be established. I have been agreeably surprised, in my 5 years in this chamber and in my participation in committee work, to find that at that level all parties seem to sink their political differences and get to work in the interests of the subject-matter they are examining, and examining in such depth. 1 feel that a departmental committee is never as successful as a committee composed of. members of this chamber. Departmental committees never probe as deeply. lt is a matter of record that on many occasions on which such departmental investigations have been conducted the Government in its wisdom, has refused to table the reports. In many other cases it has tabled them only after tremendous pressure from the Opposition. One of the cases in point is the Loder report on the transport problems of the northern pan of Australia. It took about 2 years for the Opposition finally to have that report tabled. Probably when it did become .a public document many of the recommendations and conclusions were already inapplicable. This is one of the reasons why 1 think an open inquiry is not beyond the capacity of both Houses of the Parliament al this time. 
Like  Senator Georges.  I do not think that it is an excuse or a reason not to establish the committee to say that such an inquiry cannot be conducted because of the work load factor. This can be said on every major issue that we may wish to investigate in future, no matter how important or urgent the need for such an investigation might be. In fact, all honourable senators who believe that a committee of this nature should be set up, and who will be compelled to vote against our motion only because of pressure of work, should be in this chamber speaking for greater assistance for the committees and their members and greater personal staff facilities for the members who are prepared to examine in depth these matters that are referred to committees from time to time. I believe that the time is coming when the Government will accept the importance of standing committees and select committees to such an extent that individual senators as well as the Parliament itself will obtain additional assistance so that this work can be carried out properly and thoroughly. 
There is no doubt that the select committees and joint committees that were enumerated by  Senator Willesee  have brought down some excellent reports and recommendations to the Government. Some of them have been acted upon; others have not been acted upon, to the disappointment of many honourable senators on both sides of this chamber. But I believe that this work, if important, can be done. It can be done .by the Government as a whole - I refer not to honourable senators but  to the Government as a whole - recognising the importance of this committee work and moving into the field with assistance in the form of research officers, perhaps additional clerical staff to members who are on committees and additional personal staff, lt should not be done with the pool system of staffing. I do not believe that would he successful. 1 am hoping that, although we have had an indication that we will not have the numbers when the vote on the motion is taken, some senators will reconsider their position and will vote in favour of the motion moved by  Senator Mulvihill. 
Many of the issues that need examination are big and important issues. Some may be not quite so important when compared with the magnitude of the total migration programme, but they are tremendously important to many thousands of people in this country and. in some instances, to our prestige as a nation. I think I hat one matter which should be examined is the fact that 200,000 people, according to the statement of the Minister for Immigration  (Dr Forbes)  last week, who are eligible to become Australian citizens have not applied to accept that responsibility. That is a tremendous number of people. They have migrated here, have sought to enter the country on a permanent basis and, in many cases, have made a firm decision not lo accept Australian citizenship. I think the matter should be examined in depth so that wc can ascertain the reasons why many thousands of people, not just half a dozen, have come to this country and have decided not to accept Australian citizenship. 
I think it must be remembered that over the years the Government has made it easier for migrants to accept citizenship. We have relaxed certain aspects of the naturalisation procedures so that migrants will more readily accept Australian citizenship. The method of naturalisation of migrants has been relaxed to the extent that they no longer have to go as far in swearing an oath as they previously did. In some instances the entitlement to social service benefits has been relaxed. The entitlement to invalid pension has been relaxed to the extent that a period of continuous citizenship for 10 years is no longer required. The entitlement to the age pension has been relaxed technically, but not to the extent that a natural born Australian or an immigrant who has accepted citizenship can obtain the benefits of the age pension if he has not had 10 years continuous residence in this country. A migrant who has accepted Australian citizenshiip, who has reached 65 years of age and who is dismissed from employment is unable to get the age pension until he has had 10 years continuous residence in this country. 
I have a case before the Department of Social Services at the moment. I have received an answer to this case. The man to whom J refer has about 7 months to go before the 10-year period is up, but he will have ho income during that period simply because he is 65 years of age and cannot get any other employment due to his age. As' has been indicated earlier, it is very difficult to get new employment if a person has reached 40 years of age. International Harvester Co. of Australia Pty Ltd has a fairly consistent policy of dismissing persons who have attained 60 years of age. Some people face the prospect of receiving the unemployment benefit over a 5-year span instead of the age pension, not because they are unable to work but simply because they cannot get work. They will have to receive the lower unemployment benefit which, everybody will agree, is insufficient. This happens to many migrants because the requirement of 10 years continuous residence in Australia. 
But that is not the major thing about which I .wish to speak. I again appeal to the Attorney-General  (Senator. Greenwood),  who represents in this chamber the Minister for Immigration, to bring before the Minister the inhumane manner in which he and the Department are handling some of the applications for assisted pas sage's and also the inconsistency that the Department is showing in some cases. 1 have spoken previously in the Senate about  Mr Hanley  Woodbridge who migrated from the West Indies about 12 months ago. He is an Englishman, and is a draughtsman by trade. He married an Indian lass. He went to the West Indies because that was the home of his wife. They have 3 children. Because of a strange twist of fate - because of racial discrimination against him in the West Indies - he could not successfully follow his trade and successfully conduct a business in partnership. He was discriminated against because he was white. He decided that he would come to Australia and join other members of his family who had already migrated and who had settled in Geelong. He sought an assisted passage, but his application was rejected. The then Minister,  Mr Lynch,  gave me a written reply which clearly indicated that the decision was based on racial discrimination. There was no other way that the answer could be interpreted. 
I have continued and am still continuing to appeal. I have further representatives before the present Minister for consideration to be given to granting  Mr Hanley  Woodbridge an assisted passage. In recent weeks Press publicity was given to a family which migrated from England. I cannot recall the name of the family. One member of the family was granted an assisted passage, but the rest of the family were not. The white member of the family was granted an assisted passage. When investigating  Mr Hanley  Woodbridge's case in Geelong in order to find some kind of precedent or some kind of - method by which I could convince the Minister that this family was entitled to further consideration I obtained information about a gentleman working at the ' Ford Motor Company. 1 am not at liberty to disclose his name - I am at liberty to disclose the name of  Mr Hanley  Woodbridge - but it is in the 'correspondence that the Minister has. He was a coloured person of nonEuropean extraction who was transferred by the Ford Motor Company to Geelong. The application for an assisted passage received very little or no attention for 6 or- 8 months. It has been established - this is my advice, and I accept the advice - that through the intervention of the Ford Motor Company on this man's behalf he was granted an assisted passage, although he did not comply with the hard line policy which the Government now has on racial discrimination in mixed marriages. 
I ask that the matter be looked at in the humane way in which it should be looked at. Apparently there is a precedent for granting an assisted passage to  Mr Hanley  Woodbridge. At the moment he is endeavouring to buy a home, rear his family and pay back a substantial debt still owing in the West Indies. That is the money that he had to borrow to bring his family to this country. He has been extremely frank with me, and I in turn have been very frank with the Minister. All the information that I have 1 have been able to give to the Minister. I have told the Minister of the debts that this man has incurred, the fact that he is well received by the company for whom he is working - Alcoa of Australia Ltd at Geelong - that he is a competent draughtsman and that he has indicated his great desire to settle in this country because he thinks so much of it.  His  family is here. He has great financial problems because by a strange twist of fate he decided to settle in the West Indies and found a similar situation to that which he is finding here, only in reverse. He is not finding any racial discrimination within his employment. But he has been affected by hard line Government policy which has discriminated against him because he chose to marry the woman of his choice and she was an Indian lass. 
If the honourable senator sees me later, I will inform him. I will not go into the personal affairs of this man across the chamber in front of the public. 
I am quite happy to let the honourable senator know on the basis that he will keep a trust. The Minister is well aware of the amount. It is a 4- figure debt. I hope that, because of the additional information that I have given and the further plea that I am making at this stage a change of policy with respect to this case will take place, even if it is only to the extent of paying back to  Mr Hanley  Woodbridge his fare. I believe that the case should be looked at in a broader sense and in a more humane way. The whole family should receive the assistance that it is seeking because it will be a very fine family of Australians. 
I shall refer briefly to the reply which the Attorney-General  (Senator Greenwood)  who in this chamber represents the Minister for Immigration  (Dr Forbes)  gave in relation to the case I brought before him of a mixed marriage family seeking to obtain an assisted passage. I charged - and 1 repeat what I said on that occasion - that in my view and in the view of many people this policy is a racial policy. I believe that this fact is clearly established by a reply which I received from the then Minister for Immigration  (Mr Lynch),  on 2nd November last year when I asked the following question:  ls it a fact that Government policy prevents assisted passages being granted to coloured persons: if so, does this same policy apply to a person of European blood and colour, who is a British subject and has an Indian wife and 3 children who are all British subjects? 
The first part of the reply stated: 
Yes. It is a matter of general : policy to grant assisted passages only to persons of European descent. 
The rest of the reply is similar to the reply which the Attorney-General gave me earlier. This man was forced into heavy debt,for the reasons I outlined before, in order to get here to join his family. Then we see cases such as one 1 saw reported in the Press - 1 cannot confirm this because it was a Press report - in which one partner of the marriage, a European, received an assisted passage but not the rest of the family. This was not answered by the Minister. I have quoted a case involving an employee of the Ford Motor Company who received an assisted passage al the instigation of that firm. There is inconsistency in the policy. I will repeat the bair statement made, lt was 
Yes, il is a matter of general' policy to grant assistant passages only to persons of European descent. 
Obviously if the Press statement is true the Government has leaned over to the extent of giving an assisted passage- to at least one of the partners of this , marriage. 1 cannot understand the Government saying that this was not done on a racial basis. Obviously it must be on a racial basis when one receives a reply like that and finds that this is the general position but that there is some flexibility if the right people can apply pressure. 
I am amazed at the double standards that can be adopted by the Attorney-General  (Senator Greenwood)  and at his general racial attitude. A few minutes ago he replied to  Senator McManus  and indicated that the Government bad broadened its outlook in relation to bringing migrants from Asia and that more are coming from Asia today than ever before. The lass I have been referring to is an Indian woman of Asian extraction although not of Asian birth. She was born in the West Indies. I have been making a plea for the family of a European British subject who married a coloured person. The Attorney-General tried to twist the position and to suggest that I would open the floodgates. That was a ridiculous, unfair and unmitigated attack on me personally because I am appealing to the humane attitude of the Government on behalf of a particular family that the Government itself has already admitted but to which it has refused assistance. It was most unjustified indeed for the Minister to stand and make that provocative attack on me. 
The Government has a racial policy so far as mixed marriages are concerned. This is the point I have been making throughout this entire debate and on previous occasions when I have spoken in this chamber. It is the Government's policy in relation to mixed marriages about which I am so concerned. If the Minister were in charge of the matter, he would quite obviously admit no parties to mixed marriages because of this terrible fear of murder and rape and all the type of jazz which he has just tried to imply would follow if I were able to get a few bob for a mixed family that is coming into this country or is already here. It is absolutely disgraceful for the Minister to imply that I was doing anything other than attempting to get some assistance for a family of mixed marriage. He has no right to use the debate in this chamber to put into my mouth and into the minds of people things that I never implied or said. 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Repatriation. Is it a fact that ex-servicemen employed as Commonwealth public servants who have served in Vietnam arc not entitled to Commonwealth Public Service repatriation sick leave when absent from work due to injuries received while on service? If so, will the Minister bring this matter before Cabinet with a view to amending the appropriate legislation and/ or regulations to give these ex-servicemen rights equal to those enjoyed by exservicemen who served in previous wars? 
I ask the Leader of the Government in the Senate: In view of the increasing devaluation of social service benefits being received by persons in the various categories, will he request the Prime Minister to grant an additional 2 weeks payment to all those recipients as a Christmas gesture? 
Sen:,tor  Sir KENNETH  ANDERSON- 
I can remember this question being asked at this time almost every year that 1 have been in the Ministry. It is a justpriorto.Christmas exercise. All I need say in reply is that it is a budgetary matter and any references to variations in the Budget are directed to the Treasurer. That will be done in this instance. 
 I address my question to the Minister representing the Minister for Supply. In view of the successful test flights conducted today in Canberra »f the aircraft known as Project N, can the Minister advise the Senate whether this excellent Australian designed and manufactured aircraft has been ordered by any Government departments, including the Department of Defence, or by any commercial organisations? 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Supply the following question, upon notice: 
Have negotiations between the Commonwealth Aircraft Corporation and the Government Aircraft Factory, for amalgamation of the 2 companies, received a severe set-back because the Broken Hill Proprietary Co. Ltd, one of the major shareholders in the Commonwealth Aircraft Corporation, is demanding a 51 per cent equity in the proposed new company? 
What assets are currently held by the Commonwealth Aircraft Corporation and' the Government Aircraft Factory? 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Repatriation,  upon  notice: 
What is the number of totally and permanently incapacitated pensioners who lost their partservice pension as a result of the increase in the Repatriation pensions, and the operation of the tapered means test? 
 I have a very brief request to make. It relates to questions I have asked the Minister for Civil Aviation  (Senator Cotton)  in the Senate recently about a suitable modern aircraft to service Norfolk Island. I am wondering whether the Department of External Territories can supply any information in relation to the recent tests of the aircraft mentioned by" the Minister and, if possible, when a date will be announced for a suitable modern aircraft to operate this service, lt may be that 1 am asking the wrong department; but Norfolk Island is becoming a very important tourist centre for Australians and I think it is held back tremendously because people still have to travel on a DC4 which is very slow, very cumbersome and very old. I am just wondering whether any development in relation to this matter has occurred. 

 - Mr Chairman, I seek leave to move all amendments together. 
I seek some information. If the Minister cannot give it now, I ask that he provide it to mc by letter. What is the percentage of ex-servicemen who purchase land from the War Service Homes Division compared to the percentage who purchase land privately and then make an application for a loan? 
The Opposition will not oppose the War Service Homes Bill 1971 at the second reading stage. The Bill is designed to increase the amount of loan that can be granted to an ex-serviceman from $8,000 to $9,000. It also amends other sections of the principal Act in relation to definitions of certain words. In his second reading speech, the Minister for Works  (Senator Wright),  who represents the Minister for Housing  (Mr Kevin Cairns)  in this place, indicated that these definition alterations are for the purpose of making the administration of the Department easier. The Opposition does not propose to contest this aspect of the Bill in any way. Similarly, it does not intend to oppose clause 7, but I do draw the Minister's attention to the second reading speech and ask him, perhaps in his reply or in the Committee stage, for a further explanation of what this proposed amendment is intended to do. 
I am referring to the amendment to clause 7, in respect of which the Minister said in his second reading speech: 
Clause  7  provides for the insertion of a new section in the Act (section 30b), which will empower the Director, when he enters into possession of a property in pursuance of a warrant issued under section 30a of the principal Act to remove goods found in the dwelling-house and store them in a safe place and to sell or otherwise dispose of the goods upon the expiration of  a  period of 3 months after the notice of the removal of the goods has been published.  1 am not clear from the information which was given in the second reading speech why this section is being added to the principal Act. I should like some elucidation on this matter because, on the surface, it would appear that the intention is to make it easier to evict persons who may be in arrears in payment of rent and to enable the Department, in cases where personal goods and other property have been left in the house, to recover moneys more expeditiously than it is able to do at the moment. Because it is not our intention to contest the inclusion of this provision in the Act, at this stage I ask simply that a more detailed explanation of the purpose of this section be given by the Minister. 
Before I move further into the details of the Bill I should like to mention that I have received at least 5 telephone calls this week from 4 different States asking when this Bill will pass through the Senate. On each occasion the inference was that the Australian Labor Party was delaying the passage of the Bill. I deny that suggestion most emphatically. I cannot understand how the impression could have been created among estate agents and other persons in the community that we were responsible for delaying this legislation. I simply put on record that since Thursday  of  last week, the day after the Bill was introduced into the Senate, J have been ready to proceed in the debate on behalf of the Opposition. The reason for the delay in dealing with the Bill is that the Appropriation Bills were on the notice paper to be dealt with before this measure came before the Senate. There can be no criticism of the Opposition nor, I would suggest, the Government either because there has been a delay of 1 week in this Bill coining before the House or its being finally passed. lt is our intention in the Committee stages to move a number of amendments to which I shall refer in some detail during my speech on the motion for the second reading of the Bill in order to avoid, as far as possible, a repetition of debate during the Committee stages. 1 indicate further that unless there is some indication from honourable senators that there will be support for the amendments 1 shall perhaps seek the concurrence of the Committee to have the 5 amendments debated and voted on together  so  that we may expedite the passage of the legislation. In addition this will make it easier for ex-servicemen who obviously are waiting for the additional amount which the Senate will finally decide upon to pursue their applications  with  the War Service Homes Division for the purpose  of  obtaining a loan. 
Having indicated our attitude to the Bill, I propose now to make what I believe to  be  a factual criticism of the measure. We  believe  that the Government has not gone far enough in increasing the amount available  on  loan by $1,000 from $8,000 to $9,000. This seems to me to be completely insufficient. The Opposition intends to  move  that the amount of loan be increased to $15,000. We have examined this matter rather closely and we believe that  an  Increase of $1,000 is contrary to the trend in house building and house purchasing throughout Australia. Even 2 years ago Victoria implemented State legislation to provide for a maximum advance of $.10,000 for the purchase of houses through housing co-operatives. We believe that a minimum of $15,000 is now required  for  all persons who seek to obtain loans through housing commissions. This figure can be arrived at readily by an examination of the cost of land and the cost of building. All honourable senators are aware of how these prices have skyrocketed over the last 2 years. 
Although $15,000 may be adequate at present, the projected increases in costs which are revealed by an examination of documents that have been prepared by various organisations indicate that within a few months, and perhaps within not more than .12 months, land prices will sky-rocket to the extent that the purchase of a home will be almost beyond the financial ability of an ordinary person. This applies particularly to Sydney and, to a lesser degree, Melbourne. There are plenty of examples of this to be found in relation to the purchase of land, quite apart from the cost of building a house. The evidence is thai within 1.2 months $15,000 will be completely inadequate. J propose to quote from a report dealing with a study of land cost in Australia prepared by the Economic Research Department of the Housing Industry Association. Although I shall quote only briefly from this publication 1 shall later seek permission of the Senate to have the relevant sections incorporated in Hansard. 
Referring first to the cost of residential allotments in capital cities the report includes tables showing the prices of land in Sydney, Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide, Perth and the Australian Capital Territory indicating how land costs have been spiralling over a period of 2 years. I choose to select from this table suburbs from 2 cities only, Sydney and Melbourne. But this is not to say that the same pattern is not to be found in other areas. It is for this reason that 1 shall later seek the incorporation of the whole table. Referring first to Sydney, in Blacktown, which 1 understand is a working class suburb catering for people up to an artisan class and where the development of normal family homes is continuing, the price of land in 1969 was $3,300 a block whereas in 1971 it is $6,500 a block. In Liverpool, which also is an area in which people without great wealth are developing properties and in which ordinary citizens, such as we would find in an ordinary cross-section in any big city, choose to live, land costs in 1969 were $4,500 a block whereas in 1971 they have risen to between $7,500 and $8,000 a block. In Bankstown, in 1969 land could be purchased for $5,500  a  block, whereas in  1971  it costs  $10,000  a block. In Campbelltown land could be brought for  32,800  a block in  1969  but now it costs  $7,900  a block. 
Moving now to my own State of Victoria,  1  have chosen  3  suburbs only. They are typical of the developing suburbs which are inhabited by ordinary suburban dwellers. In Waverley a block of land could be bought in  1969  for between  $4,000  and  $8,000,  whereas in  1971  the price is between  $6,000  and  $10,000.  In the Doncaster-Templestowe area we find a similar pattern. In  1969  a block of land would cost between  $4,000  and  $8,000.  whereas now it costs between  $7,000  and  $8,000.  So the lower price bracket land in this area has increased in price from  $4,000  to  $7,000  within  2  years. That is for a block of land alone. In  1969  the cost at Springvale ranged between  $3,700  and  $5,000.  It now ranges from  $4,000  to  $5,750.  That increase is not as great as that indicated by the figures I cited earlier. A footnote to the report reads: 
There are few areas within 20 miles of Melbourne in which developed blocks can be obtained  for  less than $4,000. 
An ex-serviceman must pay that amount for a block of land before he is able to start the erection of a brick or weatherboard home. 
I turn now to examine the statistics for the average cost of war service homes between  1965-66  and the current year. In New South Wales in  1971  the average cost of a war service home was  $12,189;  in Victoria  $10,680;  Queensland  $12,149;  South Australia  $10,100;  Western Australia  $11,200;  and Tasmania  $11,700.  When the cost of a block of land is added - I have given figures in relation to land costs - 'the complete cost of land and a home will be between  $16,000  and  $ 1 7,000,  in the very near future. 
The Government is telling ex-servicemen that it will lend them only  $9,000  for a home. It has been argued that the figure is lower than those that normally apply - for instance, I referred earlier to the figure of  $10,000-  -because of the low interest rate payable. I commend the Government for retaining the low interest rate of  3)  per cent. I and other honourable senators have long advocated low interest rates for housing. The argument that seems to apply to war service homes is that a loan of only  S9.000  is available because of the low interest rate payable. But if a house is to cost an ex-serviceman about  $14,000,  to purchase or to build - and that is lower than figures I gave earlier - after he has met the deposit requirements, a gap remains of between  $2,500  and  $3,000.  He is therefore forced to obtain a second mortgage on which interest rates vary from a minimum of  10  per cent to a maximum of  131  per cent. I know of cases where interest is being paid at  131  per cent on second mortgages. The advantage obtained by a loan at  3i  per cent interest for a war service home is more than offset by the high rate of interest that must be paid on a second mortgage and we therefore do not believe the Government has a valid argument in that respect. 
If the Government genuinely wants to help ex-servicemen this scheme must be examined in much greater detail with particular attention to the costs of homes today. We have to be able to project into the immediate future the requirements of ex-servicemen. An assessment should be made of requirements within the next  12  months. I turn again to the document from which I have been quoting in order to indicate the tremendous increases in land prices that have occurred in a period of  10  years. If the trend continues, and I believe it will, a loan of  $9,000  will be quite inadequate within  6  months and many ex-servicemen will be unable to apply for the loan as they will lack the capacity to arrange a second mortgage to meet all commitments. 
The prices of new allotments developed in Sydney, Melbourne and Brisbane in  1969  and  1970  by a major development company are set out in the report. In  1960  in Sydney the average price of land was  $3,200  a block. In  1970  it was  $8,000,  or an increase of  150  per cent in  10  years. 
The honourable senator will have a chance to speak at the Committee stage. 
The document goes into great detail but I do not propose to delay the Senate by going into it at great length. The factor referred to by  Senator Webster  goes nowhere near explaining the full extent of the increase in prices. This report sets out details of those increases. I will come back in a moment or two to the matter raised by the honourable senator. In Melbourne the increase is 57 per cent and in Brisbane it is 52 per cent. I repeat that there are few areas within 20 miles of Melbourne in which blocks of land can be obtained for less than $4,000. 
People going into those areas face many additional costs after establishing their homes. One such cost is sewerage. In Melbourne - I understand the position is equally as bad, if not worse, in Sydney - there are cities of the size of Townsville or Launceston which are completely unsewered. People buying land more than 20 miles from Melbourne must wait years for sewerage. My son has been waiting for 6 years for sewerage to be available in an area 8 miles from the Melbourne General Post Office and he still does not have it. The cost of getting sewerage connected is $1,000 or more. I appreciate that borrowers can again approach the War Service Homes Division for an additional loan to have sewerage connected, but in the initial stages a loan of $9,000 is inadequate. 
I have in mind particularly young veterans returning from Vietnam. They will be forced to build homes inadequate for their needs. The average married couple regards a 3-bedroom home as necessary for a lifetime. Young people are building 2-bed- room homes in areas miles away  from  existing residential dstricts as they are able to buy cheaper blocks there. In the long term, when their familes come along, a lot of additional money must be spent to provide for them the services normally available on higher priced blocks. Many exservicemen, particularly the younger ones who are returning from Vietnam, will be prevented from applying for a loan. That is why we are critical of the increases of only $1,000 in the loan, lt should be further increased and we will move accordingly at a later stage. 
One of the other amendments that we will be moving will seek to have serving members of the permanent forces included amongst those eligible to obtain a loan from the War Service Homes Division. An examination of the present position indicates that there are some notable exclusions in relation to persons who are able to obtain a loan at this stage. For example, there are naval personnel who on many occasions have travelled to Vietnam on HMAS 'Sydney' in particular. Because of the briefness of their slay and the fact that they are not technically considered to have been in a war zone, they are unable to make an application for a loan. Many personnel in the Royal Australian . Air Force who have flown to Vietnam on a number of occasions are in a similar position. Because they have not stayed in Vietnam for the period prescribed under the Act they are excluded. 
But we are prepared to go even further in relation to members of the permanent forces who we believe should be able to obtain a loan to build a home. As an example, one case of which I am personally aware and on which I have made representations concerns an Air Force officer who, in order to obtain a home for his family, was forced' to resign from the Air Force so that he could commute part of his Defence Forces Retirement Benefits Fund entitlement and thus have a deposit for the home. This was the only way in which he could supply a home for his family after, I think, 12 years of service in the RAAF. He did not desire to resign from the RAAF. He made inquiries about reenlisting immediately after he obtained this commutation of his DFRB Contributions. He found that if he re-enlisted he would drop one rank and receive a far smaller salary than he received in his former rank. He has gone into civilian life , and we have lost a key member of the. RAAF simply because he was not able to obtain a loan through the War Service Homes Division for the construction of a home. 
He also sought, and failed to receive, a loan from the DFRB Fund. Although he had an equity of some thousands of dollars in that Fund by virtue of his long service in the RAAF such an equity is not made available to a serving member for the purpose of a loan for the construction of  a  home. Yet, as we all know - having probably made representations about it - DFRB funds are available as loans at some time or other to other organisations, such as water boards, sewerage trusts or municipal councils. These funds are available on application. Yet a man who has 12 years service is not able to obtain a loan for the purpose of purchasing a home. Our amendment will extend eligibility for loans from the War Service Homes Division to allow a member of the permanent forces to construct a home for his family and to live in it, and not be forced to resign as happened in the case of the RAAF officer to whom I have referred. We suggest that this amendment, when it is before the Committee of the Whole, be carried. 1 might inform the Senate of the fact that the Prime Minister  (Mr McMahon)  has indicated that this aspect will be examined. I am a little fearful of these examinations by government. I do not make any direct criticism of the current Government in relation to this matter but it seems to take an interminable time to come to any kind of decision. I hope that something will be done in relation to this matter in the next autumn session of Parliament to allow servicemen to obtain loans through the War Service Homes Division. 
We propose to move an amendment also in relation to the direction that the Minister is able to give to the Department on certain matters. We are suggesting that any major decisions of the Government to alter current policy in relation to matters associated with the Division be implemented by regulation so that they may be examined under the standing order of the Parliament which requires regulations to lie on the table for 15 sitting days; in this way Parliament can examine major alterations in relation to policy. I understand from my reading of this matter that the Minister has written to the Department on at least 5 occasions indicating a change of policy in various areas. We believe that the Parliament should have an opportunity to examine this type of thing. If a majority of members of this chamber or another House is convinced that the policy decision which has been made should not be implemented, it can be rejected. Finally, we propose to amend another section of the Act which pertains to the number of per sons who will be eligible for assistance because they have been struck by hard times in purchasing a home. 
All in all, we wish to propose amendments to an Act which, I admit, has served the ex-servicemen of this country very well since 1918. The Act was passed in 1918 and came into force in 1919. It is an Act of Parliament which has served exservicemen very well over that whole period. Succeeding governments have continued to carry out this policy which has served exservicemen quite well in relation to the conditions of loans. This does not take away from the criticisms that I have made of the niggardly attitude the Government has taken on this occasion with respect to the maximum loan. I hope that the Government will consider these amendments which I have foreshadowed and indicate that at least some of them will be supported in the Committee stage. I seek leave to incorporate in Hansard the tables which I earlier indicated 1 wished to incorporate. 
The  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Prowse)  - ls leave granted? There being no objection, leave is granted. (The document read as follows): 
Cost of residential allotments - Capital cities 
The following figures show prices for residential allotments on newly developed estates in the major developing areas of the main capital cities. Figures are compared for 1969 and 1971. 
Where comparable figures are not available for both years, because popular developing areas in 1969 have now been virtually used up, extra new areas (not widely developed in 19691 of similar quality have been listed for 1971. 
A few premier residential sites still available in the Sydney waterfront area arc selling at $30,000 and upwards. 
Prices have cased back and levelled out in Perth in the last two years. Even so. few areas offer blocks at less than S4,000, the medium price for new areas being around $4,500 to 55,500, with preferred areas to 58,000. 
Prices of newly developed blocks in the more popular suburbs of Hobart are . around $4,000 to $4,500 (a few as high as $6,500),. although much cheaper blocks- some little more than $2,500- are available, mainly through the State Housing Department. The price of an average quality block would range from $3,000 to $4,000. 
For comparison, average premiums paid at auction for residential allotments in Canberra in the early 1960s and the latest three years available, have been: 
Since May 1970, annual land rents have been abolished in Canberra, and there have been fears that sharp price rises would occur in the cost of allotments. Average premium at unrestricted auctions in January 1971 was $4,242 and in March 1971 §3,697, compared with an average reserve price of $2,700.- 
Prices of new allotments developed in Sydney, Melbourne and Brisbane in 1960 and 1970 by a major development company are set out below. 
The following figures show average lot prices in six capital cities for each of three price ranges - low,, medium and high - and how they have increased in the last three years. 
Has the attention of the Minister for Civil Aviation been directed to recent statements which indicate that certain major international airlines have under consideration the phasing out of the jumbo jet because that aircraft is proving to be operationally uneconomical? If it has, can the Minister advise whether Qantas Airways Ltd is likely to take such action? What loss would be incurred by Qantas if the jumbo jet were phased out for economic reasons? 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Treasurer. Is it a fact that when interest rates were increased about 2 years ago interest rates on housing loans were increased also? Is it also a fact that when interest rates were decreased recently no decreases were made in the interest rates on housing loans? Docs the Government intend to reduce the crippling interest rates which are now operative in the housing loan field? 
It is true that there has been a recent reduction in interest rates. Having said that, I think the balance of the question should be referred to the Treasurer. 
Can the Minister representing the Minis er for Supply give any additional information concerning the development of the aircraft known as Project N2? 
I address my question to the Leader of the Government in the Senate. One aspect of it at least may attract the interest of the Minister representing the Minister for Supply. Have any orders or inquiries been received for the purchase of the Australian designed and produced aircraft known as Project N2 following its outstanding test flights? Has the Government decided to purchase any of these aircraft for use by the Army? If not, when will the Government indicate its support for this project by placing orders for the aircraft so that production can commence? 

 Senator Sir KENNETH ANDERSONThe question is directed to me and I will answer it in the first place. If the Minister representing the Minister for Supply, with your leave,  Mr Deputy President,  cares to supplement what I say, I will be perfectly happy. As the former Minister for Supply who in fact took the initiative on Project N, actually saw it in its growth and put views to the Government in relation to it, naturally I am, as I always have been, very excited about it. I hope that the order booie will in fact justify its development. The prototypes have flown and have proved to be satisfactory. I am not aware of the situation in relation to the order book, but I do know from my knowledge as a former Minister for Supply that the order book now becomes the critical issue because you just cannot say that you will embark upon the development of a particular type of aircraft, with all the colossal lead time and expense involved, unless there is a reasonable certainty that when you take that final decision there is justification for 
X number of aircraft to be produced and that they will be sold. I think that is the reason  Senator Poyser  is posing his question. I am not informed on the current situation. If  Senator Drake-Brockman,  who represents in this place the Minister for Supply, has any information to supplement the points that I have made I am sure that he will respond. 
My question is addressed to the Minister for Air. In view of the fact that the Minister for Defence, the Honourable D. Fairbairn, and the Minister for the Army have publicly repudiated the assessment made by the Minister for Air of the needs of the Department of the Army in relation to the aircraft known as 'Project N', is the Minister still of the opinion that the Royal Australian Air Force and the Army have no requirement for this aircraft? 
My question is addressed to the Minister for Air. In reply to a question which I asked him last week, the Minister, in his capacity as the representative of the Minister for Supply, indicated that one of the reasons why there  was no requirement by the Royal Australian Air Force or the Army for the aircraft known as Project N was that the RAAF still had 20 DC3 aircraft in use which the Minister staled by inference were capable of doing the work* which would be carried out by the Project N aircraft if purchased. How old are these DC3 aircraft? Have these aircraft been written off in terms of their depreciation value? ls the Minister completely satisfied that Project N aircraft could not perform better than the aged DC3s now on strength? 
My question is addressed to the Minister for Air. Is it a fact that there is a demarcation dispute  between the Department of the Army and the Department of Air in relation not only to the purchase of aircraft for use by the Army but also as to who would fly the aircraft? If so, can this demarcation dispute be resolved by the election of a Labor Government which would amalgamate all 3 branches of the defence forces into one efficient department? 
 I rise to speak in this debate because I am amazed that in the discussion in this Senate of this motion of no confidence in the Attorney-General  (Senator Greenwood)  that Minister obviously has been gagged. The Senate has been debating this question now for some 2 hours. Most serious charges have been made against the Attorney-General. From my knowledge of parliamentary procedure, it is usual for the person so charged to be at least a very early  speaker  in such a debate. I now challenge the Minister to rise and defend himself and to show to the Senate that he has not been gagged. The Government obviously has no confidence in his ability to defend himself against these charges that have been put before this House by our Leader,  Senator Murphy,  supported most adequately by  Senator Wheeldon  and  Senator Cavanagh.  It is quite clear to us on this side of the Senate that, if the debate continues until 9 o'clock or 10 o'clock tonight the Minister will remain silent. He will remain completely silent. 
Yesterday in the House of Representatives a similar motion of want of confidence in the Prime Minister  (Mr McMahon)  was moved. Who was the first person to rise to answer that charge and to defend the. Prime Minister? It was not the Leader of the House  (Mr Swartz).  It was not the Treasurer  (Mr Snedden).  It was not any other Minister. It was the Prime Minister himself. He led in that debate to defend himself against those charges. 1 have sat here this afternoon waiting to hear the Attorney-General defend himself. It is now obvious that he must do so. The challenge is now thrown down to him to rise in his place and to answer the charges that have been made. 
Obviously, our charges are well founded. They have been made by a most eminent legal man,  Senator Murphy  Q.C., who has quoted chapter and verse a number of precedents in relation to the matters we are debating this afternoon. He has cited some of the highest authorities available on these matters. Not one of these authorities was challenged by any Government  speaker. Senator Wright,  who in his own field is a lawyer, has not challenged one of the authorities that was used by  Senator Murphy.  This was because they are completely unchallengeable. The Commonwealth Attorney-General must show clearly that he is completely unbiassed in any aspect of the operation of the laws of this country.  Senator Murphy  has shown definitely in the statements that he has read and which I do not propose to repeat because they are now recorded in Hansard that the Attorney-General is guilty as charged. He is so guilty that he is not prepared to defend himself here. He will now enter the debate because 1 have challenged him to do so. He will enter at the tail end of the debate. He will be the last wicket down because he needs the force of far more eminent persons than himself in this field to defend him first. It is an absolute traversty to find this situation occurring in this debate. 

 Senator Byrne, of the Australian Democratic Labor Party, talked about double standards. This amused me because there have been double standards in the exercise of the law by the Commonwealth on many occasions. I will give a simple but almost facetious example of the double standards that have been exercised by the Commonwealth Government. I refer to the question 1 asked in the Senate 3 or 4 years ago about the 100 hoteliers in Victoria who had been apprehended for watering their beer. That was almost a trivial matter, compared with the seriousness of the charges that have been made by  Senator Murphy  this afternoon. I asked what action was to be taken against those tax dodgers who obviously were dodging the payment of excise duty. The Minister said that no action would be taken against those law breakers. He refused to give any reason why the publicans who were making thousands of dollars out of the people by watering beer would not have action taken against them. That is the type of double standard that we have today. 
I deal now with the old story that we have been hearing in this place for years about law and order and how everybody should observe, to the letter, the law of the land. 1 intended to ask the Attorney-Genral a question at question time this afternoon. It was simply this: 'Is it a fact that the Attorney-General is one who believes implicitly that the law should be upheld at all costs? Would he have taken the same altitude if he had been the administrator of the laws implemented by Adolph Hilter and Mussolini immediately prior to and during World War 11?' If he fellows the standards that he says we should follow now, he would have to answer yes. He Would have to say that he would have implemented fully all the laws that were completely abhorrent to society. He would have implemented the law that sent millions of people to the gas chambers because that was the law. But it was a bad law. We would not be sitting in a parliament today debating this subject if people had not disobeyed laws deliberately lo ensure the future of democracy and to ensure that democracy can exist. We have example after example of people disobeying bad laws for the right of democracy to exist and to continue. 
I refer to the early history of Australia. The law breakers at the Eureka Stockade brought to this country law reforms which we revere today by having special days and celebrations to honour the brave new Australians who fought the law because ii was a bad law. Yet we are being told today that the Government can introduce any type of law it likes, by force of numbers because it has the numbers to do so. and that not only must every citizen obey those laws but, if we take notice of what the 
Minister for Works  (Senator Wright)  said in this debate, we need law and order to ensure that these people are arrested and go to gaol for the terms decided upon by the Government. Let us be rid of this rubbish about law and order and that everybody must obey the law whether it is good, bad or indifferent. In this great democracy of ours the Government says that the law is good in every respect because a government has legislated it and put it on the statutes book. There are gerrymanders of electorates in Australia. They are bad laws, but we are supposed to obey them. For instance, in Victoria the Legislative Council has some of the worst gerrymandered seats in the world - not just in the Commonwealth but in the world. For Labor to beat the conservatives in that State it would have to poll not 51 per cent of the vote but 56 per cent of the vote. But this is good law because it keeps the conservatives in power. 
The Government is enacting, quite wrongly, laws by force of numbers when it knows that a majority of people do not support the laws that it may desire to enact. So I think it is a lot of nonsense to say that we must obey every law whether it is good, bad or indifferent, that we must help the police and that we must say to the Attorney-General: T know where  Senator Bishop  is hiding. He went through a traffic light in the Australian Capital Territory'. It is nonsense to say that where the Attorney-General has power to prosecute we should say: T saw  Senator Bishop  walk across the street against a red light'. What kind of nonsense is that? I repeat my earlier challenge. I challenge the Attorney-General to defend himself. It is obvious that he did not intend to do so. It is obvious that he is unable to do so. Unless he does, that is clear proof that he has been gagged and told that he is not to speak because he cannot answer the charges that have been made by  Senator Murphy. 
Has the Leader of the Government in the Senate seen reports which state that Australia's Evonne 
Goolagong is expected to wear a badge classifying her as being an honorary white if she visits South Africa to play tennis in the Federation Cup? Does the Minister believe that this insult to Miss Goolagong and Australian Aborigines is reprehensible? Has the Australian Government submitted a strong protest to the South African Government at this condition imposed on her for her entry into that country? 

 Senator Sir KENNETH ANDERSONI have not seen the statement and I think it would be improper for me to pontificate or make judgments until I have seen the statement, and I will set about so to do.  I  cannot say any more than that because, I repeat, it would be quite wrong for me to make judgments without having seen the document or the statement to which the honourable senator refers. 
 I wish to raise a matter which relates to a national serviceman. I refer to information I have received about the apprehension and gaoling of a young man and the unfair manner in which he has been treated by the courts of this country and by the Commonwealth police. This lad has a very honoured name in this Senate chamber. I refer to a lad named Kenneth Joseph McClelland who was apprehended a*. Hawkesdale in Victoria some 5 weeks ago because he had failed to answer a call-up notice. He was not on the run and, as in the case previously referred to, could have been contacted by the Commonwealth police at any time in relation to the charges or warrant they might have had to take him into custody. When apprehended he was taken to the Bendigo court.  Mr Garry  Needham of Holding, Ryan and Redlich, a firm of solicitors who have an office in Bendigo, was assigned the task of representing  Mr McClelland. 
The solicitor went before the magistrate at the Bendigo court after having less than 10 minutes conversation with McClelland and after just a little more than 1 hour's notice that the case would be heard in Bendigo.  Mr Needham  appeared before Magistrate Curtain in the Bendigo court and, naturally, sought an adjournment of the case so that he could be instructed by  Mr McClelland  and so that he in turn could advise  Mr McClelland  of his rights. This adjournment was refused by the magistrate. To me this action, which was taken with the knowledge that the lawyer had less than 10 minutes conversation with his client, seems most unusual. Kenneth McClelland was given a gaol sentence of 18 months and is now in Pentridge gaol. He decided to appeal against the decision of the court in Bendigo and went before a visaing magistrate at Pentridge gaol for the purpose of asking for bail so that he could prepare his case. Bail was refused by the visiting magistrate despite the fact that this person has not been on the run or in the underground, as the term is used. I understand that Kenneth McClelland then appealed to the Supreme Court against the decision of the magistrate not to grant bail. Two days later - it may have been one day later, and this is the only point on which I cannot give positive information - Commonwealth police came to Pentridge Gaol, loaded McClelland into a car and did not at that time tell him why. He was taken to Geelong again without having any opportunity to seek legal advice and on arrival al Geelong found that his appeal was to be heard before a County Court judge, Judge Dethridge. 
The only way that Holding, Ryan and Redlich got the information that McClelland was to conduct his appeal that afternoon, an appeal in respect of which he had no time to prepare himself or to seek legal assistance if he desired it, was through the grapevine and from some other source. The position at the moment is that Judge Dethridge has granted an adjournment of the hearing of this appeal until such time as the appeal before the Supreme Court is heard. This is the only point at which it seems to me that justice has been done to this young man. The undue haste with which the Commonwealth Police decided this appeal would be heard and the undue haste with which he was tried without proper opportunity in Bendigo to consult legal advice, is something that would not be done to the most hardened criminal in the community. Not even Darcy Dugan would have these rights taken away from him, yet we find this young man of 22 years in a situation where he was unable to put before the courts a proper defence. He was unable to obtain the normal adjournment which I understand is granted in these circumstances on almost any charge where proper consultation between the person charged and his legal adviser was unable to be held. I want the Attorney-General  (Senator Greenwood)  to investigate this matter because it seems to me that the Government is moving into the area where it intends to gaol these kids at all costs without any opportunity for them to defend themselves adequately. 
The other aspect which is concerning the legal minds associated with this case is the unnatural action of the Commonwealth Police in taking this lad to Geelong to have his appeal heard at such short notice and not to Bendigo which was where he was found guilty of the charge by the magistrate. It seems that most unusual steps have been taken by the Commonwealth Police and the courts to ensure that justice will not be done when one thing that this country supposedly prides itself on is that justice must not only be done but must appear to be done. I want the Attorney-General to have a complete investigation made of the circumstances I have outlined tonight and to give this lad full and ample opportunity to prepare the appeal he has lodged so that we do not have a situation in future where he can on 2 occasions at least be forced into conducting an appeal in a court without the opportunity of the advice that any person in this community is able to obtain and have the protection of the courts to obtain. 
I present the following petition: 
The Honourable the  President,  and Senators in Parliament assembled. The humble petition of the undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully showeth: 
That on December 10, 1948, Australia signed the 'Universal Declaration of Human Rights'. Article 25 reads: 'Everyone has the right to security in the event of unemployment, sickness, disability, widowhood, old age and other lack of livelihood in circumstances beyond his control.' 
Yet, 23 years later, in our country of great national wealth and abundance it is to the nation's shame that many thousands of our people live in a state of being inconsistent with the dignity and worth of the human person - languishing in poverty and want, neglect and the lack of proper care necessary for their health and well-being. 
We, the undersigned, respectfully draw your attention that the conscience of the nation is not at ease while the records of our country show that social services are not comparable with those of other advanced countries administering such services, therefore, we call upon the Commonwealth Government to immediately legislate for: Base pension rate - 30 per cent of the average weekly male earnings, all states, plus supplementary assistance and allowances based on a percentage of such earnings. Unemployed benefits equal to the foregoing. Completely free health services to cover all needs of social service pensioners - hospitalisation, chronic and long-term illness, fractures, anaesthetics, specialist, pharmaceutical, hearing aids, dental, optical, physiotherapy, chiropody, surgical aids and any other appliances. 
Commonwealth Government to promote a comprehensive national scheme in cooperation with the States and make finance available to provide for the building of public hospitals, nursing and hostel-type homes necessary to effectively meet the special requirements of aged people, in conjunction with a comprehensive domiciliary care programme to enable aged people to stay in their homes. 
Mental illness placed in the same position as physical illness. 
Substantial Commonwealth increase in the $5 subsidy a day per public bed pensioner patient in general hospitals. 
Ten per cent of Commonwealth revenue to local government for general activities which now include social welfare, health, conservation and other community needs. Commonwealth subsidy for the waiving of rates for pensioners. 
Commonwealth Government to increase the non-repayable grant to the States for low rental home units for pensioners. 
Royal Commission or other form of public enquiry into Australia's social welfare structure that Australia may be brought into line with accepted world standards of the most advanced countries. 
And your petitioners, as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
 My question is directed to the Minister for Health. Was an English woman quarantined for 14 days in Melbourne recently because she had not been inoculated against smallpox before leaving England to visit a sick relative in Australia? What were the circumstances in which this woman was permitted to travel from England to Australia without the required inoculation and without correct advice as to her eligibility to enter Australia? 
The circumstances were that a  Mrs Patricia  May Brazil, aged 28 years, and her son Matthew Edward, aged 2 years, were quarantined in Melbourne on 7th March 1972 by Qantas Airways Limited when they arrived at Tullamarine by Qantas flight 742.  Mrs Brazil  was not vaccinated against smallpox because vaccination was considered inadvisable in her case as she was approximately 2 months pregnant.  Her  son was vaccinated. The background, which 1 understand the honourable senator asked for, was that in the United Kingdom  Mrs Brazil  made a booking for travel by air to Australia for her son and herself through the Chiltern Travel Agency in Buckinghamshire. She was /told by the agency that vaccination was required, but the doctor whom she consulted considered that vaccination against smallpox could cause complications in her case. He gave her a certificate to this effect. Apparently she accepted that certificate. 

 Her ticket and medical certificate were checked at London airport by British Overseas Airways Corporation on behalf of Qantas. The medical certificate was accepted. She was not told by BOAC that she would be detained in quarantine if she arrived in Australia without a valid certificate of vaccination. It is interesting to note that until she arrived in Australia Qantas was not aware that she was not vaccinated. Qantas was not informed that she was travelling without a proper certificate. Section 59 of the Quarantine Act 1908-1969 provides that the master, owner, and agent, of any aircraft from which any person is removed to perform quarantine, shall severally be responsible for all quarantine expenses incurred. Therefore, Qantas is liable for the costs involved in the detention of  Mrs Brazil  at the quarantine station at Portsea in Victoria. It is proper to recall that since 1961 there have been 9 outbreaks of smallpox in the United Kingdom, resulting in 145 reported cases. The last outbreak occurred in February 1968. It is against that background that our quarantine requirements are, very properly, rigid. They have to be. We cannot afford to vary those requirements for entry of persons from the United Kingdom. It was distressing to me, when I heard about it, as it would be to the honourable senator who referred to it, that this should happen. 
I  did not intend to speak tonight until  I  heard the remarks of the Attorney-General  (Senator Greenwood),  who represents the Minister for Social Services  (Mr Wentworth)  in this House. He said that honourable senators should contact the Minister or an officer of his Department in relation to problems relating to individuals. In fact, as has been indicated by  Senator Brown,  in the city of Geelong some 5,000 persons are waiting for a ruling from the Minister on whether they are entitled to a payment for lost work. Does the Attorney-General suggest that we send individual representations on behalf of 5,000 individuals in the manner in which he has suggested to  Senator Brown  it should be done, when all that is required is that a ruling, a correct ruling, be given that these people are now entitled to a benefit. It is a matter of history, it is  a  matter of fact, that none of these persons in the city of Geelong were directly associated with or participated in the stoppage in relation to which the Minister has made some ruling or has refused to make a ruling. As  Senator Brown  indicated, it is now more than 3 weeks since we first requested a final decision on this matter. 
It is not good enough for the AttorneyGeneral to go out into the back alleys to try to get some instructions from the Minister for Social Services and to come back into this House and give us the rubbish that he has given us tonight about this matter. It is not an isolated case of one individual. It is not an isolated case involving 20 or 30 individuals. It is a case involving thousands of individuals who have made application in Victoria for  a  benefit to which they rightly believe they are entitled. So let us not have any more nonsense and let us not hear again the same speech as we did tonight that,  Senator Brown  heard over  a  week ago in which it is stated that this matter would be handled, he would receive some information and that if he had gone to the Minister originally this information would have been readily available to him. Nearly  a  fort night has elapsed and the information  is  still not forthcoming simply because  the  Minister is trying to avoid the payment  of  these benefits  to  the people concerned. 
What is far more important for the Government is to avoid publishing figures to show that there were far more people unemployed at the end of the period for which the Department of Labour and National Service issued the figures for registered unemployed persons. It is a shrewd tactic on the part of the Government to avoid its obligations. If we take the matter a step further, we find that even the relief payments which are being made to municipal councils in certain areas throughout Victoria and in other States is being used for this very same purpose. It is being used to avoid disclosing to the people of Australia the actual unemployment figures. In some cases a person who has been out of work for one week is entitled to make application for unemployment benefits. He receives the unemployment benefit after the first week. He receives nothing at all for the first week. After 2 weeks he can claim the unemployment benefit if he has not received a job. In some cases a shire council may have enough money to employ 40 persons for 2 weeks or 4 persons for any number of weeks. 
It has been shown to me that in some cases a shire council, in its humanitarian approach to this matter - not because it is trying to juggle figures like the Commonwealth Government - will put a person on for a week or a fortnight and then give somebody else a job. In actual fact, that person is out of work for one month for which he receives one week's unemployment benefit. He  is  not registered and he has to go through this rigmarole that the Minister is talking about tonight. Half of the procedure is just a hoax and a dodge for the purpose of hiding the real figures. There is no way we will get the answers while the Government plays politics with persons who are out of work and who need the relief that the Government should rightly pay to them. . '. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Postmaster-General. Who made the decision to ban the 'Four Corners' programme on the Sydney Town Hall abortion law reform debate addressed by  Dr Germain  Greer and  Dr Colin  Clark? On what grounds was the decision made? Can the Minister explain why, notwithstanding the television ban, the Australian Broadcasting Commission is programming edited highlights of the same debate in 'Fact and Opinion' tonight on radio on its first network? 
 Mr President  - In accordance with the provisions of the Public Works Committee Act 1969, I present the Thirty-fourth general report of the Parliamentary Standing Committee on Public Works. 
Can the Minister representing the Minister for Supply provide information to the Senate regarding the future of the aircraft industry in Australia, particularly in relation to the matters which I now mention? Have any orders been received for aircraft Project N2? Has the Government placed any orders for this aircraft? Is the Minister or the Government yet in a position to advise the Parliament of the stage that discussions have reached in regard to the proposed amalgamation of the Government Aircraft Factories and Commonwealth Aircraft Corporation? If not, when will the Parliament receive an authoritative statement on this matter? 
Do you ask me to place the question on notice? 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Prime Minister. It refers to question No. 1250 on the notice paper, which is the longest standing question on notice. It seeks information about amenities available to 2 former Prime Ministers,  Sir Robert  Menzies and  Sir John  McEwen. May I expect an answer to this question in a relatively short time? 

 Senator Sir KENNETH ANDERSONI will refer the question, which is linked with question No. 1250,to the Prime Minister's Department. 
My question is directed to the  Atorney-General.  Is it a fact that the Government has decided not to act against a breach of the Broadcasting and Television Act by GTV9 Melbourne in screening football on Sunday mornings? Is that yet another example of the Government's blatant use of selective prosecution? Would a similar breach of the law by a union be ignored? Why does the Government continue to pursue specially selected draft resisters while it refuses to prosecute a great and powerful friend of the Government which breaks the provisions of the Broadcasting and Television Act? 
As it is now obvious to everybody that I am the senator to whom  Senator Webster  has referred I should like to thank him for raising this matter. I brought it to the attention of the Minister for the Interior some time ago and also raised it with the former Prime Minister,  Mr Gorton.  I approached the amenities committee within the Australian Labor Party and I understand that recommendations were made some time ago to the Minister for the Interior to have something done. 
Last week, after arriving by plane from Perth, I had to wait until 9.25 p.m. for a train to Geelong. It was a very slow train and did not arrive at Geelong until 11 p.m. Despite the fact that I live in Victoria the result of this delay was that I was the last of all members of that Committee to reach home. Because of this stupid rule that a member of Parliament shall not travel by Commonwealth car more than 30 miles to his home I am forced to leave for Canberra on a Monday evening if I wish to attend a committee meeting on the Tuesday morning. This costs the Government an additional $15 in living allowance - small as that amount might seem to be at present - merely because it will not provide a car outside a 30-mile radius. My alternative when travelling to Canberra is to rise at 4.30 a.m. to catch a train leaving Geelong at 5.25 a.m. The Government then supplies me with a car from Spencer Street Station to the airport, a trip which takes about an hour, which is about the same time that it would take that car to bring me from Geelong to the airport. The situation is so stupid as to be almost laughable; but it is serious when a member - I speak not only for myself - has been away for a whole week engaged in committee work. As  Senator Webster  said, the Committee worked extremely hard during 3 sessions a day. Its members had a very tiring job trying to interrogate and listen to witnesses late at night after being in session from 9 o'clock in the morning. When I returned to Melbourne last Friday I had to wait in the extreme cold of the railway station for a slow train to take me to Geelong. 
It is not humorous that members of Parliament should be treated in this way particularly when an officer from Duntroon, to take one example, can fly to Melbourne on the same aircraft as myself and have a Commonwealth car waiting to take him to the Staff College at Queenscliff, which is 20 miles further than my home. In this respect we senators are being treated as second class citizens. 
Yes. In the matter of salaries and allowances, too, we are treated as second class citizens. We are demeaned to the extent that a reasonably junior member of the Public Service can have transport anywhere within the State if he is travelling on Public Service business. But this benefit is not available to a member of Parliament. It is not as though this matter has not been raised before. There is this hard and fast rule which will not allow  Mr Scholes  or myself - we both live in Geelong - to travel by car to our homes. Yet the Government pays air fares for public servants to travel to Cairns, Townsville or wherever it may be and then provides cars to take them to their homes or offices. The situation is so ridiculous that it is laughable. 
I have correspondence on this subject from the former Prime Minister saying that the rule is a rule and that this is the way it is going to be. I felt reluctant to raise this matter because it would have appeared that I was seeking something for myself. I am grateful to  Senator Webster  for saving me that embarrassment. He has shown how ridiculous we appear in the eyes of public servants who lord it over us in almost every aspect of our working conditions. I hope, not only in my own interest but also in the interests of other members of Parliament, that this silly rule will be eliminated and we will be treated equally with those who work within the Public Service. 
Is the Minister representing the Minister for Supply aware that there have been further dismissals of top grade electrical technicians by the Goverment Aircraft Factories at Avalon, Victoria? Does this mean that the Government has no immediate plans to place orders for the excellent STOL aircraft known as Project N? Is the Government aware that technicians of the quality of the tradesmen dismissed are hard to come by and that it is being very shortsighted in dismissing men of their calibre if it has any intention of rehabilitating this very important industry in Australia? 
The Minister for Health will recall that during last session I asked him a question concerning the establishment of a Chair of Geriatrics at an Australian university. I requested him to use his good offices in an approach to the States. He indicated that he would do something along those lines. Has there been any development in this matter of which the Minister could advise the Senate at this stage? 

 Senator Sir KENNETH ANDERSONNo, not at this time. But I shall certainly inform myself on the background of what I said before and make the information available without delay to the Senate and to the honourable senator. 
My question is directed to the Minister for Health. I refer again to the promise of the ex-Prime Minister,  Mr Gorton,  that some coverage will be provided for aged persons who are obliged to spend long periods under intensive care in nursing homes as distinct from hospitals, particularly those who have paid into hospital benefit funds for a major part of their lives. I ask the Minister: When will this promise be honoured by the Government? 

 Senator Sir KENNETH ANDERSONIn relation to the statement attributed to the former Prime Minister- 
On 2 occasions. 
I rise tonight to speak on a matter that I raised by way of a question in August of last year. In fact, it was on the second day of the sitting of the Senate. I asked a question which was subsequently placed on notice. It was as follows: 
Have SirRobert Menzies and  Sir John 
McEwen each had allocated to them a Commonwealth car for their personal use; if so, do the drivers of these cars carry out no other duties, even when they are not required by  Sir Robert  and  Sir John  and when these gentlemen are absent from the State of Victoria or Australia? 
Has former Prime Minister, the Rt Hon. F. M. Forde, been provided with similar facilities? 
Which former members of this Parliament receive Commonwealth facilities and privileges and what is the nature of any such facilities and amenities provided. 
It is the longest standing question unanswered. It is question No. 1250 which appears at page 5186 of the Senate 'Notice Paper' of today's date. I asked it on 17th August 1971 and it was placed on notice on 18th August 1971. The reason why I asked this question is that I was given information from a source which I believe to be impeccable that the car drivers who are allocated to  Sir Robert  Menzies and to  Sir John  McEwen have no other duties whatsoever in relation to their work. Even when  Sir Robert  Menzies travelled overseas for some 3 months to 5 months, no duties were required of his driver at all.  His  driver was not required to perform any function other than to collect his salary each second Thursday at the car pool depot. 
I have no objectionto a car being provided to ex-Prime Ministers of this Parliament. But I believe that this facility can come from the car pool as required when required. 1 would have no objection at the moment, for instance, to Dame Pattie Menzies being provided with a car in whichto travel to and from hospital to see her husband. But the information I have received is that  Sir John  McEwen's driver, who is on the payroll of the Commonwealth, has a home on  Sir John's  property and is running a beef herd while he is being paid by the Commonwealth Government, even when he is not required to perform his duties. 1 sought this information in a proper manner by asking a question last August. I sought information as to whether other Prime Ministers such as the Right Honourable Frank Forde and, indeed, the Right Honourble  Sir Arthur  Fadden are provided with similar facilities. 1 understand that this is not the case. I would like to know how this pecking order operates and how, when a member retires from this Parliament, he is able to obtain the facility of a personal private driver and a private car at his full beck and call even when not required. Because I have not received an answer to this question I feel thai I am bound to raise it on the adjournment. 
As I indicated earlier, when  Sir Robert  travels to England his driver has no functions to perform at all. I heard a senator on my left - he has never been there politically - ask: 'What about Arthur Calwell?' 
He is still a member of this House.  Sir Hubert  Opperman when he was a back bencher of this Parliament received a car to travel to and from Geelong whereas I was put on a slow train to Geelong. 
I do not go to church at all. Perhaps 1 should do what the honourable senator does and be a complete hypocrite to get the facilities. 
1 do not want any yapping pups on my left. 1 am seeking information as to what facilities are available to retired members of parliament. I repeat that 1 have no objection whatever to minor perks being given even to exPrime Ministers whether or not they have earned them - and some obviously have not. But J ask why persons who have no other duties to perform remain on the payroll. In the case of  Sir John  McEwen's driver, I ask further how he is able to nin a beef herd whilst still being paid by the Commonwealth. 
Forde provided with a private car? 
To my knowledge, he is not provided with a car or any such facility other than the normal pass received by a person who has been a member of this Parliament for a number of years. To my knowledge,  Sir Arthur  Fadden does not receive any of the facilities about which I am seeking information. I would not have raised this matter on the adjournment if I had been able to obtain some reply from the Government on this matter. The obvious reason why I have not been able to obtain a reply to my question is that the Government has something to hide in this matter. I ask the Leader of the Government in the Senate to ascertain the answers and to investigate the allegations to determine whether what I have said represents the true position and whether these facilities are made available. 
I do not object to their being provided to ex-Prime Ministers of this country. But why cannot these people call for a car from the pool as required? Nobody would have any objection to that. In fact, these 2 drivers could well toe looking after some of the members of this Senate when those drivers have nothing else to do. As indicated last week, some honourable senators are compelled to take a second grade train to a provincial city after many long hours of service in this Parliament. These drivers could assist honourable senators rather than run a beef herd or do nothing else but call in each fortnight for pay cheques. I ask that this matter be investigated and that a proper reply be given to me. 
My question is directed to the Attorney-General. Further to the question asked by  Senator Brown,  I ask the Attorney-General whether he has read the statement attributed to Judge Hewitt which states in part: 
It seems evidence shows the appellant is a conscientious individual doing good work in the community,. But he has gone into this with his eyes wide open - maybe he took the wrong advice. The Attorney-General may release him at any stage. The Commonwealth can do as it likes. 
Will the Attorney-General examine the transcript of this case and give very sympathetic consideration to what appears to be a very broad hint that this man should not be incarcerated because of his actions and beliefs? 
I rise to support the urgency motion moved by  Senator Bishop  this afternoon, which relates to the failure of the Government to safeguard the future of the Australian aircraft industry. A similar debate to this was held some  2i  years ago when the Leader of the Government in the Senate  (Senator Sir Kenneth Anderson),  then the Minister for Supply, replied on behalf of the Government. One could say that the speech which he made on that occasion has been re-read on this occasion. We have heard the old cliches about the Government expressing the intention of establishing a viable aircraft industry in this country. The troughs that have been spoken of over the last  2i  years have become deeper and deeper. They are becoming so deep now that we on this side of the Senate are gravely concerned that there will not be a proper recovery of the industry unless some drastic action is taken in the very near future. 
When one examines the histories of countries that have been able to establish viable aircraft industries, large and small, one sees that the experts in those industries have a formula upon which a viable aircraft industry can and should be established. I refer to an article which appeared in 'Flight International' on 28th October 1971 and which was written by a gentleman named J. M. Ramsden. The article was entitled France's Aircraft Industry'. A number of experts have been quoted in this article in relation to the methods by which the French aircraft industry was re-established as from 1945. A statement by M. Adenot is reported in the article, which reads: 
One of the secrets of success is long term planning. All budgets for the next five years, project by project, are published. 'Because of the long development cycles in aerospace it is very beneficial for the industry to have the discipline of the long term plan. It has produced good aircraft'. The priorities and budgets are settled in consultation with the industry, the Services and the workers. Everyone knows what is expected of him, and - just as important - 'the industry knows that the money is prescribed in the law'. 
This is a basic condition which should be applied by the Australian Government to ensure that this viable industry has some continuity of development rather than the system we have adopted over the last 8 to 10 years or more, in which we get peak production and employ up to 8,000 or 9,000 people in the industry, as we did during the Mirage project, and then halve that figure within 2 years of that project being ceased. We went to the great trouble of sending people to the United Kingdom to recruit top grade artisans in the field of aircraft production who were told verbally by the recruiters, on behalf of the Department of Supply, that they would have continuity of employment in this country if they chose to leave the aircraft industry in England and come here as migrants and work within the industry in this country. 
What do we find? After the Mirage project was completed these persons received their dismissal notices. Those who were at Avalon in Victoria have had to sell the homes they purchased in the Lara district and move, perhaps, to Melbourne or Sydney to try to obtain some other employment in the industry they know. Many to whom I have talked have said that, irrespective of the future of the industry and irrespective of the undertakings they get from the present Government, they have no intention of returning to the industry in this country. So, what will we do if we reach the stage where we have another project such as the Mirage aircraft or, belatedly, move into production on Project N? Will we again be going to the United Kingdom and seeking recruits in order to establish again an industry that we have established on at least 4 occasions - an industry that is skilful and capable of high class work? Will we again be in the same position of having the expense and the trials and tribulations of going to the United Kingdom and seeking recruits? So, we have had this lack of continuity throughout the ' history of the industry since the Second World War. In the article to which I referred earlier there is another very brief comment from another expert in relation to the French industry, which is very pertinent to the subject we are discussing today. The article reports M. Ravaud as saying: 
Above all you must have the political will and the technical and industrial policy. Everything else is pure speech. 
This statement underlines the remarks that I have made so far. We tire of hearing the Government talk about the future when we have the ability right now to establish an industry which could become viable and have some continuity. The offset orders which the Minister mentioned are valuable indeed, but, as he predicted, we say that they are insufficient to give the kind of continuity and the kinds of skills that we must maintain in this country if the industry is to be kept on a profitable footing. 
I turn now lo the question of Project N which has been discussed previously in this debate by  Senator Bishop  and the Minister for Air  (Senator Drake-Brockman).  Because of the procrastination on the part of the Government in relation to this venture we could well find that within 12 months another country - perhaps France, perhaps Canada - will beat us to the world markets, although we have a product that everybody is completely confident can be sold on world markets. Already .some investigations and approaches have been made, I believe from France, to purchase some of these aircraft. There have been inquiries from Indonesia and there have been inquiries from at least one South American country. Does the Government think that these countries will order a plane which is at the testing stage, as this plane is at the moment, when the Commonwealth Government has not shown sufficient confidence in it to place any orders at all. The Minister has indicated that some S4m already has been invested in the development of this aircraft. Another $4m could pui it into production, and sufficient aircraft could be produced to enable the price at which it can be sold on the world markets to be ascertained clearly and properly. 1 am absolutely confident that we can do it. In any event, if the Government has been prepared to gamble $4m on its development, why will it not, if necessary, gamble another $4m to try to establish the industry on a proper basis. I believe we have an aircraft that could be sold in many countries because of its characteristics which are suitable for STOL activities. This type of aircraft would be ideal in New Guinea where there are short runways in many areas. It may be that we even could give the Papua New Guinea Administration 4 or 5 of these aircraft as an example of the type of production that we have in this country. These aircraft could be most useful in this field. This type of aircraft could be used by the District Commissioners in their work. It could be used as a small passenger aircraft or as a small freight aircraft. 1 have seen the aircraft in action and I have seen it tested at Avalon in conditions under which it had not been tested before. It was tested in very heavy grass after severe rain, and on that occasion the aircraft came through the test with flying colours. At that time, which was in February, it had done more than 300 hours in test flights. No doubt it has done many more hours since. 
I think if we examine this whole matter properly we will find that one of the major reasons why the Services have not as yet placed any orders for the aircraft is that there is an internal battle being waged within the Service departments. Perhaps the battle is not in relation to their requirements, because I understand that the Army would be happy with this type of aircraft, but it is in relation to whether the Royal Australian Air Force or the Army will fly it. It is not a matter of whether it is a suitable aircraft; it is an internal argument. So we have this procrastination, this bickering, and an industry may go down the drain simply because once again we are' too late. By the time the Government takes any action the world markets will not be open to us because we will have been beaten to them. As  Senator Bishop  indicated earlier, even if an order is placed today it will be 12 months before the aircraft can go into production, and that 12 months is very valuable time. I have spoken to the top men we have in the industry and they have shown grave concern about the fact that we may be beaten to the markets of the world with an aircraft which they believe will be readily saleable. 
I shall now deal with the matter that was discussed in the latter part of the Minister's speech; that is, rationalisation of the industry. It is contemplated that the Government Aircraft Factories and the Commonwealth Aircraft Corporation Pty Ltd will amalgamate. We on this side of the House believe that if there is to be a rationalisation of the industry in that manner the Government must have the predominant say in the industry on matters concerned with defence, because, as I understand the situation, GAF owns something like 70 per cent of the total assets of the industry and CAC owns 30 per cent. One can be excused for thinking perhaps that the troughs in production by the industry - this relates particularly to GAF - are designed to ensure that when this amalgamation does take place we will be about even steven and the value of our industry will have dropped. Indeed, I saw a short article quite recently in the 'Financial Review' which seemed to indicate that overseas interests are interested in an amalgamation of the 2 sections of Australia's aircraft industry. No doubt CAC at least has been talking to overseas interests about buying it out so that these overseas interests can enter the aircraft industry in this country. 
Associated with that was a suggestion which would be of some value to the industry if carried out by the Government, that is, to transfer the whole of the industry to an area such as Avalon. In the short term it may seem to be a very expensive operation but in long term the industry would be in an area close to an excellent airfield. In fact, it is a top grade airfield. It would be in an area where it should receive plenty of work. Indeed, it could become a very modern industry in its own right. This is a long term proposition which may be looked at, but I do not believe that the interests of the Australian people, the interests of the industry itself or the interests of the defence of this country can be served if we have the kind of amalgamation which is suggested, namely, that it would be on the basis that a private industry would have at least equal say in its operation. This type of situation is not good for the defences of this country. So I ask the Senate to carry the motion as an expression of the dissatisfaction of the Senate in the manner in which the Government has procrastinated in the development of this industry. It is not true to say, as has been indicated by the Minister, that everything in the garden will be rosy in the future, unless we have in full production an aircraft of our own. We have the aircraft. It has been tested. We have the ability to produce it and we should go ahead with it. 
The ACTING  DEPUTY PRESIDENT  - Order! The honourable senator's time has expired. 
These Bills have been introduced at very short notice. Despite the fact that I have not seen the second reading speeches or the details of the Bills, the Opposition does not propose to oppose them or to delay their passage through the Senate. But we have an amendment which we wish to submit to the Senate in relation to the Repatriation Bill 1972. It is in almost identical terms with the amendment that we moved during the Budget debate. I move: 
At the end of motion add - but the Senate is of the opinion that the Government has failed to restore the relative value of Repatriation pensions, in particular the general rate pension. 
 1 apologise to you,  Mr President,  and to the Senate for the fact that I have not been able to circulate copies of the amendment because of the manner in which the Bills have been introduced. 
We on this side of the House are still very concerned that although ostensibly the Government has increased the rate of repatriation pensions in the case of invalid and age pensions, it has not given full justice to all those who at the present time are receiving war pensions or are entitled to receive them. We get back to the fact that the Government has increased the general rate pension by exactly nothing for persons receiving less than 75 per cent of the pension rate. It has again completely ignored the persons who are dependants of persons receiving the general rate pension, other than those who are eligible for the special rates between the 75 per cent and 100 per cent pension rates. So, the position remains the same. 
Child dependants of persons in receipt of the general rate pension and the TPI rate pension have not received any increase since the early 1950s. I cannot understand the thinking of a government that will introduce legislation in the panic manner in which this Government has on this occasion. The Government believes that the way out of the morass that it is in is to press the panic buttons and to introduce a mini-Budget. It believes that the people will fall for the cynical bribery that it offers in that mini-Budget. 
Whilst supporting this legislation v/e add our protest against the attitude of the Government to the dependants - that is, the wife and children - of persons in receipt of the general rate pension and the TPI rate pension. The Government has failed to increase the rates of those allowances. From memory - I quoted these figures in my speech when legislation of a similar type was before us previously - since 1964 or 1965 the allowance of the dependant wife has not been increased. The situation now is that those in the upper echelons of pension payments are to receive increases - and quite rightly so - but the Government is refusing to assist the person in receipt of the lower pension rate. The TPI pensioner, who is a person who has suffered to the extent that he is no longer able to be employed in the community, will receive approximately half or less than half of what is accepted as the average weekly wage in the Australian community. The TPI pension is increased to $44.50 a week. The average wage today is in excess of $90 a week. The pension paid to a person who has suffered war injuries rendering him no longer able to follow any kind of employment is set at a level much lower than the average weekly wage despite the fact that if that pensioner continued to enjoy an earning capacity in the normal flow of his working life he may have earned at least as much as, and indeed in many cases much more than, the average wage. 
The Government says to him that in spite of the sacrifices that he has made it will pay him a pension of $44.50 a week. On the present standards established by the Department of Social Services this is less than the amount required to stay above a poverty level of existence. The Government has adopted this line with respect to all social service payments, even in relation to widows, aged persons and ex-servicemen. The stage has been reached where their pensions are being reduced to below the poverty level despite the sacrifices that they have made on behalf of this country. 
By way of the amendment that I have moved the Opposition now protests most strongly against the fact that, related to the average wage, a comparison between pension rates today and pension rates 10 years ago shows that they continue to decline. Pension rates today are far lower proportionately than they were 10 years ago and are reaching the lowest level in their history. The Opposition has moved this amendment to bring before both Houses of the Parliament the fact that, while giving passage to this legislation, it is totally dissatisfied with the way in which the Government has neglected the general rale pensioner and the dependants of those in receipt of war service pensions. I refer particularly to the children of such dependants. To add to our protest, we ask the Senate to carry this amendment. 
My question is directed to the Minister for Health. Yesterday the Minister indicated that he had a reply for me in relation to a question I asked on hospitalisation of aged persons in nursing homes, but because of the time factor we stood it over by mutual agreement. May I have the answer now? 
The Minister for Civil Aviation will recall that I have asked a number of questions concerning the introduction of a modern jet aircraft between Australia; Norfolk Island and New Zealand. Has he any further information concerning the early operation of a suitable jet aircraft to replace the DC4 aircraft which is now operating? 
asked the Minister representing the Prime Minister, upon notice: 
Have  Sir Robert  Menzies and  Sir John  McEwen each had allocated to them a Commonwealth car for their personal use; if so, do the drivers of these cars carry out no other duties, even when they are not required by  Sir Robert  and  Sir John  and when these gentlemen are absent from the State of Victoria or Australia. 
Has former Prime Minister, the Rt Hon. F. M. Forde, been provided with similar facilities. 
Which former members of this Parliament receive Commonwealth facilities and privileges and what is the nature of any such privileges and amenities provided. 

 Senator Sir KENNETH ANDERSONThe Prime Minister has advised the following answer to the honourable senator's question: (1), (2) and (3) I am informed that both  Sir Robert  Menzies and  Sir John  McEwen have, under decisions of previous Governments, a car and regular driver available to them in Victoria and access to Commonwealth car pools elsewhere. If either  Sir Robert  or  Sir John  indicates to his driver that he is not required for a period, the driver and car are available to the Transport pool for allocation to other duties. The use of these facilities by  Sir Robert  and  Sir John  needs no defence. 
The Rt  Hon.  F. M. Forde, about whom the honourable senator asks, is provided with Commonwealth transport for functions to which he is invited because of his former public office. Lord Casey is also provided with car transport for official functions and other activities which arise from his service as Governor-General. 
Lord Casey,  Sir Robert  Menzies and  Sir John  McEwen have office and secretarial facilities available to them.  Sir John  McEwen has a trunk telephone authority.  Sir Robert  Menzies has travel facilities provided if he travels to take part in significant occasions abroad. 
I add that the subject of facilities for former Governors-General and former Prime Ministers generally is being looked at 
A number of former members of Parliament hold Life Gold Passes to which they have become eligible because of their long service in the Parliament. These entitle the holders to free air travel on internal airlines, the Commonwealth railways and all State Government land transport systems. If the honourable senator requires a list of holders, then I shall endeavour to provide it for him. 

 - Mr President, I support in principle the proposal outlined in your document, subject to the qualification suggested by  Senator Cavanagh  that each petition should be presented, in some brief form, by the honourable senator concerned. I think this is important. If we are going to continue to attach any importance to petitions we cannot take up 45 minutes of the time of the Senate, or 30 minutes, as we may well do, in the presentation of identical petitions. The right of persons to give petitions to members of Parliament and to have them presented must be preserved. 
The suggestion made by  Senator Prowse  that honourable senators must go through the process of authenticating the signatures on the petitions is ridiculous and should not be considered. I have a petition to present today. I looked briefly through it and found that most of the signatories are people from the city of Geelong in which I live. I accept its authenticity without question. People will not go to the trouble of preparing petitions on important matters and then forge signatures to those documents. Even if one or two people do forge signatures the petition is important in the minds of the majority of people who sign it and wish to have it presented. 
I do not adopt the pedantic approach of  Senator Marriott  in relation to this matter. The mere fact that people have signed a document addressed to  Mr Speaker  in another place rather than to the  President  does not deny me the right of presenting that petition in a slightly amended form. I think this practice has been accepted for a long period in this chamber and i, hope it continues to be accepted. In some cases people go to tremendous expense in having petition forms prepared by a printer and the cost would be increased if 2 different forms had to be printed. 

 Mr President, I support in principle what you are endeavouring to do. 1 think an answer can be found by the Standing Orders Committee before the end of this session. I think that your suggestion, with  Senator Cavanagh's  qualification, should be supplemented. 
1 present the following petition: 
The humble petition of the undersigned  citizens  of Australia respectfully sheweth: 
Thai the Postmaster-General's Department, Central Administration Board's, policy of re-centralising and concentrating certain staffs, under what is termed the Area Management Project, to the great detriment of most of the staffs affected and to :he detriment of the economies of the towns and related rural areas, and to the detriment of the overall morale, efficiency and independence of the Australian Post Office, is against the public interest and should be made the subject of special investigation b&gt; the Senate's Social Environment Committee and by the Senate's Finance and Government Operations Standing Committee. 
Your petitioners most humbly pray that the Senate in Parliament assembled will take immediate steps to refer the above matters to the two committees of the Senate referred to, and in the meantime will order that: 
There will be no transfers of persons, areas of authority or operations under the Area Management Project; and 
No further appointments to positions under Area Managers or above them in the State Administrations or Central Administration of the Australian Post Office until the two committees of the Senate have investigated the matters and reported to the Senate and the Government. 
And yow petitioners, as in duty bound, will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
I ask the Minister representing the Minister for Supply: What is the current situation regarding the Australian designed Project N aircraft? Have the evaluation and feasibility studies of this aircraft been completed? If so, what is the intention of the Government regarding the placing of orders for the purchase of this excellent Australian designed aircraft for defence and other purposes? 
I rise to speak on a matter of great urgency and importance that has been placed before me and, I understand, before many other senators. It concerns the imminent closing down of an industry in the City of Benalla in the State of Victoria. This city feels so concerned about the closing of this industry, which may occur in the very near future, that its citizens have established a committee called the Committee for Retention of Renold Chain, Benalla's Decentralised Industry. I understand that this committee has written to most senators and probably most members of the House of 
Representatives. It is a very broad committee, established by the whole of the city for the purpose of trying to retain this very important decentralised industry in Benalla. The people associated with this committee are the Benalla City Council, the Benalla Shire Council, the Benalla Chamber of Commerce, the Benalla Branch of the Country Party, the Benalla Branch of the Liberal Party, the Benalla Branch of the Democratic Labor Party, the Benalla Branch of the Australian Labor Party, the Benalla Business and Professional Women's Club, the RSL Club of Benalla, the Lions Club of the same city, the Rotary Club of Benalla, the Benalla Junior Chamber of Commerce, and the Benalla Apex Club. One can see that this is probably one of the broadest committees that any city the size of Benalla could possibly obtain for the purpose of trying to save the city from what would in fact be a tragedy. The letter that has been sent to me, and I understand to many other senators, reads as follows: 
Dear  Senator, 
We urgently appeal to you personally to help save our town from disaster by helping to  retain  its decentralised industry whose closure is impending because of unrestricted cheap imports. 
This industry is Renold Australia Proprietary Limited. Both the Federal and State Governments helped its establishment in Benalla during 1949, soon after World War II, as having strategic importance to our country. Renold is virtually the sole manufacturer in Australia of transmission chain up to one inch pitch which  is  used both for industrial and agricultural machinery. 
Failure of this industry will threaten the whole concept of decentralisation throughout Australia. 
Normally, Renold employs about 200 people, but owing to the steady inroads of very cheap imports, has fallen during the last twelve months to about 120 employees. Without . urgent and decisive action by the Government, this industry is likely to be dead by early 1973. 
We have approached our own Member for Indi, the Honourable R. McN. Holten, M.H.R., Minister for Repatriation and Assisting .Minister for Trade and Industry, and we seek your support in the efforts he is making on our behalf.' 
Local branches of all Political Parties are supporting us in this request. 
Quantitative import restriction of transmission chain up to one inch pitch is the only means  of  saving this highly specialised industry. This action would create no precedent because Renold  is  virtually the sole manufacturer in Australia, and no economic problem, because total import value is only approximately $lm- 
I assume that that  is  annually -  and of very little economic importance  to exporting  countries. 
Loss of Renold would reduce Benalla by some 800 people, counting families, from  a  population of 8.000 down to about 7,200. There is little other industry, so this would be the beginning of the end. 
As decentralisation is  a  platform of your Party, we are now seeking your practical support by asking you to write directly to, or seek the personal assurance of, the Deputy Prime Minister, the Right Honourable J. D. Anthony, Minister for Trade and Industry, to apply positive protection and save this industry which is so vital for Benalla and Australia. 

 Mr President, I believe that some urgent action must be taken by the Government if the position is as outlined in this letter. For a town of the size of Benalla to lose an industry which employs 200 persons would create a situation in which up to 1,000 people in the area would be seriously affected. Anybody who knows this area - indeed, anybody who knows country areas anywhere throughout the Commonwealth - will realise that an industry of this nature cannot be replaced easily. As this letter indicates, all political parties have indicated their support for decentralisation. Unfortunately some talk more about it than they act. That applies in particular to the Liberal-Country Party coalition which is in government in Canberra. It also applies to the State Government in Victoria. Both of those governments pay only lip service to decentralisation of industry as such. It is my view and it is a view which is accepted by quite a number of people that neither the Liberal Party nor the Country Party has any real desire to see industries established or flourishing in country areas because they have a vested interest to ensure that voters who support the Australian Labor Party are not placed outside of the metropolitan areas and therefore able to wrest from the Libera] and Country Parties seats that they have held for so many years and which are regarded by them as safe, comfortable seats. The only State in the Commonwealth which has been progressive in any shape or form in this matter is Tasmania. The most decentralised State in the Commonwealth of Australia is Tasmania, which had a Labor government for 34 years. The second most decentralised State is Queensland, which had a Labor government for over 25 years. When Liberal governments have taken over in these States they have shown no interest in the problems of the country towns. 
It is establishing a new town because it has a practical Labor Government which is prepared to encourage decentralisation. Up to the time of the Dunstan Government the most centralised State in the Commonwealth was South Australia which had the. longest run of Liberal governments in the history of Australia - and it was a gerrymandered government at that. 
Getting back to the original point that I wish to make, I ask the Government to take very quick action because the situation in Benalla is acute. Only some rapid positive action by the Commonwealth Government will save this decentralised industry. The Commonwealth Government has it within its powers to assist this industry by quickly acceding to the request, not just of the company itself but also of a committee representing all sections of the community in Benalla, for consideration of the imposition of quantitative restrictions on cheap imports from overseas. The committee has examined this matter very closely and it has determined that that is the only way in which the industry can be saved. 
I believe, that this matter is of sufficient importance for me to take up a few minutes of the Senate's time this evening. I wish to air the situation publicly and show that at least members of the Australian Labor Party do not want to see an industry destroyed in a town the size of Benalla. We do not like to see any industry destroyed, but we particularly do not like to see an industry destroyed in a town as small as Benalla. A community of 8,000 people will lose something like 10 per cent of its number. When one takes into consideration the effect of the loss of this industry on education, hospital, medical and other facilities one can appreciate the situation in which this community will find itself. The town will start to die. 
We have seen this happen so often throughout Australia. It happened in the early history of Australia to the mining towns and it is now happening in many of the rural towns throughout Australia. If industrial problems such as this are to be added to rural problems we will have a situation which is worse than that which already exists in Victoria where something like 70 per cent of the total population of the State lives in the city of Melboune The difficulties of the capital city will be exacerbated. It costs a city of the size of Melbourne millions of dollars to handle only its traffic problems. Ten per cent of the money it is costing that city to handle those problems would be sufficient to establish industries in areas to which people, would be happy to go and in which they would be happy to live. The Government has a duty to give urgent consideration to this matter. It should show its sincerity as a Government and accede to the committee's request, particularly as it professes to believe in decentralisation. But action must be taken quickly. The Tariff Board or any other government department must not be allowed to take 2 or 3 years to make up its mind. If this were allowed it would be too late as the industry would have already gone. I ask for immediate action in this matter to ensure that thus industry is saved before it disappears altogether. 

 Senator McLAREN (South Australia) (11.19) - I rise to support the case that  Senator Poyser  has put to the Senate tonight for the retention of the Renold chain company in Benalla. I do so because I have lived for 22 years in Murray Bridge, which is a town in South Australia of a similar size to Benalla, and I know of the real problems that would be created in Murray Bridge if an industry of this size - and we have several of them in Murray Bridge - were suddenly to fold up because of the lack of support of a government which was prepared to allow cheap imports into the country. It would have a very grave effect on all of the residents in the town of Murray Bridge. On receiving similar correspondence to that received by  Senator Poyser  - as  Senator Poyser  stated, probably all honourable senators and members of the other place received similar correspondence - I did as I was requested, namely, made immediate representations to the Right Honourable J. D. Anthony, Minister for Trade and Industry. I did this by way of telegram on 2nd May. I set out the case very briefly, explaining to the Minister the real urgency of doing something for the people of Benalla, but apparently the Minister for Trade and Industry does not consider that this case warrants urgent attention because it is now 8 days since I despatched that telegram and as at this point of time I have received no reply. 
It will be recalled by those people who have taken an interest in decentralisation and in the governments which had been prepared to support it, that a Federal Labor government was in office in 1949 when this industry was established in Benalla. I am sure that the people of Benalla are well aware of this fact. No doubt they are hoping that in the very near future there will be another Federal Labor government so that if nothing is done between now and then we will be able to come to their rescue and save this industry for them. The peope of Australia were so concerned about the drift to the cities of country people and the effect that this was having on the rural areas that on 19th and 20th August last year they convened a conference which was held in Canberra. It was attended by representatives from all over Australia. The result of this conference was the setting up of an organisation called the Australian Council for Balanced Development. The 3 major points contained in the policy of that organisation are as follows: 
To ease the pressures on capital cities; 
To consolidate development in all country areas; 
To secure a major Commonwealth Government commitment to and financial participation in decentralisation and belter balance of population and employment. 
I was one of two senators who attended that conference together with  Mr Don  Simmons, the member for Peake in the South Australian Parliament. Shortly after that conference I asked in the Senate a question of the Minister repesenting the Minister for National Development. The question I asked, in part, was:   . . I was greatly impressed by the determination and enthusiasm shown by the delegates from all parts of Australia in arriving at their decisions. As these decisions were classified by the conference  as  being extremely urgent and, as such, were communicated to the government and other Party leaders by telegram, will the Minister give an assurance that he too will treat these decisions with the same degree of urgency? 
In the course of his reply  Senator Cotton  stated: 
. I support the proposition of country development. But we ought not be unmindful ot the cost of doing this and of the fact that one cannot order people to do things which one wants them to do. 
I think that the Benalla people also are very conscious of the cost of decentralisation, not in the way that  Senator Cotton  meant, namely the cost of establishing it, but in relation to what it will cost them because of the fact that the Federal Government is not helping them to keep their industry going. Obviously if this industry is lost to them it will cost them a great deal. I waited for some months to see what the federal Government would do as regards the requests that came forward from the National Development Conference. On 23rd February of this year I asked the Minister representing the Minister for National Development the following question: 
Has the Government taken any action, in response to urgent requests from the National Development Conference held at Canberra in August last year, with regard to financial participation in decentralisation and balanced development of population and employment in Australia? 
On 11th April last I received the following answer: 
The Government has not as yet taken any action with regard to financial participation in decentralisation and balanced development of population and employment in Australia, as a result of the National Development Conference. The Government is awaiting the report of the CommonwealthState Officials Committee on Decentralisation. When this report has been received, the Government will be in a better position to define what action ls appropriate in these fields. 
Of course, to the uninformed or the illinformed that answer sounds very nice, but I was able to obtain a paper which was delivered by the Leader of the Opposition in another place  (Mr Whitlam)  at a seminar which he attended at Wangaratta on 29th April. I shall quote from this paper in which he dealt with decentralisation and the Committee which was referred to in the answer given to me on 11th April. The portion of this paper which dealt with decentralisation is headed 'Government's Approach'. It reads as follows: 
Decentralisation is a matter on which the present government has been not only dilatory but obstructionist 

 Sir Robert Menzies promised in his 1949 election policy speech 'a positive decentralised national programme of rural production, to be carried out co-operatively, with the States and with regional and local authorities.' That promise remains unhonoured. 
Motions on decentralisation were moved in the Parliament by members of my party in 1961, 1965, 1967 and 1971. Not one of them was allowed to come to a vote. 
In 1964, while  Sir Robert  Menzies was overseas and  Sir John  McEwen was Acting Prime Minister, the Premiers' Conference agreed to establish a Commonwealth-State Officers' Committee on Decentralisation. That Committee has met on only 4 occasions, 4th and 5th March 1965, 30th November 1966, 7th February 1969 and most recently on 12th October 1971. 
Following the October meeting it circulated a report which the  Chairman  of the New South Wales Department of Decentralisation and Development has stigmatised as 'largely irrelevant'. The  Chairman  said that the report:  . . to the extent that it does concern itself with evaluating the justification for decentralisation fails to do so in any systematic way and avoids any attempt to assemble the sum total of the arguments for and against decentralisation and arrive at an overall conclusion.' 
He described the studies commissioned by the Committee as 'limited' and 'marginal'. 
As a result of these strictures, the Committee circulated on 23rd February a further draft report which the New South Wales  Chairman  regards as acceptable but anticipates being difficult to marry to the original draft. The Prime Minister told the honourable member for Calare on 8th March that the final report is 'nearing completion', but how much longer must Australians wait before there is action on this vital matter? 
In the absence of action, cabals gather. The present Prime Minister,  Mr McMahon,  refuses even to disclose the names of departments which are represented on interdepartmental committees, but his predecessor,  Mr Gorton,  told my colleague,  Mr Al  Grassby, on 14th April 1970 that the Commonwealth-State Officials' Committee on Decentralisation consisted of representatives from each State, his own department, the Treasury, and the Departments of Trade and Industry, Primary Industry, National Development and Labour and National Service. In the meantime the Minister for Trade and Industry,  Mr Anthony- 
I direct my question to the Minister representing the MinisterinCharge of Tourist Activities. By way of preface I wish to state that on the Australian Broadcasting Commission programme 'A.M.' this morning it was said that about 120 Australian tourists were stranded in Singapore because the cheap fare ship in which they were booked to return home had been arrested. Will the Commonwealth Government take some action, by extensive publicity or by other means, to warn Australian citizens against unscrupulous travel agencies which are fleecing many hundreds of our citizens by offering false promises of cheap overseas holidays - promises which border on the fraudulent? 
It is rather fortuitous that this Bill has been introduced in the Senate immediately after the debate on the report of a Senate standing committee. In fact this is historic legislation in view of the committee work that was done by the Senate Select Committee on the Metric System of Weights and Measures appointed by the Senate in 1967 under the chairmanship of the late  Senator Laught.  The historic legislation to implement the recommendations of that Committee is now before this House. We are carrying out what would be termed routine legislation' for the purpose of converting to the metric system of weights and measures the excise and customs duties which are payable on certain spirits, diesel and other fuels. The simple fact is that the debate which occurred prior to this debate shows quite clearly the tremendous interest which honourable senators as members of committees have in examining issues which are put before them. 
I can recall a similar debate which was as interesting as the debate which we have just concluded. It was the occasion when the report of the Committee on the Metric System of Weights and Measures came before this House. It is a matter of history that as a result of that Committee's examination of the advisability of Australia's converting to the metric system this country is moving a long way towards that system's implementation and completion. Up to date it appears that conversion is moving reasonably smoothly although later in my speech I shall refer to some matters which disturb me in relation to consumer goods. It is interesting to look briefly into the whole history of Australia's interest in converting to the metric system of weights and measures. In 1902 the Parliament of the Commonwealth approved the decision of a Prime Minister's Conference in London for the British Commonwealth, or the British Empire as it was then called, to convert to the metric system of weights and measures. Now, 70 years after that decision was approved in Federal Parliament - one year after Federal Parliament opened in this nation - we are implementing by legislative action the conversion procedures in the initial stages. 
It is rather refreshing to see that at last the Commonwealth is being a little generous. In the rounding off of the figures in relation to what the Commonwealth will collect in one full year as a result of this conversion I think that 3c in every $1,000 is being taken off the annual income of the community from excise and customs duties collected. I hope that this will be reflected in the consumer market.  Senator Keeffe,  my colleague and friend, has already been able to bring to the attention of this Parliament the fact that some retailers and wholesalers have already cashed in and are making profits out of the conversion to the metric system. All honourable senators will recall that  Senator Keeffe,  by example, produced products in this chamber which were being converted to the liquid litre measure. He showed that these people have made a smaller container. They have put the orange juice, lemon juice or whatever it may be into that smaller sized container and they are charging exactly ".he same price as they were charging prior to their effort at conversion. 
When examining witnesses throughout Australia the Committee seriously considered what would happen at the time of conversion. I think it is correct to remind this House that the Committee was an all party committee of this Senate. In its wisdom it decided that it would put into the report a special conclusion regarding this matter. The conclusion was that the Metric Conversion Board - which is a Board set up as a result of a recommendation of this Committee - should watch extremely carefully the conversion position to ensure that the public would not be exploited. It is interesting to see in the first annual report of the Metric Conversion Board that it has referred to the responsibilities which have been placed on it. On page 16 of that report it states: 
Metric conversion provides many opportunities for rationalisation and economies in the consumer industry and where appropriate those concerned are being encouraged to take advantage of these. At the same time the Board is particularly mindful of its responsibility to keep under review any attempts to take unfair advantage of the public under metric conversion and to bring such instances to the attention of the relevant authorities. Foremost in consumer protection activity has been the development by the Board of a simple cost comparator to enable consumers to make ready comparisons between the costs of packages marked in imperial and metric units. The device is intended to be widely distributed and freely available to the consumer. 
The Committee in its deliberations, as 1 said earlier, was extremely concerned to try to establish some control at Commonwealth Government level to ensure that no exploitation took place. Although decimalisation of Australian currency ran reasonably smoothly, we all know that there was exploitation of the consumer at that level. We all know that a lot of money was made by people at the time of conversion. We know that the Metric Conversion Board will do its very best to ensure that no exploitation takes place but it disturbs me to read the phrase: 'bring such instances to the attention of the relevant authorities'. To my knowledge we have no organisations or authorities with legislative powers to deal with this matter. I think  Senator Keeffe  has brought this very forcibly before Parliament with the examples which he has produced here. Up to this time no action has been taken at any level to recompense the consumer against what is obvious exploitation in this minor field. Unless we can stop this now and have a system whereby action can be taken at some level by some authority certain unscrupulous people are going to take no notice whatever of the ideals and the needs that we see. 
Yes, there is one general and no army. This is the position. We are in the situation now that despite the fact that the Committee was most meticulous in bringing this aspect before Parliament, to my knowledge there is no legislation which will give security to the consumers of this country. I understand that we can have a cognate debate on the 6 Bills rather than go through them one at a time. I hope that that is the position. 
In the brief time during which 1 aim going to speak to these 6 Bills which we have, before us I want to pay tribute once more to the late  Senator Laught  who was the  Chairman  of the Committee and particularly to the executive officer whom we were fortunate enough to have assisting us. He is now  Chairman  of the Metric Conversion Board. I refer to  Mr Alan  Harper, who was the expert adviser to the 
Committee at the, time of its sittings and who has probably been instrumental in the smoothness with which the conversion has taken place up to date. The co-operation which has been received from all sections of industry, from all sections of the educational Held and by the committees and the sub-committees which have been formed by the Metric Conversion Board to ensure that the conversion will take place within a reasonable period indicates quite clearly that the country is ready for and accepts conversion to the metric system of weights and measures. 
It is interesting to observe that in its first annual report the Metric Conversion Board indicated that the only major country in the world which is now not actually committed to conversion to the metric system is the United States of America. I note from page 11 of this report that Canada, which is very closely associated geographically and economically with the. United States of America, has already made a decision to convert. The United States is now examining this matter very closely. I predict that within the next 2 or 3 years a definite decision will be made by the United States, which will mean that all major countries will have converted or be in the process of conversion. 
We oldies are going to have some difficulties in the next 2 or 3 years in training our minds to adjust to the conversion. My grandchildren will be able to help me along the road. But in the long term great advantages will be experienced not only internally but also internationally. We will experience in the export field the advantages the Committee had in mind in its recommendations. I have great pleasure in indicating the Opposition's support for the 6 Bills before the chamber. 
My question to the Minister representing the Minister for Supply is further to the question asked by  Senator Bishop.  Has the Minister's attention been drawn to the article by David Balderstone in today's issue of the 'Age' which states that 30 orders for the Australian developed aircraft Project N are believed to be assured if the Federal Cabinet gives approval for production of the aircraft, that the Government Aircraft Factories are reasonably certain of another 20 orders for the aircraft, and that a letter of intent to buy 10 aircraft has been signed by a foreign consortium believed to be based on France and Sweden. Firstly, from what source would this information be made available to the aviation writer of the 'Age'? Secondly, will the Minister request the Minister for Supply to make a statement in this Parliament on the future of this aircraft before the Parliament rises for the winter recess? 
 I listened with great interest to  Senator Young's  contribution to the debate. Usually his contribution to debates in this chamber is worth while, but apparently he is no Einstein when it comes to arithmetic. He tried to tell us tonight that if  Senator Sir Kenneth  Anderson's motion were carried it would mean that a minimum of 14 speakers could participate in an urgency debate. 
But we are not debating that tonight and that decision will not be made tonight. 
I accept  Senator Young's  apology. The position is if the majority of the honourable senators in this place were to vote tonight in favour of the motion it would mean that the Senate could be restricted the opportunity to participate in an urgency debate to 8 speakers. We cannot say what is going to happen next week, next year or in 10 years' time. What concerns me is the fact that the rights of honourable senators are being niggled away at continually. It appears as if the Senate is trying to get in line with the other place insofar as the restriction of the length of debates is concerned. 
 A closed shop, yes. We could get into the situation where all public debate in this chamber is cut out and where in a corner of Parliament House which is not readily accessible to the public the business of the Senate is carried on. I would object most strongly to that. I am not prepared to vote for this motion nor will I vote for the contingencies that  Senator Young  has indicated will follow. Some honourable senators  in this  chamber could not change their mind in 10 minutes let alone make a speech; yet it is proposed that we should be confined to a time limit of 10 minutes when speaking on a matter of urgency that a political party or an Independent senator in this chamber has brought before the chamber. The Senate is being asked to agree to the proposal that the initiator of a debate on a matter of urgency be required to confine his argument to 20 minutes and his supporters or opponents be required to confine their remarks to 10 minutes. That is what  Senator Young  has been saying to us tonight. If this motion is carried it will follow naturally that every  speaker  in an urgency debate will have his peaking time reduced by one third to conform with the 2-hour limit. Such a situation should be regarded as intolerable by a House which over the years - certainly since I have been a member of it - has prided itself on the fact that it is not tied to the kind of restrictions that exist in another place. 
We could be called upon to conform with it chapter and verse if we agree to accept this proposition. The other place has foolishly reduced the speaking time of each speaker on a Bill to 20 minutes. We could eventually get somebody saying in this place: 'If members of the House of Representatives can put their argument in 20 minutes why can we not do the same?' Eventually we will get to the stage where we come into this place, finish our business as quickly as possible, put on our hats and go home. That is not the role that the Senate should play. We should oppose any inroads into the present conditions. I am an old trade unionist. I never gave away any of the conditions of my fellow workers for some other gain. One should not give away one's conditions in order to make gains. This motion could result in a short-circuiting of the processes of public debate; a short-circuiting of the processes of democracy and a short-circuiting of the opportunities of members of this House to express their views adequately and properly. I venture to say that no serious argument can be adequately submitted in 10 minutes. Virtually all one can say in that time is: 'Hullo, how are you, and goodbye'. 
The Senate has not been embarrassed by the fact that at present urgency motions take 3 hours to dispose of. At the end of a session the Senate may sit for one week longer than the other place, but that is not because we talk for too long in this place; it is because the Government of the day - and it may well happen when the Labor Party is in government - builds up a great pile of Bills for presentation to the Parliament in the last fortnight of a session. Usually in that great pile of Bills is a Bill on a very controversial subjct which takes several days to debate, with the result that perhaps 20 minor Bills have to be put through in the remaining time. The reason for that is not because we talk for 3 hours On an urgency motion; it is because of the system that has been operating for centuries in politics - certainly since federation in this country. Governments do not carry Out their proper role and introduce legislation into the Parliament in an orderly manner. 
The position today is that the Senate has 2 Bills on its notice paper for debate. One is the Conciliation and Arbitration Bill, which will come before this House next week. The dairying industry Bills were disposed of today. The Government has no Other business at this stage, unless further legislation has been introduced in the last One hour and 5 minutes. So what is the reason for the hurry and rush to cut back our speaking time and the time limit of debates on urgency motions? If urgency motions were being debated in this chamber every day of the week and honourable senators were being facetious about their use of the privilege of initiating an urgency debate, I could understand why the Government would try to curb the length of such debates. But the simple fact is that this privilege is very rarely taken advantage of. It is not used to try to make political capital. Certainly honourable senators have not abused the privilege of moving urgency motions. Such debates take 3 hours only. It has now been proposed that the time limit be reduced by one-third and  Senator Young  has suggested as a natural corollary to agreeing to such a proposal that there should be a reduction of onethird in the time limit of all speakers in such a debate, lt would be making a joke of the whole procedure of democracy if this motion were carried. I oppose it strenuously. I hope that the Senate is not foolish enough to  carry  it. 

 Senator YOUNG (South Australia)- I wish to make a personal explanation,  Mr Deputy President. Senator Poyser  reminded me that my arithmetic was not very good. I did a quick mental calculation at the time. I took one hour and 20 minutes to be 120 minutes and divided that by 10. Unfortunately the figure arrived at by doing it in that way is not quite the same as the figure I would have arrived at if I had divided 80 minutes by 10. What  Senator Poyser  has said about my arithmetic tonight is correct. 
asked the Attorney- 
General the following question, upon notice: 
Is the Attorney-General aware that a  Mr Fergus  Robinson, a draft resister, was recently detained in Victoria on a contempt of Court charge, and was subsequently proceeded against by the Commonwealth Police, without reasonable notice to prepare his defence, for failing to register for National Service and was fined the sum of $40. 
Will the Minister investigate this matter and advise the Senate of the full circumstances associated with the hearing of this case. 

 Senator GREENWOOD - The answer to the honourable senator's question is as follows: 
and (2) I am aware that Fergus James Robinson was prosecuted recently for an offence against section 48 of the National Service Act 1951-1971. The proceedings were instituted by an information and summons prepared by the Deputy Crown Solicitor, Melbourne on 13th April 1972. The information was laid and the summons issued and served on the same day. 
The summons was returnable in the Court of Petty Sessions, Melbourne on 19th April 1972 and service of the summons on 13th April 1972 complied with the provisions of section 23 (1) of the Justices Act 1958 (Victoria) which require that a summons shall be served at least 5 days before the  time appointed  for the hearing of the information. 
At the time of service  Mr Robinson  was in custody in Pentridge Gaol pursuant to a writ of attachment issued out of the Supreme Court of Victoria after he had failed to comply with the terms of an injunction granted by the Court restraining him from entering the grounds of La Trobe University. 
On 19th April 1972  Mr Robinson  was brought before  Mr Thompson,  S.M. He was unrepresented, a plea of not guilty was entered and after the close of the prosecution case he addressed the Court. He was convicted, fined $40 and ordered to pay $17 costs. 
At no stage of the proceedings before  Mr Thompson,  S.M. did  Mr Robinson  ask for an adjournment of the hearing of the Information for the purpose of seeking legal advice or otherwise preparing his case. 
The implication that has been made in the moving of this motion asking for these papers to be tabled is an implication that the documents from which  Senator McAuliffe  read are false and this implication is something I resent very much in view of the fact that  Senator McAuliffe  sought to have these documents incorporated in Hansard on several occasions. After there was refusal of leave to do this time and time again we now have  Senator Rae  saying that these documents must be tabled so that we can determine their authenticity.  I  believe the implication is very strong.  Senator McAuliffe  is a man of great integrity and honour and is not a person who would read from documents or attempt to have incorporated in Hansard documents that are false, lt is a direct insult to this honourable man for this motion to be moved by a Government senator after the number of refusals that  Senator McAuliffe  had when he sought leave to have the documents incorporated. 
I  think it is worth repeating the point that has been made. All the information that is contained in those documents will be available at an early hour today. The information will be available for every person to read.  I  deplore the behaviour of 2 Ministers who have taken a very petulant attitude towards these matters and  I  hope we never have to see this type of petulant behaviour repeated in this place. At the risk of being pulled up let me say that the pip-squeaks are not on this side of the Senate, they are sitting on the front benches on the opposite side of this chamber. This motion should be voted against by all fair minded senators who believe in the integrity and honesty of  Senator McAuliffe. 
I direct my question to the Minister representing the Minister for the Interior. Has the Minister's attention been drawn to an article in today's issue of the 'Canberra Times' which makes serious allegations to the effect that some business enterprises are forcing up prices by withholding leases from the market and that others who normally would be content to deal in houses are virtually forced to make large extra profits out of leases because of sharply rising prices? Is the Minister aware that unrestricted and group auctions of land have increased by 79 per cent and 81 per cent respectively in the past 16 months? In view of these price increases and the allegations I refer to, will the Minister request the Minister for the Interior to refer this matter to the Joint Parliamentary Committee on the Australian Capital Territory for a full investigation into all matters referred to in this Press article? 
I take this oportunity provided by the motion for the adjournment of the Senate to put the record straight about a question asked this morning of the AttorneyGeneral  (Senator Greenwood)  by  Senator Hannan.  I refer to an industrial dispute that occurred in the city of Geelong where I live which is associated with a Russian ship, the 'Ho Chi Minh', which is loading wheat purchased from Australia by the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics. I propose to answer this matter in very low key simply by reading into the record of this Parliament 3 Press reports which appeared in the Geelong 'Advertiser'. From my own information of this dispute I believe these reports to be a reasonably accurate description of what has occurred. In his question this morning  Senator Hannan  stated that the captain of this Russian ship had refused to comply with the conditions of labour in this country and had failed to co-operate with the trade union movement. This was the tenor of his question. It was a complete misrepresentation of what has happened in this matter. Without any further comment I propose to read into the record 3 statements that have appeared in the Geelong 'Advertiser' appertaining to this matter. The first was on 1 8th May 1972, which was last Thursday. The headline is: 
Unions Query Fumigation. Black Ban Threat on Russian Ship. 
The article states: 
A black ban may be placed on the Russian ship, Ho Chi Minh, now loading wheat in Geelong. 
It is believed that two unions will consider imposing the ban today. 
They are the Federated Ship Painters and Dockers' Union and the Federated Shipwrights and Ship Constructors' Association. 
The ship, named after the former North Vietnamese leader, is loading wheat for Vladivostok, the USSR's  eastermost  seaport on ' the Sea of Japan. 
Before it berthed at the bulk wheat terminal, crew members cleaned and fumigated its holds, a job normally done by shore-based crews. 
The policy of the Australasian Council of Trade Unions is that this work  be  done by shore-based crows rather than ships' crews. 
The matter was discussed by the Geelong branch of the Waterside Workers' yesterday, but the branch secretary  (Mr Eric Kenworthy)  said later no decision had been taken as the matter did not directly concern his union. &lt; 
He would not comment further. 
On 20th May 1972, the following article appeared in the Saturday edition of the Geelong 'Advertiser'. The headline reads: 
Black Ban on Russian Ship: Misunderstanding Captain Alleges. 
The article states: 
Union officials will inspect the Russian ship. Ho Chi Minh, at the Bulk Wheat Pier today and decide whether the black ban on it will continue. 
The ban was imposed on Thursday after union officials claimed the crew had - cleaned its holds before berthing at the wheat terminal. 
But the master of the Ho Chi Minh, Captain Ivan  Chuyko,  said yesterday the ban was the result of a misunderstanding. 
He said he had not been told (hat the work was normally reserved for shore-based crews. 
A Federated Ships Painters and Dockers' Union shop steward,  Mr David  Fort, said his union was worried that cleaning of the Ho Chi Minh by its own crewmen would set a precedent for other foreign-owned ships in Geelong. 
If they get away with it this time, others will follow,' he said. 

 Mr Fort, who works for Lewmarine Pty Ltd, said cleaning a ship the size of the Ho Chi Minh would normally provide work for 17 or 18 members of his union and the Federated Shipwrights' Association. 
But Captain Chuyko said the work took less than two hours. 
Before sailing for Geelong, the ship had discharged a cargo of magnetic iron ore al Mackay. Queensland. 
The three holds which had contained the ore - the Ho Chi Minh has five holds - were then cleaned by painters and dockers at Mackay. The two remaining holds had not been used since they were cleaned during repairs at Vladivostok in March. 
A Wheat Board surveyor who inspected the ship when  it  arrived in Geelong had refused to issue a clearance certificate because there was dirt on the beams across the ceilings of the holds which contained the ore. 
Captain Chuyko then borrowed a long ladder through the ship's agents, Robert Purnell Pty Ltd, and put some of his crewmen to work cleaning the beams. 
He said the Ho Chi Minh arrived in Geelong and anchored in Corio Bay on May 11, and berthed at the Bulk Wheat Pier last Tuesday. 
At no stage had any union official attempted to explain the position regarding cleaning before the ship berthed, he claimed. 
Yesterday, 27 waterside workers allocated to the Ho Chi Minh refused to load it. The Stevedoring Industry Authority assigned another 21 men to the ship, but they failed to appear. 
Then the assistant secretary of the Trades Hall Council,  Mr P.  1. Nolan, stepped in to the dispute. 
He arranged for officials of the Federated Shipwrights' Association to inspect the ship today to check how much work was done by the crew. 
But  Mr Nolan  said members of the Federation would repeat the work, on principle, before the Ho Chi Minh could be loaded. 
Captain Chuyko said yesterday he could not understand why ohe unions were making an issue out of the incident - it was the result of a misunderstanding, he said. 
On 22nd May 1972 - Monday of this week - the headline: 'Ban on Ship is Lifted' appeared in the Geelong 'Advertiser*. The article states: 
The union ban on the Russian ship, Ho Chi Minh, which berthed at the Bulk Wheat Pier last week, was lifted on Saturday. 
The ban was imposed on Thursday after union officials claimed the crew had cleaned the holds of the vessel before it berthed at' the wheat terminal. 
A Federated Ships Painters and Dockers' Union shop steward,  Mr David  Fort, said the union was concerned that this would set a precedent for other foreign-owned ships in Geelong. 
The master of the vessel claimed the ban was the result of a misunderstanding. 
The article basically repeats the statement that appeared in the Geelong 'Advertiser' on the Saturday morning. If any honourable senator desires I am prepared to read it in full. The point I make is that there was no deliberate attempt by either side to create a major dispute out of this issue. It was a misunderstanding that was cleared up very quickly by the Melbourne Trades Hall Council in association with the unions concerned and the master of this ship. It was a misunderstanding that I believe could occur in relation to any foreign ship that may come into any port of the Commonwealth on a first occasion. The matter has been satisfactorily settled. There was no major dispute on a political or any other basis in relation to this matter. It lasted a very short time. When proper negotiations and discussions took place between the parties concerned it was resolved very quickly and amicably to everybody's satisfaction. The inference contained in  Senator Hannan's  question today was never part of this dispute in any shape or form. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Repatriation: 
Is it a fact that an invalid or age pensioner who requires an artificial limb 
does not receive any Commonwealth allowance for the purchase of such a limb, and 
must pay the cost of the artificial limb in advance before the Commonwealth Artificial Limb and Appliance Centre will manufacture it. 
Is the cost of an artificial leg now listed at $150; if so, is it reasonable to expect pensioners to be able to pay this amount in advance. 

 Senator DRAKE-BROCKMAN- The 
Minister for Repatriation has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
(a) So far as the Social Services Act is concerned, where an invalid pensioner is accepted through the Commonwealth Rehabilitation. Service, which comes under the control of my colleague, the Minister for Social Services, any artificial limb required in connection with his rehabilitation is provided without any cost to the pensioner. Otherwise, there is no provision under this Act for the supply of artificial limbs, without cost, to age and invalid pensioners. 
Repatriation Artificial Limb and Appliance Centres provide artificial limbs and appliances for other Commonwealth Government Departments and instrumentalities, for State Government Departments and philanthropic organisations, and for private patients who cannot be satisfactorily fitted elsewhere. For patients who require artificial limbs and appliances and are sponsored by State Government Departments and philanthropic organisations (and these constitute the bulk of civilian patients), it is the practice of the Repatriation Department in each case to obtain an official order guaranteeing payment from the organisation concerned before work commences on the artificial limb. Payment for the limb or appliance is then made on satisfactory completion. For a private patient, it has long been the practice to obtain payment of the estimated full cost of the completed limb or appliance before manufacture commences. This is later adjusted in the light of the actual cost of the completed limb. 
The cost of an artificial limb depends largely upon the site of amputation and the specific needs of the particular patient. Costs vary widely but, as an indication, the most common type of limb prescribed for an above-knee amputee costs approximately $260 and for a below-knee patient approximately $150. 
A civilan or sponsoring authority provided with a limb by a Repatriation Artificial Limb and Appliance Centre is charged the cost of manufaturing the particular limb, the relevant costs being collected and recorded individually for each job. 
The Department is currently in the process of introducing standard charges for certain more commonly prescribed limbs. 
These charges are based on the average cost of manufacturing the particular type of limb. The concept of standard pricing has recently been on trial in Victoria and the current charge there for a below-knee patellar-tendon-bearing limb is in fact $150. 
Individual costing will continue for less commonly prescribed limbs. 
I join with other Opposition senators in congratulating  Senator Bishop  upon the excellent, manner in which he put the case of the Opposition against this legislation. I want to refer to 3 factors that are rather disturbing and unusual in relation to this Bill and its presentation. The first factor is that at present the Liberal Party supporters have succumbed to the arguments of the Labor Party and have withdrawn from the battle. Not only have they withdrawn from the battle, but they have also taken their bat home and I understand that they do not intend to take any further part in the discussion. This is a credit to the case we have been able to put against this legislation. The second factor is that we again have a major Bill presented before the Senate in the dying hours of a session. I recall that the Government used exactly the same tactic on the last occasion that the Senate debated amendments to the 
Conciliation and Arbitration Act. The Senate sat right through until about 7.30 ou the morning of the last day of the session in order to enable Labor Party speakers adequately and properly to debate the measure. 
Quite long enough to know that it is a precedent in my time. It seems to me that either  Senator Wright  did not have the interest and the will to guide this legislation through or  Senator Greenwood  is to be used as the hatchet man to force it through at all costs. Despite the fact that this legislation has come very late to the Senate with some degree of urgency, it has not been brought in as an urgent matter, judging from the reasons given for its submission to the Parliament. This has been a deliberate act by the Government in seeking an election issue or to build up its lost prestige. 
The ACTING  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Davidson)  - Order! Perhaps the honourable senator could now lead into the substance of the Bill. 
I am giving the reasons why the Government has introduced it,  Mr Deputy President.  If that is unsatisfactory I am afraid that I must continue to refer to this in another way. The Bill has been presented in order to confront the trade union movement with the pernicious clauses it contains for the purpose of fighting an election on the issue of law and order. The Government thought at one stage that the big election issue would be apartheid. At one stage it thought it would be the Vietnam war. Because Labor's ideas on those issues found public support, the Government has gone back to the stage of believing that a head-on collision between the trade union movement and the Government could lead to a oig victory for it. But it has made one major mistake on this occasion because its actions have caused a binding together of the forces of the working class movement in this country. The Australian Council of Trade Unions, the major white collar organisations and the Public Service bodies have combined to the extent that the 3 groups have expressed their total opposition to this legislation, as Labor members have said both here and in another place. 
This has never before happened in the history of the trade union movement. If one good thing has come out of this terrible legislation it is the welding together of the working class more closely than it has ever been welded together before. The Government has made a fighting machine out of the workers of this country against the legislation that the Government is intending to impose upon them. Honourable senators opposite are  interjecting  because they are hurt. The Government has believed in the past that the working class movement has been completely divided on this issue. Members of the working class are as one and the Government will hear more about the unity of the working class in this country. 
The Government claims to have submitted this legislation because of an outbreak of strikes. This claim has been completely refuted by Opposition speakers on many occasions in this debate. We have to refer only to the statements of  Mr Justice  Kirby to establish quite clearly that the trade union movement in this country has acted responsibly and has not put on strikes willy nilly. The trade unions have moved to industrial action only when most sorely pressed to do so. It is a matter of historical knowledge that the trade union movement has been able to control disputes in  this country far better than they have in any other Western country. The result is that the strike periods in Australia on average have been far shorter than in any other country because of the method of negotiation that the trade union movement has been able to develop between employer and employee. The method has been developed through discussions and decisions instigated by the Australian Council of Trade Unions. 
One of the reasons given for the introduction of this legislation was the strike by State Electricity Commission workers in Victoria. This has been mentioned by many honourable senators opposite as one of the reasons why this legislation must be introduced. The SEC strike in Victoria was deliberately and positively prolonged by the direct action of the Premier of Victoria who wanted a law and order issue there. He refused to allow proper negotiations to take place between the trade union movement and the Arbitration Commission at that time. It is a matter of record that the direct interference of the Premier of Viatoria not only prolonged the strike but also caused its escalation. Yet that strike is given as the reason why this measure has been introduced, a measure that is detrimental to the working class movement in this country. The Government has no other reason for its introduction than the reasons I outlined in the opening stages of my speech. 
It is an election issue. At one election Petrov was used as the big issue. The Government has kicked the communist can as often as possible in recent election periods until the people have become sick and tired of it and it can no longer be used as an issue. In one election the Government used the Vietnam war as an issue and on that occasion it was successful. However, it cannot be successful any more because Australians have been educated into the truth of that conflict. On the pretext of  bringing together the trade union movement and employers in conciliation, the Government has deliberately introduced an amendment that will make it so much more difficult for the unions and employers to meet and to solve their problems. 
It is interesting to read the long title of the principal Act. It is: 'An Act relating to the prevention and settlement of certain industrial disputes, and for other purposes.' From that one could be excused for believing that the prime objective of this legislation is conciliation, yet over the years ever&gt;' amendment introduced by this Government has represented a move towards less conciliation and more arbitration. To that extent the trade union movement is now rightly moving into the field of direct negotiation, which is the only avenue left to it. Not only is the Government legislating at this level; it is also intervening in all major cases before the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission to ensure that workers get nothing by way of improved labour conditions and bigger pay packets. 
The entire role of the Government has been to create a situation in which only one section of the community pays for the Government's sins over 23 years that have produced inflation. Working class people on low wages are the ones who have to pay. The Government has deliberately looked after the tall poppies. The trade union movement will not tolerate this kind of action, irrespective of the pernicious legislation that the Government is now attempting to have passed in this Parliament. The Government is becoming more stupid. Its stupidity was evidenced by the penalties in relation to stoppages. The Government has carried the water to the well too often. Now the trade union movement has said: Thus far and no further'. Over the past 2 years or so the Government has not been able to collect the fines imposed on unions, and employers are not game now to go into the courts on that issue due to the courageous action of Clarrie O'Shea, who made the decision to go to gaol rather than pay fines imposed on members of his union. This was the turning point in the fight against penal provisions that are already in the Act. 
If the Government were sincere in its desire to improve industrial relations in this country, it would foster discussions with the trade union movement and employer organisations in an attempt to evolve formulas whereby employer-employee relations, and the Government's approach to industrial relations, would be improved immensely. Instead of doing that, the Government has done exactly the opposite. When meaningful discussions were being held between  Mr Bob  Hawke on behalf of the trade union movement, and  Mr Polites  on behalf of the employers, the discussions were sabotaged by the Minister for Labour and National Service  (Mr Lynch)  because they were getting too close to a formula which would bring peace in industry. 
This is the situation we are facing today. Now legislation has been brought forward in this form to ensure that the gap in industrial relationships is widened rather than narrowed.  Mr Polites  and  Mr Hawke,  after long discussions, were brushed aside. The Minister said that irrespective of what decisions had been made by them, and how meaningful the discussions had been, he intended to adopt a certain course. There was no question of the Government's considering the matters that had been agreed upon by the representatives of those 2 great organisations. It was merely a matter of the Government bulldozing the people and imposing its own views on them. Now the Government has entered the field of amalgamations - following pressure by the Democratic Labor Party in the Senate. It endeavoured to stop the amalgamation of the 3 metal trades unions, which must be to the betterment of every member associated with them. The Government has now reached the stage of introducing legislation to make subsequent amalgamations extremely difficult. The Government failed in its first attempt to stop the amalgamation of the metal trades unions, but it is sure that it will not fail in its second attempt. 
The provisions relating to amalgamations are ridiculous in the extreme. If a small union with 2,000 or 3,000 members wants to amalgamate with a union which has 50,000 or 60,000 members, the Government will compel both unions to hold a ballot and to get a 50 per cent return of ballot papers. It is remarkable that the Liberal Party and the conservatives are so concerned about getting a 50 per cent return in a trade union ballot. Their policy, at least in Victoria for many years, has been one of freedom to vote, particularly in municipal elections. It is true that some municipalities in Victoria by their own decision have made voting compulsory, but the vast majority of local government elections in Victoria are held on the basis that a person eligible to vote may do so or may decline to do so. I venture to say that only 25 per cent to 30 per cent of eligible ratepayers have voted in the majority of local government elections in Victoria, at least in cities, towns and shires outside the metropolitan area of Melbourne. If the Government is so concerned about this great democratic method of election it should move quickly to that end, with the co-operation of State parliaments, to ensure that this system of so-called democracy is available to all. If it did so, and this method became the criterion, more than half the city, town and shire councillors in Victoria would be ineligible to take their places on the councils. 
There is an example of the Government's double standards in relation to the trade union movement and the citadels of capital, as has been indicated by  Senator Mulvihill.  The Government's actions in other fields have proved this conclusively. We will not support the legislation in any shape or form. We support the efforts, actions and decisions of the trade union movement and the white collar movement in relation to these matters. We believe that this Bill is a deliberate attempt to widen the gap in relationships between the Government and unionists, and between employers and unionists. It is not an attempt to improve industrial relations. It has been done deliberately so that at the end of the year Government supporters can make political capital out of it on the hustings. I will have more to say at the Committee stage, when some clauses of this pernicious legislation will be discussed in more detail. I hope the Senate will throw the Bill out before it reaches the Committee stage. 
I am absolutely amazed that the AttorneyGeneral  (Senator Greenwood)  rose and proposed this amendment. How many times in this chamber have we heard Ministers express a point of view in relation to propositions, or questions to which we on this side have sought answers, based on what would appear to be an authentic report in a newspaper? Ministers with some degree of responsibility in this chamber have said that they will not accept a newspaper report in any shape or form when making a decision or giving an answer to a simple question. Yet today we find that the Attorney-General has come into this chamber with a vicious amendment on the basis that he heard a rumour. He has not submitted one tittle of information to the Committee as to why this amendment is needed. It is now apparent to me that what I said yesterday during the debate on the Minister's second reading speech has some foundation. I am certain that the Minister for Labour and National Service  (Mr Lynch)  would never have stooped to this level had he been handling the Bill. He would never have stooped to the level of proposing an amendment of this nature at this Committee stage of the Bill because of his decency, honesty and fairness in relation to these matters. So the remark I made yesterday that the AttorneyGeneral is, in fact, the hatchet man for the Government is now being proved correct. The situation now is that some unions may be, or may be thought to be, in the process of going through an amalgamation. Despite how far they may have gone in this process, this amendment has been introduced to make absolutely sure that they will have to repeat the whole operation. We will be carrying retrospective legislation if we carry this amendment today. I do not think that even the Democratic Labor Party, which we know has opposed the amalgamation of the metal trades unions - which is now a fact - would support this kind of despicable action by the Government. I hope that this amendment is rejected as strongly and as unanimously as the last matter to be considered by the Committee was rejected, when only one voice was raised in support of the clause and that was the voice of the Attorney-General. We are now being asked to carry something that will have an effect- 
That is why I am referring to retrospectivity. Retrospectivity is being provided for in the Bill because it cannot be passed today. The Bill cannot be passed until such time as the House of Representatives returns and accepts or rejects the amendments we may make, and have already made in respect of one clause. As was indicated by  Senator Wilkinson,  these provisions of the Bill will be retrospective to today whether the Bill is proclaimed in 2 years time, next Wednesday or tomorrow. It is a most disgraceful amendment which the AttorneyGeneral has moved, and I hope that all honourable senators will realise the import of it and realise that it is a snide attempt to obtain something about which he is not prepared to come clean in this chamber but says is some rumour that he heard in the corridors. I think it is absolutely disgraceful. 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry. Can he advise the Senate as to what is the wheat production quota for the year 1972-73? Can he indicate whether it is anticipated that this quota will be reached by that season's production? If it will not be reached, what will be the position of those growers who now have over-quota wheat in storage? Will the over-quota wheat be used to make up any leeway in the production by which the 1972-73 crop falls short of the quota? 
asked the Minister for Civil Aviation, upon notice: 
Did the Minister see or read the letter which the Prime Minister stated that, on 22nd February 1972, he had written on 23rd December to SirIan McLennan in relation to a possible increase in the price of steel by the Broken Hill Proprietary Company Limited; if so, on what date, at what time and where did he see or read the letter. 

 Senator COTTON - The answer to the honourable senator's question is as follows: 
I refer the honourable senator to the answer given by the right honourable the Prime Minister to Question No. 5179 in the House of Representatives (Hansard, 25th May 1972, page 3173). 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry. As the wool deficiency payments scheme expires on 30th June, how does the Government propose to continue with this scheme or an equivalent financial scheme after 30th June if there is no legislation either amending the present scheme or giving effect to a new proposal? 
This Bill is designed to amend section 36 of the Public Works Committee Act 1969 for the purpose of adding an additional $10,000 to the appropriation of this Committee so that it can properly carry out its functions. The Opposition has no intention of opposing this measure. As everybody knows, the Public Works Committee performs the extremely valuable task of examining those Commonwealth works costing in excess of S0.75m that are to be carried out by the Department of Works at the behest of other Commonwealth departments. 
It is interesting to note that in the 1960s only 3 or 4 references were made to this Committee annually. The average in recent years has been about 22 references a year. An examination I have made of the programme before the Committee indicates that the number of references this year will be well above the latter figure. The references that are before the Committee at present and that are likely to be before the Committee by the end of the current calendar year are such that it is quite obvious that there should be an increase in the standing appropriation in the Public Works Committee Act for expenses from $20,000 to $30,000. It is important that the Committee be able to examine adequately and properly the work that it has before it. That often entails not only meeting in the national capital but also travelling from State to State and place to place to examine projects and hear evidence in public from persons who support or oppose certain projects or want them altered. For that reason, the Opposition does not oppose this measure. 
But 1 do find it necessary - I shall be as brief as possible - to raise some matters associated with the work of the Committee in relation to an examination it made of the proposed naval base, HMAS 'Stirling', on Garden Island in Western Australia. The Committee as would be known because its report on this project has been tabled in the Senate, visited Western Australia and took evidence for 4 days in Perth on what turned out to be one of the most interesting references it has had for some time. The public interest in this reference was substantial. The vast majority of the evidence heard by the Committee came from members of the public who desired to have access to Garden Island for the purpose of boating and other forms of recreation. lt appeared prior to that public hearing that the Department of the Navy desired the whole of Garden Island to be closed to public access at all levels. In early evidence the Committee was able to obtain an indication from the Department of the Navy and the Department of Works that some 350 acres would be made available to the people of Perth for public access and recreational purposes. Following evidence from many interested organisations and individuals that spanned a period of 4 days, including 3 night sessions - the Committee sat for many hours in relation to this matter - the Navy finally indicated at that public hearings - I stress the word public' hearing - that it would approve of public access to 1,250 acres of this very lovely and unusual island. Some members of the Committee indicated that they would have preferred to see a larger area made available, but I felt that we had probably gained as much as we could hope to get from the Navy in this regard. 
The Committee returned to Canberra for the purpose of hearing additional evidence from another organisation and of finalising its report. That to my mind seemed to be the final offer from the Navy. But on 18th April the Committee received further correspondence from the Department of the Navy indicating that it would be possible - I must emphasise that this matter was still the subject of consideration by the Committee - for an area of up to 1,800 acres to be made available to the public of Western Australia. This, as 1 indicated earlier, was a top public issue in Western Australia, so much so that many people became interested in giving evidence to the Committee. We, as a committee, were considering all the submissions that had been put before us in an endeavour to ascertain what we believed it would be possible to recommend in our report as an area for public service, and also taking into consideration the needs and the security of the Department of the Navy and the safety of persons who may desire to use the island, because associated with this programme was the establishment of an armaments depot for the storage of very high explosive war weapons. 
While this matter was under consideration we found that the information contained in the letter, which was in our hands and which was dealt with by the Committee sitting in private, was the subject of a Press release by the Prime Minister of Australia,  Mr McMahon,  on 5th May last in Perth. So important was this Press release that it was the top front page story in the 'West Australian' of that date. It indicated that the information our Committee had received by letter from the Department of the Navy was the decision of the Government. The decision had been made before our report had been submitted to this Parliament; indeed, the matter was under active consideration. It was a matter of beating the gun. This caused great concern to the Committee, so much so that it was discussed by the Committee. I do not propose to go into details of those discussions other than I think it is fairly accurate to state that the Committee was concerned that such a matter should be the subject of a Press release and could embarrass the Committee in making its final decision. Because of the time factor I do not propose to quote from the official report, but I shall read from the official text of the statement made by the Prime Minister. In answer to a question in relation to this matter the Prime Minister said: 
We had the Commonwealth Public Works Committee examining the problem, and they will shortly be submitting a report to us. And 1 also got the Minister for the Navy . . . and we have decided in the last few days, without actually moving to a final decision, to increase the size of the coastline that could be used, from 7 to 10 miles out of the total 14 miles. And we've also decided - 
I emphasise those words -  to increase the acreage that could bc used by civilians under the control of the Navy from 1,250 acres to 1,800 acres. 
The Committee was then in the position that if it had decided to make a different recommendation in relation to this matter it would have been seriously embarrassed by the pre-empting of our report by the utterances of the Prime Minister. I take the point that if a letter that conies before the Committee in private, as this letter did, had been released by me to the Leader of my Party in order to jump the gun for political purposes in Western Australia, I would have been in serious breach of the Public Works Committee Act, and action under the Act could well have been taken against me. 
I emphasise at this stage that the Public Works Committee is a committee which works extremely well outside the political field; it works in the interests of formulating recommendations and getting answers on matters it must investigate. The question of scoring political points off each other has never occurred, to my knowledge. It certainly has not reared its head at any level during the period of time that I have been a member of the Committee, and I hope it remains that way because the issues that we are examining are extremely important to this nation. The big works programmes that are to be carried out are extremely important to the development of the Northern Territory, in particular, and, to a lesser extent, to the Territory of Papua New Guinea. 
I now turn to what happened following the reference to this matter in another place by the honourable member for Hughes  (Mr Les Johnson).  A question was asked of the Minister for the Navy  (Dr Mackay)  by  Mr Hamer  on 25th May 1972. In his reply the Minister stated: 
This decision was conveyed immediately to the Public Works Committee which, it so happens, without our knowledge was then sitting in private. The information was expected and anticipated by the Public Works Committee, as indicated in its report which is before the House. 
By no stretch of the imagination was this report or this letter anticipated or expected. As I said earlier in my remarks, it is true that as a Committee we indicated to the Department of the Navy that we would like to see further areas made available but, as a member of the Committee, I neither expected nor anticipated any further submissions from the Department of the Navy regarding this matter. Time will not permit me to develop my argument as I would like, but the Minister indicated in his answer that the information given was information which the public had a perfect right to know. I state, quite clearly and emphatically, that if this is the position with correspondence that goes to a committee which has to report to this Parliament and a committee member is free to give that information to his leader to enable him to go to a State and get political capital from it, as was obtained on this occasion, the whole system of committee confidence will break down completely. A precedent not only was established but also was condoned by the Minister for the Navy in his reply. 
That is another matter which the honourable senator may refer to in the time at his disposal. 
The  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Prowse)  - Order! I have allowed the honourable senator to continue speaking without intervening, but the Bill has a limited purpose and the matter which the honourable senator has traversed is not related to the subject matter of the Bill. I trust that he will not pursue it further. 
I thought that as this Bill amended the appropriation for the Committee some reference to the work of the Committee and the reasons why additional money was necessary would be justified. However I do not desire to pursue this any further other than to put the record straight and to indicate my concern that a precedent can be established in this manner whereby members of a committee will be able to pre-release information or use it themselves for their own political gain. 
I hope that what happened on this occasion, if it was an accident, will not occur again. 1 certainly do not appreciate the Minister for the Navy condoning it in the manner in which he has done. Although it could have been completely accidental I have a suspicious mind and have been in politics a long time and I can see the advantage that there was to the Prime Minister in being able to make this public announcement in the manner in which he did. I would like to have made further references to the statement made by the Minister for the Navy last night in relation to the comments made by the honourable member for Hughes in another place, but I bow to your previous ruling in relation to this matter as it may conflict with the Bill before us. I leave the matter at that but indicate that 1 will take the opportunity at a future date to refer to this matter. I believe that the work of the Public Works Committee, because of the heavy programme before it, is such that we may have to re-examine the situation in relation to the sittings of the Committee. 
Perhaps we will have to investigate the appointment of a second Public Works Committee so that the work to be placed before the Public Works Committee can be thoroughly processed. The programme of the Committee is such that it will be necessary for it to sit through the recess - of course, that is natural for any committee - but it would also appear that the Committee will be sitting on each Monday and Friday of the spring parliamentary session, and almost every week during the recess. That is a very heavy programme. Very important works will be under examination. The Committee will be travelling many thousands of miles around Australia, and in this recess into Papua New Guinea. The Minister could profitably examine whether this is an extraordinary work load or whether the pattern is likely to continue at its present high level. If it is likely to continue a second joint Public Works Committee could well be established to examine properly all the major works to be carried out by the Commonwealth in the future. We do not oppose the Bill and we wish it a speedy passage. 
asked the Minister for Air, upon notice: 
Did the Minister see or read the letter which the Prime Minister stated that, on 22nd February 1972, he had written on 23rd December 1971 to  Sir Ian  McLennan in relation to a possible increase in the price of steel by the Broken Hill Proprietary Company Limited; if so, on what date, at what time and where did be see or read the letter. 

 Senator DRAKE-BROCKMAN - The answer to the honourable senator's question is as follows: 
I refer the honourable senator to the answer given by the Right Honourable the Prime Minister to Question No. 5179 in the House of Representatives (Hansard, 25 May 1972, page 3173). 
asked the Minister for Works, upon notice: 
Did the Minister see or read the letter which the Prime Minister stated that, on 22nd February 1972, he had written on 23rd December 1971 to  Sir Ian  McLennan in relation to a possible increase in the price of steel by the Broken Hill Proprietary Company Limited; if so, on what date, at what time and where did he see or read the letter. 

 Senator WRIGHT - The answer to the honourable senator's question is as follows: 
I refer the honourable senator to the answer given by the Right Honourable the Prime Minister to Question No. 5179 in the House of Representatives (Hansard, 25 May 1972, page 3173). 
asked the AttorneyGeneral, upon notice: 
Did the Attorney-General see or read the letter which the Prime Minister stated that, on 22 February 1972, he had written on 23 December 1971 to  Sir Ian  McLennan in relation to a possible increase in the price of steel by the Broken Hill Proprietary Company Limited: if so, on what date, at what time and where did he see or read the letter. 

 Senator GREENWOOD- The answer to the honourable senator's question is as follows: 
I refer the honourable senator to the answer given by the Right Honourable the Prime Minister to Question No. 5179 in the House of Representatives (Handard, 25 May 1972, page 3173). 
asked the Minister for Health, upon notice: 
Did the Minister see or read the letter which the Prime Minister stated that, on 22nd February 1972, he had written on 23rd December 1971 to  Sir Ian  McLennan in relation to a possible increase in the price of steel by the Broken Hill Proprietary Company Limited; if so, on what date, at what time and where did he see or read the letter. 

 Senator GREENWOOD- The Acting Minister for Health has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
I refer the honourable senator to the answer given by the Right Honourable the Prime Minister to Question No. 5179 in the House of Representatives (Hansard, 25th May 1972, page 3173). 
asked the Minister rep resenting the Minister for Education and Science, upon notice: 
What awards of Commonwealth Scholarships were made in 1971 to each of the following Victorian schools: Geelong High School, Belmont High School, Norlane High School, Bell Park High School, Oberon High School, Matthew Flinders Girls High School, Newcombe High School, Geelong Technical School, Geelong East 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for External Territories, upon notice: 
Has the Minister seen a report indicating that Bougainville Mining Ltd is likely to establish a smelter in an European Economic Community country in the near future to process copper mined at Bougainville; if so, 
Did this company give an undertaking when granted mining rights at Bougainville that a smelter would be established in the Territory of Papua New Guinea, and 
Is this undertaking likely to be repudiated in favour of the establishment of a smelter in Europe. 

 Senator WRIGHT- The Minister for External Territories has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
Yes. 
No. However, in the Second Reading Speech in the House of Assembly it was announced that the company undertook to keep the matter of smelting in Papua New Guinea under objective review so that if it became feasible to establish smelting or refining operations in Papua New Guinea the matter would be properly considered. 
See answer to Question 2. 
asked the Minister  representing the Treasurer, upon notice: 
Were housing loan interest rates increased about 2 years ago at the same time that interest rates generally were increased. 
Did housing loan interest rates remain unchanged when other interest rates were recently reduced. 
Does the Government intend to reduce the crippling interest rates which are now operative in the housing loan field. 
I am a member of the Public Works Committee and normally I would support the line taken by  Senator Cavanagh  on this matter. Every honourable senator knows my views and I have spoken on many occasions against encroachment on the time of the Senate. However, there are special circumstances on this occasion because of 2 references in particular. I am particularly interested in one of them which relates the Greenslopes Repatriation Hospital. That reference will be held up. The Committee will not be able to present its report to the House approving or disapproving the project unless we can find time next week to hear evidence on it. 
 I have no objection to sitting on Friday. In fact, I said that I would be able to sit on Friday but other Committee members from both sides of the Parliament probably have commitments because the date of the election has been announced. I imagine that is the reason they want to get back to their electorates. On this occasion the circumstances are special. I know the circumstances and these references must be approved or disapproved by the Committee otherwise the work will be held up until some time late in the next session. They are important works which I believe should be initiated at the earliest possible moment if the Committee, after deliberating, believes that they should proceed. 
Question resolved ki the affirmative. 
1 have S handkerchiefs here, all sopped up with water because of the crocodile tears that have been shed by  Senator McManus  and honourable senators opposite. 
I would have to because the disease is there, a disease which comes from the Democratic Labor Party - the disease of hypocrisy and of tricking the people of this country in relation to what they really believe in. I invite honourable senators to consider the history of probate. 
Let us look at the history. 
Let us look at the history. Last week Government supporters moved and carried a pious resolution about the abolition of the tax, but this week they have a chance to achieve this by an amendment and they are running like dingoes from the opportunity to do the very thing that they voted to achieve last week. 
I appreciate the protection that you are tyring to give me,  Mr Temporary Chairman,  but I have always been able to handle people of this kind. The records show quite clearly the real desires of Government supporters in relation to the abolition of probate. The Government has had opportunities from 1914 to 1970 when the Bill has come before the Parliament for amendment, but it has done nothing. 
Here is the record. Look at it. Here is the history. Does the honourable senator want me to read it chapter and verse? 
I am prepared to make it available to the honourable senator. The Estate Duty Assessment Act came before the Parliament for amendment in 1914, 1916, 1928, 1940, 1942 and 1947. There were 3 years of Labor Government, and for the rest of the time until 1970 a Libera] Government has had an opportunity to do something for the people it represents - the millionaires - but it has done nothing. Last week Government supporters decided that they would support a resolution that in the opinion of the Senate this action should be taken, but one week later when they had the opportunity to do something, what happened? We have heard the Minister for Civil Aviation  (Senator Cotton)  tell the mover of the amendment that he would be better off withdrawing the amendment. He said that although the Government agreed in principle with this kind of thing, this was not the time to do it, that the time was not prudent. 
Apparently not, for that The Minister said that the Government suggested that the amendment be withdrawn and perhaps next week - or next year, or the year after - the Government will give the matter consideration. Then we have members of the DLP getting up and saying that they do not support this amendment. 
Yes. All they stirred was the can - the can of hate. The position is that an opportunity was given today for members of the DLP to put up or shut up because last week they put up a pious resolution that estate duties should be abolished. This week they had the opportunity to do so and they did not accept the challenge. Do honourable senators know why? It was because they do not believe in their own conscience; they are after votes. 

 Senator Webster is the classical example in this Parliament of someone talking about things that should happen - talking against the Government day after day in relation to the legislation that the Government is proposing. In all the years I have been here I have never seen  Senator Webster  put his mouth where bis money is, walk across the chamber and oppose the Government. Do honourable senators know why he will not do this? It is because he has to vote for the Government in order to get a guarantee of No. 2 place on its ticket the next time he stands for preselection for the Senate team. If he does not get the No. 2 position on the ticket he is dead. 
I am talking about  Senator Webster  because he gets the opportunity once in 6 years- 
He gets the opportunity once in 6 years to stand for election to represent his completely insignificant party in Victoria. The only way in which he can get here is to kowtow to the Liberal Party. He talks against the Liberal Party but votes with it so that he will be assured of the No. 2 position. We saw today in the debate on this Bill the very example of what the honourable senator has been going. The late Harold Holt had to leave this Parliament and go down to protect the honourable senator's interests in Victoria before the executive so that the honourable senator would get the No. 2 position in the Senate team. 
I know the whole story. 
I know the whole story of how the honourable senator got his pre-selection on the last occasion. 
I thought I was talking to the Bill,  Mr Temporary Chairman. 
When I heard  Senator Webster  talking this afternoon so strongly against this legislation and so sympathetically in regard to the mover of the amendment and to abolition of this duty I thought that he might have changed his mind. But he is going to vote for the legis lation when a vote is taken - be is going to have 2 bob each way. This is the person who represents the Country Party and who is last in the alphabet. 
It shames this Parliament to see someone so hypocritical in his attitude to the policies that he represents.  Senator Webster  goes out into the areas of his electorate and says to people: 'This is what I said in Parliament', but never shows them how he voted. This is another example of the actions of  Senator Webster.  He talks about voting for the Government on this legislation yet he is opposed to what the Government has put forward. So we have a situation of complete hypocrisy in relation to this legislation. He has had the opportunity to support an amendment that would give some people in the community who are in a position of hardship some kind of relief. 
Does the honourable senator? He had a chance- 

 - Senator Webster had a chance to move an amendment to abolish estate duty this very day. He had the chance to do this very thing on behalf of the farmers he purports to represent. Did he move that amendment? 
I am devoting my remarks to the Bill because  Senator Webster  is supporting the retention of something he does not believe in. This is what he will do. 
I do not know because I am not so parochial as the honourable member would be in relation to trying to retain a hen on his farm. The honourable senator might believe the Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Sinclair)  when he said today that there will be only 12 million eggs produced in this country - that you have to have one chook to produce that one egg! There is a very old saying, you know, of the bookmakers: No steak, no gravy; put up or shut up'. I am putting  Senator Webster  in this position today; he is an abolitionist. The legislation before us exempts more people from the payment of estate duty. However, estate duty is still continued.  Senator Webster  had the opportunity today to move for the abolition of this duty. He did not. He spoke against the duty but he will vote for the legislation. He will stand up to be counted. He will go round the countryside of Victoria and say: 'This is my speech; this is what 1 said', but he will not say how he voted. This is exactly what he will do.  His  whole action is completely hypocritical. What he has said today will be completely hypocritical unless he supports the amendment of  Senator Negus  to give at least some relief to the people who will be in hardship. If he does not do this, he will be condemned forever. 
I support the remarks made by  Senator Primmer  and appeal to the Attorney-General  (Senator Greenwood)  to use a humanitarian approach to this case. I understand that  Mrs Jean  McLean was gaoled this afternoon in Melbourne for an offence which although contrary to the law is not contrary to  Mrs McLean's  conscience or to the conscience of other people in Australia. 
Or of other people in Australia. It has been clearly established in recent Gallup Polls in relation to the Vietnam War that more than 60 per cent of the people of this country oppose the Government's policy in this regard. Yet the Government is putting a young mother with children into gaol because she has dared to hand out pamphlets expressing Opposition to the Government's policy. I am not violently attacking the Government on this issue; I am appealing to the good sense and the humanitarian instincts that the Attorney-General may have in relation to this matter. I ask him to show some leniency and to use his good offices to see that this good lady is released from gaol immediately. Honourable senators may recall that  Mrs Jean  McLean was one of the people who were gaoled at Fairlea in Victoria for a similar offence and that sub- sequently it was found in a court hearing in relation to  Mr George  Crawford that her imprisonment was completely illegal. The court decided in that case that the original decision by which  Mrs Jean  McLean and 3 other mothers were gaoled in Fairlea prison in Victoria was completely illegal. No compensation has been paid and no apology has been made to the 4 courageous women who preferred to be gaoled on a matter of principle rather than pay the fines. 
We have another situation at the moment. The Government, which has succumbed to or agreed with public opinion in this country regarding the withdrawal of all troops from Vietnam other than certain specialists, who should also be withdrawn 
What is the honourable senator saying? He lies back in his seat and is mumbling. 
Which way are they running - forwards or backwards? 
Apparently  Senator Hannan  believes that the Australian troops should be still in Vietnam destroying these terrible people of Vietnam - these women, children and old people - and that we should be gaoling all the people in Australia who oppose this principle. If this is the honourable senator's view he is entitled to have it. The stage has been reached where diplomatic missions in Hanoi are being bombed. Does the honourable senator agree with this also? If he does he should say so. 
I am making a very low key appeal to the Attorney-General to show some sympathy to a woman of great principle, a woman who has fought sincerely and honestly against a situation in which, she believes, Australia should never have been placed, a situation in which more than 60 per cent of the people of Australia believe we should never have been placed. 
It is right. 
The only thing that is right about this is the honourable senator's politics - they are extremely right. I do not want to be inveigled into a situation in which we get angry about this. I am asking the Minister to show some decency and compassion and to use his good offices to ensure that the offence that the courts believe has been committed should not be pursued to the extent that a mother is sent to gaol a second time. We must remember that the first time she was sent to gaol the incarceration was illegal. Subsequently George Crawford was able to prove conclusively in his trial that the first charges made against the 4 women who were gaoled in Fairlea Prison were unconstitutional and that the women should never have been sent to prison. I do not want to pursue this matter any further other than to ask the Attorney-General- 
What did the honourable senator say? 
If he has another one he will not be able to talk at all. Please do not invite him. 1 am asking the Attorney-General to use his good offices to see that the letter of the law, which he believes should always be followed, will not be followed on this occasion for the compassionate reasons I have outlined and the fact that the issue on which  Mrs McLean  has been gaoled has been resolved by the decision of the people of Australia and by the decision of the Government to withdraw the troops from Vietnam. I ask the Attorney-General to give some credit to a very courageous person who has stood up and been counted on issues in which she very sincerely, conscientiously and firmly believes. 
It is regrettable that I have to rise to speak to the motion for the third reading of this Bill, but I have to do so because of the provocative nature of the Attorney-General  (Senator Greenwood),  who has charge of the passage of this legislation through the Senate. As far as I am concerned, from now on leave will not be granted to the incorporation of second reading speeches in Hansard. Any other Minister who had some responsibility to his office for the time schedule that has been agreed to between the leaders- 
The AttorneyGeneral says it was not agreed to. Obviously he has not been in touch with the negotiations that have taken place in relation to the rising of this House. It is obvious that those taking part in the negotiations have not been in touch with the AttorneyGeneral. 
Why should the Opposition leave it at that when the AttorneyGeneral rises in his place and makes a very provocative speech about the attitude of the Opposition on this occasion? 
The ACTING  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Lawrie)  -  Senator Poyser,  I remind you that you are speaking to the motion for the third reading of the Delivered Meals Subsidy Bill. I suggest that you speak to the Bill. 
I am speaking to the motion for the third reading of the Bill. 
The AttorneyGeneral should take a point of order if he does not think 1 am doing so. 
The ACTING  DEPUTY PRESIDENT  - Speak to the Bill,  Senator Poyser. 
I think it was disgraceful behaviour on the part of the 
Attorney-General to take 10 minutes to reply to a debate that did not occur. In view of the agreement to expedite the consideration of the business of the Senate, I think the Attorney-General should be ashamed that he adopted such an attitude. I shall say no more than that on the motion for the third reading of the Bill. 
In accordance with the provisions of the Public Works Committee Act 1969-1972, I present the reports relating to the following proposed works: 
Rehabilitation Centres at Camperdown, New South Wales; 
Patients' and Staff Accommodation at Kingsholme rehabilitation centre, Taringa, Queensland; 
Outpatients' Clinic at Repatriation General Hospital Greenslopes, Queensland; 
Commonwealth Office Block at Alice Springs, Northern Territory; and 
Commonwealth Offices at Port Moresby, Papua New Guinea. 

 - Mr Deputy President, I disagree with your ruling because it is obvious that if that ruling is sustained we on this side of the House and members occupying the Government benches can argue all day on anything they desire to raise in relation to matters that have been brought up in debate. It is true that  Senator Jessop  earlier in the day had an opportunity to claim that he had been misrepresented and indeed was given an opportunity to clear up this misrepresentation which he believed had occurred. But then we had a further situation in which speakers on this side of the House submitted argument in the debate and  Senator Jessop  claimed further misrepresentation, not of himself but of a person who is entirely outside this House. If this is to be a ruling of this Senate we can go on forever debating nothing but misrepresentation. I assure you,  Sir, that  if this ruling is agreed to I will exercise this right at any time when any person I know is misrepresented or allegedly misrepresented in this House, I will exercise that right to the extent that this House will not be able to carry on normal debate. I ask the Senate to disagree with your ruling in this regard because full and sensible debate in this House will have finished if any honourable senator can have the attention of the Chair for these purposes. 
I did not propose to join in this debate but having heard  Senator Little  I think it is absolutely essential that somebody should bring the debate back to a level of responsibility.  Senator Little  has cried crocodile tears for over half an hour in relation to Aborigines. He accepts no responsibility on behalf of the European race for the conditions under which Aborigines live today. He claims that if Europeans had not come to this island the Aboriginal race would be almost extinct. What a lot of nonsense. They were here for 25,000 years before we came here. If honourable senators want to look at the statistics they may see that the period could be even longer than that. But what did we do? We came to this country and we took all the lush hunting areas from them. In Victoria we were very gentlemanly about it; we poisoned their water holes; we sent people out on shoots at weekends and awarded prizes for the person who got the largest number of Aborigines. We were very sophisticated because we got the Aborigines away from under our feet very quickly in the history of Australia. 
The same thing was done in Tasmania; the Tasmanians put the last surviving Aborigines on an island without food. We took them from their lush island that would have been good for them to continue to live on. What did we do with them? The remaining few that were not shot or poisoned we put on an island to starve; that is where the last of the Aborigines of Tasmania finished. What have we done right around the whole lush area of the Commonwealth? We have forced the Aborigines into the centre of Australia, forced them into areas where food is scarce, where they cannot live. What have we done to them in the Northern Territory and in Cape York Peninsula? We have allowed the major mining interests in the world the right to go into those areas and to take all the wealth out of the ground - and the Aborigines will not get one penny as a share. But for the efforts of the Reverend Clint and people like him who worked in the interests of Aborigines in that area they would be denied everything. 
Yet the Senate has heard the pious nonsense which  Senator Little  has talked tonight in relation to this kind of situation.  Senator Little  is interjecting and I tell him that if he wants to hear the facts of history let him listen to them. What did we do to the Aborigines when we came to this country? We brought every filthy disease that was previously unknown to them; we have made prostitutes of them both in relation to ourselves and the people who minded the areas in the north and who dived for pearls. Now  Senator Little  is talking nonsense, saying that the time is not opportune to do something for them, that money alone will not do this kind of thing. When members of the Opposition protest about this and when people talk about it,  Senator Little  says that we are making political capital out of it because we want to do something for them. 

 - Senator Little says he cannot blame the Government because it is doing something for them. It is true that their children are dying at a higher rate than ever before in history. Do not blame the Government for that because it takes many years to get the statistics to prove it, and it takes many years to show that the increase in mortality is going on all the time. This was proved in this house only in the last fortnight. Who is responsible for this? We are; we have done this very thing. We have forced the Aborigines into the most barren parts of Australia where there is the least food - and  Senator Little  says they may want to stay there. 
I do not mind  a  few interruptions. 
The  ACTING DEPUTY PRESIDENT  (Senator Wilkinson)  - Order! You should address me and try to convince me,  Senator Poyser,  if you cannot convince someone  else. 
That is true. It is impossible to convince  Senator Little,  who went on and on as he tried to make a case for the Government in relation to this legislation. 
There is no doubt that it was a racist speech.  Senator Little  referred to the fact that the Opposition's amendment relates to a failure to act over a 5-year period. I remind the Senate -  Senator Little  may have forgotten - that full rights to control the welfare of Aborigines were granted to the Commonwealth 5 years ago. We are in the situation tonight where the Senate has half baked legislation before it which members of the Opposition have been asked to support and which we want to improve by way of the amendment which we have submitted to the Senate. It annoyed me to hear the claptrap which was spoken by  Senator Little  tonight about what has been or has not been happening. 
I do not have any crime figures for Aborigines or Europeans, but I do recall that a person by the name of Namatjira was thrown into gaol for 6 months because he dared to give one of his children a drink of wine. Would  Senator Little  like to be in a similar position? 
It may have been 3 glasses of wine or 5 glasses of wine. The point is that this Australian, whose people owned the country before we took it from them, was thrown into gaol for 6 months because he dared to give his family a drink. No doubt  Senator Little  has done the very same thing on many occasions. 
That is basically the crime he committed. On appeal - the appeal was conducted by the late Ashkanasy - the sentence was reduced to 3 months. Namatjira was given that sentence because he dared  to  share the food  and liquor he was able to obtain because he was successful as a painter. We had those laws for years. It was only two or three years ago- 
Irrespective of what government was enforcing the laws, it was wrong to do so and the honourable senator knows that it was wrong. Despite that, the honourable senator rose in his place and defended this kind of nonsense tonight. 
If I am interrupting your speech,  Senator Little,  I will sit down. 
I did not interrupt your speech at any time. 
The ACTING  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Wilkinson)  - Order! 
The point is that this legislation does not go nearly far enough and this is known by everybody throughout Australia.  Senator Keeffe  quoted a Minister as having said: 'We will move into Queensland and take certain action if the Government in that Stale is not prepared to alleviate the problems that the Aborigines of that State are facing'. The Commonwealth now has the power to do so. I have not seen any amending legislation coming from Queensland. I do not know whether Queensland has moved in this direction. The Government, by this legislation, is continuing to treat Aborigines as second class citizens. It wants to keep them as second class citizens yet to be a do-gooder towards them so that it can say: 'Look at what we have done for the poor Aborigines'. That is the very attitude which the Government is adopting tonight. The collective blame for the problems of Aborigines belongs to us all. It belongs to everyone of us, including my father and his father before him - I am a fifth generation Australian. To stand up and talk the pious nonsense that was spoken tonight and to say that this can happen and that can happen and that maybe in 100 years - not in the next generation but in the generation after that - we might solve their problems is so much humbug. I hope that we will get down to some reality in the future in relation to the real causes of the problems Aborigines face and not just stand here and carry on like a lot of missionaries trying to save the souls of people whom we have destroyed by our very actions. 
I had not yet entered into the field of legislative research, which is also important, but, as  Senator Douglas  McClelland has indicated by way of interjection, several Bills were presented in the Senate today and we will be expected to debate many of them tomorrow. The people handling those Bills on behalf of the Opposition, and other members of the Opposition who wish to speak on the Bills, have not sufficient time nor the facilities to study the implications of the Bills in depth and to be able to put up a worth-while case for either their acceptance, their rejection or their amendment. 
 Senator Douglas  McClelland is completely accurate in those remarks. I want to refer to only one other matter. Earlier in my remarks I referred to the fact that I was privileged to be a member of the Australian delegation to the Inter-Parliamentary Union Conference in Rome in September. I want to place on the public record and on the record of this chamber my complete and sincere appreciation of the services which our overseas posts provided for my wife and myself. 1 refer to our embassies, consulates, high commissions and even migration offices. I do so because I have heard criticism of some of these posts from some members of Parliament when they have returned from overseas. They believe they were not received in a proper manner. I want to go on record - I know my wife would agree with me - as saying that every conceivable courtesy and facility was extended to us at every post throughout the world. I commend the Department of Foreign Affairs for the excellent types of young officer that it has recruited. I am not now referring to the ambassadors and high commissioners, though they all are excellent people, but to the young officers whom the Department has been able to recruit and send to overseas posts. All are of excellent standard. I believe that if we continue to recruit such people, who perform work of the highest standard, this country's standing in many countries will be very high indeed. 
I thank the Senate for having listened to my brief remarks. I was not listed to speak in this debate and the Leader of the Government in the Senate  (Senator Sir Kenneth Anderson)  could well have said to me: 'Your name is not included for this debate. You may speak if you wish but I prefer that you should not speak because of the time factor.' The Leader of the Government in the Senate extended me the courtesy to make these few remarks. I hope the remarks that I have made on committee work and on the general work required in this Senate will hot fall on deaf ears and that we will get results very quickly in the form of the assistance that is so urgently needed if we are to carry out our duties in the manner that the Senate would wish. 
It amazes me to hear the arguments put by the Minister on this question because there is a complete simplification for the marketing of wool which the Government will not accept: That is the marketing of wool under acquisition. This has been done with almost every other primary industry product in Australia but the remaining industry which is fighting a system of marketing by acquisition, by a board selling on behalf of Australia, is the wool industry. It is interesting to examine the history of the marketers of wool in this country: They are the wool brokers who are almost entirely owned by overseas interests. We have an auction system for wool in this country which has failed lamentably in getting prices under adverse conditions to which the growers of this country are entitled. The Government keeps running away from the fundamental question of how to market wool in this country which is how we have marketed wheat, dairy produce, dried fruits and almost every other primary industry product to overseas countries. The Government retains this crazy system whereby it permits people to come into this country to work under the auction system and by collusion with one another to set a price before they bid. That has been happening and has been proved before an inquiry in New South Wales where it was clearly established that the pies existed; where they have by collusion robbed the wool growers of this country of millions of dollars over the years. We have a simple answer to this if the Government is prepared to grab it. 
It will preserve it only because this is the only way we can amend this Bill at this stage. 
 We are trying to amend the Bill at this stage. The simple answer is to grasp the nettle and. sell the wool as we sell other primary commodities overseas - by direct negotiations with countries, by direct negotions with buyers and by sending people overseas to carry out negotiations in this industry to ensure that we have the market not to have this silly system whereby the grower is the subject of collusion between people over whom we have no control in the selling of our product, lt is clear that the answer for the wool industry is an acquisition scheme and this is Labor Party policy. 
We would guarantee under acquisition a fair price to the grower, a return commensurate with his production. 
We have guaranteed it for wheat and for dairy products and we will guarantee it for the wool industry. 
Simply by acquiring the clip and selling it to the people who want it.  Senator Sim  professes to know something about this industry but what he does not understand about it is that the demand for wool is continually growing throughout the world despite the fact that the apparel material produced does not have the top market situation. The use of wool is increasing throughout the world at about 12 per cent annually. It is true that synthetics have secured the major increase in this industry, but wool has not gone backwards. If  Senator Sim  can tell me of any season in which we have not been able to sell the whole of the clip at a price, he can get up and say so. We have been blackmailed over the years by collusion between buyers who needed our product but who stood us against the wall because of the very auction system that the honourable senator wants to continue. 
-Senator Little would not reject this legislation; he would vote for the Government. We are trying to improve the legislation by amendment. We are not trying to reject it because we know that the party that would not support rejection of this legislation is the DLP. The DLP would not reject it out of hand. Therefore we have to compromise at this stage with an amendment that would be better for the wool grower than the present situation. But in the final analysis we should have an acquisition scheme by which we can implement a system of marketing which will not be detrimental to the wool grower but favour a reasonable price on a selling market. We still have a selling market despite the prophets of doom who live within the community of wool growers. We have a selling market if we are prepared to face up to the problem that exists, that is if we are prepared to send marketing people to China, Russia and other countries that need wool and to sell our product to them just as we sell our wheat and dried fruits on a basis of a fair return for the efforts made. Until we reach this stage it is futile to have a situation whereby the Government props up an organisation which has no right to continue a system of selling as exists today. 
I raise a matter which has been raised previously in this chamber, which is of concern to me and which I believe is of some concern to other members of the Parliament. I refer to the refusal of the Prime Minister  (Mr McMahon)  to allow the use of official cars by members of the Parliament outside a 30-mile radius of the capital city in the State m which they live. I have been extremely patient in relation to this matter. I thought that the Prime Minister would accede to the request made to him in a joint submission by myself and members of the Government parties in relation to the matter. We members of the Parliament are still being treated as second class citizens in this regard. I repeat what I said during the adjournment debate one night- 
I will accept the Minister's guidance, and I will speak later. 
I wish to speak on the same subject. As a member of the Joint Committee on Public Works, I appeal also for a re-examination of this reference. I was overseas when this project was examined and took no part in its consideration. But I believe that I have seen sufficient documented evidence to convince me that at least the persons affected by this project should be heard. I make no criticism of that matter. I think the Minister for Works  (Senator Wright)  is aware of the great pressure of work that has been on the Committee in the last few sitting weeks of this Parliament. I think that, because of this pressure and because of the number of matters that the Committee had to consider, there was a period in which perhaps insufficient notice was available to persons concerned who may have desired to give evidence to the Committee about a project. 
I have looked at maps of the area. I have studied Press reports. I have studied the evidence given to the Committee. If I had heard the evidence I probably would have been a party to the decision that was made. I believe that the Committee made a decision in accordance with the evidence that was before it. I make no criticism of that decision. Because the project is one of only 2 projects that have not come before the House of Representatives for approval and because people are aggrieved by the decision of the Committee, I suggest that the representative of the Darwin residents should be able to see the Minister for the Interior  (Mr Hunt)  to present his case. I believe that he has a fundamental right to be able to do so. I make no comment about the evidence that has been given to the Committee. I make this comment: People believe that they are aggrieved. They believe that they have not had an opportunity to present their case adequately to the Committee. I suggest that the Minister for the Interior should meet  Mr Phillips,  see what documents he has with him and hear his arguments, and not reject him as he has been rejected all day .today. I hope that tomorrow the Minister will give  Mr Phillips  some time to present his case. I believe that the Minister should view sympathetically, in view of the evidence that we have before us, the request for a reopening of the case, particularly in view of the fact that the project has not been submitted to the House of Representatives for approval. I hope that the matter will be treated sympathetically as about 15 families are involved because of the new route that has been decided on by the Committee. 
I refer to the appropriation for rehabilitation services in Division 900. I would like information from the Attorney General  (Senator Greenwood),  who in the Senate represents the Minister for Social Services  (Mr We, worth),  regarding the proposed establishment of a rehabilitation and vocational guidance clinic in Geelong. The Minister may recall that some weeks ago the Minister for Social Services indicated that a series of such clinics would be built throughout the Commonwealth. He issued a press statement indicating that a clinic would open at Geelong early next year. For the purpose, I understand, a third floor of the Geelong Commonwealth Offices is under construction at present, if thai, is to be the location of the clinic it is rather disturbing that an establishment of that nature should be put on the third floor of a building. Obviously people who require rehabilitation find extreme difficulty in handling lifts, doors and other equipment and their difficulties will be aggravated if they must go to the third floor of a building. 
If the clinic is to be located on the third floor of the Geelong Commonwealth Offices I would like the Minister to advise me whether modifications have been made to the lifts, doorways and toilets to accommodate the types of people who will be seeking rehabilitation and vocational guidance. I appreciate that it may be necessary to seek the information regarding structural alterations from the Department of Works. 
-1 wish to speak to Division 352 which relates to the conveyance of members of Parliament and others. I tried to raise this subject last night when speaking on the estimates for the Parliament but was advised that I should speak on it when the Committee dealt with the estimates for the Department of the Interior. Honourable senators may recall that during the Autumn session  Senator Webster  raised on an adjournment debate the question of travel facilities for members of Parliament who live outside a 30-mile radius of capital cities. Both  Senator Laucke  and I took part in the ensuing debate because we are 2 senators -  Senator Laucke  being from South Australia and I from Victoria - who have been victimised by this very narrow restriction which is placed on travel facilities. I understand that this matter had been discussed at a Party level and by direct representation through the Minister for the Interior  (Mr Hunt)  with the Prime Minister  (Mr McMahon),  I had expected that something could have been done by now to alleviate the situation whereby members of Parliament, as I indicated during that, debate, can be discriminated against after having spent a full week away from their homes. Such a thing happened at the time that  Senator Webster  became aware of it.  Senator Webster  and I were in Darwin, working very hard with the Public Works Committee, and after my return to Melbourne I had to wait in Melbourne for some hours before I could get to my home in Geelong by train. 
I indicated during the debate to which I have referred, and I repeat it now to make it quite clear, that I believe ' that in this respect members of Parliament are being treated as second class citizens, lt is a fact that any person other than a member of Parliament, such as a public servant or a Service officer, who holds a warrant to travel by air from Canberra to Melbourne has an advantage over a member of Parliament. For instance, an Army officer travelling from Duntroon to Queenscliffe Staff College, which is 20 miles beyond my home, may automatically obtain a Commonwealth car at Melbourne to take him to Queenscliffe. Yet I, as a member of this Senate, have to wait many hours for trains because of the time at which the Senate rises. This is not good enough. 
What is more important is the cost to the Commonwealth. It is now costing the Commonwealth $44 a week more because it will not provide me with a car during the sitting of the Parliament. Instead of travelling from Geelong on Tuesday morning I now travel on Monday evening. Similarly, when the Senate rises, instead of going home on the 5.35 p.m. plane - as honourable senators do on many occasions when the Senate rises at 5 o'clock - I stay another night and go on the morning plane. If I did not do this I would be stranded in Melbourne for a number of hours. It is not a comfortable experience for any person to sit on a railway station in the middle of winter waiting for a train which takes almost another 2 hours to arrive at a town 45 miles away. So the stupidity of the Prime Minister - I understand that he is the person who had to make the final decision - is costing about 3 times what it would cost to grant me this privilege of travelling in a Commonwealth car for an extra 20 miles. I ask for an immediate review of this matter. In  Senator Laucke's  case the position is almost ridiculous. He is in a worse position thanI am He has no train or bus facilities available so his wife has to drive him 7 or 8 miles to the 30- mile post where a Commonwealth car is waiting for him. Have honourable senators ever heard anything so stupid in their lives? Inconvenience is caused to  Senator Laucke's  wife because the honourable senator has to conform to the stupid regulations upon which the Government insists. I think it is an insult to a member of this Parliament that his wife has to perform these kinds of functions. I hope that the reasonable case which has been put by  Senator Laucke,  myself and  Senator Webster,  who initially raised the matter in this chamber, will be considered and that a quick decision will be made. It is far more costly to the Government to operate under this regulation than it would be if it granted those facilities whichI seek. 
I ask the Minister representing the Minister for Supply: How many firm orders have been received for the Australian aircraft named the Nomad? Have any orders been received from any foreign countries? If so, what countries have ordered the Nomad? 
I wish to support the amendments that have been moved. I particularly refer to the second amendment. I believe that the words any other ship' should be added, despite the fact that the Minister for Civil Aviation  (Senator Cotton)  has given some reasons as to why the amendment should not be accepted.  Senator Mulvihill  in the second reading stage of the Bill referred to 2 refineries, one being at Corio Bay. We have had tremendous problems in that Bay, not so much from tankers that are en route, but from tankers berthed at the pier discharging oil into the refinery of the Shell Oil Company. Nobody seems to be prepared on a State or Commonwealth level to protect the working fisherman in that port or any other ports where refineries are established. It is a matter of fact and record that professional fishermen in the Corio Bay area have dwindled from a great number to a handful at present. Literally hundreds of tons of fish from that Bay have been condemned when they have been taken to market because of kerosene and oil pollution. The fish concerned are mainly surface eating fish, such as mullet, trout, barracuda and other types of fish that do not feed off the bottom of the sea. 
This Parliament and State parliaments have legislated for increased penalties to be provided against the polluters. There is no way in which the professional fishermen can receive just compensation for the loss which they sustain because of oil pollution. The losses amount to thousands and thousands of dollars, not only in relation to their catches that have been rejected but also to the equipment that has been ruined because of the oil pollution and other types of pollution by the oil industry. Nobody is ever to blame. On the occasions that we have been able to pin home the blame for pollution to tankers in the Bay they have paid the fines imposed out of the petty cash tin and have gone without 2 or 3 beers. That shows how ridiculous the situation is. We now have a chance to legislate at Commonwealth level to put adequate compensation clauses  ir  the legislation, not only relating to the big people that are losing but also the small men. I do not want to hear the nonsense that States have certain rights and the Federal Government has certain rights because the Commonwealth has deliberately dodged its obligation to bring down legislation in this area. At least 2 members of the Liberal Party in another place crossed the floor because the Government failed to face up to its responsibilities in this matter. I sincerely hope that the amendment will be a deterrent to the owners and masters of tankers who pollute areas while their vessels are at the wharves. The people responsible should not be fined the petty cash sums that they have been fined over the years. In many cases they do not even bother to defend the charges because they know that the fines will be so puny that they do not have to worry about them. While this is happening people with small enterprises who earn their living in this area are losing thousands of dollars. The hearts of many of them have been broken and they have had to leave the industry because of lack of action on the part of both the State and Federal governments. 
Question put: 
That the amendments  (Senator Mulvihill's)  be agreed to. 
I ask a question of the 
Minister representing the Minister for Civil Aviation. What progress, if any, has been made by Qantas Airways Ltd in replacing the outdated  DC4  aircraft now operating on the Australia-Norfolk Island-New Zealand service? 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Social Security. Is it a fact that medical and. hospital benefit accounts are separate funds, as provided in the current legislation, and that this separation of the funds cannot be altered except by amendments to the appropriate Act? Are there in fact substantial surpluses in the hospital benefit funds which cannot now be used for medical benefit purposes? 
1 ask the Minister for Primary Industry the following questions: What are the full names and addresses of all members of the Australian Wool Corporation, interim and otherwise? What are their commercial and business interests outside the Corporation? What qualifications do they have, practical or otherwise, to serve on such a body? For how long are they appointed? Did rank and file wool growers have any say in any of the appointments? What practical experience has  Mr Maiden  had in the orderly marketing of the Australian wool clip? What is the remuneration paid to each member of the Corporation? 
-Can the Minister for the Media advise the Senate whether the commercial television networks have agreed to his suggestion that they should not send program buyers to the United States of America this month but should wait until later this year? 
With my long experience in the trade union movement in Victoria, 1 have been amazed to hear the type of speech that has come from  Senator McManus  this evening and from  Senator Little  earlier in this debate when they protected the free riders in the trade union movement. The unions of which they proudly boast they are members do not have such a policy. The Australian Boot Trade Employees Federation adopts a closed shop principle in relation to the boot factories. It goes further than that. The employer takes the money out of the wage packet of the employee every week. 
I can prove what I am saying. It does happen. The employer sends a cheque to the office of the honourable senator's union once a month or once a quarter, whatever the case may be. It has a closed shop policy in relation to trade unionism. 
The honourable senator is saying that that is right. Of course it is right. Then he rises to debate the question in the Parliament saying: 'We are the people who give freedom to everybody and let them have all the benefits, whether or not they are unionists'. But he does not practise that in the union to which he belongs and with which he claims to have a great affiliation. He has ratted on the trade union movement in the speech he made in the Senate.  Senator McManus  talked about the Federated Clerks Union. He said: 'No, it is not affiliated with the Victorian Branch of the Australian Labor Party. It is affiliated in 2 other States, but my 
State is pure. We do not stand for those standover tactics of compulsion and coercion in trade union views. We believe that people should be completely free to join or not join the union and should get all the benefits'. The facts are that the honourable senator's union in Victoria has supported coercion. In fact, 1 have led a strike on behalf of his union in this regard. It happened in the case of the International Harvester Company of Australia in the city of Geelong. We were requested to take action by the Federated Clerks Union, which is affiliated to the Geelong Trades Hall Council and of which  Senator McManus  is a member. (Quorum formed) Before the quorum was called I was referring to the union to which  Senator McManus  so proudly boasts he belongs in Victoria, this union that he says would never coerce workers and would uphold the right of freebooters to get all the benefits that the union could obtain for them. I remember a strike that I led on behalf of the members of the Federated Clerks Union in Geelong. We literally forced, and quite rightly forced, every person who was a clerk in the factory concerned to join the union. The strike had a rather interesting history because the then secretary of that union,  Mr Saker,  applied to the disputes committee of Trades Hall Council at Geelong to declare a dispute with the International Harvester Company because it would not assist the union in obtaining union membership, lt wanted 100 per cent union membership in that factory. Of course, I agreed. As a trade unionist I should agree and did agree. So a dispute took place, initially in the form of discussions conducted with the management around a table. The international Harvester Company was advised wrongly on this matter, lt was advised by a person I could name, but will not, who said: 'There is no problem with this dispute because Saker and Poyser could not sit round the same table for 5 minutes. You have no problems with this because we are politically opposed to each other.' It was a case of the DLP versus what I shall term to be and still am proud to be a left wing Labor man. This was the situation. The advice given to the company on that occasion was that this dispute was nothing to worry about. So much was it nothing to worry about that all the militant unions in Victoria, including the Australian Railways Union, led by  Mr Brown,  the Sheet Metal Working, Agricultural Implement and Stove Making Industrial Union of Australia led by  Mr McNolty,  and the Amalgamated Engineering Union led at that time by  Mr Car  michael came in behind the Federated Clerks Union to enforce compulsory unionism in the International Harvester Company factory. This is the union that does not do these things in Victoria, according to DLP senators. It might do them in New South Wales, they say, because that branch is affiliated with the ALP. But we would not do it in Victoria, they say, because there it is affiliated with the DLP. This is the purest organisation. It does not really believe in trade unionism, or in enforcing it. We let everyone have all the facilities that the silly fools who join our union are prepared to pay for. This is basically what they have said. Of course, the history of the dispute is that we stopped that factory. It took solid trade unionism on an industrial basis to force the company into accepting the principle of 100 per cent trade unionism. These honourable senators are standing up in the Senate tonight protecting the freebooters and saying that these freebooters are entitled to all the benefits. They are doing it by political blackmail, and they know it. They think that they can get some political milage out of it on the hustings. In fact, the union of which the honourable senators so proudly boast abhor this policy. They will not have a bar of it. But honourable senators of the DLP rise in the Senate chamber and support it. They support the conservatives. They claim to be a Labor Party - the Australian Democratic Labor Party. But they do not have one principle of Labor left in them. Tt is a complete misnomer. These honourable senators have tried to live on the backs of the true trade union movement ever since they split from the Australian Labor Party. The Democratic Labor Party has got to the stage where, in the final analysis, it has only one trade union affiliated with it - the one they boast of tonight as the union of which they are members. They have double union membership. It is very commendable to have double union membership. But they are very proud that the Victorian branch of that union, they say, would not have a bar of this kind of coercion. They said: 'We believe in the freebooters. Let them all have the benefits. Let all the people who are not prepared to pay for them, have the benefits too. This is the great principle we stand by.' If this principle were followed right through there would not be a union office, let alone a trade union movement, in their area. They are not militant enough. They are not active enough to fight for the principles they say they believe in. We saw  Senator Hannan  proudly wave his union ticket. I am sorry that he is not at present in the Senate chamber. He said: 'I am a unionist. I am a member of a union'. He is a member of Actors' and Announcers' Equity. Well, he should be a member of Actors' Equity. Do honourable senators know the reason why he is a member of Actors' Equity? He used to sit wearing a wig in a program called, 'Consider Your Verdict' which was recorded some 10 years ago. The important thing to remember is that he could not get that job without the union ticket. He had no hope of working in that area without a union ticket. So he paid up so that he could work as an actor as well as work as a lawyer and a senator. He wanted the lot. He wanted 3 jobs at the one time. So he purchased this union ticket of which he is so proud. He knew that he could not get the job without it. This area is a closed shop. No-one can work in that industry without a ticket.  Senator Little,  who is interjecting, should join Actors' Equity too. The only qualification I would make about his membership is that he would have to be gagged because he uses everybody else's lines as well as his own. He cannot stop yapping. In the next life, if what scientologists say is true, he will come back as a poodle and will be able to yap to his heart's content. The simple fact is that the Democratic Labor Party is completely dishonest. I do not mind the Conservatives doing what they are doing; they never wanted the workers to get 4 weeks annual leave or a 35-hour working week. I urge honourable senators to go back into history and look at the situation. I recommend that they read the debates of the House of Commons of just over 100 years ago. 
You are still young enough to be able to read, I think. I have read the debates of the House of Commons of 1842. At that time the Conservatives in the House of Commons were debating a Bill. That Bill- 
Listen and you will learn. The Bill proposed taking children between the ages of 6 and 12 out of the mines, and the Conservatives there at that time were saying, 'Look- '. 
You should read the debates of 1842. They were debating this question and the Conservatives said 'This is a very fine principle but the economy of Britain will collapse if we take these children out of the mines.' They used to harness the children to little carts and they cut the holes so that they were just big enough for children aged 6 and 8 years to pull those carts through. Ever since that time every progressive move of the trade union movement has been opposed by the Conservatives. They opposed the 48-hour week. I worked a 48-hour week in an industry which granted no annual leave. Every Christmas we were laid off for 10 days of which we were paid for only 3. I was a young man and unmarried at the time. A notice would be put on the wall of the factory on which persons could volunteer to clean out the ovens. It was one of the worst jobs one could ever get, but every married man in that factory put bis name down for it. Men they called the stick orderlies were selected for the job because they could not afford to take their annual leave - and the rest of the men starved over the Christmas period. Then we gained a week's annual leave, then a fortnight - and still the Conservatives opposed it. Then we were granted 3 weeks - and there was still more opposition. Now the Democratic Labor Party has jointed the Conservatives by saying 'We will make it as difficult as possible for public servants to get 4 weeks annual leave'. They are here to make political propaganda They have posed in this Parliament as the saviours of freedom, the freedom of people. We never saw them line up on our side when we talked of the freedom of the young boys who did not have a vote being sent to Vietnam to die in an undeclared war. We were never officially at war. but members of the DLP stood up and were counted on the side of those who were sending boys to die for a cause most of them did not believe in. That is the kind of freedom they believe in when they adopt this right-wing attitude in relation to the saving of a nation. But now they say 'Look, we are the purists; freedom is there for everybody to get these conditions whether they pay for them or not'. They are complete political frauds in relation to this area because they are not carrying out the policies that they believe in if they have any association with the word 'Labor'. They are not carrying out the policies of the organisations they belong to.  Senator Byrne  said proudly that he has been a member of an organisation for 40 years. 
 Senator Byrne  is a member of one of the organisations which  Senator Milliner  talked about last night which has no freedom at all. It is absolutely mandatory for a person to join that organisation before he can get a job. 1 venture to say that that is why  Senator Byrne  initially became a member of it, simply because of the mandatory clause affecting it.  Senator Milliner  read the details chapter and verse.  Senator Byrne  could not have worked within that profession unless he became a member of that organisation. Probably that is the only reason he became a financial member and probably that is the only reason he still holds a ticket. 
This whole debate has been a Fraud because of the standover tactics of a minority group who believe they can make political capital out of this proposal. We on the Government side expected that from  Senator Greenwood  and those who sit behind him because they have always opposed the workers. Democratic Labor Party senators pretend to support the workers and even take money from them for affiliations - yet in this debate they rat on those very organisations from which they take money. Of course we will give the 4 weeks annual leave. Without going too far into detail, when one examines what Opposition senators were going to do, one sees they would have left a tremendous number of people without anything - and they probably knew it. So far as I am concerned it is complete political hypocrisy for the DLP to take this holier than thou attitude because they are no more interested in the workers than the Conservatives are. They want to make political capital of it whereas if they were decent about it they would resign from the Federated Clerks Union forthwith. 
My question is directed to the Special Minister of State. Has Chiang Kai-shek ever claimed that Taiwan was a country in its own right and not a part of China? Is it a fact that Chiang has always claimed that Taiwan, or Formosa as it was previously called, was only a province of China? Would it not be equally ridiculous for the province of Quebec to claim separate recognition as a nation as it is for the Australian Democratic Labor Party to believe Australia should grant recognition at a diplomatic level to Taiwan? 
 I want to speak in opposition to the motion that this committee be set up. It is obvious that- 
The DEPUTY PRESIDENT- Order! I have made a ruling concerning the procedure in this debate. The matter presently being debated is not whether a committee be set up. The matter is that intervening business be postponed until after consideration of general business, notice of motion No. 9. I will not allow any debate on the substance of notice of motion No. 9. It is contrary to Standing Orders. 
I bow to your ruling,  Mr Deputy President,  and add my protest to all others from honourable senators on this side of the Senate in regard to the tactics that have been used by the members of the Australian Democratic Labor Party in the Senate tonight. They have done this for the deliberate purpose of protecting one of their members who is under challenge in the court in relation to a defamation of character action. This is one of the most reprehensible things that I have ever seen in this Parliament. It is most reprehensible because they want to use the committee which they hope to establish for the purpose of extracting evidence from this gentleman to use in court in the defence of  Senator Kane.  It is the most reprehensible thing that any person could do. We are in the situation tonight where you,  Mr Deputy President,  on 2 occasions have ruled that this matter is not sub judice. It will put you in a very invidious position tomorrow- - 
The  DEPUTY PRESIDENT- Senator, will  you cease referring to the decision from the chair and obey my ruling that you must not anticipate a debate on some other matter. 

 - Mr Deputy President, I wish that that ruling had been given earlier in the evening when the debate was proceeding, because  Senator Little,  who is one of the persons who will vote in favour of this motion, then said things which prejudices this gentleman.  Senator Little  might well be a member of the committee when it is appointed. The whole procedure in relation to the committee system of the Senate is under challenge tonight. Members of the Democratic Labor Party are attempting to reverse the whole procedures so that they can establish a kangaroo court against all precedents- 
The  DEPUTY PRESIDENT- Senator, you  cannot proceed along those lines. At this stage you cannot make any further reference to the ruling that has been given, and you must respect my request to obey the Standing Orders and not anticipate future business. 
I was just mentioning in passing that the situation has now arisen where the operation of the whole committee system will be in jeopardy if we take from General Business - and this is a precedent in itself - matters which are discussed on Thursday evenings and debate them during the normal sittings of the Senate. It is true that on a number of occasions in this chamber by arrangement between the then Opposition - now the Government - and the Leader of the then Government motions were moved in order to change the order of General Business of this chamber. But, as I say, usually it was done by arrangement and agreement across the table; to my knowledge and recollection Genera] Business was never moved to another day of sitting. This is an attempt to get something broadcast tonight in order to help a colleague who is in a jam because of something that appeared in a scurrilous rag called Focus'. The precedent we are establishing tonight could put in jeopardy the whole conduct of the business of this chamber. We will prostitute the committee system if members of the Democratic Labor Party are allowed to get away with this and establish a kangaroo court. They want to take the initiative, against all precedent, by establishing the numbers on their side. I protest most vehemently against the tactics, the snide implications of this business, and the reprehensible reasons for which it is being done. 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Overseas Trade and Minister for Secondary Industry. Is it a fact that the United States of America is exporting to Australia very large consignments of carpets made of synthetic fibre at prices far below the cost of production in Australia? Is it also a fact that a high percentage of this carpet is banned by United States law for use in that country because it is highly inflammable? If so, what action is being taken to protect the Australian carpet industry and the Australian people against unfair competition and inferior and dangerous products? 
My question is directed to the Attorney-General. In taking the action which he did to protect the safety of prominent Australian citizens, including the Prime Minister, and a visiting dignitary of State, did he have in mind the threats of bombings and the actual bombings which occurred previously in the heart of Sydney last September? 
I direct a question to the Minister representing the Minister for Foreign Affairs. Can the Minister indicate if it would be damaging to the international reputation of this country if a responsible Minister, given evidence of the existence of terrorist organisations within the country, refused either to investigate that evidence or admit that it existed? Can the international standing of this country be seriously affected in these circumstances, particularly if this country has been a signatory to international agreements directed towards the elimination of international terrorism? 
We have heard an emotional speech from  Senator Wright  on the dignity, constitutional rights and ability of the Senate by force of numbers to take all day if need be to ask questions oh matters of national importance. On this side of the chamber Ministers have been extremely tolerant in the 3i weeks that we have been sitting in government. From the first day of the session we have allowed questions to be asked for up to 2 hours, long before the issue about which  Senator Wright  became so emotional ever raised its head. Had standing order 99 been strictly conformed to and had we on this side of the chamber, and the Attorney-General  (Senator Murphy)  in particular, raised the matter not one of the hundreds of questions that have been asked would have been found to be in order. We could have got out from under at that level. The latter part of standing order 99, which very few honourable senators opposite would have bothered to read, provides: 
Questions shall not anticipate discussion upon an Order of the Day or other matter which appears on the Notice Paper. 
It is clear that all the questions that have been asked of  Senator Murphy  previously and  Senator Willesee  today on the ASIO issue could properly have been ruled out of order by the  President  on the basis of standing order 99. Item 14 on the notice paper under the heading Government Business is 'Croatian terrorism in Australia'. We have repeatedly said that the Opposition can debate this matter at any time but it has not done so. Honourable senators opposite are still running away from it but they want to conduct an inquisition to get ammunition, not from their own minds or their own research but by question and answer. The Government has not exercised its right to invoke standing order 99 in relation to this matter. It has allowed questions to flow. The anger of honourable senators opposite is due to the fact that  Senator Murphy  has handled them so well. He has handled them so adequately that they cannot get under his guard. 
The former Attorney-General has been damned throughout the nation because of the statement that was presented in the Senate by  Senator Murphy. Senator Greenwood  said, in effect, that he would answer the charges chapter and verse. He has had plenty of time to do it but has not chosen to do so. As far as I understand, the offer still stands. The Ministers of my Party on the front bench will confirm this. The Opposition could have debated the matter tonight if it wished to do so. It could have been debated yesterday or any day it liked. But  Senator Greenwood  prefers to sit there and ask question after question rather than get up and answer the charges that have been put down chapter and verse in the Senate. The truth about  Senator Greenwood  when he was Attorney-General is this: He was so obsessed with catching 20- year-old boys who did not believe in conscription to fight in an undeclared war and women who decided that this conscription action was so wrong that he never had the time to find out whether terrorism existed. Indeed, according to the documents that have been placed before the Senate and the statement made by  Senator Murphy,  he did not care, which is the most central thing of all. He did not care. That has been proved. 
What honourable senators opposite have tried to do is to use question time as a venue to switch the Attorney-General's action to an attack on the Australian Security Intelligence Organisation. Two newspapers and one commentator on the radio have said that the former Attorney-General has been discredited for all time.  His  great ambition was to enter the Senate, float through gently and quietly, except for some nights when the moon was full and then get into the High Court. He intended to sit there in judgment on everybody. He has missed out because the people of Australia saw through these people and threw them out of office. All of his sins, or many of them, have come home. No doubt, if it were necessary to go through the files of the Com monwealth Police and ASIO we would find many more things that he has swept under the carpet that should have been brought to the light of day. But his obsession was such that he had to arrest young university students, pluck teachers out of schools at which they were teaching children, put women in gaol for handing out pamphlets that were against the principles that honourable senators opposite believe in. He was very adept at this. He used to have the Commonwealth Police running all over Sydney in droves because someone had made a telephone call that so and so was in a certain house at such and such a time. 
Yes, on Christmas Day. In other cases it was in the middle of the night because he thought one of these terrible lads who was refusing to accept the blood ballot of this country was hiding in a place. While this was going on these Croats, with complete immunity, were building their bombs. He said 'There is no evidence that these organisations exist'. Buildings were blown up. Flats of individuals in this country were blown up. People were living in terror for their lives and he was running around looking for some person who on principle would not fight in a filthy war. Honourable senators opposite would use question time in the Senate as an excuse for an interrogation. No honourable senator would ever say that I have never stood in support of the rights of honourable senators at every level. I have supported their right to speak. I have never supported either in the Caucus of my Party or in the Senate the right to reduce a person's right to speak. In fact, I believe that the original Standing Orders of the Senate that go back many years were correct and proper. They stated that no honourable senator should be placed in a situation where he would have to sit down after half an hour, an hour or an hour and a half. But since the Labor Party became the Government, each day at question time, long before this matter arose, honourable senators opposite took up to 2 hours on questions and wanted to ask further questions. We were very tolerant in that regard. We have never at any time said that question time would be curtailed. The Ministers have sat in the Parliament and answered questions competently and as fully as they could. This is a far cry from the situation that prevailed under the former Government when Ministers asked for every second question to be placed on the notice paper. Let us examine in detail the motion that Che Senate is asked to pass tonight. It states: 
That, in the absence of any standing order on the matter, honourable senators' rights to question Ministers is limited only, by the judgment of the Senate .. . 
This is nothing more or less than a simple operation of the numbers game. The motion states further:   . . and that Ministers who seek recognition from the Senate are obliged to answer Questions with  a  promptness and accuracy appropriate to ministerial responsibility. 
I recall an occasion when the Acting Minister for Civil Aviation,  Senator Malcolm  Scott, was being questioned by honourable senators who were then in Opposition in relation to aircraft noise in Sydney. He answered questions in the Senate in direct denial of the Minister's answers in another place. Two honourable members from the House of Representatives,  Mr Arthur  and  Mr Bosman,  whose seats were in danger were running over to the Senate chamber to hear the false answers that  Senator Malcolm  Scott was giving in reply to questions asked by  Senator Douglas  McClelland. Honourable senators opposite talk about answering questions accurately and correctly. How do we assess this? Honourable senators opposite would never believe anything said by an honourable senator on this side of the Senate, whether it was true or false, if it served their interests to make political capital out of the protection of the great right wing organisations that they have fostered in this country. This is a fact of life. 
People who for 20 years have wanted to be Australians are now naturalised citizens. But honourable senators opposite would not even naturalise them. Do honourable senators know why? It is because they were members of the Australian Labor Party in Victoria, that terrible left wing State. So if a person becomes a member of the ALP in Victoria he is not entitled, in the view of honourable senators opposite, to Australian citizenship. This is the type of freedom that they wish to impose on us. This is the type of thing they want to do to frustrate the Government that has the numbers in another place but has not the numbers in this place. We are not greatly concerned about this situation. Honourable senators opposite can filibuster and stall for as long as they like, but eventually they have to come before the people of this country and their actions are on record now and will be on record for years to come. The judgment of the people of Australia will be that the Senate also requires a majority of Government honourable senators. They will make that loud and clear. 
I listened very intently to the remarks made earlier in the debate.  Senator Withers  was referring to an incident that occurred in the Senate before I was a member of it. It was in relation to a protest by  Senator Willesee  after it was requested that all further questions be placed on notice. That was after a period of only 30 minutes of questioning, not the 2 hours that has been used up day after day by the Opposition that is so frustrated that it is trying to find some outlet to get back at the Government. It was after a mere 30 minutes. Even at this time, the situation was that the normal period for questioning was 45 minutes to an hour. Honourable senators opposite are. using this as a precedent to move a motion that will take out of the control of the Government the passage of urgent legislation that must be passed if the Commonwealth is to continue to function. I warn honourable senators opposite that if they proceed with this motion it will be at their own peril. The Australian people will decide at the ballot box whom they want - whether they want the Government that is prepared to legislate on the basis of the mandate it has secured or whether they want the carping Opposition that is frustrating the legislation that we propose to pass on behalf of this nation and the people within it. 
The motion is cumbersome and stupid and it should never be carried by the Senate. Perhaps it will be carried because honourable senators opposite have the numbers. But if they carry it they will rue the day. I hope that honourable senators who think about these things will vote against the motion which obviously is designed to frustrate Government business and for another purpose that I believe is becoming apparent. I do not like to raise this point, but 1 believe that this is true. This is an obvious attack on the  President  whose unbiased operations in the Chair are disturbing honourable senators opposite. He has carried out his duty with a lack of bias that is really something of which he should be proud. He has carried out his duty in a competent way. Because of the petulance of some honourable senators opposite who cannot get the call to ask questions 7 or 8 times in a row they are making this indirect attack on a man who I believe is one of the finest Presidents that this Senate has ever had. 
Can the AttorneyGeneral state whether, even up to the eleventh hour of the visit of the Yugoslav Prime Minister, he received any advice that it would be desirable to protect the life of the visiting dignatory by calling off the visit? If so, who gave such advice and what reasons were given for it? 

 - Mr President, I appreciate your action in relation to the request for incorporation of this document, but I remind  Senator Rae  and Opposition senators that the traditional practice in the Senate for many years has been for a person to ask, during the course of his speech, for leave to have certain documents or figures incorporated. I can recall  Senator Cotton,  as a Government backbencher, having incorporated pages and pages of figures when he gave a sermon on economics. Without any member of the then Opposition observing the documents we at no stage refused to allow them to be incorporated. On a number of occasions I have requested leave to incorporate documents, Press reports or some other matter with which I desired not to bore the Senate. I have never been refused leave. The refusing of leave started when  Senator Wright  became a front bencher and refused leave to everybody unless he was able to scrutinise the document. If we take the matter to its logical conclusion, each document which is sought to be incorporated - it could be figures, tables or whatever you like - would have to be roneoed or photostated so that each honourable senator had a copy and bad the right to say 'No' if he believed that it was pornographic or if he believed that for some, other reason it should not appear in Hansard. 
He would sell Hansard - of course he would - if it was pornographic. He could make a profit out of it. The position is this: We had one person who said 'No' every time a member of the Opposition requested leave to incorporate a document. 
I recall  Senator McAuliffe  wanting to incorporate in Hansard a document which was relevant to the argument that he was putting to the Senate. We were almost going to have a relay of honourable senators reading the document to get it in Hansard. We well could have done that. Every time a request was made there was this No' because the person concerned had not read what was sought to be incorporated. If that is to be the criterion - if  Senator Rae, Senator Wright  or  Senator Hannan  wants to read each document which is sought to be incorporated in Hansard - 60 copies will have to be made so that each honourable senator can read it in advance. The proposition is so silly that it is stupid. 
I think  Senator Brown  made a very important point tonight.  Senator Rae  said: 'I did not refuse leave, but if I had not been allowed to read it first I would have refused leave'. That is the whole point of the argument. If it is incorporated in Hansard we can read it the next day and we have an opportunity later in the session - for example, during an adjournment debate - to debate the matter if we believe that there has been some skulduggery in relation to the incorporation. I recall very well the first 'no' in relation to the incorporation of a document. The argument that was put up then was that the document might have been too lengthy. What is the relevancy of the length of the document? Do senators suddenly have to curtail what they want to incorporate in Hansard because the cost of printing would be too high? If that is the position, why do not honourable senators opposite say so? Tonight  Senator Rae  showed clearly the attitude of these people. They are not concerned about the democratic system in which a senator, because of the time factor, can ask for leave to have something incorporated. They say: 'I will not permit its incorporation unless I read it first'. They are their own censors. They want to censor everything which we seek leave to incorporate. 

 Senator Wright initiated this program. On many occasions I have incorporated in Hansard matter which I have not shown to  Senator Rae, Senator Wright  or  Senator Hannan  previously for their approval. This is not necessary, and it should not be necessary. 
He could have made an error because he makes many errors. If those honourable senators refuse leave, what all other honourable senators will have to do, if they have a 30-page document which they believe should be incorporated in Hansard, will be to speak during the adjournment debate and read the document into Hansard. Tonight  Senator Rae  said: 'I would have refused leave if I had not been allowed to read it'. He will be the censor. He will approve it before  Senator Brown  can incorporate it. I will not be put in the position of having to take a document to  Senator Rae, Senator Greenwood  or any other honourable senator to get his approval to have it incorporated in Hansard. Even if it is 100 pages long, I will read it into Hansard during an adjournment debate, if the pettiness indulged in by  Senator Rae  tonight is persisted with by these people. 
The refusing of leave was not started by the previous Opposition. It was started by  Senator Wright  who said: 'I have not seen the document yet. No'. I will not ask  Senator Rae  or any Opposition senator to censor what I wish to have incorporated in Hansard. If leave is refused, I will read it into Hansard at a subsequent time - either during an adjournment debate or on the first reading of a money Bill. Do not be so foolish as to set yourself up as censors of what Government senators want to incorporate in Hansard because .we have a time limit on our speeches. If honourable senators opposite want to play it this way we can play it this way, and we can play it much tougher than they can. Nobody will censor a document which I seek leave to incorporate in Hansard. If honourable senators opposite do not trust me. or my judgment on what I want to incorporate in Hansard, thus making it a public document which can be read tomorrow and which can be answered by using the processes of the Senate, I will take the time of the Senate at another stage to ensure that every word goes into Hansard. I certainly will not be beholden to  Senator Rae  or any other Opposition senator for approval to have a document incorporated in Hansard. 
No, never. 
Never. 
Has the attention of the Attorney-General been drawn to an admission by the former holder of that distinguished portfolio that he took with him documents, both classified and unclassified, from departmental files? Has he had any investigation made into the statement of the former AttorneyGeneral which was made, not in the Senate, but in a television interview, to the effect that he had in fact taken certain documents from the files of the Department when compulsorily retiring from his office? Can he advise the Senate what documents were ... by the previous AttorneyGeneral? Was this action legally taken and ethically proper? 
 I rise to speak because I happen to be an Assistant Whip. I am now being paid for that work and that is something which has not happened for a long time. If the arrangements made between Party Whips are going to be flouted in the underhand way they were tonight by the Leader of the Opposition in the Senate  (Senator Withers),  we may as well not have Whips. We may as well revert to the rules that operate at question time and you,  Mr President,  will be the person who will have to decide who first rose to speak in the debate. The Leader of the Opposition wanted a motion discussed in this chamber tonight and wanted to stop the debate. He warned us when he moved the motion that he was going to gag the debate irrespective of how many speakers we had. 
Yes, he threatened us. He said that it did not matter how long we wanted to debate this subject and it did not matter how much logic we applied, he was going to get a vote tonight. We on the Government side did not mind if we sat through until 2 o'clock or 3 o'clock in the morning so long as honourable senators on our side were permitted to join in the debate on this matter. These are the tactics of the sometimes Leader of the Opposition who probably spends less time in this chamber than any other honourable senator. I believe he could not work in an iron lung even if he wanted to do so. If this is the type of leadership that is being given to the Opposition side, the sooner it is changed the better. I said much stronger words to him when passing him on the floor of the chamber and I am prepared to say them to him outside if he wishes. 
The simple fact is that there is a system which has worked in this place since 1901 whereby the. Party Whips have been able to allocate speakers. If the Opposition wants that system broken down it need only use these tactics once more. We will then find that there is no system of allocating speakers. On some occasions we have allowed 2 or 3 speakers from one side when the other side of the chamber has not had speakers ready. That has happened on both sides of the chamber. On this occasion we had speakers available. The list of speakers is not a secret document. It is not a classified document. 
 Senator Greenwood  is interjecting. He gets like this when the moon is full. What has happened will, if it continues, lead to the destruction of the system of co-operation between the Government and the Opposition. That system was retained on all occasions when we were in Opposition and honourable senators opposite were sitting on the Government side. The Whips were able to respect the arrangements that were made. There was no question of anybody ratting on them. I give the Opposition Whip full credit for what happened the other night when, because of an unfortunate but not intentional error on the part of the person occupying the chair, 2 speakers from the Opposition were given the call consecutively. The Opposition Whip immediately came over to me, because I was in the chamber, and advised me that we would get the next 2 calls. We got the next 2 calls because he was not prepared to destroy the arrangements that have operated since 1901. But we have a Leader of the Opposition who is so swelled headed about his jobbeing promoted from  Deputy  Whip to Leader of the Opposition - that he really believes that he can now take over the House for all time. He was in control of the Senate one night on the first occasion when he took the chair and he threw 3 of us out in about as many minutes because he is so intolerant of people - completely intolerant. He wants to use the jackboot. He used the jackboot that night and he used the jackboot again tonight. This was a complete abuse of the office he holds. I hope that the Leader of the Opposition will learn from his experience tonight and accept his job with a greater sense of responsibility, not only in his attendance to his duties in this place but also in honouring arrangements which have been made for so many years between party Whips. 
My question is directed to the Minister Assisting the Minister for Foreign Affairs. Do the records of the Department of Foreign Affairs indicate that the then Australian Ambassador to Yugoslavia made any representations whatever to the Yugoslav Government seeking information regarding the arrest of Australian citizens, which became public knowledge soon after the Bosnian incursion? If no such representations were made, was this not an indication that the then Minister for Foreign Affairs was completely disinterested in the incident and the fate of those Australian citizens? 
My question without notice is directed to the Attorney-General. Is it correct to assume that the present Australian Government's attitude is that any ill effects whatever, however small, from the proposed nuclear tests in the Pacific are totally undesirable? 
I direct my question to the Minister representing the Minister for Transport and Minister for Civil Aviation. Has his attention been drawn to a recent Press report which emanated from the United States of America and which indicated that many deaths from poisoning have resulted from air crashes because of the types of internal furnishings used which, when burnt, emit fumes of the deadly poison cyanide? Are similar investigations being made in relation to the internal fittings of Australian commercial aircraft? 
 I want to raise a matter which affects the good name and courtesy of the attendants who attend us in this Parliament. I refer the Senate to an article which appeared in tonight's issue of the Melbourne 'Herald' in the column 'In Black and White*. It was written by one John Larkins. Any honourable senator who read the article would get some humour out of it but for the fact that serious reflections were made upon the people who are so courteous to members of the Press. Members of the Press enjoy certain privileges in this Parliament. This gentleman claimed that he was able to walk into this Parliament carrying a parcel with the word 'bomb' written on it and to place it before a glass door, apparently with the assistance of attendants within this Parliament. In the course of the article the author wrote: 
Any dill, with a rough idea of the geography of the place, could walk in, grin at a few attendants, open 3 doors and spit in Cough's ashtray. 
That may be humorous, but I believe that the dill on this occasion is the person who walked in with that parcel. He may not be aware of it, but some of the security officers in this building in fact carry firearms. He made a further reference to security in Washington. He is indeed fortunate that security is not as strict here as it is there, because he could well have found a very gun-happy trigger man shooting him down for carrying such a stupid parcel and playing such a stupid practical trick. 
Yes, he may have had those words written on it I do not mind him attacking members of this Parliament or making fun of us; we are fair game in that respect. However, he was referring to the fact that the attendants had what I believe, and I think many honourable senators believe, to be a very legitimate grouch about their working conditions and salaries. That matter is being negotiated at this time. There were discussions today about it, and on other days also. However, by implication, the author was saying in this article that the attendants are not worth their salaries and that the whole system of security is a joke. This is a serious matter. These men are highly incensed at this article and they have approached me about it. 
The situation here at the moment is that, while technically members of the Press have to show a pass, they receive extreme courtesy because they are well known to the attendants. I understand that the author of the article is well known to the attendants. He was not forced to show the pass that he should carry. This Senate and the Parliament are more than kind to members of the Press because they have facilities that we can ill afford to let them have due to the space shortage here. Accommodation for the Press has been provided in the interests of democracy and to allow full and open reporting of the debates in both Houses of Parliament. We would never say that that is not the proper procedure to follow. 
Another aspect or this matter is the openness of our Parliament House to the people. 1 want to see this openness remain. This is the people's building. It is the place to which 'hey elect members to carry out the functions of government and it belongs to the people. Any action aimed at tightening security to the extent that exists in most of the State parliaments would be a retrograde step. The public is entitled to come here and should be encouraged to do so. We have had a wonderful response in this regard. Many thousands of people visit this Parliament House annually, particularly school children from the length and breadth of the nation. We are very informal, as we should be, in regard to the people who come to this place and enter the galleries of the Parliament - far more informal than any State parliament I know of. A visitor cannot get past the front door of the Victorian Parliament unless he presents a ticket to the attendant. Then the attendant finds the person that the visitor wishes to see. The front door is as far as a person is able to get. If these kinds of facetious articles continue to appear, containing reflections against the staff of this Parliament, we may well find some people wishing to have heavier restrictions, such as those that exist in some of the other parliaments. I believe that that would be wrong. I think it is wrong for a man to reflect in such a manner, even facetiously, on persons who have always been courteous to members of the Press and to all persons who enter this House on business or as members of the general public. 
 I direct a question to the Minister representing the Minister for Education. It relates to the Australian Universities Commission's report which recommends the establishment of a fourth university in Victoria. Has the Victorian Premier or Minister for Education at any time provided detailed information on the structure, courses, etc. and the relationship to teachers' colleges and colleges of advanced education of the proposed fourth Victorian university? Has the Australian Universities Commission or the Minister been informed of the location of the administrative centre of the multi-campus university proposed by the Victorian Government? 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Education. What was the proposed date for the operation of the fourth university in Victoria? Was it 1976? When would it have been necessary to allocate Commonwealth finance for this university if the proposed date of operation were to be met? Has the delay of 6 months by the Victorian Government in providing information made it impossible for the 1976 commencement date to be operative? 
I oppose the motion moved by  Senator Gair  which obviously is being supported by the Opposition. As has been indicated by the Leader of the Government in the Senate  (Senator Murphy)  and the Minister for the Media  (Senator Douglas McClelland),  there arc very important matters on the notice paper which should be dealt with very quickly. I refer to one in particular which received a passing mention by  Senator Withers  as a Bill of no importance. I refer to the Defence Service Homes Bill, which is a most important Bill. Its passage should bc expedited through the Senate as quickly as possible. All honourable senators have had representations in relation to it and have been asked when it will be passed by the Parliament. A person I know has lost the option to purchase a home because the home has been sold to somebody else. We have an opportunity to pass that Bill today, I would think, if the Opposition were prepared to debate it and not to have the debate adjourned as is the usual procedure. 
We are ready now, if you vote against  Senator Gair's  motion. Despite what  Senator Withers  might say about this matter, there are 12 Government Bills on the notice paper. They will have to be passed to clear the way for the large number of Bills that will come from the House of Representatives. 
The real reason for this manoeuvre today is that the Opposition wants to have the matter debated while the proceedings of the Senate are being broadcast. The matter is a continuation of the persecution of the Leader of the Government. It is as dead as the dodo so far as the media and the public are concerned. It is dead fish. As I said yesterday, the motion calls for the setting up of a kangaroo court. That is by the way. I am infringing the Standing Orders by referring to that aspect of the matter. If we continue to allow Government Business to be taken away from the Government on each Wednesday for the purpose of getting General Business before the Senate, something which never happened during our period in Opposition will happen. The Opposition will have 2 bites of the cherry in relation to General Business because it will be brought on on a Wednesday and on a Thursday night as well. If honourable senators opposite believe that it is so important to have General Business on a Wednesday, why did not they move at the start of this session amendments to hours of business of the Senate? General Business could have been debated on Wednesday evenings. The Opposition is getting 2 bites of the cherry. It is doing this and it is holding up legislation which should be passed by the Senate so that further legislation can be processed to the Senate 1 say to all the people who are waiting lor a war service homes loan, to all the people in Victoria and other places who are waiting for the Commonwealth to provide assistance to the States to enable the States to construct Housing Commission homes for rental purposes and to all people who will receive increased benefits under the various social service Bills and other Bills of importance which have been presented to the Parliament, that the people who are basically to blame for the delay in these Bills being passed, despite what honourable senators opposite might say in this debate, are the persons who are deliberately frustrating the Government's program. They arc deliberately doing it for the purpose of trying to bait us into a position that we will certainly accept. The people will know, both now and when the election is held, the reason why the action has been taken. The answer will be loud and clear when an opportunity is given to the people to stop the Government being frustrated on matters for which it has a mandate. 
The  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Prowse)  - I call  Senator Cavanagh. 

 - -Mr President and members of the Senate, the whole incident was entirely my fault. The gentleman concerned has been a close friend of mine for many years. I met him through the late  Senator Cohen.  That is how we first met many years ago. My son studied law under this gentleman at a university. The last occasion that I saw the gentleman was at  Senator Sam  Cohen's funeral. I was so pleased to see him here that I broke the rules of the Senate by addressing him. He did not address me. J apologise to the Senate because 1 created the incident, not the gentleman concerned. 
I direct my question to the Minister representing the Minister for Housing. In view of the delay in proceeding with Government business brought about by the diversionary tactics being used, will the Minister seek an assurance from the Opposition that it will give priority to the passage of the Defence Services Homes Bill and so relieve the considerable financial hardship and other problems for many persons awaiting the passage of the Bill? 
We have heard a diatribe of nonsense tonight from  Senator McManus  in relation to electoral reform and to part of the history of the Labor Party in Victoria. It made very interesting listening but if the whole truth and nothing but the truth were told it would show that one of the major reasons why members of the Democratic Labor Party were thrown out of the Labor Party was their connivance. We had to clean it up and get some real honesty into the situation.  Senator McManus  has been dropping names tonight - christian names but not surnames. He has been dropping supposed leaks from the Labor Party Conference in Tasmania, without any support whatever for his accusations. The honourable senator does not know what is going on. He pretends that he does know but if he did know he would know, firstly, that the method of voting is not part of this legislation. He would know, secondly, that the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  gave an undertaking that this would not be part of any legislation by this Government over this 3-year period of government; and, thirdly, he would know that the Prime Minister has announced - it is well known - that this matter is now before a committee of the Party and that no decision has been made on it. I could go into a long argument- 
You have not been able to establish that. You used some airy-fairy tale that Joe and Bill said something to you. I do not believe you and I will not do so until you get on your feet and name these persons. Of course, you will not do that because you have always hidden behind the anonymous person who allegedly leaks you information. This is a most cowardly way of doing things. If we really talked about the history of the Party we could say that you were part of all these deals in relation to electoral reform or alleged racketeering and to the rigging of ballots in the Labor Party to get your friends in. I will tell a few stories about that, too. 
I will tell them here one night if you want to go on in the way you are going. 
 You had to be thrown out of the Party because you cheated, and we are a better party because we took that action. I shall return to the Bill and not debate the method of voting, though that could be an exercise in itself. We will have an opportunity to do this if the DLP moves an amendment in relation to it because the simple fact is that wherever in the world proportional representation has been tried, countries have had great difficulty in achieving stable government, and we all know it. In the postwar years France had 14 governments in 18 months because minority groups like the DLP kept switching sides to get advantages for themselves, not in the interests of the nation. That is the kind of situation  Senator McManus  wants to perpetuate in this country so that his Party can do what it has been able to do in this Senate, namely, change the balance of power completely and absolutely all the time to get its own deals up, and any interest in the national welfare is purely incidental to its own desire to have power. That is the whole truth of the matter, so let us get rid of that nonsense once and for all. 
The most interesting speech of the night was  Senator Drake-Brockman's  in which he stated his opposition to this Bill because he put up a lot of spurious arguments about how the Country Party would be denied electoral advantage if we brought in the one vote one value system. Having heard the honourable senator speak one would have thought that the Country Party holds all seats in rural areas, that its members are the only occupants of these seats. The honourable senator said the areas are too big for his Country Party colleagues to handle. The fact is that the Labor Party holds the 2 largest seats in the Commonwealth and its members do not complain that the work is too heavy, because they are able to do it, they are willing to do it and they do it, and they are re-elected election after election to these 2 largest seats in Australia. 
The Labor Party holds 22 rural seats in the Commonwealth, which shows quite clearly that we are not afraid of the one vote one value system. We believe that the person who does the job will be elected under any system of that nature, and we are not afraid to go to the people with a recommendation that, as was indicated earlier by  Senator McAuliffe,  was brought down by a joint parliamentary committee, which included members of the 
Country Party and which recommended one vote one value and 10 per cent variation either way from the quota, which gives Country Party members, if they want to juggle the books, a 20 per cent advantage in any case. They know this is the true position but they are too greedy; they want 40 per cent. They want the votes of 4 people in the country to equal the votes of 6 people in the city. 
If one examines the Country Party's policy on this matter and also the electoral rigging that goes on in the State of Victoria, which is due mainly to the influence of the Country Party, its idea of democracy makes one's hair stand on end. A redistribution of State electorates took place in Victoria in 1964. The Country Party, which then held the balance of power in the Legislative Council, put pressure on the Liberal Party. It forced upon the Liberal Government of the day a proposal under which a 3-tier quota system operated in Victoria on the basis of approximately 18,000 electors in each rural seat, approximately 22,000 electors in each provincial seat and approximately 25,000 electors in each metropolitan seat. 
The Country Party was not satisfied with electoral rigging of that type. It went even further in relation to the city of Geelong in which I live. It is a provincial city of 160,000 people. The boundaries of one of the 3 seats in that area were rigged to make it a rural seat in a provincial area. A ring was drawn around the city of Geelong to create a third seat which would be won by the Liberal Party. The member holding that seat, in order to travel from one side of his electorate to the other, must cover a distance of 23 miles and pass through 2 other State electorates. This is the method of drawing the boundaries that was adopted in Victoria. 
The redistribution went even further. A redistribution of Legislative Council seats in the metropolitan area only was held. The Country Party would not permit any interference at all with the country electorates. Let me give to the Senate examples of the kind of result that was achieved following that redistribution. The figures that I will give represent the number of electors enrolled for the State election to be held in Victoria on Saturday next, when a new Victorian Government will be elected. I really believe that a Labor government will be elected there. The Legislative Council electorate of Northern Province, which is almost entirely a country seat, has  65,624  electors enrolled. The metropolitan seat of Boronia Province, which incidentally is held by the Liberal Party, has an enrolment of  195,299  electors. The number of electors enrolled for the seat of Western Province is  65,190,  whereas the electorate of South Eastern Province has an enrolment of  188,690  electors. 
The Country Party members even cheat themselves. They do not even give real justice to their own supporters. I have pointed out already that the number of electors enrolled for the seat of Northern Province - an entirely rural electorate - is  65,624.  In the seat of Gippsland Province, which is equally a country electorate, the number of electors enrolled is  93,725.  The figures for other seats demonstrate the way in which the Victorian Government has juggled the numbers in those electorates and is continuing to do so to make absolutely certain that the number of electors enrolled for metropolitan seats which they hold does not even equate with the number of electors in country electorates and that this disparity will be preserved for all time. This pattern can be seen in relation to ali State electorates. The State Legislative Assembly seat of Kara Kara has  17,649  electors enrolled. The enrolment for the electorate of Scoresby is  60,500.  The situation was reached with respect to Kara Kara that at the last election, despite the completely gerrymandered nature of the electorate, the handful of voters - fewer than  18,000 -  elected the Labor Party candidate. The seat was won from the Liberal Party which fell on its face. It was terribly shocked that this could happen under a system in which the electorates were gerrymandered to such an extent that the Government believed that it would hold power for  20  years. 
The realities of the Victorian electoral situation are the same as the realities of the electoral situation in Queensland. At least  56  per cent of electors must vote Labor before the Labor Party can actually govern with a workable majority. This is the kind of democracy thai the parties in power in those  2  States like. In other words, if  55  per cent of electors in Victoria want to change the government, they cannot do so. If  55  per cent or  56  per cent of electors in Queensland want to change the government, they cannot do so. This fact was demonstrated in the voting figures at the last Queensland State election. The State gov ernments of Queensland and Victoria are in office under a minority system which we believe should be cleaned up. The legislation before the Senate tonight affords a wonderful opportunity to carry out a recommendation of the Joint Committee on Constitutional Review which was unanimously supported by every person associated with that Committee. 
On the other hand, we see the Country Party desperate to save its political life. It is talking of a marriage of convenience with the Democratic Labor Party. As my colleague,  Senator O'Byrne,  said the other night, it is a marriage of the hicks and the micks to achieve electoral control. 
No. it will be a very unhappy wedding. There will be a divorce within a few months, I am certain. The most interesting exercise of all will be the brawl as to who will get which positions in the Senate teams put forward by the marriage partners. I can see  Senator Webster  giving way to  Senator Little  in Victoria! I can see  Senator Byrne  giving way to  Senator Maunsell  in Queensland and saying to him: 'Oh you take my seat'! The honeymoon between the parties and their members will be a really happy one! The reason why these  2  parties are proposing this action is that separately they cannot stand on their own feet and face the people under a democratic system in which the electors make a judgment on a one vote one value basis. 
The intention of the Opposition Parties to vote against this Bill has been announced. They will take this action because they seek to perpetuate and to improve the system under which they have a distinct advantage. Am' criticism in relation to the new boundaries is not criticism of the Australian Labor Party or of the Minister for Services and Property  (Mr Daly);  it is criticism directed at the integrity of the distribution commissioners who will be appointed to redraw the electoral boundaries. Are honourable senators opposite suggesting, that on the last occasion when Commonwealth electoral boundaries were redrawn the redistribution commissioners rigged those boundaries? After all, those boundaries are to the advantage of the parties opposite. We certainly did not allege that.  At  no time has the Labor Party accused the commissioners of being responsible for the situation which gave to the parties opposite the advantage by which the former Government won a number of elections. But honourable senators opposite said by innuendo - in fact,  Senator McManus  said straight out - that the new electoral boundaries will be rigged. Electoral boundaries might have been rigged when  Senator McManus  was a member of the Australian Labor Party, but they certainly will not be. rigged while we are members of the Labor Party. 
The Labor Party will appoint sincere, honest commissioners to draw the boundaries in accordance with the provisions of this legislation. The accusations by  Senator McManus  in relation to another matter, as in relation to this matter, are completely and absolutely unfounded. He knows that, irrespective of what some individuals may have decided or wanted to do, Ben Chifley would not have a bar of the proposal. If there were some individuals who wanted something done for them, Ben Chifley said: 'No'. We had an honest redistribution. As a result of that redistribution, the Labor Party lost the Federal election. But we were able to keep our heads up and to say that we did an honest job in relation to that redistribution. I believe that an honest job was done in the last Federal electoral redistribution under the Liberal Party. Do honourable senators opposite suggest that we will depart from this practice and appoint crooks as commissioners to redraw the electoral boundaries? That is the inference contained in the speech delivered earlier by  Senator McManus.  Only the honourable senator's experiences in the past would cause him to think along those lines. I ask clear thinking senators to vote for this legislation so that Australia may come closer to true democracy in its electoral system. 
-Is the Minister for the Media aware of the lampooning that has gone on at the expense of the points system proposed for television programs? Is it true that sport, which most viewers wish to watch, will be no longer televised? 
Thank you,  Mr Chairman.  I enter the debate- 

 - Mr President, I resent the inference. I made a verbal mistake. 
If you require an apology I will give it to you in writing. 
You certainly were.  Mr President  - if I have to say it twice, I am prepared to do so - I enter the debate because I think that something very dangerous is being done in the Senate this afternoon. From 1951 until approximately 3 years ago the Senate did not pursue the committee system as a result of the fiasco in relation to committees in 1951. Committees were re-introduced about 3 years ago. The reasons why they were re-introduced were valid and good reasons. As every honourable senator knows, I supported the establishment of a standing committee system because I believed that it gave the Senate a system by which it could examine matters of national importance. The system worked very well. When we were in Opposition we never suggested that we should dominate the committees. In the early part of this sitting, we never suggested, nor did the Opposition, that because the Opposition had the weight of numbers we should reverse the position in relation to standing committees which were established as a result of Senate decisions and that the Opposition would control the committees. But a different situation has now evolved. Liberal Party senators, because they have the weight of numbers when they are joined by Country Party senators and Democratic Labor Party senators, want to dominate certain committees to achieve the results which they require. They are trying to establish a very dangerous precedent in relation to the committee system. If they do this they will destroy the very things which were established by the Senate, basically on a non-Party basis. 
I recall that the vote on whether the committee system would be set up was a free vote. No honourable senator was obliged to carry out Party policies. Honourable senators were obliged to vote for what they thought was in the best interests of the Senate, which honourable senators opposite have always chosen to believe is a House of review. But they are so drunk with the power that they have today that they are prepared to risk the whole system of committees considering important matters by forcing the power of numbers onto the Parliament. We are prepared to serve on the Committee as long as we have equal representation. We have asked for nothing more. We have not even asked for majority representation on this Committee. We have asked that the Committee consist of 3 senators to be nominated by the Leader of the Government in the Senate, 2 to be nominated by the Leader of the Opposition in the Senate and one to be nominated by any minority group or Independent senator. 
The ridiculous situation arose the other night during the debate on the establishment of another committee where a member of the Opposition stood up and said: 'We are being more than fair. You will have 3 representatives compared to one from each of the Opposition Parties.* That was said during the debate on a committee that  Senator Gair  wants the Senate to establish. That person was not honest enough to say that in reality there would be 4 members of the Opposition Parties to 3 Government supporters on such a committee. The Opposition's actions could result in the creation of a situation whereby no self respecting government will give any support to the committees that are sitting. 
The Opposition can have its witch hunts and it can do what it likes, but it should remember that it will be seen through the eyes of the people of Australia to be an Opposition that is not prepared to carry out in Opposition the principles and traditions that honourable senators on this side of the chamber carried out when they were in Opposition. We have the situation before us this afternoon where a fair and reasonable motion has been moved that seeks to amend the resolution of the Senate in relation to a proposition put to it by  Senator Wright.  That motion is not acceptable to the Opposition because apparency it would be far too fair to have a situation where the Government had equal rights in relation to any discussions that take place. The Opposition is so determined to ensure that it has the numbers to embarrass the Government that it is prepared to let the whole committee system of the Senate go down the drain. The whole integrity of the committee system is at stake. 
No. 

 - Senator Webster is getting his thinking well and truly mixed up. I have said on many occasions in this House that I do not agree with the examination of Estimates by Estimates Committees. I stand by what I have said. The examination of Estimates by Estimates Committees is a system of hiding them from the people of Australia. The Estimates are taken to a small room in the back of Parliament House and examined virtually in camera. An entirely different method is used by the standing committees and select committees that have been established by the Senate in the conducting of their inquiries. I have never refused to be a member of such a committee. I am very proud to have been a member of a standing committee. 

 Senator Wright has drawn the attention of the Senate to the problems that exist in relation to the shipping service to and from King Island. The Government knows that these problems exist. They are a hangover from the administration of the previous government. Honourable senators opposite had every right, and would have been supported by honourable senators on this side of the House if they had done so, to refer this matter to the appropriate Senate standing committee. Indeed if this matter had been referred to that committee it would have been examined by persons who had previously examined the whole question of transport between the mainland of Australia and Tasmania. I believe that a simple motion seeking the referral of this matter for inquiry to a standing committee which has already studied it to some degree would have been carried almost unanimously by the Senate. The Opposition believes that it is now in a position where it is entitled to ride roughshod over the minority Government in the Senate. I warn honourable senators opposite that their actions will effectively destroy that which has been built up over the last 3 or 4 years, namely, a system of committees that are honest and whose integrity is unquestionable. The Opposition is prepared to destroy the system because it wants to have the numbers on this Committee. It wants the numbers so that it can dictate the terms of what it wants to report to the Senate. That is completely unfair. It is stupid to the extreme. It will destroy the whole of a committee system that was established for a valid purpose. 
Order! It being 11 p.m., in accordance with the sessional order relating to the adjournment of the Senate, I put the question: 
That the Temporary Chairman do now leave the Chair and report to the Senate. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
The Temporary Chairman having reported accordingly. 
I direct a question to the Minister for Customs and Excise in relation to the Government's recently announced decision to permit the brewing of beer for individual purposes. Can the Minister advise whether the Government proposes to permit people to distil spirits for their own requirements? 
asked the Minister for the 
Media, upon notice: 
What indications are there that Australianproduced films and television programs reach the standards of films and programs in other countries. 
Is there any recent evidence that such films can gain international acceptance, as well as acceptance in Australia. 

 Senator DOUGLAS McCLELLAND- The answer to the honourable senator's question is as follows: 
There are now quite substantial indications that Australian films and television programs come up to overseas standards in a number of areas, judged in terms of both their ability to compete in overseas markets and their record of achievement at competitive international film festivals. The Department of the Media will shortly begin a survey of the distribution of local productions overseas, and the prospects for distribution in the near future. In the meantime, following discussions that I have had with representatives of the American industry, I have recently been informed that a number of Australianproduced films are under consideration for distribution throughout the United States, after displaying some success on the Australian market. 
Should such distribution eventuate, the Australian film and television industry will have better prospects for development than have been seen for some decades. 
Distribution overseas provides not merely greater financial return, but also the opportunity for greater prestige and work opportunities for creative resident Australians whose work in such fields as direction, scriptwriting and acting 'leads' have not often been recognised outside of this country. 
Without going outside of the Department of the Media, it is possible to find evidence of such international acceptance as well as local acceptance. 
My latest information from the Commonwealth Film Unit is that 5 of the Unit's film productions had won awards in international competition in the first 5 months of this year. A list of those awards, along with recent awards in Australia, is provided below for the honourable senator's information. I should also add that apartfrom its usual distribution outlets, the Commonwealth Film Unit has also managed to arrange for at least four films to be released in West End theatres in London recently ('Australian Colour Diary. Sydney Opera House', 'Paddington Lace', 'Eighteen Footers', and 'Where Dead Men Lie'). Another Unit production, the 'Towards Baruya Manhood' series, has been a notable success in Paris this year, with the result that the director,  Mr Ian  Dunlop, was recently invited to present the films at the Smithsonian Institute in Washington. 
As for evidence of acceptance of television productions, I have also listed below for the honourable senator's information Australian Broadcasting Commission programs which have recently been sold overseas, and are currently being screened on television in quite a few countries throughout the World. 
AWARDS FOR COMMONWEALTH FILM UNIT PRODUCTIONS 
In period 1 January to 31 May 1973 
In the Bush' - Silver Medal, Flora and Fauna Section, 7th International Cinema Review 'Countries and Peoples', La Spezia, Italy. 
Time and Place' - Shared Award (replacing 2nd prize) with two other films. International Film Competition, Chur, Switzerland. 
Rooftopics' - Certificate of Creative Excellence, U.S. Industrial Film Festival, Chicago, U.S.A.: 6th Annual Gold Camera Awards. 
Where Dead Men Lie'- Gold Camera Award (First Place in History, Biography Category) U.S. Industrial Film Festival, Chicago U.S.A. Merit Award Certificate to Dean Semler, Short Films or Documentaries Category, 1973 A.C.S. Awards for Cinematography, Sydney, Australia. 
Water for a City' - Gold Camera Award (First Place in City, Urban Development Category) U.S. Industrial Film Festival, Chicago, U.S.A. 
Leisure and Entertainment' - Gold Tripod Award to John Hosking, Current Affairs and Documentary Programs (TV) 1973 A.C.S. Awards for Cinematography, Sydney, Australia. 
The Amazing Platypus' - Gold Tripod Award to John Shaw, 16mm Industrial, Scientific or P.R. Documentary Category, 1973 A.C.S. Awards for Cinematography, Sydney, Australia. 
AUSTRALIAN BROADCASTING COMMISSION OVERSEAS SALES 
Television 
United Kingdom 
Bellbird, 52 episodes x 15 mins - Thames 
Bellbird, 24 x 15- Thames 
Bellbird, 52 x 15- Southern TV 
Delta, 13 x 50- Thames 
Delta, 13 x 50- Yorkshire 
Delta, 13 x 50- Southern TV 
Wild Australia, 6 x 30 - BBC 
The Money Game, 1 x 50- BBC 
Rolf's Walkabout, 7 x 26- BBC 
Hongkong 
The Money Game, 1 x 50 
Delta, 23 x 50 
Wild Australia, 6 x 30 4 Corners Segment, 1 x 15 
Cricket: International Highlights Australia vs World 
Malaysia 
Wild Australia, 6 x 26 
Rolf's Walkabout, 7 x 30 
Delta, 23 x 50 
Singapore 
Wild Australia, 6 x 30 
The Art of Sailing, 26 x 10 
The Infinite Pacific, 1 x 50 
April is the End of Summer, 1 x 50 
Canada 
Lost People of Chowilla, 1 x 22 (Educational Telecasts - province of Ontario only) 
Pakistan 
Cricket: International Highlights Australia vs World, 5x60 
-On behalf of the 3 Australian Labor Party senators from Victoria I want to add my regrets at the passing of my very long-time friend, Arthur Calwell. I think that the history books will record Arthur Calwell as being one of the greatest Australians. He displayed his very great courage in relation to his firm belief, and the belief that I and many others hold, that young Australians should not be conscripted to fight in the Vietnam war. He lived to see those conscripts withdrawn from the conflict and to see the end of the Vietnam war for 
Australians. I can remember the great courage of this man in 1966 when all was lost for the Australian Labor Party because he stood on a principle. I was proud, as were many of us, to march with Arthur Calwell through the streets of Canberra, Melbourne and Sydney for the things in which he believed. He was a wonderful Australian who believed in putting before the Australian people the things that mattered as far as humans were concerned. I am sure that my colleagues from Victoria share my view that in Arthur Calwell we lost a great man of courage. The sympathy of the 3 Labor senators from Victoria goes to  Mrs Calwell  and Mary Elizabeth. 

 Senator TURNBULL ( Tasmania )I would like to add my support to the motion of condolence because Arthur Calwell was a great friend in both State and Federal politics. I rise to speak only because I feel that we should pause a moment to think about what would have happened if the few communist votes that went to the Liberal Party in the 1961 election had not been cast in that way. The Labor Party would have been in power and Arthur Calwell would have been Prime Minister. I believe that he would have been a great Prime Minister. It is regrettable in one respect, considering the catastrophic line of Prime Ministers we had after that time, that he was unfortunate in not gaining the Prime Ministership. However, I would like to add my personal condolences and support for the motion. 
Question resolved in the affirmative, honourable senators standing in their places. 
-Can the Minister representing the Minister for Supply advise me, firstly, when it is expected that the first Australian designed Nomad aircraft will be delivered and, secondly, what proportion of the total work load of the Government Aircraft Factories is at present devoted to Nomad production? 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Secondary Industry, upon notice: 
Is the United States of America exporting to Australia very large consignments of carpets made of synthetic fibres at prices far below the cost of production in Australia of similar products. 
Is a high percentage of this carpet banned by law in the United States of America for use in that country, because it is highly inflammable. 
What action is being takento protect the Australian carpet industry and the Australian public from this unfair competition and this inferior and dangerous product. 

 Senator WRIEDT- The answer to the honourable senator's question is as follows: 
Import clearance statistics show thatthe United States of America is a small exporter of carpet to Australia and in the nine months to March 1973 supplied about 4 per cent of Australian carpel imports. Import clearance statistics do not classify carpet imports according to the fibre used. 
The United States of America has prohibited the manufacture or sale of carpet which docs not comply with flammability standards. Carpets and rugs in inventory on 20 July 1971 and small carpets and rugs in inventory on 29 December 1971 were exempted from the flammability standards. 
The Department of Secondary Industry has investigated the matter but has found no evidence that inferior and dangerous carpets are being imported from the United States. The matter is also being investigated by the Department  of  Customs and Excise. There is provision in the Customs (Prohibited Imports) Regulations for the Minister for Customs and Excise to prohibit the importation of goods which, in his opinion, are of a dangerous character and a menace  to  the community. However, there are no flammability standards laid down for Australian carpets, although the Carpet Manufacturers' Federation is currently working on a draft safety code in conjunction with the Standards Association of Australia. 
 My question is addressed to the Minister for Customs and Excise. The Minister will remember that, on the occasions of earlier Budgets, manufacturers of excisable products endeavoured to avoid increases in duties by making abnormal clearances from bonds prior to the announcement of the Budget decisions. It has even been claimed that these savings were not passed on to the consumers but represented an excess profit to the manufacturers. 
Has the attention of the Minister for the Media been drawn to reports which indicate that the television program points system which came into effect last Sunday has made no difference to programming? Are there any indications that there have been favourable changes in the programming policies of the commercial stations? 
Does the Minister for the Media recall receiving representations from Councillor Tibbies of Casterton concerning the quality of television reception in the south-west area of Victoria? Does the Minister recall saying on that occasion that he would ask the Australian Broadcasting Control Board to inquire into reception conditions in this area? Can he now inform the Senate of the inquiries which have been made and what these inquiries have revealed? 
I did not intend to enter into this debate until I heard the remarks of  Senator Webster.  He said initially that there is no position of black and white in relation to the matter of capital punishment. But he has been on the black side ever since this debate started because he has consistently voted against all aspects of the Bill. He would kill any person for any crime in relation to which we are seeking to deny the State the right to carry out the death penalty.  Senator Webster  spoke about hijackers. It is true that this is a very heinous crime. But I challenge any honourable senator, particularly  Senator Webster,  to say that the persons who initiate the plans to carry out such a crime would be deterred by the fact that the Australian Commonwealth had provision for the death penalty to be carried out. There is no deterrent in relation to these crimes at all 'because in 99.9 per cent of cases the people concerned are operating at a terrorist level because of their attitude towards a government, and they believe they are doing some good by carrying out their hijacking. 
It is true that certain people hijack aircraft for ransom, but in my view the State does not have the right, in the cold calculated situation of a trial, to take that person's life because it does not contribute anything at all to society by so doing.  Senator Webster's  attitude is that he would kill them all.  His  attitude in this debate was clear. It was that it would not matter under what circumstances the crime was committed, he would kill the offender. I suggest that  Senator Webster  would make an ideal hangman. It makes me sick in my stomach to hear him say things that he said in this debate. Obviously, he would be the person to carry out the next act of capital punishment if it is ever carried out again in Australia. Tonight we are in a position to pass a Bill that will abolish the death penalty. Up until the time when  Senator Webster  rose to speak, the level of debate was very high. I respect the views of many honourable senators who have spoken in relation to this subject. Certainly, I do not respect a man who uses a situation involving one of our members who was a prisoner of war. That is an entirely different situation from trying a man before a jury, calculating the crime, and making a decision. Of course, there are situations in which persons have ben forced to take lives in self defence. But they would not have enjoyed it. They would not have done it at the calculated level of a court trial or in the manner that  Senator Webster  has indicated. I was trained to kill. I did not enjoy this at all. I came home from a war a pacifist because I had seen men die. 
They had not know what they were fighting for. I am still a pacifist. That is my attitude in relation to war and in relation to any trial that may take place in the courts of this country. I believe it is wrong for us to force the death penalty on persons as a mandatory punishment. A judge will have to impose that penalty, irrespective of what he may think in relation to the case of, for example, a hijacker. He is forced 'by law to put that black cap on his head and declare that a man shall be executed. All the circumstances associated with the minds of these persons are not taken into account. We will have a very twisted society if the views of  Senator Webster  are imposed on the laws of this country. 
asked the Minister for the Media, upon notice: 
What consideration has been given  to  the establishment of a satellite television coverage system to serve the whole of Australia. 

 Senator DOUGLAS McCLELLAND- I have discussed this matter with the  Chairman  of the Australian Broadcasting Control Board. In regard to the possible use of a satellite to bring television to remote areas of Australia, I should explain that a satellite may be employed for these services either by using direct satellite television broadcasts or by using the satellite to distribute television programs to remote terrestrial television transmitters. 
In the direct satellite television broadcasting method, television is received directly on a standard but high quality domestic television receiver. The television program is transmitted from an earth station to a satellite which amplifies the television radio signal and transmits it back to earth. This signal is picked up directly by a domestic television receiver as in the existing television system in Australia. The satellite may beam the television radio signal to cover the whole of the Australian continent. 
Direct satellite television broadcasting is not in use anywhere in the world today. It is the subject of a special United Nations Study group and the technical opinion of this group is that direct television broadcasting would not be viable before 1985. The Australian Post Office supports this view. However, the second method whereby television programs are distributed via a satellite to several remote terrestrial television transmitting stations is available with the present technology; in fact the Canadian domestic satellite system is at present utilising this method to provide television programs to small population groups in remote areas of Canada. A television program transmitted over a satellite link is picked up by a special television earth station receiver, and this program is fed into a terrestrial television transmitter for retransmission as in the normal terrestrial system. 
You may be interested to know that the Australian Post Office is investigating this latter distribution system in its current study program, and I understand that, subject to the studies confirming the case for a national telecommunications satellite system, it would be possible to bring into operation within about five years. The extent to which such a system could be used to extend television distribution to remote areas would, however, depend on a variety of economic and technical factors which have yet to be evaluated. 
I direct a question to the Minister for Customs and Excise. The Treasurer, in the course of his Budget Speech, mentioned that action was being taken to increase the dutiable content of certain bulk beer vessels. Has the attention of the Minister been drawn to reports in the daily Press, attributed to hotel and club sources, claiming that this will mean an increase in beer prices of lc to 2c per 10 oz glass? 
I support the Bill and I am pleased to note that honourable senators are interested in the work of the Public Works Committee and are taking an interest in this amendment. It is true that the Public Works Committee is probably one of the hardest working committees in this Parliament.  Senator Wright  pointed out in his speech that the Committee last year had 34 references - actually it had 35, but one does not make any great difference to the point I wish to make - and that this was 13 greater than for any previous year in the history of the sittings of the Committee. The Committee found the pressures which were exerted towards the end of last year very difficult to meet. We had 20-odd references in the last 3 months - that is, the last 3 calendar months, not the last 3 months of the financial year - before the House rose. This matter was discussed at the final meeting held by the previous Committee prior to it being disbanded before the then forthcoming elections. In the 35th general report of the Committee we made a recommendation to the incoming Committee which is now operative that the amount be the figure which  Senator Wright  has suggested in his amendment, namely $1.5m. It was thought at that time that the figure should be doubled from the then figure of $750,000. The Government has examined this recommendation and has put up a number of arguments as to why it should be increased by a further $500,000, and this did disturb members of the Committee. I shall be frank about this. We discussed it carefully and some members of the Committee were opposed in principle to any increase at all; in fact, the very correct point of view was submitted to us that there should be no minimal level for public works and that all public works should attract scrutiny. I suppose this would be the ideal position. There is no magical concept in the figures of $2m, $1.5m or $400,000. 
We examined this position and put up certain submissions which we hope will be helpful. One was that all members whose electorates are within an area in which public works will be examined will be advised well in advance that the Committee has such a reference; they will be advised as to the type of reference and we will then be in a position to get comments from the local member about his own views and those of the people in the area. As honourable senators well know there is a provision in the Public Works Act that all public works should 'be examined if they have been specifically referred to the Committee by the Cabinet and through the normal processes. That does apply and we would hope that all members will take an interest in the projects that will be projected into the areas in which they serve the people. If there is a problem about a project we hope that they will ask the Cabinet, and in effect, the Government to refer the matter to the Public Works Committee irrespective of whether 'he cost is more than $2m or well under that figure. 

 Senator Wright, as a former Minister for Works, may have some knowledge of the concern which has been expressed by some members of the Committee relative to projects that are conducted in stages. Some of these projects involve the expenditure of immense sums of money but the expenditure on each stage is lower than the mandatory limit. Some very important projects have not received the scrutiny of the Committee because the expenditure on each stage of those projects has been much less than the total cost of the job. If a project which is to be undertaken over 2 or 3 stages involves a total expenditure above the mandatory limit, 1 think it should be examined by the Committee. 
It is a matter of satisfaction to me that there is a healthy interest in public hearings of the Committee. There is perhaps a greater interest now than ever before. I think that is because we pay more regard now to the impact on the environment of many projects contemplated by the Commonwealth. We find now that a large number of citizens in some areas - in particular the Northern Territory - are submitting evidence to the Committee in relation to certain projects. This has resulted in an extra work load on the Committee in relation to the references it has been undertaking under the old figure. We also have the situation that as from 1 July environmental impact studies have to be presented in relation to all projects, which means that a closer examination has to be undertaken by the Committee. It was at one stage suggested that the Committee should also carry out the actual environmental impact studies. That is a matter which has yet to be decided. I think that the environmental impact studies should be taken up at a different level from that of the inspection and examination of projects by the Committee. If the Committee were to undertake these studies it would find it almost impossible to meet the work schedule laid down for it. Many aspects are involved in the making of a decision as to increasing the mandatory limit to $2m. 
The matter which has been raised in relation to statutory authorities is also something which needs a great deal of consideration. I think we should give the matter a great deal of consideration before we include statutory authorities in the area of inspection and consideration by the Committee. On the one hand  Senator Wright  has sought to reduce the mandatory limit to $1.5m and on the other he has sought to increase the Committee's work, load by requiring it to perform certain duties in relation to statutory authorities. I do not know how the Committee would be able to meet all of its commitments in that respect and still do a thorough job. 
I believe that the most important function of the Committee is to undertake a thorough examination of all projects. It should not be required to short-circuit its examination of a project because of the time factor. If the Committee were required to undertake these additional duties the standard of work for which it has been noted ever since its inception may slip. That is something we can ill afford. I think any person who has ever been a member of the Committee is entitled to feel very proud of its record over the years it has been in operation. It is really the only Committee which has a positive role to play in the sense that it makes a decision that is carried through by a decision of the House of Representatives. All other committees have to make recommendations. As we know, many of those recommendations, after hours and months and in some cases years of hard work, are not adopted. The Public Works Committee does not play a positive role in relation to the matters it exmines. 
I think it is well known that the Committee's decisions always have been taken on the basis of the opinions of the majority of members of the Committee and never at a political level. For instance, at a recent hearing mine was the only minority voice in relation to a matter the Committee was discussing. That is the basis upon which the Committee has always operated. That is the only way in which the Committee can operate. I can recall a number of occasions on which two members of the Committee who expressed a minority opinion were from different political parties. I believe that this type of operation will continue. 
I think that many projects have to be examined in depth because of the new factor of their impact on the environment. One of the most interesting exercises the Committee undertook was in relation to the HMAS Stirling naval base on Garden Island in Western Australia. The Committee spent 3 days in Perth taking evidence from members of the public and various departments. When the Committee first met to consider this project the Department of the Navy said that it required the whole of the Island for its operations and wanted the whole of the Island to be completely closed off to the public. After hearing evidence from various departments and the representatives of various organisations in Western Australia - yacht clubs, environment organisations, bush walkers and others - the Committee was able to reach a decision, with the co-operation of the Department of the Navy, whereby three-quarters of that lovely Island would still remain available for public use. The Committee was able to make this very satisfactory decision as a result of a very close in-depth examination. It set aside sufficient time for its sittings in Perth to enable it to hear everybody fully and to cross-examine them fully. I do not want to see the situation arise in which the Committee is so overloaded with work that it will be unable fully to examine the proposals before it. 
I admit that at the time the Public Works Committee examined the proposal to increase the mandatory limit for works considered by it to $2m I was very much in favour of the limit being increased only to $1.5m. Indeed I, as were the other members of the Committee, was very sorry and indeed disappointed that the work load of the Committee had come to such a stage that it had to recommend that there be any increase at all. Earlier in my remarks I gave the reasons for it recommending the increase. I hope that this Bill will be passed in its present state. By all means let us examine the matter raised in relation to statutory authorities and let us have a proper look at where we are going in relation to them before we put on the Committee an increased work load that it does not quite know how it is going to handle. I hope the Bill will be carried in its present form. 
 I address a question to the Minister for Customs and Excise. By way of preface I refer to an article headed 'Customs 
Computer Checks' in last night's edition of the Sydney 'Sun' newspaper. Is it true that the Department of Customs and Excise intends to use a computer to check on passengers entering Australia? Will the Department maintain detailed records of persons travelling to and from Australia? 
I think that this amendment is a little futuristic. I agree with many of the arguments which have been put up in favour of an examination of some of the statutory corporation projects but I think it is unfair at this stage suddenly to place this burden on the Parliamentary Joint Committee on Public Works when it - is proposed to establish a committee to examine the whole system of committees as  Senator Willesee  pointed out last night. I agree that many projects in the Australian Capital Territory undertaken in the past by the National Capital Development Commission could well have been looked at by the Works Committee. I agree that Commonwealth funds are being spent without supervision. But I think that we should be entitled to have a complete examination of the operations of the committees and to look at the feasibility of these projects by statutory authorities being referred at this stage to the Works Committee under its present structure. We should have some guidelines for the Committee. 
I and many other honourable senators know the work which is being carried out by the Committee as it is presently constituted. There are some arguments in favour of splitting the Committee into various areas of responsibility. For instance two or three committees could work as sub-committees and then finally the Committee, meeting as a whole, could consider the report on a project As far as I can see there are a lot of objections to that procedure. I think that the Government should be given an opportunity to examine the whole concept not only of the Public "Works Committee as it now stands but also of projects undertaken by corporations which exist. I think it has been suggested that there are between 50 and 60 corporations at the present time. In all seriousness I suggest that, if there were one project a year from half those statutory corporations with an expenditure in excess of $2m, then at the present time the Committee could not handle that weight of work because of the work which is imposed on honourable senators in this Senate and in their State. An honourable senator could not attend all the hearings on matters referred to the Committee. I think it is premature for this amendment to be imposed on us at this stage. 
If this amendment is so urgent, perhaps  Senator Wright  when he was Minister for Works last year should have submitted it as an amendment to the Public Works Committee Act at that time. I am sure that he thought the same then as he thinks now. I repeat that I agree with many of the arguments which have been put before the Senate in relation to some control of the corporations by the Parliament. I do not dispute that at all. I think it is absolutely correct that this should happen. Whilst I think that the concept of the Australian Capital Territory is a good one, I think there are many things which have happened in the Australian Capital Territory which required and should have had the scrutiny of the Public Works Committee. For instance, under the present set-up we as a committee probably would not be able to examine the construction of a new and permanent parliament house if it were built under the NCDC concept. I agree that something has to be done. But I think that we should defer this amendment until a properana thorough examination is made of the committee system as a whole. Today a resolution has been tabled in this Senate for that purpose. 
We should obtain guidelines which will work. If we do not do this we will have an overloading of the Committee under the present Act. I think that other amendments to the Act would be required simultaneously with the amendment that is now before, the Senate for it to be even workable in the present position. I hope the amendment is defeated without me, in my position as a member of the Committee, saying that we should not have that responsibility. We have to find an answer to this situation but the answer is not this amendment at this time. The answer is a thorough examination of the position and then a proper, well considered amendment or amendments, if necessary, to the Public Works Committee Act so that these authorities come within the scrutiny of a committee of this Parliament. I hope that this will be the decision of the Senate this afternoon. 
My question is addressed to the Minister for Primary Industry. By way of preface I point out that the fishing industry throughout Australia is under the impression that the recent meeting of the Australian Fisheries Council discussed the question of financial assistance for the industry. In view of the world-wide demand for protein and the high cost of equipment to the fishing industry can the Minister give any indication as to whether special financial assistance might be forthcoming for the industry? 
-It should apply to Portugal, it should apply to Spain and it should apply to Chile. 
-Anywhere at all where this kind of thing happens. 
-Oh, come now. One of the greatest tragedies is that a great nation like the United States of America has been able to move into other countries, particularly in South America, in order to create revolution, the destruction of human beings and the assassination of persons who have been elected to leadership. They have been able to do this even in Vietnamand yet we find this holier than thou attitude in relation to one isolated case that  Senator Hannan  chooses to raise tonight. Let us put it on the line. If we are going to have this purity which 

 Senator Hannan has discovered so belated in his term in this House, let him get up at some stage and go through the whole ambit of what is happening in the world in relation to the great powers- and not isolated to one great power only. I think that if the record was examined and the truth told we would readily find that the CIA and the intervention of the United States of America in many countries throughout the world have been more devastating than the case which  Senator Hannan  has raised on the adjournment tonight. 
My question is directed to the Minister for the Media. Is the Minister aware that there is a very strong public demand in Victoria for the finals of the best game of football in Australia- Australian Rules- to be televised directly to Victorian viewers? Will he use his good offices to try to convince the Victorian Football League that the finals should be televised, particularly in view of the fact that all final matches are sell-outs? 

 Senator DOUGLAS McCLELLANDComing as I do from New South Wales, I certainly will not agree with the honourable senator's statement that Australian Rules is the best game of football in Australia. Nonetheless, I appreciate the honourable senator's concern about this matter and realise that it is a source of concern to thousands of people who are unable to buy tickets to watch these matches or who are unable to get to Melbourne when they are on. I point out to the honourable senator who has spoken to me about this sort of thing from time to time that television stations at some time or another have expressed interest in the possibility of a live telecast of football finals. In fact, every year for a number of years the Australian Broadcasting Commission has attempted to negotiate television rights to telecast the final. The position simply is that the Victorian Football League will not agree to any such proposal whether it comes from the Australian Broadcasting Commission or from commercial stations. I think that the Victorian Football League has agreed that stations may have the right to telecast major matches throughout the year if they are replayed on a delayed basis and if they are not telecast live or direct. So the fault does not lie with the Australian Broadcasting Commission or with the commercial television stations; it is the responsibility purely of the VFL. 
-Is the Attorney-General aware that the Victorian Council for the Single Mother and  Her  Child is seeking removal of all legal discrimination against illegitimate children? I am aware that the Government is negotiating with the States on this matter; but, in view of the considerable length of time during which these negotiations have gone on, can he give an assurance that in laws passed by the national Parliament all discrimination will be removed? 
-Has the attention of the Minister for the Media been drawn to an article which appeared in today's issue of a Melbourne newspaper to the effect that the Victorian Trades Hall Council will have discussions with the Victorian Football League about the direct televising of the Victorian Australian Rules grand final in that State? Can the Minister advise me whether there have been any further discussions between the Australian Broadcasting Commission and the Victorian Football League concerning the televising of this game? If not, will the Minister ascertain whether any talks have taken place and advise me of the results of those talks? 

 Senator DOUGLAS McCLELLANDSenator Poyser raised this matter with me one day last week at question time and on that occasion I pointed out to him that the responsibility for the Victorian Football League grand final not being telecast would rest purely and squarely on the shoulders of the Victorian Football League. I can tell the honourable senator that, if the Victorian Football League is prepared to allow the Australian Broadcasting Commission to telecast the game, the Commission will be very happy to do so. I do not know whether any further negotiations have been going on; but I will check with the General Manager of the Commission and advise the honourable senator accordingly. 
My question which I direct to the Minister for the Media follows a question which I asked yesterday in relation to the televising of the Victorian Football League final. I believe that yesterday  Mr Mccutcheon,  Secretary of the Victorian Football League, met the Victorian Trades Hall Council to discuss the possibility of televising next Saturday's Victorian Football League final. What is the current stage of negotiation on the televising of this important sporting event? 
-Does the AttorneyGeneral recall a question I asked last week concerning the removal from the Commonwealth law of any references to the illegitimacy of children? On that occasion the Minister indicated that he would obtain any further information available concerning this matter. Has the Minister any information as to when legislation along the lines referred to above will be implemented? 
I ask a question of  Senator Murphy  in his capacity as Minister for Customs and Excise. Last week the Minister indicated that he would advise the Senate of the result of certain checks carried out by Customs officers in relation to pre-Budget clearances of high duty goods. I ask the Minister whether he has yet the results of these inquiries. 
I want to speak in relation to the matters raised by  Senator Durack.  I could not agree with him more completely than I do in relation to the freedom of speech. I have always spoken very strongly in favour of the freedom of speech of honourable senators. But  Senator Durack  and  Senator Greenwood  have extremely short memories. I can remember the ruthless use of the gag in the Senate when Government senators were on the Opposition side of the Senate. On one occasion, one of the most important pieces of legislation ever to come before the Senate was being debated. Honourable senators opposite were trying to grind the workers of this country into the ground under a vicious Conciliation and Arbitration Bill. Honourable senators opposite gagged through clause after clause of that Bill. They did not allow honourable senators in the Opposition to speak on them. They kept us here all night until 7 o'clock in the morning to force through that legislation before the session of the Parliament closed and refused to allow an extra week for the sitting of the Parliament to allow that debate to take place. It proves to me that honourable senators opposite are like the drover's dog. They can give it but they cannot take it. This is the situation we face at the moment. Honourable senators opposite were dominant for 23 long years. For far too many years they formed the Government of this country. They took ruthless action in another place. 

 Mr President, you will recall that some 2 years ago they gave the Opposition exactly 1 5 minutes in which to approve the handing out of over $4m to an industry in Victoria and New South Wales to get it out of trouble. That trouble was caused by their own mismanagement. They gave out that $4m in 15 minutes flat and would not even allow the Opposition to move amendments in the commitee stage of the consideration of the Bill. They have given it out. On this one occasion since we have become the Government we have replied in kind in the Senate. We hear honourable senators opposite squawking and squealing about democracy. No one ever heard about a democratic system of parliament when honourable senators opposite were in power. They ruthlessly used their numbers on all occasions on which it suited them. Now they have to cop it and they cannot take it. They are crying in their handkerchiefs. 
They are doing this for 2 reasons: They are still not used to the fact that they are in Opposition. It has been a tremendous shock.  Senator Greenwood  surfaces every now and then and says a few words. Then he does back into his state of shock again. He just cannot understand that he is not throwing boys into gaol because they would not fight in Vietnam. He cannot understand that he is not able to continue to chase little old ladies on Christmas Day, searching their houses to see whether their sons have come home to see them. He had a great team of policemen outside the house. Then, he would be trying to throw some lad into gaol because he stood for a great principle for which members of the Labor Party also stand. It makes me sick in the stomach to see a person like this talking about democracy. You gave the kids no chance. You did not give them a vote but you sent them to war. 
He has been attempting to interject a great deal. In between his spasms of shock he has been putting in his few words. Honourable senators opposite are in a state of shock. I did not enjoy the situation that developed today. I have spoken in the Senate on such matters before. I did not enjoy seeing the situation develop in which we did not have time to debate fully the things that we should have debated. But I voted for the gag because we saw the filibuster in which honourable senators opposite were trying to engage. We had a long debate in the Committee stage in relation to the title of the Bill. That had nothing at all to do with what was contained in the Bill. 
-I certainly am. 
What happened during the 20 years when honourable senators opposite formed the Government has happened once in their period in Opposition. Honourable senators opposite are squeaking and squawking as though it happens every day. I hope they will learn their lesson about democracy and will ensure that real democratic processes are observed in this House. 
We have 461 standing orders and I certainly agree that the whole thing should be reviewed. There are many contradictions in the Standing Orders. One can find a standing order that can suit ones own purpose at any time. 
That is true, as I was going to say. Irrespective of how many standing orders there are, this Senate is its own master; it makes its own decisions. If the numbers are against you, you have lost; if they are for you, you have won and we have lost more times than we have won. 
Is the Minister representing the Minister for Transport aware that the traffic laws now operating in Victoria are causing chaos among motorists and other road users? Will the Minister request the Minister for 
Transport to convene a meeting of the appropriate State Ministers to endeavour to have instituted a complete uniform code of traffic laws for the whole of Australia? 
In accordance with the provisions of the Public Works Committee Act 1969-1972, 1 present the report relating to the following proposed work: 
Engineering Services, Malak and Karama Neighbourhoods, Sanderson District, Darwin, Northern Territory. 
-Is it a fact that the Minister for Primary Industry had an opportunity on Friday last to inspect a lot feeding beef industry at Charlton, Victoria? Does he consider that there is a future for this industry and that it will be a viable operation? 
I support the proposal that has been submitted by my Leader. If we think in terms of the sitting hours of the Senate and those of the House of Representatives also, we will see that the hours that are set down now were based on the Parliament as it existed at the turn of the century when it was initiated- that is, on starting in the late afternoon and sitting through until the early hours of the morning- because in those days the persons who were serving in the Parliament were, in the main, persons who earned their living in another area. They were not full-time members of Parliament. I can recall from my reading of the history of this country that the Labor Party initially collected money from individuals to pay a salary to the member who sat in the Federal Parliament so that he could exist. 
The system of starting at 4 or 5 o'clock in the afternoon, as it was then, and working through until 1 or 2 a.m. is exactly the system that operates now at the municipal council level, where persons are earning their living in another area and they fit the sitting hours of their organisation, whether it be a parliament or a municipal council, into the times they normally have to spare. I think we have to look at this situation in a practical manner. We may decide that some revolutionary changes are required in relation to the sittings of the Senate. I believe, for instance, that a system could be devised by which the Senate would meet early in the morning and finish at 5 o'clock in the afternoon. Meetings of party committees or Caucus committees could be held in the evening. Such an approach, I think, would be far more sensible than the system that we have at present. ^ 
Every member of this Senate agrees, and agrees conclusively, that one cannot burn the candle at both ends. This is what is happening at present. The Opposition is arguing about only one hour or 2 hours that are involved. I think the argument that it is putting forward is proposed on that basis. What we are saying in effect is that, instead of having a dinner break of 2.25 hours, we will reduce the dinner adjournment to one hour. If an honourable senator has guests and requires a little longer for the evening break, there is nothing wrong with going to the dining room a little earlier than the proposed time of adjournment, with the proviso that that honourable senator will answer the call if the division bells ring. We should use some common sense and adopt some of the procedures that are followed by other parliaments in the world. Some parliaments do not have a dinner break at all. Certain rules- admittedly they are unwritten rules- are observed. In those parliaments unless divisions are to be held in relation to a Bill quorums are not called. In the 2-hour period allotted for the meal break, members are not called to the parliamentary chamber unless this is absolutely necessary. 
The House of Commons in London operates continuously. Long breaks for meals are not taken. Debates continue through meal times. The British House of Commons follows a more sophisticated system than we have here. Proceedings are televised on closed circuit sets to the public areas of the Parliament Members are able to observe visually what is actually occurring in the chamber. We must modernise our thinking in many areas including the waste of time that results from our method of counting divisions. The old ritual goes back to the English parliamentary system whereby the individual vote of each member is counted. The counting of each division takes up to 7 minutes or 8 minutes. This is the situation here. Other parliaments have systems by which this time consuming operation is eliminated. We must live with the present. We must live with the knowledge of the medical advice that many of us receive to the effect that we are going at it too hard. We all are. 
What is the situation faced by honourable senators when they leave Canberra on Friday morning? They go to their offices as quickly as they can to catch up on the work that has built up in the course of the parliamentary sitting week. I would venture to say that there would not be 2 senators who would not have commitments on at least 3 out of every 4 Friday nights. Friday evening seems to be the most popular time for people to want senators to meet commitments. Perhaps some honourable senators may get a weekend off. I get very few. Honourable senators then must be back on a plane on Sunday night or early Monday morning to return to Canberra as many of our committees meet on Mondays. 
-Of course it is all part of the job. I am not disputing that fact. I am not saying that we should not be doing this work. But we must consider whether we should cut down the period actually spent in sitting in this chamber. 
I have been a senator for 7 years. Admittedly that is not a very long time. On all the occasions when the hours of sitting have been extended, not much more legislation has been passed in those additional sitting hours, particularly on a Wednesday, because the opportunity is taken for senators to speak longer and more senators rise to speak. I commend the Opposition in one respect in relation to our proceedings. If the Opposition does not oppose legislation it will not waste the time of the Senate in talking on that legislation. This attitude is most commendable. Legislation which is not being opposed is passed quickly. When we were in Opposition we may have been at fault in this respect in that we did talk for perhaps a little too long on matters that we were not opposing. 
I think that far greater co-operation could exist in the Senate particularly with respect to the committee stages of Bills. I refer to those occasions when 2 individuals decide to have a long argument about certain clauses of a Bill in the committee stage. An honourable senator should be able to make his point- the Senate exists for that purpose- but honourable senators then should not get into long arguments, particularly between 2 individuals, because neither will decide the issue as we all know where the numbers are at that stage. We know what the result will be when the vote is taken. I believe that quite a deal of time could be saved in this area. This could be achieved without unjustly denying the rights of honourable senators who may wish to express their point of view. As the Leader of the Government in the Senate  (Senator Murphy)  indicated, this proposal basically is for a trial period. If the new sitting hours are not successful we will need to look again at our sitting hours. Let us consider this proposal to see whether by what is proposed we can act as sane, sensible people. Let the Senate operate under these new hours. This is a time of experimentation in this area. Let us see whether we can avoid the breakdowns which have occurred in the past, in recent weeks and which surely will occur in the future if action is not taken on a practical basis. 

 Senator Sir KENNETH ANDERSON (New South Wales) (3.31)- I rise to speak ever so briefly on this motion as I feel an obligation to give some explanation of the fact that I will vote against the motion. By an odd quirk of fate I find that  Senator Poyser  has said many things with which I completely agree. But he made other comments which are a complete justification for my opposing this proposal. I believe that an overwhelming case exists- I have not been hesitant in stating this belief to honourable senators of all parties- for a review of the sitting hours of the Senate. We all know- perhaps I know better than most people- of the tremendous burden placed on members of the Ministry in the Senate. At present 6 Ministers represent 27 portfolios. In my time, 5 Ministers represented that number of portfolios. The short answer to the problem presented by that situation is that it is physically impossible for any Senate Ministers to sustain their health. The same remarks apply equally to the Leader of the Opposition. There is a case for review of sitting hours.  Senator McManus  said that he felt that we would bear this decision with fortitude. I added in an undertone: 'And with pious resignation'. It is quite obvious that the motion will be carried. 
To me the motion in itself justifies its defeat. The motion proposes that on Tuesdays the Senate should sit from 2 p.m. to 7 p.m. On Wednesday, the existing procedure will be followed because the proceedings are being broadcast. Therefore, we are bending our knee to the mighty microphone. We do not necessarily need to do this. This is a regrettable aspect of our parliamentary procedures. This is not to say that I do not agree with broadcasting of our parliamentary debates, but I do not think that because a period for broadcasting of our proceedings till 1 1 p.m. is available we must therefore sit to 1 1 p.m. on that day. The. motion proposes that on Thursdays the sitting hours should be from 1 1 a.m. to 1 p.m. and from 2 p.m. to 7 p.m. 
I say that an overwhelming case exists for the re-examination of our sitting hours. But, for the life of me, I cannot see any logic in the proposed exercise of adjourning at 7 p.m. At that time, if  Senator Mulvihill  or some other spirited honourable senator does not wish to speak on the adjournment the Senate will rise and we will go to dinner. If honourable senators hurry and everything goes according to plan they will probably be free again at 8. 1 5. 
My objection is this: The Government is taking piecemeal action. It is picking out one aspect in isolation. Honourable senators opposite say: We are going to play around with the sitting hours. If what is proposed in this motion does not work out we will do the exercise again.' My 20 years experience in this place tells me that if action is taken on one occasion in the course of a session to change sitting hours it will be pretty hard to change what has been agreed upon for a long time. The whole framework of our parliamentary procedures should be considered. In my view an overwhelming case exists for some streamlining of those procedures. 

 Senator Poyser referred to the procedure in relation to divisions. The parliaments of other countries are using electronic systems for recording divisions. Perhaps we could use such a system for counting divisions in this place. At present, when the heat is on and one side or the other is continually calling for divisions, one could sit in this place on one's bumdoon, if you like to call it that, for a couple of hours in the day while the bells are ringing and the names are being recorded. That is a waste of time. 
The second point I want to make is that the part of the Standing Orders relating to speaking times should be looked at. I remember that last year we had some spirited debates on this aspect. I am convinced that there is an overwhelming case for the adjustment of speaking times. 
We should all understand that we have moved into the committee concept. This concept is part of a world pattern in parliamentary government. I have been attending a conference of the Interparliamentary Union, and I leave on Sunday to go back to it. We are to talk about the new development of parliamentary procedures in the democratic concept. We shall discuss this need in regard to not only the plenary sessions but also committees by which we can draw knowledge from the executive of our democratic processes. We have to make provision for such a system in this Parliament. 
I do not suggest that the proposed hours of sitting will make a contribution to the committee system because no one can convince me that we shall get very effective work performed by committees late on Tuesday and Thursday nights if the Senate is to adjourn at 7 p.m. or 7.30 p.m. on those nights. We are living in Australia at a time when more and more demands are being placed on government. If we go on the way that we have been, we shall find that the probability of a deterioration in the health of honourable senators and members in the other place will increase. I am prepared at some stage or other to look at a variation of hours because I believe that this is needed, but I do not accept that the proposal now before us has been thought out enough. It has not been given proper, detailed consideration. I believe that the whole situation should be looked at in totality and not separately as is the case in regard to the suggestion that we should adjourn at 7 p.m. on Tuesday and Thursday nights. The whole machinery and set of procedures that we have adopted should be revised and brought into line with modern concepts and standards so that we can give more effective service to the people of Australia. 
My question is addressed to the Minister for the Media as the Minister responsible for the establishment and maintenance of standards in advertising. Has the Minister seen an advertisement placed in the 'Australian' of 4 October by the Liberal Party, headed 'Every extra public servant costs you money', and referring to the growth of the Public Service? In view of the fact that the graph which appears in that advertisement is completely lacking in detail will the Minister inform the Senate whether this advertisement meets the standards for truth in advertising which would normally be expected of a supposedly respectable organisation, or is it misleading? The advertisement states that the Liberal Party pegged the rate of growth of the Public Service at 3 per cent. Is this misleading? Will the Minister undertake to have this matter investigated and the true position stated clearly for all to understand? 
My question is addressed to the Minister for the Media. Is it true that the commercial television networks Channel 9 and Channel 7 have refused to send news teams to cover the Prime Minister's trip to Japan and China? Is he aware that this is a result of an agreement between  Sir Frank  Packer of the Channel 9 network and  Mr Rupert  Henderson of Channel 7? Does it appear that the motives for this refusal to cover this historic and important event are politically motivated and that, once again, the barons of commercial television are denying their viewers the opportunity to see an in-depth coverage of an important occasion purely because they are committed to supporting the Liberal Party? Are they again misusing their licences to push their own political beliefs and to stop the Australian people witnessing the triumphs of this Labor Government? 
I will be very brief. I have never been admitted to the Bar as  Senator Wright  has, but my limited knowledge of the law tells me that at the present time there are not criminal sanctions for restrictive trade practices except against the consumers in the community. This is the present position. Long before I came into the Senate members of this Parliament were playing around with the restrictive trade practices.  Sir Garfield  Barwick introduced legislation into this Parliament but he was not allowed to submit it to the Parliament for decision. Subsequently, the very fact that he wanted to submit such legislation caused him to be kicked upstairs into the High Court. 
We are in a situation tonight where honourable senators  opposite  are denying this Parliament an opportunity to debate a very important question, although 4 weeks notice of it has been given and the Leader of the Government in the Senate  (Senator Murphy)  said that a further 4 weeks notice could be given. I think that the matter was summed up by  Senator Webster  earlier this evening when he expressed his opinion to this chamber. He said that the consumer- and I want honourable senators to note this very carefully- and the very important commercial sector of this country are introduced in this Bill.  Senator Webster  has no real desire to help the consumer. The only people he wants to help are those in the very important commercial sector. Of course, this is why the delaying tactics are being adopted so the pressures can go on, so the lobbying can go on and so the money from certain organisations will flow into party funds to ensure that this legislation is not carried in this chamber. Tonight we are being denied the right to carry legislation for which the Australian people gave us a mandate in December of last year. 
The mandate is not dead and buried. It is exactly defined in the policy speech made by the now Prime Minister before he won the last election. The Opposition is saying that after 10 months of government it still needs another 5 months to examine the legislation that it was told would be implemented by this Parliament. What the Opposition is in fact doing is denying the people of this country the right to have a Trade Practices Act which would have teeth. The Opposition wants the operations to continue as they are for at least another 6 months. Then it will come in here and, if the numbers are the same as they are now, it will vote to reject the legislation anyway. Why does the Opposition not have the courage to do this now? Why does it not have the courage to debate this legislation and move amendments during the Committee stage to amend the Act in the way that it thinks it should be framed? The Opposition can make the Act a toothless tiger if it likes but it should have the courage to do so instead of wasting our time all along the line as it is doing now. 

 Senator Webster put the most pitiful case I have ever heard in my life in relation to this matter because he is not concerned with the' consumer in the street. He never has been. He indicated that once he worked hard, and I would have liked to see the day. He has been an employer far longer than he has ever been an employee. He said proudly that he had a union ticket on one occasion. I would have liked to see how he observed the union rules. No honourable senator opposite, with the exception perhaps of one or two honourable senators who have some conscience, are interested at all in the consumers of this country. Honourable senators opposite are not interested in seeing that people who are creating rackets in relation to prices come under some trade practice control.  Senator Webster  has used the phrase- and this has been repeated time and time again to me- 'commercial sections of the community'. Of course, these sections are fighting to see that this Bill does not see the light of day. They are fighting to see that the Bill is put off and put off. Members of the Opposition are in an invidious position. They do not have the courage to vote against this legislation. They do not have the courage to debate the legislation. All they . want to do is to put off until tomorrow what should be done today in the interests of this nation. I hope that the amendment moved by  Senator Murphy  is carried. 
Further to my question of yesterday I ask the Minister for the Media whether he has any further information on what coverage television stations will give to the Prime Minister's visit to China and Japan? 
-Has the Minister for Primary Industry seen reports in this morning's Press that  Mr Noel  Hogan,  President  of the Australian Farmers Federation, has claimed that farmers have been fooled and deluded by the Country Party and that he has declared himself in opposition to the Country Party's stand against the Industries Assistance Commission? Where do Australian farmers stand on the establishment of the Commission? 
My question is directed to you,  Mr President.  You are no doubt aware of the decision taken in another place yesterday to request a joint meeting of both Houses to decide the site of the new and permanent Parliament House. As the Senate carried a similar motion during the life of the last Parliament, can such a meeting be convened now or does it first require further consideration by the Senate? 
My question is directed to the Minister for Primary Industry. Is it a fact that Opposition senators are feeling frustrated and incompetent because of the success of the present Government in obtaining substantial long term contracts for the sale of primary products? Is it a fact that many of the contracts negotiated by the present Government were considered by the previous Government to be virtually impossible to obtain? 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Labour. Is it a fact that because of the number of persons thrown out of work as a result of the previous Government's fiscal policies lost man hours far exceeded the man hours lost by industrial disputes which have occurred in recent months? Is it a fact that many of these persons were on the dole for many weeks and, indeed, in some cases for many months? Has this Government by its policies created a situation in which full employment has been virtually attained and in which the number of job vacancies at the moment exceeds the number of people registered as unemployed? 
I  preface my question to the Minister for Customs and Excise by saying that newspaper reports over the weekend indicated that two customs officers were involved in the seizure of a large quantity of drugs in Sydney. Can the Minister advise whether those officers were members of the Department's antinarcotics teams? 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Transport the following question without notice on 27 September 1 973: 
Is the Minister aware that the traffic laws now operating in Victoria are causing chaos among motorists and other road users? Will the Minister request the Minister for Transport to convene a meeting of the appropriate State Ministers to endeavour to have instituted a complete uniform code of traffic laws for the whole of Australia? 
-I .fer the Minister representing the Minister for the Environment and Conservation to a report which appeared in a recent edition of the Melbourne 'Age' which claims that the Minister for the Environment and Conservation and the Minister for Minerals and Energy are on a collision course over the proposal to establish a uranium enrichment plant in Australia. I ask the Minister whether there is any truth in this report and whether, as the 'Age' states, the Department of the Environment and Conservation will be preparing an environmental impact study on the project. 
I support the motion moved by  Senator Murphy  which, in fact, agrees with the message which has been sent to us from another place. I think that far too much emphasis has been placed today on constitutional difficulties. I think that they have been drawn across the track deliberately to try to avoid what I understand would be a meeting without great formality but which would give a clear guidance or indication to the Executive in relation to a site acceptable to the majority of members for the new and permanent parliament house. I am a Capital Hill supporter, but I would accept the position of Camp Hill if such a decision were made because of the great urgency to do something today. I feel that we have to do something of this nature. There are no problems which cannot be overcome according to the very learned discussion we have had from both  Senator Cavanagh  and  Senator Wright  in relation to the Standing Orders. I do not believe that the Standing Orders are relevant to the position as we see it and as this message from the House of Representatives has been given to us. 
We, in our wisdom in 1969- and this is the emphasis which I want to make- by a majority of the Senate sought such a meeting. It is now 1973 and finally a similiar message has come from the House of Representatives. It virtually agrees to our original proposition. But it could not be done in that form because a new Parliament exists at this time. The matter was left on the notice paper over in the other place for a long time but it was removed before Parliament was prorogued before the last election. It is interesting to have a look at some of the background to the desire of the Australian Government to have a proper place to meet. It goes right back into the early history of federation. I was interested to obtain a copy of a meeting of the Parliamentary 
Committee on Public Works held on 22 May 1923. The witness was Walter Burley Griffin, architect. He was sworn and examined. In his opening remarks he stated: 
I have not had an opportunity of seeing the draft plans prepared in connection with the provisional Parliament House and administrative offices at Canberra. In my opinion it would be preferable, from every point of view, to proceed with the erection of the nucleus of the permanent building. It would be possible to erect the nucleus of the permanent building within 3 years. The Government called a competition in June 1914, and again in August 1916, requesting the architects of the world to formulate their plans and register their acquiescence in the arrangements. 
This was in 1923 which is almost 10 years after the first competition was called and almost 8 years after the second competition was called. That competition was never judged. If honourable senators read through the whole of this document which I have in my hand they will see that the government of that day completely repudiated the competition which it had established. Burley Griffin in the strongest possible terms takes the government to task in the evidence which he submitted to the Public Works Committee. It is interesting to go on a little further and find that 210 architects entered for the previous competitions. I believe that this is relevant. It might not seem to be relevant to the message which we have received from the House of Representatives but section (c) of that message states: 
planning for the new House should commence immediately. 
That is part of the message we are being asked to support today. We go on into the report of this meeting and into the history of this matter and we find that we in this parliament are walking around a budding which should never have been built in the first place. Burley Griffin goes on to indicate that it would have cost a maximum of 1 5 per cent more to have built the permanent parliament house then. 
He was in favour of Kurrajong Hill- that is Capital Hill- completely because as he stated in his evidence: 
It is not beyond the capacity or the brains of the architects to design a building of symmetrical architecture for erection on Kurrajong Hill as a Parliament House . . . 
He says this quite clearly, although he had a strong favour for Camp Hill. He did not rule it out.  His  initial idea was to put on Kurrajong Hill- as it was called then- which is now called Capital Hill, the residence of the GovernorGeneral and the Prime Minister's Lodge. It was found that that was architecturally difficult. Then Burley Griffin wanted to put a monumental building there which would be used for the openings of Parliament and ceremonial occasions. Parliament would then meet in the Parliament House which would be built on Camp Hill. I think that this was a dream and something which he really believed would be very wonderful. But in my view this is impractical on today's standards. We will not build a big monumental, ceremonial building on Capital Hill as long as Australia is Australia. That was an architect's dream which I think could not be achieved at any time because of the cost factor. A monumental building for ceremonial occasions only is something which very few countries can afford. Rome has one and that was built many centuries ago. I think that there are only 2 other major cities in the world which have a monumental building for ceremonial purposes such as Burley Griffin looked at in his dreams. 
We are in a situation again which we were in in 1914, 1916, 1923, 1958, 1968-69. Now we are in a situation again where in 1973 we have not advanced one step. We have not got the site. We have not advanced one step towards replacing a building in which, in some areas, if the carpet were not there we would break our legs because there are no floor boards underneath us.  Senator Cavanagh  and I were in one of the top levels and we had the experience of being given 2 buckets to keep the water off us and to keep our office dry. We had to wear our overcoats. It took us months to have the repair work done on the roof of our office. I can recall  Senator Cavanagh  saying with pleasure to the then  President  that the problem of the Cavanagh-Poyser office had been solved. They had given us 2 plastic buckets. That is exactly what we had received. We had them for a week or so. I am not so concerned about those things because they are repairable. But I am concerned about the lack of facilities that we will have to put up with in the Parliament for at least another 10 years even if we made a decision right now. 
I think that most of us in the Senate- indeed, the greatest majority of us- will not be here as members of Parliament in the new parliament house. So we have no axe to grind in relation to our own personal comfort in this matter. But it is absolutely essential that a decision is made that will be a direction, guidance or clear indication to the Executive of the urgency for the planning and construction of a new parliament house. I believe that it is absolutely essential that it be done in the manner that has been suggested. Both Houses of Parliament on separate occasions have decided that a joint sitting should be the method by which a consensus is obtained. I am not very concerned about the precedent that some honourable senators may think will be established. I am not concerned about the situation  Senator Cavanagh  has indicated in which we will be outnumbered two to one. This will be a meeting of all members of Parliament not on a basis of whether there are 60 or 100 members in the Senate or whether there are 100 or 200 members in the other place. The meeting will be conducted on the basis of individual members making decisions, and not on the basis of one House of Parliament making a decision instead of having a consensus of all members of both Houses. 
If John Gorton, when he was Prime Minister, had carried out what was contained in his original statement in relation to the site of the new parliament house on Capital Hill, construction of the building would be well under way now. Initially he said that he would respect the majority decision of the members of the Parliament. An adverse decision was given in the Senate, the voting outnumbered the majority in another place. In other words, the majority of all members, by separate vote of both Houses, indicated quite clearly that Capital Hill was their choice. Then we found that nothing was done. It is true that John Gorton was removed from the office of Prime Minister. Then we had a new Prime Minister who took no action in relation to the matter. 
In my opinion, he was removed. Certainly, the technicalities of the position were that he resigned. But all prime ministers resign, they are not removed by a vote of the Parliament. They are removed in their Party rooms by vote of the members at that level. But I do not think we should get into an argument about this because it has little to do with the present subject. We had a further Prime Minister who took no action in relation to this matter. We now have a new Government that I believe will accept the decision of the majority of members. Certainly, there are differing opinions in relation to how we go about it. Some opinions were expressed- this was defeated in the other placethat we have a stage program in relation to the construction of our new and permanent parliament house. I would not support this. I can see an example of a stage program in my State of Victoria. The first stage of construction was completed some 80 or 90 years ago. The second stage will be started this year. I can see the continuing arguments for many years to come if, for instance, we had a three-stage program. The first stage would be completed and nobody would move for another 20 years before the next stage would be undertaken. 
I understand that a similar position prevails in Western Australia in relation to that State's Parliament House in Perth. Its construction was undertaken by one of these stage programs that are never finished. I believe that the Parliament has to grasp the nettle. I think that we have to say that we will have a new and permanent parliament house. I do not know whether we have to go through all the trouble that apparently has been gone through abortively in the past. I refer to the conducting of architectural competitions. I think that we have to get some competent people and say to them: 'Plan us a Parliament House on the designs and the ideas that have been put before us by the committee that was elected by both Houses of the Parliament for this purpose'. We could say that we wanted that building completed in, say, 5 or 6 years. This is the only way in which we will do it. If we have a 2-year competition we may find that it will finish up in the same way as the 2 competitions that were conducted earlier in this century- without result and without examination. The whole thing was a complete waste of time. We have to do something. 
I believe that the quickest and most effective way is to have this informal meeting of both groups- not as a meeting of the House of Representatives and a meeting of the Senate, but as a meeting of all parliamentarians meeting together to obtain a consensus which may be given to the Executive as a clear indication of the wishes of all members. The meeting does not necessarily have to be held in this chamber. I take the point made by  Senator Wright  in relation to privilege. I would think that Kings Hall would be also a place of privilege on this basis. There could be some argument between the 2 Houses on protocol in relation to where - 
The rose garden would be perfect because it is delightful at the moment. I am sure that  Senator Wright  would be very amenable if he was amongst those roses to any subject that was discussed. I could see the point of view of  Senator Murphy  when he said that the meeting should be conducted without debate. I do not think that this was in any way supposed to mean that this would be done to stifle discussion. I firmly believe that the reason this was indicated in the previous resolution was that at that time both Houses had discussed the matter very recently. It was a very hot question at that time. 
Decisions were made and I believe that his position then was that we did not require another full scale debate at that stage for members to vote on the question. They would have been able to cast their vote and the outcome would have been decided by the numbers. But that was not acceptable. I do not think that  Senator Murphy  would be hard and fast in relation to that aspect of the matter. I do not know. I cannot speak for him personally. A free vote has been given on this. But there would be no hard and fast attitude that there should not be a debate. Certainly, we should meet, certainly we should be able to give an indication to the Executive of where the building should be sited and certainly the Executive, after that indication had been given, should take very clear cognisance of paragraph (c) in the message the Senate received which states: 
Planning for the new parliament house should commence immediately. This is the major factor. Anything that I can do or anything that I can say that will convince this Government, the Parliament or any members of it that we have to start this year I will do or say. I will not do this for my own comfort because I may not be here to see the new parliament. I may not live long enough to see it open. Certainly, I will not be sitting as a member of it. I hope that the decision will be that we accept the message from the House of Representatives which is similar to that which we ourselves sent to that House some 4 years ago. 

 Senator Sir KENNETH ANDERSON (New South Wales) (5.49)-I think that I will need about 5 minutes to say what I have to say. This is not a discussion on whether we will have the new parliament house on Capital Hill or on Camp Hill. Quite frankly and clearly, I state that this is a discussion on proposals for procedures. I must say that I will not support the motion moved by  Senator Murphy.  I have listened very carefully to the argument advanced by  Senator Cavanagh  and, to a lesser extent that advanced by  Senator Wright,  and I completely agree with the points that are made. Whether we like it or not, ultimately the construction of a new parliament house will have to be proposed in the form of legislation. It has been suggested, quite extraordinarily, that the members of both Houses of Parliament could get their heads together in a park. But whether we met there, in Kings Hall or at the Lakeside Hotel and take a vote by putting up our hands, the fact of the matter is that for the expenditure involved in building a parliament house there must be an appropriation. But how can the government appropriate money if there is no legislation backing for the appropriation? Whether we like it or not, ultimately we will be confined with a piece of legislation. I do not necessarily accept the Bill that  Senator Wright  has brought forward; I reserve my options. However, I believe that ultimately, either here or in the other place the Government or a private member will present a Bill. At least that will be legislation and we as parliamentarians will deal with it in a parliamentary way. 
It has been said that in 1969 there was a vote on this matter. At that time there were certain numbers in this chamber and certain numbers in the other House. But the fact is, as  Senator Withers  said, that something like 40 per cent of the people who took part in the vote in the other House at that time are not members any more and about 15 per cent of the then senators are not here any more. If we have a Senate election next April, or whenever it might be, perhaps 30 people now in this place will not be here after it. That sort of argument is, in my opinion, a superficial argument. 

 Senator Murphy has put forward a proposition which suggests that the Parliament should abrogate its function. It is suggested that, because there is an element of difference of view within the various parties, there should be a system whereby we have what could almost be called a kangaroo court vote on this issue. To me that is quite wrong. I believe that the Senate has a responsibility to act as a Senate. If we have legislation before us and there is disputation between the 2 Houses, the Constitution lays down what should be done. That seems to me to be the issue. I do not necessarily accept  Senator Wright  's proposals. I accept the concept that there should be a large area as a parliamentary triangle, or whatever it is called; but, as for the site, I reserve my options. I did not have a free vote when we dealt with this matter the last time because I was the guinea pig who had to move the motion on behalf of the then Government. I reserve my options, but I say that we should deal with this matter by way of a piece of legislation and the provisions of the Constitution on the one hand and our Standing Orders on the other hand, because they set out what the function of the Senate should be, and not by means of some resolution by which we abrogate our authority and responsibility as members of the Senate. 
My question is directed to the Leader of the Government in the Senate. Is it a fact that  Mr Chaney,  when defeated at the 1969 election, was appointed by the previous Government as Administrator of the Northern Territory? Is it a fact that  Mr Bill  Arthur, who was defeated at the 1969 election, was immediately appointed to the then Prime Minister's staff? Is it a fact that  Mr Gordon  Freeth, a former Minister for Foreign Affairs, was appointed by the previous Government as Ambassador to Japan following his defeat in the 1 969 election? 
-I ask the Minister for the Media whether the increased level of interest about Australia in the United States of America, which was very evident around the time of the election last year from the amount of space devoted to this country in American magazines, is being maintained. What is being done to further the awareness of Australia in the United States? 

 Senator DOUGLAS McCLELLANDFirstly, since the election of the Labor Government the Prime Minister has visited the United States of America and as a result of that visit there was tremendous publicity for Australia in that country. The Australian Information Service of my Department has assisted some 65 or 70 publicists from the United States, all of whom have provided a high level of return in media coverage of this country. Additionally, it is expected that on 8 December, I think it is, some 80 million American viewers will watch the Carol Burnett Show' which was recorded in the Sydney Opera House. That production, of course, will show scenes of the Sydney Opera House and of the city of Sydney itself. However, gratifying as the additional interest in Australia that has been generated in America may be, the real challenge in creating an awareness of our nation appears to me to lie in Asia and our immediate neighbours. Already my Department has established an information office in Wellington, New Zealand. An additional posting has been made to Osaka, Japan, and the Minister for Foreign Affairs and I and our departments are having discussions on posts for information officers that should be opened by the Government. 
-Is the Minister for the Media aware that among the advertised programs on television last week were 3 Australian feature films to be screened on the major networks? Is this the greatest number of Australian feature films ever shown on television in the one week in Australia? Can the Minister say what additional efforts are being made by him to implement the Government's policy on the development of a viable Australian film industry? 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Transport. I direct the Minister's attention to a recent accident on the Barton Highway at the point where it leaves the Australian Capital Territory, in which 2 people were killed. In view of the fact that the Minister for the Capital Territory has publicly expressed the opinion that roads leading to the Australian Capital Territory are unsatisfactory, will the Minister advise what action the Government intends to take to improve these roads? 
I wish to support the amendment submitted by  Senator Byrne.  It is most unusual for us to be on the one side on a major issue, and this is a major issue of the Parliament. We are having the old red herrings drawn right across the trail by those who say that it is the Senate versus the House of Representatives. It has nothing to do with that at all. If indeed this issue were the Senate versus the House of Representatives we would be defeated anyway. I understand that this is a simple situation where every senator can vote as an individual, not representative of a party, not a representative even of a group that may get together on this kind of issue. We are simply seeking a consensus of all members of the Parliament by virtue of their meeting together as a group. What is so terrible about that? We do it in the dining room every evening where we discuss there things over a meal. We are seeking some formal type of decision by the groups of members of Parliament sitting together as individual members of Parliament, not the Senate versus the House of Representatives. No great constitutional crisis will come out of such a meeting. The Senate carried this very type of motion previously. We sent it as a message to the House of Representatives and it duly stayed at the bottom of the notice paper for the whole of the period until it was taken from the notice paper. The Government of the day did not allow that matter to be discussed in that House. We must realise that exactly the same thing can happen to a private member's Bill that may be passed by the Senate. I believe that a quick decision by all members of Parliament will influence the Executive far more quickly than a Bill which is passed in this Parliament. 
I have examined the proposed legislation that  Senator Wright  wishes to submit. I would want to amend it so that Capital Hill was the site chosen. I make no secret of my views in that regard. But I do not think that that Bill is adequate to meet the situation. I think the only way in which we will get a new and permanent parliament house is by the Government of the day introducing legislation so that it is part of the Government's business and is dealt with in that manner. I do not think the matter will be resolved by means of a private member's Bill, whether it is introduced by  Senator Wright,  by me, or by anyone else. 
-I would be happy if it would. I believe that we have to give a very clear lead in indicating where we want the new parliament house, because I can recall that on the last occasion this matter was discussed there were 3 possible sites, namely, the lakeside site, Camp Hill and Capital Hill. I am firmly of the opinion that the lakeside proposal was stymied for all time as a result of a question I asked of the then Minister for the Interior about the foundations of the Treasury building. It was discovered from the answer supplied by the Minister for the Interior that an extra $250,000 would have to be found if the building were put on the lakeside site.  Senator Wright  would know something of this matter because I think he was Minister for Works at the time. If he was not Minister, it must have been his immediate predecessor. The limestone caves had to be filled with concrete for weeks and weeks to get an adequate foundation for the Treasury building. The very day that my question was answered in this Parliament was the day on which the Minister made the announcement that Parliament House would not be built on the lakeside site because of these problems. 
That was 4 years ago. We started to argue about the site. At that time the Senate made a request that the 2 Houses of the Parliament should have a joint meeting. The House of Representatives has made a similiar request on this occasion. There may be some technical difficulties constitutionally in resolving the motion that has come before us. I spoke in support of that motion. I now speak in support of 

 Senator Byrne's amendment because I think it eliminates the qualms that honourable senators may have had in relation to the constitutional position. I urge honourable senators to vote for this amendment so that we can get a quick decision and so that we are not faced with having a Bill on the notice paper this year, next year, some time or never in relation to it. Our speedy resolution of the matter will give a guide to the Executive. To make a decision now is the quickest method by which to get something done. I repeat none of us or not many of us want this decision made quickly for reasons of our own comfort. Very few of us will be in this Senate chamber when the building is finally erected. We want a quick decision for posterity. Let us do something soon, otherwise when my grandson is listening to the Senate debates in years to come he will hear the same arguments put forward. I hope that honourable senators will vote for this amendment so that we can get some satisfactory decision which will be a guide to the Executive of this Parliament. 
The ACTING  DEPUTY PRESIDENT-  The question is: 'That the words proposed to be left out of  Senator Prowse  's amendment  (Senator O 'Byrne's amendment)  be left out'. 
Question resolved in the negative. 
The ACTING  DEPUTY PRESIDENT-  The question now is: 'That the words proposed to be inserted  (Senator Prowse 's amendment)  be inserted '. 
The ACTING  DEPUTY PRESIDENT-  I am advised that if the honourable senator wishes to speak he will have to seek leave. 
Kenneth Anderson wishes to propose an amendment to  Senator Prowse  's amendment.  His  amendment is to leave out the words 'Capital Hill' and insert in their place the words 'Camp Hill'. I submit that that is quite admissible and it is open to any honourable senator to do that. I submit that  Senator Sir Kenneth  Anderson, having risen, is in order in putting that amendment. 
In speaking to the point of order,  Mr Acting Deputy President,  I seek clarification as to what has happened to  Senator Byrne's  amendment. 
The ACTING DEPUTY PRESIDENT- It was defeated. 
I called for a division. 
The ACTING  DEPUTY PRESIDENT-  One senator cannot ask for a division. The Standing Orders are clear in stating that 'senators' may call for a division. It requires more than one senator. 
The ACTING DEPUTY PRESIDENT- No division was called for. 
The ACTING DEPUTY PRESIDENT- 
Order! The Chair was not confused. 
As a matter of courtesy,  Mr Acting Deputy President,  can the vote be recommitted so that there is clarification? 
The ACTING DEPUTY PRESIDENT- No. 

 Senator Sir Kenneth Anderson, although the Senate has decided not to leave out those words, you are entitled to move an amendment to the words that are to be inserted. 
The ACTING DEPUTY PRESIDENT- Yes, and there was no call for a division. 
There were 3 calls for a division. 
The ACTING DEPUTY PRESIDENT- You can do that only by leave. 
The ACTING DEPUTY PRESIDENT- The 
Chair is not confused. There was no division called for. The amendment was defeated on the voices. 
Is the Minister representing the Minister for Social Security aware of public reaction in favour of the Government's White Paper on its health insurance program? Does the reaction indicate that the changes incorporated in the White Paper should satisfy legitimate and reasonable critics of the scheme? 
My question is directed to the Minister for the Media. Is it a fact that the Radio Australia staff have been operating from old, dilapidated, unhealthy and cramped premises that previously served as a biscuit factory in Melbourne? Because of the obvious interest the 
Minister has generated in the activities of Radio Australia and in the working conditions of all the staff in the Australian Broadcasting Commission, will he take action to see that Radio Australia officers are quartered in more suitable premises? 
-Has the Minister for the Media noted reports in the Press that 2 students in Melbourne have developed what is claimed to be a cheap method of converting black and white television sets to colour operation? Will the Minister advise the Senate whether this claim is a valid one and could result in the reduction of the cost of colour television to Australians and other people throughout the world? 
-I also wish to express my support for giving this Bill a second reading despite the fact that I was one who strongly supported the joint meeting of the members of both Houses of Parliament to resolve the issue of the site of the new and permanent parliament house. I support this Bill because it is a positive move that can be taken and perhaps the result will be a commencement on the new and permanent parliament house. I hope that if the Senate carries this Bill in an amended form its fate will not be to lie at the bottom of the notice paper in another place. I think it is high time that, at some stage, a government took the action which is vital to ensure that within another 10 or 12 years a parliament house of which we can be proud, which is roomy enough for the activities of Parliament and which- in my opinion this is even more important- has the facilities for the big staff which is required to operate a Parliament of this nature, becomes a reality. 
For instance, if one goes into the Library, particularly into the research section, and one sees the lack of facilities under which these excellent officers are working, this in itself should be an impetus for any parliament and for any government to decide to rectify those problems which we have in this building. It has always been amazing to me that our staff in the Library has been able to act so competently and efficiently in the circumstances under which it operates. These remarks apply equally to other sections of Parliament, particularly the Ministers. Some of the suites which the Ministers have- I think it is exaggerating to call them suites- are not suitable for the duties and the work which the staff has to carry out. For instance, in  Senator Cavanagh  's office at the present time 3 people are working in an area which might be sufficient for one person to comfortably carry out his duty. This is an intolerable situation in which Ministers, irrespective of which government is in office, have to continue to work for the next 10 years. But it is obvious that if we start now it will be 10 years before we see a new and permanent parliament house. I again express my misgivings at suggestions that we should have a staged program. I think that if we have a staged program we will be in the situation of stage I, stage II in SO years time and stage III may never occur. 
Like this place, as the honourable senator says. Indeed, this happened in his own city of Perth. In the city of Melbourne after 81 years stage II of Parliament House is being commenced this year. So I think that any suggestion of stages should be rejected out of hand. We should grasp the nettle and proceed as quickly as possible, perhaps even to the extent of not going through the exercise, as we did in 1914 and 1916, of having design competitions. I believe that that could be a waste of time when there are competent architects in this country who, I believe, could adequately design a parliament house which would be suitable for us. In total the previous competitions took 4 years and the entries were never judged. The undertakings which were given to the people who entered the competitions were repudiated as honourable senators can see from the evidence taken by the Parliamentary Joint Committee on Public Works in 1923 about a new and permanent parliament house. So I commend the Bill as it may be amended. I understand that other honourable senators may have some ideas about certain clauses which may need looking at. But the principle is right, the time is right and I hope that the Bill is carried through the second reading stage. 
-I would like to add my tribute to the late John Dedman. He was a personal friend of mine since 1943. As  Senator McManus  would know, I was active on John Dedman 's campaign committees for a number of years. In fact, I held office on those committees. He was always a man of great integrity and I believe that the philosophy and orientation that I have in politics are mainly due to the influence that John Dedman had on me in my early years in the Australian Labor Party. Right up until the last week that he was in this building he took a keen interest in the seat of Corio and he was always seeking information about the many friends that he still had living in the electorate. Both John and  Mrs Dedman  were very great 
Australians and I add my tribute to him and express my sincere sympathy to  Mrs Dedman  and their children. 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for the Environment and Conservation. I refer the Minister to an address delivered to the International Solar Energy Society in Melbourne last week by  Mr R.  N. Morse, Director of Solar Studies of the Commonwealth Scientific and Industrial Research Organisation, in which  Mr Morse  is reported to have called for the expenditure of $40 billion on the development of solar energy in Australia. Will the Minister advise the Senate whether he is in agreement with this proposal? If so will he advise the extent to which the Department of the Environment and Conservation has investigated the economics and environmental advisability of adopting the use of solar energy in this country? 
As there is fairly constant criticism of the amounts of advertising on television, can the Minister for the Media inform me how many minutes are permitted for advertising in any hour under the regulations? Can anything be done to overcome the clutter of advertisements which appear to be a major viewer irritant? 
-I want to say a few words because of the remarks made by  Senator Wright.  He said that he did not think it mattered whether it was a 'G' or a 'geegee' but we have listened to some asses from the other side of the House tonight. I am absolutely amazed that  Senator Wright  should make the references that he made to  Senator McLaren  after the vicious, unwarranted and proven untruthful attack which  Senator Webster  made on  Senator McLaren.  It was the most untruthful, undocumented, unfactual attack ever made.  Senator Webster  is a member of a committee concerned with the Northern Territory and allegedly has an interest in the Northern Territory, but on the evidence that  Senator McLaren  raised tonight he does not find it convenient even to attend meetings of that committee. He quoted from a document which he claimed to be a declaration. When we asked him to say from where it came, he said that it was a copy of a statutory declaration. This was a completely undocumented, unfactual case that he put before this Senate tonight. 
It surprises me that  Senator Wright,  who is a legal man with a long history of declaring himself to be a person of fact and of honour should defend the deplorable case which  Senator Webster  put to the Senate tonight.  Senator Webster  deliberately set out to destroy 2 honourable senators because of statements they made in the process of exercising their rights in this place. Then when he got down to tin tacks, he tried to speak a second dme: He wanted a second bite of the cherry. In the final analysis, what did he have to do? He had to apologise to  Senator McLaren  because he had completely misrepresented the case that he wanted to make. As was said earlier,  Senator Little  and  Senator Webster  are fighting for the fifth Senate position in Victoria and they are cutting each other's throats. We put up daily- and hourly- with speeches from  Senator Webster  which bore everybody in this place to tears. He would talk under water with a mouth full of cement because he thinks he is getting to the people in Victoria. He thinks that the people even read Hansard; he honestly believes it. He believes that all the words that he has ever spoken in this chamber will be read with avid interest by the 3.5 million people in Victoria. He honestly believes that this happens. I think that probably he believes in Santa Clause too. The inevitable result of his activity is that he has been condemned for all time as a person who would make unsubstantiated charges on flimsy and unfactual evidence against an honourable senator who had all the powder in the gun. I think it is shameful for any honourable senator to come into this House and make an attack as did  Senator Webster  tonight on 2 members of this House.  His  case was based on facts that do not exist. As he said earlier, I think he should be ashamed of himself. 
My question is directed to the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs. I refer the Minister to the report in this morning's edition of the Melbourne 'Sun' that the Federal Government will take over responsibility for Victorian 
Aboriginal affairs from 1 January 1974. Can the Minister advise the Senate whether this report is correct? If it is, will he give details of the current arrangements with the Victorian Government on the administration of Aboriginal affairs in that State? 
In accordance with the provisions of the Public Works Committee Act 1969-1973, 1 present the report relating to the following proposed work: 
International Terminal Building and Aircraft Aprons at Sydney (Kingsford-Smith) Airport. 
-Is the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs aware of a report in the 'Sunday Telegraph' of 3 March in which a journalist,  Mr Russell  Schneider, speaks of corruption within the Department of Works? I ask the Minister whether he agrees with the journalist's statement, which reads: 
He- 
That is, the Minister -  discovered widespread examples of corruption in the Department's lower echelons and cleaned things up without fuss. 
Does the Minister agree with the journalist's statement that while the Minister held the Works portfolio he cleaned things up? Does the Minister agree also that this form of generalisation by members of the Press Gallery cast aspersions upon all employees of the Department of Works and that public servants as such should not be subject to attacks of this nature? 
I will be brief. The only point which I wish to make is that we have heard previously these remarks about rushing through legislation. Five Bills are to come before the Senate. They deal with referenda that are proposed to be put to the people in conjunction with the Senate election. It is dishonest to say that we are rushing through legislation, because these matters were debated in the Senate in the last session. They were debated - 
The Bills came before the Senate. Some of them were rejected. Honourable senators opposite are saying, in effect, that they do not want democratic elections and that they do not want local government to be in the democratic position of having the right to go before the Loan Council. These matters have been aired publicly for well over 12 months. They were aired by the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  in his campaign speech when he indicated the type of legislation which he wished to introduce and the type of referenda which he wished to put to the people to ensure a better system of government. It is hypocrisy, this kind of thought that we are rushing through legislation, when it is the second time round. 
-Can the Minister for the Media say what has been done to overcome the deadlock between the Victorian Football League and television stations over the televising of Australian Rules league football this season? This is a matter of great concern to Victorian television viewers. 
-Has the Minister for the Media seen a report in the Melbourne 'Age' stating that Australian Government advertising work is being handled mainly through overseasowned agencies? How does this tally with the Prime Minister's directive that when awarding contracts or orders for the acquisition of goods and services, the extent of Australian ownership of the bidding companies is to be taken into account when all things are equal in terms of specifications, creative ability, price and availability? 
-Can the Minister for the Media advise me whether negotiations between the Victorian Football League and Victorian television stations concerning the replay of VFL matches in the forthcoming season have concluded or are they still continuing? How  many television stations are involved in the discussions? As I have heard rumours that the price being asked by the VFL is extremely high, is there any Likelihood that the Australian Broadcasting Commission will withdraw from the negotiations and use some other form of football in its programs? 
I make a very brief point in relation to this matter because the standing orders to which honourable senators are referring are all associated with an address by the Governor-General. But standing order 366 states: 
Whenever it is deemed proper to present an Address to  Her  Majesty or the Governor-General, the same shall be proposed, except in cases of urgency, on Motion after Notice in the usual manner. 
I suggest that that has not been done. I suggest that there is no urgency involved in this matter. I think it is disgraceful that  Senator Withers  should have the egotism to take over the Senate simply because he has the support of a number of dissidents who have no respect for the mandate from the people of Australia. I suggest that, before any final decision is made on this matter, standing order 366 should be examined to ascertain whether this motion is, in fact, in order. 
-I ask the Minister for the Media: Is the Government prepared to encourage co-production arrangements with other countries in developing the Australian film industry? What sort of arrangements would be considered to be acceptable? Will the Minister agree that co-production film arrangements could contribute greatly to better international understanding? 

 Senator DOUGLAS McCLELLANDProvided that Australians are involved at the top creative levels of film production the Australian Government will certainly consider coproduction arrangements in film making. In the past, coproductions in Australia tended to give only temporary employment, usually to technicians and actors on a supporting level. However, I can tell the honourable senator that the Australian Broadcasting Commission is considering engaging in some co-production arrangements. So far as my own Department is concerned, as I told  Senator Hannan  recently, Film Australia, a unit within my Department, is very actively and successfully engaged in film production work. Recently Film Australia made a co-production film with the Canadian Film Board on the subject of conservation. I understand that the film has received or is about to receive prime viewing time in Canada. I am also making arrangements with the producer-in-chief of Film Australia,  Mr Denis  Brown, to go to New Zealand shortly for the purpose of considering an entry into coproduction arrangements with the New Zealand National Film Unit. I agree with the honourable senator that co-production arrangements can be exploited because they bring about a better international understanding. 
-I had not intended to enter this debate, but I have been forced to do so by the amazing arguments put up by members of the Opposition as reasons why they wish virtually to reject this Bill. In effect they say: 'We are not rejecting it. We are just deferring it for further consideration'. The question is very simple. After discussions with the States and at a major conference in Sydney, the Government has decided that the Commonwealth should have power to give back to the States certain matters that come within the constitutional power of the Commonwealth Government at present. 
The Opposition is scared to allow this matter to go before the people in conjunction with the forthcoming Senate election because it does not want to be in a position where it is opposed to four of the questions that will be asked in the referenda or, if it is preferred, referendums, and in support of the fifth. I have heard old college boys arguing as to which plural should be used. I do not mind which is used, as long as people understand my meaning. Honourable senators opposite know that the simple associated question is whether the Commonwealth should be able to give back to the States certain powers that it now holds.  Senator Durack  referred to a number of areas in which such a step could be taken but he knows that none of the questions he raised is involved at all. This afternoon I heard honourable senators opposite referring to uniform taxation. There is no way that the Commonwealth will ever give that right back to the States, irrespective of which Federal government is in office. 
However, some matters are vital. One of them was touched on briefly by  Senator James  McClelland this afternoon. It carries many implications. I refer to the legislation that has been carried in this Parliament in relation to the powers of the Commonwealth over off-shore and submerged lands. This matter is going before the 
High Court and people are confidently predicting that the decision will go in the Commonwealth's favour. The situation may arise in which hundreds of Commonwealth Acts will have to be changed by specific Act of this Parliament if the Commonwealth is not able to grant powers back to the States. 
The facts are that each State has a great amount of legislation covering all matters associated with areas off its shores. It deals with the licensing and safety of small craft, harbour trust operations and the activities of port authorities and many other authorities. Hundreds of Acts are involved at this level. It would be a far simpler process for the Commonwealth to be able to grant these powers in what might be called domestic areas back to the States than to go through all the paraphernalia that will be necessary if it is found that the Commonwealth has all the power associated with areas off-shore from the low water mark. That is one area in which there should be a reciprocal operation between the States and the Commonwealth. 
All honourable senators know that the States have the power to refer to the Commonwealth certain constitutional rights that we now have but did not enjoy at the time of Federation. We can see many difficulties associated with the future of this country if the Commonwealth cannot reciprocate. The questions raised by  Senator Durack  have nothing to do with the case. They were red herrings dragged across the path to fool the people of this country in respect of areas in which there would be no intention by either side to transfer powers.  Senator Durack  knows that. He is trying to excuse his stand, knowing that he does not have the courage to face the question at a referendum. He knows, as every other honourable senator opposite knows, that all States except Queensland have given a very clear indication that they support this type of operation. 

 Senator Condon Byrne spoke a lot of waffle about the situation as he sees it. He said: We must go through all the paraphernalia in relation to our passing the Bill twice and the House of Representatives passing the Bill twice'. Again this was intended to fool the people. 
-We have consulted the people. We are giving the States and the people a chance to stand on their feet and say that this is a constitutional alteration they desire. The attitude of members of the Opposition to the other 4 questions is that they do not intend to provide for democratic elections; they do not intend to give the people of the Australian Capital Territory and the Northern Territory any rights to vote in a referendum; they do not intend to allow local government authorities to come before the Loan Council; and they do not intend to allow any of the things that we believe will bring greater democracy to this country. They are trapped, and because they are trapped they are saying: We will not vote against it. No one can ever say that we will vote against this question'. At a future date they will come out and support it. That is obvious, because they know that the States in which their own parties are in control will demand that they vote for this question at a later date. They have put off the evil day because they are playing politics on the question. They do not want to be in the situation of supporting one question and opposing the other four. It is a matter of semantics, and not one argument put up by the Opposition will hold water. It is like a sieve, with water pouring out the bottom. 
We have heard from the Opposition a lot of nonsense about State rights. Honourable senators opposite say that they are members of a States House, but for 99.99 per cent of the time they vote on party lines. This afternoon we heard a new senator talk about representing his State in this House. He will vote along the Country Party line every time. We all vote with our parties and it is nonsense to say that this is a States House when a question of this nature is before us. The Opposition is staving off the evil day on which it will have to stand up and be counted. We are dealing with a matter in which the States want clarification and reciprocal rights with the Commonwealth. Honourable senators opposite know that, but they will not stand up and admit it. They have used the device of a meaningless amendment to put off the evil day in the hope that the issue will never be raised again. I hope that the amendment is not carried. 
I want to speak on another subject on the first reading of this Bill. I could answer well the arguments that have been put up by  Senator Withers  because most of the things he said were implemented by his Party when it was in office, but I have something far more important to discuss tonight. I refer to the victimisation of a member of the Australian Labor Party in the State of Victoria by an insurance company known as Federation Insurance Ltd which is directly associated with the financial activities of the Victorian branch of the Australian Country Party. I believe that the best way in which I can demonstrate the victimisation that has taken place is to read a statement from a gentleman by the name of  Mr Brian  Smith. I have his authority to use his name and to read into the record the statement that he gave me. It is prefaced with these words: 
Statement of facts involving political persecution by the Country Party's Victorian financial source. The Federation Insurance Limited, against the endorsed Australian Labor Party candidate for the Federal seat of Mallee. 
I hereby state that all accusations made in this statement can be supported by factual proof contained in documents in my possession. 
It reads:  1, Brian Smith, the endorsed ALP candidate for the Federal seat of Mallee in the House of Representatives have been employed by the Federation Insurance Limited of 342-348 Flinders Street Melbourne since February 1972 as their resident inspector at Charlton. 
I was informed by the companies Victorian Country Branch assistant manager,  Mr Alan  Gallagher upon my appointment that my job would involve addressing meetings of the Victorian Farmers Union and obtaining insurance business from their members. 
About seven months after my appointment the Victorian Farmers Union broke away from the insurance arrangement with the Federation Insurance Limited. 
The Federation Insurance Limited then began to rely heavily on members of the Victorian Country Party for continued support. 
At a later stage in my remarks I will indicate the extent of that support. The statement continues: 
At about this time,  Mr Tudor  the Victorian Country Branch manager of the company, instructed me to accompany him to a Country Party meeting at Donald on 16 October 1972. 
I was instructed to make myself available to accompany him to this meeting which took place at night in my own time. No overtime or like compensation was offered. 
At this meeting I was asked to join the Country Party and assist in the 1972 Federal elections. I declined both offers. 
I was a member of the Australian Labor Party at the time and was giving all the assistance to Brian Brooke the ALP endorsed candidate for Wimmera that 1 could. 
At the end of 1973 I was nominated as candidate for the ALP for the seat of Mallee. I informed  Mr Tudor  of this fact and he did not complain or advise otherwise except tell me not to send any political letters to newspapers as it could be inferred that I was speaking on company policy and in fact 
ALP policy could be embarrassing to the company's relationship with the Country Party. 
From that occasion on I never released anything to any newspaper unless it clearly stated my position as ALP endorsed candidate, in this way no inference could be drawn that I was speaking on behalf of the company. 
The whole Mallee area knows that I am the endorsed ALP candidate and when I do speak there is no question that it is the ALP view that I deliver. Not the view of an insurance company. 
On 15 January 1974 I received a memo from  Mr Gallagher  on behalf of  Mr Tudor  which was photo-stated among all company inspectors instructing them to strike up personal friendships among Country Party branch executives throughout Victoria and become invited to branch meetings. All inspectors were instructed to send a monthly list of all Country Party branch meetings attended and all meetings proposed to attend during the following month. 
On Friday, 1 March 1974 many Mallee newspapers carried a story of my address to the Birchip branch of the Australian Labor Party concerning the governments decision to abolish the present subsidy on superphosphates. I was identified in the newspapers as the endorsed Labor candidate for Mallee. 
At 3.30 p.m. on the same day, Friday, 1 March 1974, 1 received a telephone call from an inspector colleague of mine,  Mr Allan  Plant, of the company's Ararat branch,  Mr Plant  is also the Country Party candidate for the state seat of Hamden. He asked me to confirm if it was me that the newspaper report referred to. I told him it was. He then told me that it would be unlikely that Federation Insurance would view the situation favourably. 
-Has the Minister for the Media seen a report in today's Melbourne papers that negotiations have been settled between the Victorian Football League and the television stations about the replay rights of Australian Rules football? Can the Minister say whether the agreement has been reached and, if so, whether the agreement is in accordance with the terms outlined by  Sir Maurice  Nathan? Does this agreement cover replays in other States of the Commonwealth which, I understand, have large viewing audiences, particularly Queensland and New South Wales? 
I propose to address my remarks on the motion for the adjournment of the Senate to a matter that I raised in the Senate on Wednesday, 20 March. It is associated with Federation Insurance Ltd. Firstly, I thank Federation Insurance Ltd for the wonderful publicity that I have received from it over the last week. Never has a person had so much publicity for so little cost as I have had from this company. It has placed advertisements in national and all major State newspapers advising me of what I should do in relation to the matters that I raised in the Senate on that occasion. I must say that the response to my raising those matters has been rather good because I have received several letters commending me for my statements in relation to this company. I have also received several telephone calls. Indeed, two publications of this company were sent to me anonymously by agents who at this moment are working for the company. But I did not receive one letter or one word of condemnation in relation to the things I said. 
On the occasion on which I first raised this matter I said, firstly, that a certain  Mr Brian  Smith was sacked by this organisation because of his political beliefs. I repeat what I said on that occasion. There is no element of untruth whatever in the statement I made. This man was sacked because he was a member of the Australian Labor Party and because he had accepted endorsement as the Labor Party candidate for the seat of Mallee at the House of Representatives election. I said, secondly, that the Australian Country Party was receiving large handouts or kickbacks from this company to the extent of $ 1 35,000 over the last 3 years.  Senator Webster  said: 'It is true that we receive this money, but it is commission'. He said: 'This is commission from the company'. I want to know what the Country Party does to earn this commission, because in fact Federation Insurance Ltd is an organisation operated by the Victorian Employers Federation. It has affiliates and these affiliates all get kickbacks- commissions, I should say; I am sorry  Mr President,  I am using the wrong term- from this organisation on the basis of their affiliations. 
The Country Party receives the highest kickbacksI am sorry, commissions- received by any affiliated organisation. Can the members of the Country Party tell me that it is in fact a bona fide employer organisation? In other words, is it tied up with this company on the basis that it receives commissions for services rendered? If in fact this is the case 2 things are happening. The first charge 1 made on the last occasion on which I raised this matter was that the person who was sacked was being intimidated into a position in which he had to associate himself with the Country Party even though he had no political affiliations with it and no desire to have political affiliations with it. Either the Country Party is using its organisers as organisers of the Party as well as agents for this insurance company or the insurance company is using its agents as organisers for the Country Party. 1 will go a little further because I now have in my possession documents which indicate quite clearly that this insurance company is intimidating its employees. 1 shall read to the Senate a memorandum which was sent to all inspectors. The memorandum is headed: 'Subject: Country Party branches and executives'. The memorandum is over the name of  Mr D.  O. Tudor, Manager for Victoria, country branch, and it is signed by the Assistant Branch Manager of the country branch,  Mr A.  R. Galagher. The memorandum reads: 
We are enclosing for your records and usage a schedule relative to the above and this will replace existing details in respect of Country Party branches in your sub-branch. 
The information is as up to date as we have been able to obtain from the Party and you should make it your most earnest business to maintain regular liaison with the people concerned, that is the  President  and the Secretary of each branch in your area and if you have not yet had nor made the opportunity to meet each one of them, then would you please do so with the minimum of delay. 
This is telling the agents that they have to maintain close and direct contact with officers of the Country Party. The memorandum continues: 
We would like to think that our inspectors are on extremely personal and friendly terms with the branch executive members of the Party as indeed we would hope they are in relation to the executive members of the Victorian Dairyfarmers Association, because this is one of the great advantages enjoyed by this company that the outside staff of other companies cannot participate in. 
We hope that you are making every effort to get along to the branch meetings of the Party and we cannot stress strongly enough the enormous need to do this in order to successfully counter the activities of the Eagle Star and the Farmers Union in having their inspectors and field officers attend Farmers Union branch meetings around Victoria at which they are strenuously selling the Eagle Star's arrangement with the VFU 
Property and thoughtfully handled, our usage - 
I repeat the words 'our usage '-  of the Country Party branches will go a long way in the continued promotion of the company and its arrangement with the Party and to a large degree nullify the efforts of the Eagle Star. 
Would you please forthwith renew your efforts to obtain invitations to attend branch meetings and please persist for as long as it takes the Secretary or the  President  to invite you to their respective meetings. 
I will repeat that section of the memorandum: 
Would you please forthwith renew your efforts to obtain invitations to attend branch meetings and please persist for as long as it takes the Secretary or the  President  to invite you to their respective meetings. 
The memorandum continues: 
The writer looks forward with a great deal of anticipation and indeed interest in the upgrading of the monthly returns to the office which relate to branch meetings attended and branch meetings arranged. 
This is the kind of intimidation that went out to agents of Federation Insurance Ltd in an effort to force them to go to Country Party branch meetings to sell their wares so that the Country Party in return could get back these commissions- that is what I called them, did I not?- of up to $60,000 a year. 
-I called them kickbacks, but I was admonished for doing so. So I will use the term 'commissions' that  Senator Webster  used. He said that it was a normal commercial deal. I challenged  Senator Webster  to table in this chamber the commercial arrangements that the Country Party has with this company. I challenged him to give us the details of the contract he has because the Country Party, which is not a bona fide employer organisation, is receiving the highest commission of all of the affiliated organisations, yet the Country Party does not appear in the company's annual report as being an affiliated organisation at all. Apparently there is no affiliation other than the fact that this kind of intimidation is sent to the company's agents. I have a further memorandum which again is signed by  Mr A.  R. Galagher, Assistant Branch Manager. Incidentally, I received this memorandum from the person of whom I spoke on the last occasion and 2 other agents who are still working for the company. This memorandum substantiates the charges that I made on that occasion. The second memo reads: 
For information purposes all inspectors are advised that all branches of the Country Party will be holding their annual meeting before the end of February and the district councils prior to 1 S March. 
If one reads this memorandum in conjunction with the document I read previously, the indication is that all efforts must be made, to the point of persistence, to ensure that the agents of the company get an invitation to sell their wares to the Country Party so that the Country Party in turn can get the commissions back from the company. Finally, this letter was sent to  Mr Brian  Smith, again signed by  Mr Tudor. 
A letter has been received from  Mr R.  L. Weir, Secretary of the Kara Kara A.E.D.C. of the Country Party, inviting me to attend the next meeting of this District Council, to be held in the Memorial Hall, Donald, 8 p.m. on Monday 16th October. 
Would you please make yourself available to accompany me to this meeting. 
There was no question of inviting the agent to attend this meeting. It was a direction by his country manager to ensure that he attended this meeting of a political party to sell the wares of the insurance company so that the commissions that the Country Party received will spread wide and far and become larger. 
I charge that this man was dismissed because of his political affiliations. I said on the previous occasion- I went into it chapter and verse- that the day after he had attended a branch meeting of the Labor Party and a Press statement by him concerning that party meeting appeared in the newspapers within the Mallee electorate he was called to the Melbourne office by  Mr Tudor.  He was asked to bring his rate books and the car with him- and it was virtually a notice of dismissal because he dared to be a member of the Labor Party and because he chose not to be intimidated into attending Country Party branches throughout that electorate to sell the wares of this insurance company. It is interesting to go through the document, part of which I read on the last occasion, to indicate a conversation that took place on the Monday that  Mr Smith  was asked to attend the office to receive the boot, the sack, his dismissal or whatever they may choose to call it. In this signed document  Mr Smith  said: 
On Monday the 4 March 1974 at 2.30 p.m.,  Mr Allyn  Best, of the Insurance Staffs Federation . . . 
In other words, a representative of his union- 
. and myself met  Mr Tudor  in his office with  Mr Gallagher  also in attendance. 
I said to  Mr Tudor,  'Why did you take this action against me?'. 
He replied 'Your production was not up to standard'. 
I said, 'My production is among the highest in the area, as 1 have checked my figures with all other inspectors'. 
He said 'Yes. as they stand, but if you make allowances for the crop figures and seasonal fire figures then there is little left'. 
I said, 'Yes, but Charlton is a crop and seasonal fire insurance district, always has been and always will be and you know this. This financial year to the end of January 1 have brought in $151,000 as against $129,000 to the same date the previous year'. He said, 'I am sorry but we expect more. ' 

 Mr Best said, 'Why did you remove the crop figures and the seasonal fire figures from Brian's results'. 

 Mr Tudor said, 'They are high risk insurance and of no value to the company'. 
I am sure that the clients of this insurance company will be delighted to hear that business amounting to $151,000 written for them in this area is of no value to the company. This is the contempt in which the organisation holds the clients. When one examines the returns and figures of Brian Smith over a period of time- I have the document here- they show that his takings in terms of money value and total value of the policies was up by 22 per cent on the figures of the year before. So the charge that I made was true. This man was sacked because of his political affiiliation with the Labor Party. I repeat it tonight that I believe that the evidence is clear and positive that this man's employment was terminated because he was associated with the Labor Party. 
The second thing that I said and which I repeat- this has not been denied but in fact confirmed by  Senator Webster-  is that the Country Party's commissions, or 'kick backs' as I describe them, from the Federation Insurance Limited in the current financial year mount to some $60,000. The Country Party describes them as commissions. I again challenge the Country Party to table the document to show that this agreement exists between Federation Insurance Limited and the Country Party by its affiliation as an employer organisation, which has yielded $60,000 this year and $135,000 over the past 3 years. I would like to know what are the legitimate services which the Country Party is giving to this employers' organisation in this insurance field for which it receives such large commissions. The third thing I said, which I shall repeat by quoting exactly what I quoted on the previous occasion is this: 
Federation Insurance Company inspectors were told by a responsible officer of the company to tear out the centre page of the company's superannuation statutory information sheet which showed a loss of $30,05 1 for the last 2 years. 
I have the document here. Federation Insurance Limited has many irons in the fire; it goes into all kinds of areas including permanent building societies and all other operations with basically the same directors and with the same managing director. It is clear that the page which these people were asked to tear out revealed that this part of the company has lost $30,000 odd and that a responsible officer of the company had asked that this sheet be deleted from the document before it was given to a prospective client. 
It is an interesting document to read because it showed some profits for the first three or four years, but this aspect of the company's balance sheet shows that the further it goes, the greater loss it is accruing, particularly on this aspect of its business. 
I repeat that this organisation has dismissed a man because of his political affiliations. I am very happy that it has chosen to give me so much publicity over the whole of Australia. I could never have paid for it. I am very pleased at the response by people to it. People have written to me, telephoned me and others have sent me documents concerning this company. All the documents that I have before me did not come from the one source. I am quite delighted to think that I have been able to show the type of operation that is going on within this organisation. The company has challenged me by declaring that the things I have said are untrue. I believe them to be true and I believe that the documents that I have quoted from are genuine. I believe that some explanation is required as to the formal association between this organisation and the Country Party- The formal contract or method whereby it can get commissions amounting to $60,000. 
It is true that on the last occasion I spoke on this matter it was suggested that the Australian Council of Trade Unions had been or had wanted to be involved in a similar situation. Nothing is further from the truth because the ACTU in its dealings at this level at all times wanted to offer a cheaper price to the consumer, not to offer something to some political party. Not lc of ACTU funds come to the Australian Labor Party. All donations that we get from the trade union movement- we accept them and we will always accept them because, after all, the trade unions created the Australian Labor Party- come from individual unions. There has never been any suggestion that the ACTU was engaging in business activities for the purpose of getting money back into the coffer of the Labor Party. It was solely an exercise so that the consumers, the members of the trade unions, might get cheaper goods and cheaper holidays. This was not a kickback to a political party as is the case with the Country Party whereby it is getting enough money annually out of this one insurance company to finance every election that it wants to contest in Victoria. Who knows how much further this goes regarding this agreement? It is purely a commercial agreement, the parties say, on a commission basis. Let the company be honest and let the Country Party be honest. If the Country Party is getting any kickbacks at this level, that money should be going back to the customers of the company by way of reduction of premiums. I would like to see the document or the arrangement tabled in the Senate whereby the Country Party can be classified as an employer organisation affiliated to the Australian Employers Federation and whereby it can earn these alleged commissions. 
-I ask the Minister for the Media: Are many Film Australia productions being distributed on a commercial basis? If they are being sold successfully, will the financial returns from Film Australia be increased substantially? 
asked the Minister for the Media, upon notice: 
What film awards, if any, were won in 1972-73 by Film Australia, a division of the Department of the Media. 
-Is the Attorney-General aware that the multi-national monopoly ITT has seriously interfered in the international political affairs of many countries, even to the extent that this organisation has incited and actively supported the overthrow of elected governments? Has that organisation any foothold in this country? If so, what actions can the Australian Government take if it is established that this organisation and other similar multi-national organisations interfere in the forthcoming election? 
I ask the Minister for the Media: Is it a fact that the Leader of the Opposition in another place recently attacked the machinery of government advertising campaign launched by the Department of the Media before the campaign had really begun? Is it a fact that officers of the Parliament were consulted by the Minister's Department and that these officers assisted in the drafting of the advertisements which are designed to inform members of the public about the operations of the Parliament? Has the Minister seen the advertisement in this morning's 'Australian' newspaper which plagiarises the form of advertising of the structure and functions of the Parliament and purports to emphasise the role of the Australian Country Party in the Parliament? Can the Minister say what effect this advertising by the Country Party will have in informing members of the public? 
asked the Minister for the Media, upon notice: 
) How many feature films were made in Australia in each ofthe calendar years 1970, 1971, 1972 and 1973. 
) How many films sold abroad are likely to be profitable for the producers and which ones are they. 
What number of films are likely to be made in Australia this year. 
I direct a question to the Attorney-General. Can he advise the Senate what documents and /or copies of documents from the Attorney-General's Department were taken by the previous Attorney-General,  Senator Greenwood,  when he left office? Can the Attorney-General also advise the Senate whether these documents included dossiers on members of Parliament such as the Australian Security Intelligence Organisation report on the  Deputy  Prime Minister,  Dr Cairns,  and other reports which were leaked to the 'Bulletin '? 
My question is directed to the Minister for Agriculture. As one who represents a major wheat growing State I ask the Minister: What is the position regarding negotiations for a new 5-year wheat stabilisation scheme? Is it a fact, as stated by  Mr Black  of the United Farmers and Woolgrowers Association yesterday, that there is a risk that the whole question of wheat stabilisation will be referred to the Industries Assistance Commisssion, leaving negotiations suspended for 2 years? 
I preface my question, which I direct to the Minister representing the Minister for Defence, by referring to reports from New Zealand that defence authorities may investigate allegations that 4 New Zealand soldiers shot dead 6 American soldiers found torturing Vietnamese civilians. Is the Minister aware that last night a man telephoned Channel 7 television station in Melbourne and made allegations to a senior reporter that he had been involved in a similar incident involving Australian soldiers serving in Vietnam? Will the Minister investigate the man's allegations that while serving as a lance-corporal of 6 Battalion, Royal Australian Regiment, in the Mekong delta about 2 years ago his company approached a Vietnamese village and was fired upon by American troops who apparently were torturing Vietnamese civilians? Will he also inquire into allegations by the lance-corporal that a lengthy engagement ensued with the Australian forces finally destroying a Vietnamese hut from which the American soldiers were directing fire at them, and that this was accomplished by using an M72 rocket bazooka? 
-I ask the Minister for the Media whether broadcasting stations have been meeting the 10 per cent Australian produced music requirement which was introduced last July. If so, has the 10 per cent Australian music content quota encouraged local recording companies to increase their production of Australian records or has it simply led to the playing of the same records more often? 
-I present the following petition from 63 citizens of Australia. 
To the Honourable the  President  and members of the Senate in Parliament assembled: The petition of the undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully showeth: 
That inflation which now besets so many countries today and in Australia is now at the rate of 1 4.4 per cent per annum is most seriously affecting and making life intolerable for those least able to take corrective action to maintain their position, namely, pensioners and those now retired living on fixed incomes. 
Whilst the Australian Government is giving effect to its election policy of making $1.50 per week pension increases each Autumn and Spring such actions have been completely nullified by the stated rate of inflation. 
This fact of life impels your petitioners to call on the Australian Government as a matter of urgency to: 
Make a cash loading of $5 per week to those pensioners who have little means other than the present inadequate pension eroded by inflation. 
That each Autumn and Spring the increase in social security pension payments be not less than $3 per week to ensure that within a reasonable period the Government's policy pledge to affix all pensions at 25 per cent of the average weekly earnings be acheived. 
In order that money may go to areas of greater need the Tapered Means Test ceilings of income and assets be frozen. 
To allay the concern of social security recipients as to their future when in 1975 the means test has been abolished and replaced by a National Superannuation Act that there be an assurance by the Australian Government that the said Act will provide a guaranteed minimum income to social security recipients based on the policy of the Australian Commonwealth Pensioners' Federation and that of the Australian Council of Trade Unions, namely, the payment of 30 per cent of average weekly earnings adjusted from time to time in accordance with figures issued by the Commonwealth Statistician and published quarterly. 
And your petitioners in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
-Has the Minister for the Media seen reports in today's Press commenting on the fact that the Government is undertaking a feasibility study for an Australian Government newspaper commission? Can the Minister say whether this study is being undertaken? If so, what stage has it reached? Can the Minister say whether such a commission would have regulatory functions that would empower it to undertake general Press reform? 
-I present the following petition from 23 citizens of the Commonwealth: 
To the Honourable the  President  and members of the Senate in Parliament assembled: The humble petition of the undersigned citizens of the Commonwealth respectfully sheweth: 
That the present systems of financing of hospital and medical care in Australia are outdated, complex, unwieldy, and provide inadequate or no security against health care expenditure for a substantial proportion of the people of Australia; 
That the costs associated with the present schemes fall disproportionately on people having low and middle incomes; 
That there is an urgent need for a new national health insurance scheme, to which each person receiving an income should contribute an amount which is equitably calculated on the basis of that income, and which provides adequate security to each person against the costs of care for every kind of illness and injury. 
Your petitioners therefore humbly pray that the Parliament will speedily pass appropriate legislation to bring the benefits of an equitably financed, universal, and comprehensive health insurance scheme to the people of Australia. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
Petitions in identical terms were presented by  Senator Button, Senator Primmer  and  Senator Melzer  from 24, 28 and 23 citizens of the Commonwealth respectively. 
Petitions received. 
-Can the PostmasterGeneral say whether it is a fact that the Australian Post Office has recently let a contract for $21m for electronic and telecommunications' equipment, and that $13m was awarded to organisations which are substantially or wholly foreign owned? 
-Is the Minister for the Media aware that the Australian produced film Alvin Purple' has been playing for 8 months in Sydney and Melbourne and making box office records? Will the Minister ascertain whether other Australian productions are being contemplated by the Australian company that produced that film, and whether 'Alvin Purple' is being sold abroad? 
-Can the Minister for Customs and Excise tell the Senate whether his adoption of the Industries Assistance Commission's report on building materials will have any significant effect on the Government's by-law policy? 
It is quite obvious that some of the amendments could be acceptable, but some of them need examination. Therefore, I move: 
That the debate be now adjourned. 
Question resolved in the affimative. 
My question is directed to the Minister for Repatriation and Compensation. Is it a fact that resident medical officers employed at the Repatriation General Hospital, Heidelberg, have threatened industrial action because of dissatisfaction with their salaries? Does the Minister contemplate any action being taken to prevent this situation developing? 
I oppose the motion to suspend Standing Orders because it is obvious that the Opposition is using this tactic as a means of preventing debate in this chamber on the Trade Practices Bill. This is a Bill that has been before the Senate on 3 occasions. While honourable senators opposite give lip service to the second reading of the Bill they have a number of amendments to move at the Committee stage. It is quite clear to me that members of the Opposition are putting on an act which is related to the warning which  Senator Withers  gave this morning when he said that he had in his drawer a copy of a motion that was carried by this Senate in 1971 in relation to the adjournment of the Senate and the leaving of Bills on the notice paper. It is quite clear now that they want to leave as many Bills as they can on the notice paper when the sitting is adjourned at the end of this week. Notice has already been given that they are going to keep frustrating the Senate all the way along the line in relation to legislation that is important to the people of Australia. The legislation is not important as far as Opposition senators are concerned because the legislation seeks to introduce laws to control the multinational organisations in this country; it will control the oil companies and it will control all those things that every one of us have appealed to the previous Trade Practices Commission to have examined but which the Commission did not have the power to examine. 
The situation now is that the Opposition seeks to leave as many Bills as possible on the notice paper when the motion is moved on Friday to adjourn the Senate. In the hope that it will have the numbers the Opposition is attempting to bring on this matter tonight as a subterfuge because it knows that it will be resolved in the morning in any case.  Senator Murphy  has already indicated that this matter has got to a stage where it should not be debated in this House because it cannot be debated by the 2 Houses of Parliament at this stage. It is obvious to everyone on this side of the House that this is another of the frustrating moves of the Opposition to ensure that legislation that is important to the people of Australia is not passed by this Senate. 
Motion (by  Senator Jessop)  put: 
That the question be now put. 
-Will the Minister for Customs and Excise inform the Senate of the significance of the new equipment being used by Customs officers at Kingsford-Smith Airport, Sydney while interviewing passengers returning from overseas? Will he indicate whether the equipment is related to the processing of information by computer and, if so, whether this new process is likely to cause additional delays? 
-I direct a question to the Attorney-General. Has the Australian Government any powers to ban the Bally Poker Machine Company from operating in Australia, as expressed by  Mr Justice  Moffitt in his Royal Commission report on crime in clubs? If not, will he examine the matter with a view to introducing such laws as may be necessary to ban this company from operating in this country? 
I direct my question to the Minister representing the Minister for Health. Has the Minister's attention been drawn to a statement which appeared in yesterday's 'Australian' in which it is alleged that a major pharmaceutical company has mounted a massive advertising campaign for an analgesic product called Panaceta? Is it alleged that the advertisements make claims that this analgesic could alleviate sleeplessness and nausea- claims which, according to  Dr B.  H. Stock,  President  of the Pharmaceutical Society of South Australia, are quite unfounded? In view of this breach of the present voluntary advertising code, can the Minister advise the Senate when the Australian Government's new advertising code will be introduced to stop this false and dangerous advertising? 
-Has the Minister for the Media seen reports in the Press indicating that he has vetoed the participation of the Australian Broadcasting Commission in the televising of the Victorian Football League grand final in Melbourne next weekend? Are these reports correct? If so, why has it been necessary to have Government intervention in this area? 
My question is addressed to the Minister for the Media. The Minister will recall that on Tuesday last I asked him a question regarding the televising of the football grand final in Melbourne. I now ask: Has the Minister seen the reports in this morning's newspapers that the Victorian Premier has rejected approaches requesting his Government to supply funds to finance the telecasting of the Victorian Football League grand final? Are there any measures that the Minister can now take to ensure that the match will be telecast live to the Victorian viewers who cannot get into the ground for the match? 
I ask the Minister for the Media whether he has recently received a request from a coalition of groups based in Melbourne named the Community Radio Federation for an early decision on its application for a metropolitan AM broadcasting licence? Can the Minister say whether this Federation can expect to gain a licence and, if so, when? 
I have not spoken in this chamber this session. The utter rubbish that we have had to put up with in the last 10 minutes makes me rise to make comparisons - 
-No. I said 'in the last 10 minutes  I rise to make comparisons in regard to what has actually happened in the Commonwealth of Australia in relation to decentralisation. The 2 States that have decentralised most are Queensland and Tasmania which were governed by Labor governments for a quarter of a century or more. In South Australia Tricky Tom governed on the basis of the most gerrymandered electorates ever known in the history of the world- not just of Australia but of the world. There were electorates of 1,500 people in country areas, compared with electorates of 20,000 people in the metropolitan area. Honourable senators opposite from South Australia talk about decentralisation in their State. They know that South Australia was the worst State in the whole of the Commonwealth, as far as being decentralised is concerned, until - 
Which Liberals? The Liberals were there for 34 years. The Liberals were so proud of Tom Playford- he used to be called Uncle Tom- who had done so much. This socialist Liberal kept everybody in Adelaide. Honourable senators opposite should have a look at the record of South Australia where a Labor Government was never able to be elected unless it received 56 per cent of the vote. If it received only 54 per cent it was defeated because Tom decided that it would be defeated. Because of the Liberals' gerrymanders there is a person in the Senate today who walked out of the Liberal Party in South Australia. He said: 'I will not put up with it any longer. You are a lot of crooks. You drew the boundaries to keep yourselves in power forever. ' 
Those boundaries are to be redrawn. Legislation will come before this House and I sincerely hope that the honourable senator will vote for it. I hope that the honourable senator accepts the boundaries which are set out by the independent persons who have been appointed to draw those boundaries. But no doubt he will not do so because he still wants this kind of Liberal- whether he is a small' 1 ' or a big L' liberal; I call him a conservative- to dominate everybody and so that the Labor Party has to receive 56 per cent or 58 per cent of the vote before it can come to government. Honourable senators opposite talk about this great area in South Australia that is being decentralised. I will accept an interjection from  Senator Laucke  at this point so that he can indicate to me in what areas the Liberal Government decentralised. 
Let us have a look at the population figures in these areas.  Senator Jessop  believes in decentralisation. He was so successful as a member of the House of Representatives that he lost his seat after one term. Now the reverend gentleman, the Moderator, is trying to interject. I challenge any honourable senator from South Australia to rise now and dispute the fact that South Australia is the worst decentralised State in the whole of the Commonwealth. But we will plan a system so that there will be true decentralisation in that State. The nonsense that I have heard tonight from honourable senators opposite is incredible. They have not stated the facts. 
-For what? 
I can tip it over any time the honourable senator likes. He would have to carry it on his shoulders forever. Opposition senators have been talking a lot of nonsense and rubbish because Playford was the worst Premier that any State ever had because he controlled South Australia under a system in which his Party prevailed in government with a minority of the votes. Do honourable senators opposite deny that? Whenever did the majority of the people of South Australia vote for him? 
The honourable senator intervenes. I ask him to tell me when the majority of the people of South Australia voted for Tom Playford. 
The honourable senator would say most of the time. I would not gamble with the Moderator, because he would not bet, but I will put money into his church fund any time that he can prove that on more than 2 occasions in the history of his reign in South Australia Tom Playford received more than 50 percent of the vote of the people. When Walshe was elected he had to get 55 per cent of the vote. When Dunstan was elected he had to get 56 per cent of the vote. As I said earlier - 
Who was the honourable senator calling 'us'? Daly is simply saying that the 5 electorates in Tasmania should be equal, whether there are 80,000 or 50,000 in each electorate. 
-I would think so, but the whole point is that I have made a challenge to  Senator Davidson  and I will do what I said if he can prove that on more than 2 occasions Playford had more than 50 per cent of the vote. Dunstan had to get 56 percent of the vote before he could even form a government. Harold has come in. I hope he has his figures with him. No, he is writing very hard. The simple facts are that I have never heard so much rubbish from South Australians as I have heard from Opposition members from that State tonight. 
-Has the Minister for the Media had any response from the television or radio industries about the likely effect on those industries of the elimination of the broadcasting and television receiver licence fees? If so, what has been the nature of that response and what effect will this measure have on the prospects for a smooth transition from black and white television to colour television? 
My question is directed to the Minister for Customs and Excise. How many commodities are subject to shortfall by-laws, and why are they so subjected? 
-Has the attention of the Minister for Agriculture been drawn to a Press article in this morning's Melbourne 'Sun' that Kraft Foods Ltd intends to withdraw from the dairy industry equalisation scheme? Will this withdrawal affect the efficiency and operation of the scheme? 
-Has the Minister for the Media noted that the system for conversion of black and white television sets to colour television sets as developed by 2 students at the Royal Melbourne Institute of Technology has now been taken up as a commercial proposition by a Melbourne based firm? What will be the implications of this development for Australian television viewers? 
I direct a question to the Minister for the Media. He will recall that in the last week of sitting of the Senate I asked a question similar to the one I am about to ask. Has the Minister seen in this morning's Press a report indicating that the Secretary of the Community Radio Federation in Melbourne has criticised the proposal for an experimental radio station for the Australian Broadcasting Commission in Melbourne on the ground that it will undercut any attempt by the community groups to establish a radio station? Does the Government intend to establish or maintain a Government monopoly and indirect censorship over community radio services? 
-Has the attention of the Minister for the Media been drawn to a Press report in this morning's 'Daily Telegraph' which states that colour television transmission hours are certain to be extended because of the runaway success of its weekend debut. Is there any intention to extend the present hours of transmission? 
I was invited into this debate by  Senator Webster.  It is not within my province to dispute the Standing Orders. I cannot call  Senator Webster  a liar because that is against the Standing Orders. I cannot say- senator Murphy-  Mr President,  I raise a point of order. I regret interrupting my colleague, but I suggest that we do not want to have disorder in the Senate. You,  Mr President,  asked  Senator Webster  not to be provocative and, to be fair to all of us, it is not right for  Senator Poyser  to say that he cannot call somebody something because of the Standing Orders. I would ask my colleague not to persist in that. 
-I accept the rebuke of my leader. I regret that he has rebuked me in this chamber because he did not rise to protect any honourable senator on this side of the chamber when  Senator Webster  was so provocative in relation to this matter. The simple facts are that  Senator Webster  said that every Labor senator from Victoria rejected the opportunity to go to a function to which none of them was invited. 
-It is correct. I have checked with every one of my colleagues, and not one of them was invited to the function. I challenge  Senator Webster  to prove otherwise. I have checked conclusively. I was not invited.  Senator Melzer,  were you invited? 

 - Senator Primmer, were you invited? 

 - Senator Brown, were you invited? 
Not one government senator from Victoria was invited to that function. I regret to say that  Senator Webster  rose to his feet and challenged these people for not being in attendance at a function that an old hack from the Liberal Party- a fellow by the name of Russell- ran in Beaufort. 
He was. That is right, a has-been. He ran this function on political grounds. He invited only the people he wanted there. He did not dare to invite one Labor senator to attend the meeting. From my point of view,  Senator Webster  told untruths in relation to this matter in this chamber tonight. I regret that my leader had to rebuke me. I accept the rebuke. 
-You rebuked me. Do not talk nonsense, Lionel, in relation to this matter. 
-I regret that  Senator Webster  said what he did because I had the evidence before me. As far as I am concerned,  Senator Webster  has to have more facts before he comes into this chamber again and makes the accusation that he made tonight. 
asked the Minister representing the Treasurer, upon notice: 
1 ) What amount of loan funds was made available by the Australian Government for State education requirements in each of the last three years. 
What rates of interest were set for the repayment of the loans. 
and (4) What was the term, in years, of each loan. What proportion of Federal funds made available to the States for State education is required to be repaid to the Australian Government. 
My question is directed to the Minister for Repatriation and Compensation. Because of the loss suffered by Australian Government employees as a result of the hold up in the Senate of the Compensation (Australian Government Employees) Bill, previously mentioned by the Minister this afternoon, is there any possibility that retrospective provisions can be included in the Bill which will compensate Australian Government employees because of the delay? 
-Mr Temporary  Chairman,  all I want to say is that for the reasons given during the second reading debate I cannot accept these amendments. They would lead to delay and more delay, which would negate the purpose of this debate. 
Question put: 
That the amendment  (Senator Withers')  be agreed to. 
-I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 

 Mr President, this Bill expresses a principle which has been passed by the Senate in resolutions on 6 separate occasions- namely, 22 August 1968, 26 November 1968, 22 May 1969, 29 May 1969, 6 May 1971 and 15 November 1973. In addition,  Senator Wright  introduced a Bill along very similar lines on 8 November 1973 and it passed through all stages in the Senate on 29 November 1973, unanimously. This Bill which has been sent to us from the House of Representatives is only a short Bill with 2 main provisions, clauses 3 and 4, which make provision for the new and permanent parliament house and buildings and associated works to be constructed on Capital Hill and provide that a site be set aside, consisting of Capital Hill and Camp Hill, where no buildings other than those determined by the Parliament may be constructed. 
The arguments in favour of the Capital Hill site for the permanent parliament house have been canvassed so well on the previous occasions that I have mentioned earlier that I do not propose to take up the time of the Senate by repeating them. Honourable senators will readily realise that this Bill puts into legislative form the already expressed wish of the Senate, and a speedy passage for the Bill will allow an early start to be made on the planning, and eventual construction of, the new and permanent parliament house. It gives me great pleasure, as a long time supporter of Capital Hill as the site for the new parliament house, to have the honour of bringing this Bill before the Senate. I commend the Bill to the Senate and hope that the Senate will see fit to give it a speedy passage. 
-in reply- I have listened with a great deal of interest to this debate tonight. At one stage I thought we were dealing with the Superior Court Bill when all of the lawyers were using language that we laymen do not understand.  Senator John  Button gave us a great argument in relation to the history of the situation and told us in Latin, in London cockney and in several other ways why Camp Hill should be the site. He obviously has done little study on the subject. I thought  Senator James  McClelland knew more about it than he proved to know. I forgive  Senator Grimes  for his remarks. The position is that if we decide here tonight that the site should be changed once more even the youngest of us- I refer to people such as  Senator Button-  will be grandfathers before construction is commenced. 
Let us have a look at the history of the present Parliament House building. Australia became a federation in 1901. In 1923 the Public Works Committee held an inquiry into Parliament House. If one looks at the history of that inquiry one finds that Burley Griffin gave very important evidence which indicates how silly and stupid the members of Parliament were on that occasion. He operated on the basis that we should at that time build a permanent Parliament House, and had his proposal been accepted we would have had a permanent Parliament House at a cost of £250,000. 
-On Camp Hill; that is correct.  Senator Button  would have been delighted with the fact that Burley Griffin proposed to put a museum on Capital Hill. All of his old history books could have gone in there and he could have jogged up there every morning and read to his great delight all of the Latin and Shakespeare that he could get hold of. So, had Burley Griffin 's proposal been accepted, we would have had a big museum on Capital Hill.  Senator Grimes  probably would have been happy about that as well. 
That is right. If, after debating this matter on 6 previous occasions, we change our minds again tonight, our grandchildren will be taking part in the same sorts of debates in this Parliament year after year, Parliament after Parliament, and the present building will be falling down around their ears. There was one famous occasion on which  Senator Cavanagh  and I were sharing an office in the present building. Every time it rained the roof leaked and we had to put on our raincoats when we sat at our desks. After a while it got a little bit too much for  Senator Cavanagh  and he mentioned the fact to the then  President, Senator Sir Alister  McMullen. He got up in the Senate and said to the President: 'We are delighted that the roof of our office has been fixed; they have given us 2 plastic buckets'. That is exactly what they did in our old accommodation, and the position is not much better now. 
The bucket dropped a little later and the roof was mended. But in all seriousness, in the 8 years that I have spent in this place we have been arguing about the site of Parliament House. We have been arguing about the urgency of building a permanent parliament house. The arguments have gone backwards and forwards from House to House until at last both Houses were completely in agreement. Then it was suggested that because we have 15 new senators, the 1 5 new senators might not like what we propose to do. But if the matter is not resolved during this Parliament we might have 15 new senators again next time and the Senate might change its mind. The practicalities of this operation are that we have to have a new Parliament House so that our grandchildren can come and see it. I know that I will not be here when it is completed because I will be retiring in 2 years time, and I will not live long enough to see it being opened. 
The mistake will be if the building is put on Camp Hill, as I will explain in a moment.  Senator Grimes  mentioned the fact that the Capital Hill site leaves no room for expansion. If the honourable senator did his homework he would find out that the Capital Hill site has a much bigger area than the Camp Hill site.  Senator Button  spoke of the historical aspects and the aesthetic beauties of the Camp Hill area. He knows that if the Camp Hill site is chosen the present building will have to be destroyedbulldozed down- and so will East Block and West Block. If the present building is allowed to remain we will have an historical building which can be used for convention work. With a little money spent on it it can be converted so that it can be used for conventions. If the new Parliament House is built on Capital Hill we will have the situation of it being positioned where it was always meant to be. 
I come now to the proposition that the new Parliament House could be built by means of a staged program; we could start building on Camp Hill and build a little bit more at a time. The Melbourne Parliament House had a staged program. The first stage was built 100 years ago. The second stage is being commenced this year. If the new Parliament House is built on a staged program it will take 50 years at least to complete. 
-It could be done by that means when the honourable senator's party becomes the government again. I appeal to the Senate to bring the matter to a vote tonight. We have only 30 minutes left in the debate. I want to see the matter finalised so that planning can go ahead. I have some reservations about the amendments that are proposed, although I have some sympathy as regards what  Senator Withers  has said in relation to this matter. I also am not very trusting as far as the National Capital Development Commission is concerned. I shall not be supporting the amendments because I believe they provide for a further delay in our reaching our final goal of having a new and permanent parliament house. However, I think that at some future stage there will have to be some legislation to curb the activities of any organisation which may have the power to move into this area and build a lot of office blocks on it. As I understand it, an interdepartmental committee report has been prepared in relation to the powers of the Public Works Committee being extended over some of the statutory authorities. I believe that that is a decision which eventually will be taken by this Parliament. If that happens organisations such as the NCDC will come within the ambit of the scrutiny of the Public Works Committee. If this becomes the case it would be within the power of the Committee of this Parliament to ensure that there is no ravage or rape of the area in front of Parliament House. I commend the Bill to the Senate. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. 
In Committee 
The Bill. 
My question is directed to the Minister for Customs and Excise. In view of the fact that Australian manufacturers now appear to be in a better position to meet Australian requirements for many commodities, can the Minister advise whether this has had any material effect on the policy of by-law entry of goods which is administered by the Department of Customs and Excise. 
My question is directed to the Minister for the Media. In reply to previous questions asked by me the Minister has referred to the international acclaim which has heralded the screening of the Australian Broadcasting Commission's television drama series 'Seven Little Australians ' in many countries throughout the world. Can the Minister inform the Senate whether the introduction of colour television next year is likely to increase the sale of Australian programs of this kind overseas, or was Seven Little Australians' the kind of program that can be made only by a special arrangement and at infrequent intervals? If special arrangements need to be made would the Minister consider seeking a special advance to allow a project of this kind to be undertaken again? 
In accordance with the provisions of the Public Works Committee Act 1 969- 1 974, 1 present the reports relating to the following proposed works: 
Australian Radiation Laboratory at Yallambie, Victoria. 
Animal Health Laboratory at Geelong, Victoria. 
-Has the Minister for the Media seen a report that the Australian Broadcasting Commission and the Literature Board of the Australian Council for the Arts are negotiating an arrangement about publishing a highclass literary magazine similar to the British Broadcasting Corporation's 'Listener'? Is this report correct? If so, how far have the negotiations proceeded? Can the Minister say what the likelihood is of such a worthwhile magazine being published in Australia? 
Did the Minister for the Media yesterday address the annual conference of the Professional Musicians Union of Australia now being held at Newcastle? Is the Minister aware that this union and other unions involved in the media industries are concerned to ensure protection of their members' wages and working condition entitlements in the event of the 
Government's deciding to establish public broadcasting stations? In other words, are the unions concerned that their conditions might be affected by well-minded amateurs using public broadcasting more in the form of a hobby than as a career? Will the Minister ensure that in considering public broadcasting the views and opinions of the trade union movement will be kept in mind? 
My question, which is directed to the Minister for Repatriation and Compensation, refers to the matter mentioned by the Leader of the Government in the Senate concerning the death of an Australian policeman serving in Cyprus with the United Nations forces. Can the Minister advise the Senate what provisions exist for compensation for the widow of the Australian policeman killed, and any policemen serving there who are injured in the course of their service with the United Nations? 
-I ask the Leader of the Government in the Senate: Can he reconcile the question asked by  Senator Young  earlier today in which he sought increased payments to the States with an official Liberal Party policy as enunciated by the shadow Treasurer,  Mr Lynch,  in a recent television interview when  Mr Lynch  unequivocally stated that he would impose an across the board reduction of 8 per cent on all government expenditure? 
-Under standing order 364 1 move: 
That  Senator Lawrie  table the documents from which he quoted and which he stated were extracts from the Queensland Parliamentary Hansard. 
The ACTING  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Milliner)-  Are you prepared to table the documents? 
-I ask that they be tabled by resolution of the Senate. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
I want to support  Senator McLaren  in what he said because I was one of those terrible senators who came into this place in shorts. 
Of course I have not worn them since because of the ultra-conservatism of people like  Senator Webster.  He would like to see all of us come into this place dressed in a way which he believes is dignified- morning suits with striped pants, block hat, and black shoes. He is in effect saying that this is not the House of the people; that it is his House; that he, as  Chairman  of Committees, should decide how people should be dressed in this House. I remind  Senator Webster  that this chamber is a House of the people, not of the persons who are elected to it. I think he should understand that because in his time he has been through a few elections. He has had his successess because like other people, including myself, he has been able to get high enough on the Party ticket to be elected. But this House is the people 's House. 
If  Senator Webster  takes this matter to its ultimate conclusion, he will look around the galleries and he will decide that tourists who come here in shorts and open-neck shirts are not to be permitted into the galleries, and he will be following exactly the policy that is followed in many State parliaments where no person is allowed into those buildings unless they are 'properly dressed' in accordance with what  Senator Webster  and conservatives like him may decide. Properly dressed ' means a navy-blue suit, black shoes and black socks. I am sorry that  Senator Coleman  still has not got the tie on. She looked lovely. I am wondering what  Senator Webster  will say when one of our lovely lady senators comes into the chamber dressed in a mini-skirt. No doubt he will gaze on that with rapture and say: 'This is too good for the rest of the people. We must ban this from this House. But I will observe what is going on'. How ridiculous is the situation that  Senator Webster  should sit in judgment on an officer of this Parliament coming into this chamber dressed in a pair of blue jeans. 
He was an adviser to a Minister of this Parliament. I look around this chamber and I see  Senator Sir Magnus  Cormack dressed in a sky-blue suit. Shame on  Senator Sir Magnus  Cormack coming into this chamber dressed in a sky-blue suit. It is terrible to think that he has come into this chamber dressed in such a light-coloured suit and has destroyed the dignity of the Senate. If the pants were 2 shades darker they would be blue jeans. Then  Senator Webster  would say to  Senator Sir Magnus  Cormack: 'You have jeans on; you are not allowed in this place'. It is so ridiculous that it is laughable. As  Senator McLaren  said, this man came into the chamber dressed in a polo-neck shirt or jumper. This is the high standard that is maintained at balls at the Melbourne Club these days. No doubt  Senator Webster  has not been invited to any of them. Probably he has never been able to pay his membership fees, and this is the reason why no invitations have been issued to him. 
No. I could not even pay the deposit. I could not pay it off on time payment. These days a shirt with a rolled neck is the height of fashion. But  Senator Webster  says that because one of the advisers wore a rolled neck shirt, did not have a tie on and wore what he termed as jeans, he had no right to be sitting in this chamber advising a Minister. I think it is the height of impudence for a man- even a  Chairman  of Committees- to take unto himself the right of deciding who is to enter the people's House of Parliament. I remind him again that this is the people 's House. It is not his House and it is not my House; it is the House of the people. If people cannot enter this chamber dressed in a reasonable manner, the day will come when they will not be able to enter it at all. I am horrified to think that the conservatism of  Senator Webster  can destroy the right of people to come into this chamber. I think he had a horrible dream that night. He had to say something to make headlines for himself. He did not get them, and he has been angry about it ever since. No doubt he will try to do the same thing in the future. 
-Will the Minister for the Media confirm that new allocations have been made for Channel 5A for television transmission? Is it true that these allocations by the 
Australian Broadcasting Control Board will provide a wide range of services for thousands of Australians? 
Some months ago the Postmaster-General announced the Government's intention to negotiate the take-over of company coin telephones, commonly referred to as 'Red Phone' and 'Easiphone'- Can the Minister give any details of the progress of these negotiations? 
I rise on the adjournment just to advise honourable senators of the transport arrangements, which have not yet been completed. I regret to say this because I have been endeavouring to get information since prior to the dinner recess in relation to the flights that all honourable senators will be taking out of Canberra in the morning. The latest information I received just a few minutes ago is that  Mr Wally  Lee, the Transport Officer, has the list downstairs and will be bringing it to my office in a few moments. I was advised at 8. 1 5 p.m. that 
I would have the list within 15 minutes time. I suggest that no honourable senator should leave Parliament House until such time as we have this list and all honourable senators are aware of their flight arrangements for tomorrow morning. I will get the list circulated as soon as possible. The Opposition Whip, the Australian Country Party Whip and I will be given copies of these arrangements as soon as I and  Senator Young  are able to run off copies. I ask for the indulgence of honourable senators in this matter. 
Did the Minister for Foreign Affairs see the recent 'Four Corners' program dealing with the chronic food shortage in Bangladesh? Will the Government provide assistance to Bangladesh to help alleviate the famine conditions now existing in that country? 
-Is the Leader of the Government in the Senate aware that the Government of the State of Victoria recently invited certain Victorian senators to a Cabinet meeting to discuss so-called State rights constitutional matters? Is he aware that only 5 senators, all coalition Opposition members, were invited? Does this not conclusively give the lie direct to those who still continue to espouse the hoary myth that the Senate is a States' House? 
-Can the Minister for the Media confirm that an inter-ministerial conference on educational broadcasting for schools is scheduled for this week? Is it true that this event is the first of its kind for 5 years? What does the Minister hope will evolve from this conference in the shape of benefits for the school children of Australia? Does the Minister see the conference as something that will meet the needs of those schools that cannot receive national broadcasts on network transmissions at the moment? 
The Minister for the Media will recall my interest, evinced in previous questions, in the provision of adequate television services for north-eastern Victoria. I now ask the Minister whether a decision has been reached regarding a television service for the people of Corryong in Victoria and the people of Khancoban in New South Wales? If he has decided on the provision of a service, when can the people in these areas expect it to commence? 
-Has the Minister for the Media seen Press reports that 70 production staff employed by the Australian Broadcasting Commission in Sydney and Melbourne face the sack? Can the Minister outline the position of these workers and the future they face? Is there any possibility of their positions being safeguarded? 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Labor and Immigration, upon notice: 
In which countries does the Australian Government have Immigration representatives. 
What number of migrants were obtained from each of these countries in the past three years. 
What requirements must a person meet before an application to migrate is approved. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Services and Property, upon notice: 
1 ) Does the Country Fire Authority of Victoria occupy approximately 350 acres of Australian Government land at Fiskville which is within 50 miles of Melbourne, if so, (a) what are the terms of the lease (b) what is the basis of the Authority's requirements for the land and (c) what is the Authority's tenure of the land. 
Is the Authority spending millions of dollars to establish on Australian fovernment land an exclusive type of country club under the guise of establishing a fire fighting training college. 
Have hundreds of thousands of dollars already been expended on the project, if so, for what reason. 
Is the Authority, in establishing a training college at Fiskville, duplicating a highly sophisticated full-time fire fighting training centre in Melbourne, which is available to the Authority for training purposes. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Health, upon notice: 
1 ) How many tonnes of polyvinyl chloride resin is used annually in Australia. 
When was vinyl chloride monomer first manufactured in Australia. 
What is the permitted level of panicles per million particles of air ( ppm ) in vinyl chloride monomer. 
Is the ppm level likely to be reduced in the near future. 
My question is directed to the Minister for the Media. Has the Minister's attention been drawn to an article in today's edition of the 'Australian' in which it is claimed that the television points system has failed? The article also claims that local content and the quality of local content have declined. Is this a factual assessment of the results achieved since the points system was introduced? 
-! have now some additional information on this matter. The building of the National Gallery has commenced and the building of the High Court will commence in February. They are the only 2 buildings involved in the matter. 
Resolution reported; report adopted. 
-As I understand the position- and I am trying to get a copy of the Bill because it is not in my folderclause 5 was drafted in this way purely on the basis that the buildings that will come within the Parliamentary Triangle are only those that have got to the stage of documentation. 
-I understand that these are the only buildings that can be covered by this 
Bill. Perhaps  Senator Withers  may have additional information on the matter, as a result of his discussions with  Mr Powell. 
asked the Minister for the Media, upon notice: 
Will the Minister state what Parliamentarians, trade union officials, industrialists and other public figures have appeared on the TCN 9 television program 'Federal File' in the period May 1974 to date? 
-Is the Attorney-General aware that finance companies are refusing to provide consumer credit to the customers of unincorporated traders? Is he also aware that the finance companies are claiming that they are forced by the Trade Practices Act to require sole traders to incorporate their businesses? Does he propose to take any action against finance companies which are causing consumers, as a condition to the obtaining of consumer credit, to sign documents which are supposed to relieve finance companies of their obligations under the Trade Practices Act? 
-I ask the Minister for the Media: Is it true that the Australian Government has looked into the question of communications between Darwin and evacuees from that city who are in other parts of Australia? Has anything been done to keep these evacuees informed about their relatives who may still be in Darwin? What arrangements have been made to make use of television tape equipment to show evacuees what progress is being made with rebuilding in the Darwin area? 
I agree in principle with the proposition that we have a 6-month trial period. As a member of the Standing Orders Committee, I support that proposal.  Senator Sir Kenneth  Anderson has raised another matter. I think we must consider one factor before we decide, and that is that the Senate may not be sitting at the end of that 6-month period. In that event no opportunity would be available for anyone to move a motion if the items automatically become standing orders after 6 months. It may occur when the Senate is not sitting. The item would automatically become a standing order without the opportunity for objection being available, as the Manager of Government Business in the Senate  (Senator Douglas McClelland)  has said would be available. I hope that the Minister will take note of this fact when he moves his motion and will ensure that if the 6-month period elapses when the Senate is not sitting appropriate action can be taken on the first day of sitting by any person who may desire some qualification or some alteration of a standing order because it has not worked satisfactorily. I ask the Minister to take note of that situation. 
-I seek leave to make a brief statement in relation to the arrangement of pairs. 
-I ask the Minister for the Media: Is it true that poor television reception is still a feature of some metropolitan areas? Is something being done to rectify this problem? Will the Minister tell us whether basic steps can be taken by viewers to improve reception? 
-I seek leave to make a personal explanation. 
I make this personal explanation because I was the person who drew your attention to the behaviour of an ex-Minister of the Crown in this House tonight. While I accept the apology contained in the second paragraph, there is no doubt in my mind and in the minds of many other honourable senators who saw and heard the incident, that the honourable member for Kennedy  (Mr Katter),  the exMinister, was very angry, was gesticulating in an angry manner and that he said to the honourable senator who had just spoken: 'Step outside, Keeffe'. This is quite clearly established. I do not accept that the 'honourable' member for Kennedy- I use inverted commas for that word- has told the truth in the first paragraph of his letter. There is no doubt that  Senator Keeffe  raised matters which caused the honourable member for Kennedy to make his statement, but there is no question or doubt in my mind- I observed the incident- that he did not speak in a quiet voice, as he indicated, because I heard him quite clearly from where I am now. He challenged  Senator Keeffe  to go outside for a purpose which I believe to be a physical assault. I do not intend to take the matter any further other than to say that the honourable member for Kennedy is a man of great political experience. He was a member of at least 4 political parties, to my knowledge, before finally getting into Parliament.  His  experience should be such that this kind of behaviour should not be tolerated. 
-Has the attention of the Minister representing the Minister for Minerals and Energy been drawn to recent statements advocating increases in Australian crude oil prices? What would be the effects of such increases on the input costs of Australian farmers? Have Australian farmers publicly stated their opposition to increased petrol prices? 
-I seek leave to make a brief statement in relation to the pair arrangements for today. 
-! did not intend to speak tonight on the adjournment debate, but we have seen a precedent set tonight by  Senator Webster  who has spoken on an adjournment debate without advising either the  President  or any other person that he intended to speak. This is a precedent.  Senator Webster  is the  Chairman  of Committees. He made one false statement. He lied to the Senate when he said that  Senator Keeffe  was a tell-tale. I was the person who rose to his feet and raised a point of order because a stranger leaned across from the gallery and expressed threatening words to a senator in this House. It was not  Senator Keeffe  who did that.  Senator Webster  holds a position of responsibility in this House. He continually prostitutes the position he holds. 
-I know. He is the  Chairman  of Committees of this House and he sits in the chair. 
-I will certainly withdraw the word 'prostitution'. The  Chairman  of Committees is supposed to control this House in your absence,  Mr President,  and when this House is in Committee. Yet this  Chairman  of Committees, when he is seated as a normal member of this House, incessantly interjects. I also do so but at least I had the decency to resign as a Temporary  Chairman  of Committees when I realised that my behaviour was inconsistent with that office. That is something that  Senator Webster  cannot learn. The precedent established by all other Chairmen of Committees in this House, in my time at least, has been that they practised what they preached and they did not incessantly interject on all persons during question time or in debate because they had a principle to uphold when they were in the chair. 
Tonight  Senator Webster  made a statement that was completely untrue because he did not know the facts. He accused  Senator Keeffe  of an action which he did not take. In fact I was the person who raised the point of order. This brilliant  Chairman  of Committees would be aware of that if he had at least taken the opportunity to read Hansard to find out what happened during the proceedings of this House. Any normal, decent  Chairman  of Committees would have done that. I say that his intervention in this debate tonight is something that could cause him to reconsider his position as  Chairman  of Committees because I believe that he does not carry out the job in the manner in which it should be carried out, in the traditions of his predecessors,  Senator Prowse  and  Senator Bull. Senator Webster  does not observe the Standing Orders of this House. 
-I ask the Minister for the Media whether his attention has been drawn to evidence given to the Royal Commission on Australian Government Administration by  Mr Myles  Wright,  Chairman  of the Australian Broadcasting Control Board, to the effect that he regretted that more Board reports had not been made public. To what reports did he refer? Will the Minister investigate the possibility of all reports by the Board being made public documents? 
-I seek leave to make a short statement in relations to pair arrangements. 
My question is directed to the Minister for Agriculture. Has his attention been drawn to a report which appeared in today's issue of the 'Australian Financial Review' in which the  Chairman  of the Australian Meat Board,  Colonel McArthur,  stated that the recent beef contract signed with Russia would not yield attractive prices to Australian beef producers? Has  Colonel McArthur  in fact entered into a contract which is unprofitable or will the contract be of advantage to Australian producers? 
-I seek leave to make a short statement in relation to arrangements between the Whips. 
My question is directed to  the Minister representing the Acting Minister for Foreign Affairs. Has his attention been drawn to a reported decision of the Papua New Guinea Government to postpone a scheduled 1976 election for one year, which in effect would postpone Independence Day? Has the Papua New Guinea Government the power to change unilaterally the year of an election or would this require amending legislation by an Australian Act of Parliament? 
-I ask the PostmasterGeneral what is the likely date of the operation of the proposed Post Office courier service? Have the necessary vehicles been acquired and are they available and ready for service? 
I desire to ask a question of the Minister representing the Minister for Transport. In reply to a question earlier today he indicated that a number of ships are at present on order for the Australian National Line. Can he advise the Senate how many of these ships will be built in Australia? 
-I ask the Minister for the Media whether it is true that the Federation of Australian Commercial Broadcasting Stations has complained about material which the Australian Broadcasting Commission's new young style outlet, radio station 2JJ, has used in its programs. Has there been any public concern about this material? If this is true, does the Minister intend to intervene? 
In accordance with the provisions of the Public Works Committee Act 1 969- 1 974, 1 present the reports relating to the following proposed works: 
Orchestral studio and music centre at Brisbane, Queensland; 
Malak primary and pre-school at Darwin, Northern Territory. 
-Has the attention of the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs been drawn to a Press statement attributed to  Mr David  Parsons, an Aboriginal Legal Aid Service lawyer, in which he claims that there is massive exploitation of Aborigines at Aboriginal settlements? Is there any truth in his claim that taxi drivers charge Aborigines $20 for a flagon of wine and that some settlements near Alice Springs put up to a 1 50 per cent mark-up on food and other articles sold to Aborigines? This article, which appears in today's issue of the Melbourne 'Sun', makes other serious charges of exploitation. Does this type of treatment make it extremely difficult to create better understanding between the races? Is there any action that the Minister can take to stamp out this exploitation by unscrupulous traders? 
I address my question to the Minister representing the Acting Minister for Foreign Affairs. Has the Minister seen reports that a political party has been formed in Portuguese Timor and that its aim is to seek integration of East Timor into Australia? Can the Minister inform the Senate of the Government's attitude towards this party? 
My question is directed to the Minister for the Media. Is it true that the Minister recently completed a tour of Japan and other Asian countries? Did he see in those countries prospects for the use of Australian television productions? Has there been any positive move in this direction following the Minister 's, visit? 
-Has the attention of the Minister for Repatriation and Compensation been drawn to an advertisement which has appeared in Australian newspapers under the heading 'Hearing Aids for Pensioners'? This advertisement has been placed by an organisation known as Angus and Coote. Does this advertisement include in bold type the words 'Free Offer'? Does this so-called free offer refer only to testing and demonstrations? Is it a fact that pensioners are entitled to completely free hearing aids plus maintenance and replacement of batteries? 
asked the Minister for Foreign Affairs, upon notice: 
Has the Minister's attention been drawn to a reported decision of the Government of Papua New Guinea to postpone the scheduled 1976 election for one year, which in effect would postpone Independence Day? 
Does the Government of Papua New Guinea have the power to unilaterally change the year of an election, or would this require amending an Australian Act of Parliament? 
-Has the attention of the Minister for Foreign Affairs been drawn to reports that claim that Australian Embassy dependants were withdrawn from Saigon in the face of opposition from the Australian Ambassador? Will the Minister inform the Senate whether there is any truth in these allegations? 
My question is directed to the Leader of the Government in the Senate. Has the Minister's attention been drawn to an article which appears in this morning's 'Age' and which alleges that a deputation comprising Government senators, including myself, waited on the Minister to discuss matters associated with evidence that has been given to a parliamentary committee concerning  Senator Webster?  Is this article a complete and absolute fabrication? 
To follow up the question just asked of the Minister for the Media, I ask: Did the Minister see a statement attributed to the  President  of the Australian Film Council that he, the Minister, has consistently refused to consult with media unions and groups connected with the film industry? It was alleged also that he failed to confer with these groups on the appointment of members of the Australian Film Commission. Can the Minister say whether he himself has had discussions with any of these groups and, if not, whether his Department or any other organisation appointed for this purpose has had such discussions? 
My question is directed to the Minister for Repatriation and Compensation. As it is the Government's intention to establish an Australian Government Insurance Office, what is the extent, if any, of the Australian Government's involvement in insurance? Can the Minister give any indication of the amount of insurance cover that the Australian Government requires each year? 
-Before the Committee votes on this question I think 

 Senator Hall and all other senators should refer to section 44 of the Constitution, lt has exercised our minds earlier today and will do so again next week.  Senator Hall  is suggesting that a person can have the best of 2 worlds and hold 2 offices of profit under the Crown at the same time. The position as I understand and know it is this: It has happened on a number of occasions that people have been elected as senators of the Commonwealth of Australia in December, which was the normal time for a Senate election, but were not to take office until 1 July the following yearsome have been public servants and one is now a Minister in this House- and they had to relinquish their Public Service office and then wait some time before being sworn in. This section has never been tested but all the legal advice that has been tendered to persons in this situation has been not to continue in their office of profit under the Crown after they have been elected even though they are not to be sworn in until 6 or 7 months later. We have to be very careful about this. 
I can appreciate the arguments that  Senator Hall  has put before this House. Some of them have some basis and there is some reason why we should consider them, but the position is that the meaning of section 44 of the Constitution has never been established properly.  Senator Douglas  McClelland was the Minister I referred to who was in this position. He was a court reporter in the Commonwealth Reporting Branch of the Attorney-General's Department and had to relinquish this position almost 7 months before he was sworn in because he had been elected, although he was not then a member of this chamber within the meaning of this section of the Constitution. I agree that the meaning of this section has never been laid down because it has never been challenged, but the advice given to persons in this situation has always been that there is a grave risk of their being ineligible to sit in the Parliament if they do not resign their office. What  Senator Hall  is saying is that a person should have the best of 2 worlds, that he should be able to contest a seat within the Parliament while holding an office of profit under the Crown. If he is defeated at the election he still holds that office of profit under the Crown whether it be within a State Parliament or the Commonwealth Public Service. 
I believe this matter should be finalised, and very soon, because under State law a school teacher, for instance, can contest a State election without resigning from his position. However, if that person desires to contest a Commonwealth election he must resign his position as a teacher. 
The same applies even to a person who drives a train; he is in a similar position. If he contests a State election he can hold that position of train driver until such duy as he is elected or is defeated. Under Commonwealth law, because of this doubt that exists about section 44 of the Constitution, he is required to resign his position because he holds an office of profit under the Crown. Before we make a decision to repeal a certain section of the Electoral Act in relation to this matter this question should be clarified. We should do this before we put any person at risk of incurring penalties under the Constitution and the Electoral Act. A person could be in the situation quite innocently, of having a common informer object to his election, perhaps 6, 12 or 18 months or even 3 years after his election, and find himself then subject to a fine of $200 for each sitting day. 
Whilst there is some merit in the case that has been put up by  Senator Hall,  it should not be determined tonight simply because somebody believes it should be determined. There should be a complete clarification of what the Constitution means in these circumstances. We should not put a person at risk until such time as there is complete clarification. The meaning of this provision has never been tested, but the advice that has been given to persons elected to this Senate, even though they are not to take their seat in this chamber until some 7 months later- and this has happened on a number of occasions- is that they must first resign from their office of profit under the Crown, and they have been advised not to continue in that position during that 7 months period even though they are not in that time officially members of this Senate. Whilst we should give some thought to the motives behind the amendments we should not move at this stage to repeal this provision until we know what we are doing in relation to the provisions of the Constitution of Australia. 
I direct my question to the Minister for the Media. Has his attention been drawn to an article appearing in today's 'Australian' which claims that the television points system is a massive failure? The article also claims that this information was contained in a secret Federal report. Has the points system been a massive failure as suggested in this article? 
-I ask the Minister for Agriculture whether negotiations are taking place between private Australian interests to establish a large cold store in Bahrain for the purpose of storing Australian meats. Have these negotiations the support of the Australian Government? If so, what advantage would flow to Australian meat producers if such a cold storage plant were established? 
-We on this side of the chamber are being accused of trying to deny people votes because we decided that we would like to have 6 o'clock closing at polling booths. What has not been mentioned tonight in this debate is the fact that 6 o'clock closing applies at the present time in any summer election in three of the 4 eastern States, because of daylight saving. 
That is not the argument to which I am referring.  Senator Withers  did not concern himself with religious groups. I am exercising my mind about the arguments being put up by  Senator Baume  and  Senator Wood  that some people cannot vote before sunset. Many thousands of such voters in the eastern States of Australia, with the exception of Queenslanders who have not yet been enlightened about the value and the advantages of daylight saving, cannot vote in an election held in summer when the polls close at 8 p.m. 
I should like to see the same concern expressed by certain people in the community when municipal elections are held. Most municipal elections close at 6 p.m.; some even close at 4 p.m. This is done to stop the workers from casting their votes at all. These elections are held on a weekday to ensure positively that the elite of the town are the only people who can vote at them. The closing of polling booths at 6 p.m. is common for municipal elections and ensures that the persons who are working all day do not exercise their right to vote and the conservatives who have controlled these organisations for so many years continue to do so. Those conservatives will not tolerate any suggestion that a poll will occur on a Saturday. They are held on a weekday to make it more difficult for the ordinary person in the street, irrespective of his political or religious beliefs, to vote and to exercise his right. I have not heard  Senator Baume  speak on the disfranchisement of persons in those areas. 
We are voting tonight on a situation which has existed for many years in Queensland. I have been there at State elections and have worked in that area with the Party to which I belong. I recall on one occasion that hotels did not open until such time as the voting had closed. After voting people lined up outside the hotels for a drink. Do honourable senators opposite suggest that this kind of thing should continue? Any person who has certain religious beliefs will not be disadvantaged by applying for a postal vote. This can be done now in the summer months in Victoria when daylight saving is in existence. Some people are unable to vote in the summer months because the sun has not set. Opposition senators are saying, in effect, that there can be no change in the law of this community because some minority groups will be hurt. I recall that  Senator Baume  said, in answer to an interjection during the second reading debate, that we should have a public holiday when an election is held. He said that elections should be held on a day of the week other than a Saturday so that everybody can be accommodated. He should exercise his mind about what such a situation would mean to the rest of Australia. He should exercise his mind about the inconvenience that would be caused to many thousands of shift workers who work 12-hour shifts. Many thousands of those workers still would not be able to attend the polling booth even if a public holiday were declared for an election. Such workers would still be inconvenienced to the extent of having to obtain a postal vote. Many thousands of people who have no problems in voting because of their religious beliefs still would not be able to vote on the Saturday because they work a 12-hour shift. 
Many thousands of people travel interstate, perhaps on a holiday or for the purpose of visiting relatives, and before they leave their electorates they cast a postal vote. It is not a great inconvenience for any person who is likely to find himself in this position to make the normal application for such a vote and to cast his vote on the day prior to the election. It is utter nonsense to suggest that by shortening the hours of voting we are stopping people from casting a vote as they wish to do. There is no suggestion of that in any pan of this legislation. The proposed situation is no different from situations which exist at the moment. In State elections, as has been expressed by  Senator Milliner,  6 o 'clock closing already exists. In many municipal elections 6 o'clock closing already exists. The position in relation to summer time already exists in several States. The people concerned have been able to vote at elections by vitue of their right to cast postal votes. No great attempt is being made by the Government to stop any person who desires to vote in an election from doing so. 
I think  Senator Wood  is talking a lot of humbug when he speaks against the proposal in respect to federal elections and will not, under any circumstances, attempt to change the election hours in Queensland.  His  excuse is that there are not many people of the Jewish faith in that State. It would not matter if there were only two as far as the arguments being put up by  Senator Baume  are concerned.  Senator Wood  is salving his conscience by saying that not many people of the Jewish faith live in Queensland. He received confirmation from  Senator Baume  on that. He says that the number of Jewish people there does not matter in a State election but it is important in a federal election because there is a far greater number of persons in the other States of the faith of  Senator Baume  and it is far more important in the other States because more people are concerned. The principle about which we are talking is not whether there are a few or a lot. The situation applies to many thousands of persons other than Seventh Day Adventists or Orthodox Jews who wish to exercise their right to cast a vote at an election. The situation applies to many thousands of workers. We can say, in effect, that we will keep the booths open for 24 hours because certain people in our community must go along and get postal votes as they cannot vote within the 12 hours that are allocated to them. This is a lot of nonsense and a lot of hypocrisy. No person in the community will be denied the right to vote because we are shortening the time allowable on voting day by 2 hours. 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Attorney-General. Has the attention of the Minister been drawn to an article which appears in today's 'Age' which states that the Prudential Assurance Company Ltd has set stricter policy conditions for nonwhite, non-Europeans applying for insurance than for white Australians of European origin? This article also indicates that the conditions under which non-whites can be insured are set out in a confidential company book distributed to company representatives. Will the Minister examine this matter and advise whether such practices would be in conflict with the proposed Racial Discrimination Bill? 
My question is addressed to the Minister for Foreign Affairs. By way of preface I mention that in the House of Representatives yesterday the Leader of the Opposition referred to a letter from the Charge d 'Affaires of the Embassy of the Democratic Republic of Vietnam, addressed to  Dr Cairns,  and the reply of  Dr Cairns  to that letter indicating that it had been forwarded to the Minister for Foreign Affairs. I ask the Minister for Foreign Affairs whether the substance of the letter as given to the House of Representatives by the Leader of the Opposition was correct and in particular, whether the 2 points of the Provisional Revolutionary Government program required the resignation of  President  Thieu and the end of all United States support for the Government of South Vietnam. 
I direct my question to the Minister for the Media and it relates to an inquiry yesterday by  Senator Martin  about the Australian Office of Information. Is it true that the Government intends to restructure the existing system of information outlets under its administration? If so, what form will this restructuring take and is it true that it will involve a huge increase in the number of journalists to the order of some 300 to which  Senator Martin  referred yesterday? 
-Is the Minister for the Media aware that song festivals of the type held in Europe and other parts of the world each year are regarded as very important events for the local musicians and the recording industry in those countries? Is he giving consideration to the establishment of regular Australian song festivals? If the Minister is considering this, will it be possible for Australian compositions to be entered at prestigious overseas festivals? 
I am surprised at the argument that  Senator Durack  has put up in which he has alleged by inference that the Government has appointed to this Board certain persons who would be in favour of the Government's policy. In fact, they are all gentlemen who are highly respected throughout the whole of the Public Service. If I, when in opposition, had got to my feet and said that all judges of the High Court were similarly in a position of being corrupted, I would have been told to resume my seat for daring to criticise members of the judiciary. Honourable senators opposite had it for 23 years. They did in fact stack certain organisations, including the High Court, with political appointees. We did not do that. We appointed highly respectable members of the Public Service to these positions, and honourable senators opposite are suggesting that these people are all corrupt and prepared to do exactly what the Government says. If that sort of argument is used, we could bring evidence before this Senate that would show that the stacking has never been done by the Labor Party when in office but that it was done by the Liberal Party when in office, even to the extent that every person who in any way challanged a former Prime Minister of this country, now  Sir Robert  Menzies, was booted upstairs into the High Court, a High Commission, into London - 
-Yes, or into the Governor-Generalship. We have not done this. These men are responsible, top public servants who have been appointed on their merits. The implication by  Senator Durack  that they were put there for ulterior purposes is something that I thought he would never introduce in this chamber. 
-Has the attention of the Minister for Manufacturing Industry been drawn to a story on the front page of today's 'Australian' containing this statement: 
The Federal Government will tell the Prices Justification Tribunal that a substantial price rise for BHP is justified to sustain a strong level of private investment. 
Can the Minister state whether this accurately represents the substance of the submission which the Government will put to the Prices Justification Tribunal concerning the application of the Broken Hill Pty Co. Ltd for a 14 per cent price rise? 
-Has the Minister representing the Minister for Social Security seen advertisements in which the Hospital Benefits Association of Victoria purports to offer cover for 1 3 medical benefits not covered by Medibank? Is it a fact that these 13 benefits are not available under Medibank? 
My question is directed to the Minister for the Media. Is it true that the first official Australian delegation to the Cannes Film Festival has now completed its assignment? Is the Minister in receipt of any information about the delegation's performance at the international event? Has the Minister received any reports or recommendations concerning future Australian representation at the Festival? 
-Has the Minister for the Media seen reports that the  President  of the Greek-Australian Liberals Association was refused membership of the Greek Committee on programming for the new access station 3ZZ in Melbourne? Does this mean that the Government is using this station as a propaganda unit among migrant groups? Does it also mean that the Australian Broadcasting Commission determined that the Greek Committee on programming be a leftist organisation? 
I can appreciate the matter that  Senator Rae  has raised tonight because I can recall having a question in this House unanswered for over 20 months when I was in opposition. These frustrations occur and I think Ministers should answer questions as quickly as possible. But do not let anyone suggest that this situation is something new; it is not. It was terribly difficult to get replies from certain Ministers in the previous Government to correspondence and I have files to establish this. So  Senator Rae's  experience is not unusual in this aspect; it seems to be ever thus. 
My question is directed to the Minister for the Media. Has the Australian Broadcasting Control Board called for applications for a community broadcasting station licence in Melbourne? When were applications called for and how many applications were lodged? Is the Minister aware that concern is being expressed by a number of groups at the delay that is taking place on the part of the Board in hearing the applications? Can he say when the Board is likely to conduct the hearing? 

 Senator DOUGLAS McCLELLANDApplications were called by the Australian Broadcasting Control Board for a restricted community licence to be issued in Melbourne; applications were invited by the Board late in December of last year. Notice to this effect was published in the Australian Government Gazette early in February 1975, and prospective applicants were advised that applications should be lodged with the Board not later than 26 or 27 February of this year. The  Chairman  of the Broadcasting Control Board has advised me that all told 11 applications have been received by the Board for consideration for the granting by the Board of the licence. The Board has announced its intention to hold a public inquiry to make recommendations to me regarding the suitability of applicants for the licence. 
I am advised that each applicant was informed of this fact by letter last week, on 28 May, and I am told by the  Chairman  of the Board that the inquiry into each application will commence on 23 June. This will be the first inquiry into this type of station in Victoria. It is intended for operation by non-profit incorporated bodies to meet the specific needs of the local community, and recently an inquiry of a similar nature was conducted into applications for a licence for Campbelltown, New South Wales. 
-Has the attention of the Minister for the Media been drawn to an article which appeared in today's issue of the 'Age' and which strongly implies that he, personally, intervened to prevent the filming of Frank Hardy's book ' The Outcasts of Foolgarah "? Is this true? 
I address my question to the Minister for the Media. Did the Government last year agree to experimental music broadcasting stations being established in the frequency modulation band by the Music Broadcasting Society of New South Wales and the Music Broadcasting Society of Victoria? Is it a fact that the Music Broadcasting Society of New South Wales went on air in December last year and thus became the licensee of the first FM broadcasting station in Australia? Did the Minister say at that time that because of delays involved in erecting a mast in Melbourne the FM music broadcasting station in Victoria would not be going to air until April? Can the Minister say when the Melbourne FM station is likely to go to air, thus providing the people of that city with fine music broadcasting? 
-As the person who steered through the Senate the Bill to set up a new and permanent Parliament House, I support the motion moved by the Leader of the Government in the Senate  (Senator Wriedt)  in relation to the message from the House of Representatives. I cannot support the amendment. 
Because it is not a practical amendment at this point of time. I agree with many of the things that  Senator Withers  has said. While in government his Party had control of both Houses. The  President  and the  Speaker  were from his Party. Yet that Party allowed a substantial amount of the accommodation in this House to be let to the Press free of charge. It has taken no action since to force the Press out of this building. It has let members double up and treble up in offices. At present each senator has at least a cubbyhole. Some of the accommodation is no more than a cubbyhole. At least each senator has his own office. I accept that the progress started when  Senator Sir Magnus  Cormack was  President,  and it has developed further. No real action has been taken to carry out the things about which  Senator Withers  now speaks and about which he should have been speaking four or five years ago. He should have been taking a more active interest in these matters. We should not adopt a hole in the corner attitude about this matter. The motion is a reasonably fair one because there has been no attempt by the Government to establish any kind of control over the committee. The Government's proposition provides for equal numbers from both sides of the Parliament, to make absolutely certain that proper decisions are made on a basis of the need of all members of Parliament and of the Parliament itself, not on the basis of any political arguments at a committee level. I think that it is absolutely foolish to stack to the motion some kind of conditions which are not associated with the building of a new and permanent Parliament House. 
I agree that the accommodation aspect has been neglected since 1927 when this Parliament was opened. I would suggest that if we tag these words on to the motion and refer this matter to the Committee we will spend millions of dollars on this place to get the standards that  Senator Withers  has suggested before we lay the foundations of the building that I will probably never see. I will certainly never sit in it because I have only 12 months to go before I retire. To tag this kind of amendment to the motion would destroy the purpose behind the setting up of the committee because it would be adding to the work of that committee something extra that should not be tolerated in the circumstances surrounding the building of a new and permanent Parliament House. 
Today I have examined a document that came with a report of the Senate Select Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence. It horrifies me to see how much the Department of Foreign Affairs is spending overseas annually on accommodation for embassies, chanceries and even what we term houses for staff. Today I read and examined that document. It referred to extensions to the chancery in Japan. The quote for the extensions is $15m. The total cost of the present operations overseas- not all this work was approved by this Government, it goes back over a period of many years- at this point of time is $86m. Some of this work was commenced as the result of the previous Government's desire to spend money on prestige buildings overesas. 
At this time 3 houses are to be built for staff in Vienna at a cost of $300,000-that is about $ 100,000 each. At this time $86m could build the Parliament House which we believe we should have in this country. I am obsessed with getting what members really need. I hope the new Parliament House will be started before I leave this Parliament in 12 months time. I do not want this motion to be cluttered up with stupid amendments which will make the Committee's work harder in assessing the situation. Not only will we spend $100m or more over perhaps eight or ten years for the Parliament House which we all believe we should have but also we are expending great amounts of money on extending this building. I believe the most minimal amount should be spent on it. I agree with  Senator Withers  that there are people occupying this place who should not be here. 
-I am not talking about members. If the right of some to be here was judged on the quality of their contributions they would be out at Lyneham. That applies to members of the Opposition. That is the nearest they would get to this House. I am trying to make a serious contribution to assist  Senator Withers.  I believe the Joint House Department has far too much of the accommodation in this place. I think it is far bigger than it should be. It has been allowed to grow too much. I believe that the basis on which the Department was set up should never have existed in the first place. If we analyse what is happening in this place we will find that permanent statutory committee officers who need contact with members of their committees were relegated to West Block and now to the former Hotel Canberra from where they cannot contact the members. They have to run backwards and forwards. I am talking about joint statutory committees such as the Joint Committee of Public Accounts and the Joint Committee on Public Works. They have been emptied out of this place although they need permanent contact with the officers and chairmen of their committees. They have been emptied out to give more space to people who I do not believe should be in this building at all. I do not believe it is helpful for you,  Mr President,  to be making decisions on expansions to this place and to be spending a lot of money because, in effect, what the bureacracy will do is exactly what you are asking for. It will spend more money if we do not prevent it from doing so. What we have to examine is who occupies this place and who should not occupy it. Firstly I name the Press. It should have access to the galleries of this place and nothing more. 
The honourable senator may have been misquoted on some occasion but the Press should have access to the galleries of this building and nothing more. Secondly, I name the Joint House Department. It should not swallow up great floor space in this building at the expense of members and of important committees which should have ready and complete access not only to the chairmen of the committees but also to members who may be sitting on them. I agree with many of the sentiments. 
The kitchen? We would have to spend $2m to get the kitchen even up to hotel standard. I believe the situation is that this proposed Committee should be established as suggested in the message that came to the Senate. It is a fair Committee. I hope the members of the Committee will not change, irrespective of which party is in government. It should be a sincere committee which wants to look at real provisions. It should not be cluttered up by an amendment which will make its work much more difficult. I hope the amendment is defeated. 
Is the Minister for Labor and Immigration aware that many applicants for assistance under the National Employment and Training Scheme seeking tertiary training have not been advised of the outcome of their applications even though they applied at the beginning of this year and have already commenced their courses? What are the reasons for the delays in advising these applicants? 
I direct my question to  Senator Wheeldon  in respect of one of his ministerial hats- as Minister for Repatriation and Compensation. Has the Minister's attention been drawn to the article which appeared in last night's edition of the Melbourne 'Herald' which claims that a  Mr Anthony  Cheesman has had his war pension cancelled although he is unfit to work because of war injuries sustained in Vietnam? Is there any basis for his claim that the Government would rather send the money to Australia's former enemies than compensate wounded soldiers? 
My question to the Special Minister of State relates to the Royal Commission on Human Relationships. Has the Minister noted that the Commission's terms of reference require that it examine family, social, educational, legal and sexual aspects of the male and female relationship? In view of the diverse and contentious nature of these subjects, when does the Government expect to obtain tangible results for the time, effort and money being put into such an inquiry? 
-by leave-Mr  President,  by arrangement between the Whips in the Senate,  Senator Rae  will not vote in divisions this day to compensate for the vacancy caused by the death of  Senator Milliner. 
What is the difference between them? 

 Sir Frederick 
 Wheeler withdrew 


 Sir Frederick 
 Wheeler having been recalled 

-by leave-Mr  President,  by arrangement between the Whips in the Senate,  Senator Rae  will not vote in divisions this day to compensate for the vacancy caused by the death of  Senator Milliner. 
-On the point of order - 
He has already spoken to this point of order and I suggest that he cannot speak a second time. 

 Mr Karidis, Yes, please, we got it. 

 Mr Karidis, It reads: 
Pursuant to these resolutions and in accordance with the Standing Orders of the Senate, you are hereby summoned to attend at the Bar of the Senate, at Parliament House, Canberra, on Tuesday, the twenty-second day of July 1975, at half past two p.m., and from day to day until the Senate otherwise orders, to answer questions and produce all documents, files or papers in your possession, custody or control relevant to the matters relating to the Government's overseas loan activities referred to in the Senate resolution of 9 July 1975. 

 Mr Karidis, 'Pursuant to the summons issued to me on 17 July I produce all relevant documents in my possession'. 

 Mr Karidis, Mr President, I left college 22 years ago, and only 5 years I went to the college. 

 Mr Karidis, Mr President, I will ask your permission to refer to my counsel before I answer that question, please. 

 Mr Karidis, Mr President, why I decide to make a copy beforehand and present it to you all was the Black Rod was a decision to put it on the bottom. 

 Mr Karidis, Mr President, I did not ask my legal counsel at that time. I asked the Black Rod, who was asking for copies of the statements. If their excellencies wanted to amend those things, then I can give this to my adviser next door and he can do it. 

 Mr Karidis, To help me and to help you, because it is the first time I have been here. 

 Mr Karidis, Mr President, he only has got copies of the ones we already produced. 

 Mr Karidis, Of course no different; only photostat copies. 

 Mr Karidis, Mr President, how you expect me to know? This is the one what I got and I gave this to you. 

 Mr Karidis, Mr President, what about  His Excellency  going to my bank account to find out? 

 Mr Karidis, Because they have not got it. This is my private property. It is in my hand,  Sir, and  I gave this to you. 

 Mr Karidis, There are not. 
Motion ( by  Senator Withers)  proposed: 
That  Senator Greenwood  be given a further 1 5 minutes in which to ask questions. 
-I support the motion moved by the Leader of the Government in the Senate  (Senator Wriedt).  Although I am a Victorian Government senator I had not quite so long an association with Dame Ivy as did some in this House. She was a remarkable person in her compassion and her feeling for aged persons. Everybody is aware of the work she did in this area, both in relation to aged persons homes and hospitals that could be established to assist those persons. This Parliament almost did the gravest injustice done to any person ever to sit in it when it allowed a situation under our pension scheme whereby, although she was an equal member of this chamber, she was not able to participate in the pension scheme in relation to the husband she loved and cared for for so many years. Fortunately this discrimination now does not exist. I can recall Dame Ivy and me discussing at great length and speaking in this Parliament about the terrible discrimination which was exhibited against a woman member of this chamber. I am pleased that that situation no longer exists, because there was not a more sincere or real case for equality than the case of Dame Ivy Wedgwood and the husband she has left. Jack is a very fine person. He is a man whom everybody on both sides of the Parliament respects and admires. In spite of the disabilities he suffered while giving service for his country, I have never heard him make one complaint. When one met him one never found him to be anything other than a cheerful person. I express my deep sympathy to Jack because he has lost a wonderful partner. 

 Senator Sir MAGNUS CORMACK (Victoria) This is the first time in my service in the Senate that I have felt bound to seek your eye,  Mr President,  and rise to my feet when the Senate has had before it a motion of condolence. It is very sad for me that I have to do this on the occasion that marks the death of  Senator Dame  Ivy Wedgwood. I do not intend to traverse the remarks that have been made by other honourable senators except to say, as  Senator Webster  observed, that Dame Ivy Wedgwood died as she had lived- working hard and earnestly at those matters that had always concerned her in her parliamentary life and after she retired from the Senate. If anyone ever died in harness it was the late senator who, as  Senator Webster  remarked, felt unwell when presiding over the board of the After Care Hospital. She was driven home and put to bed and died peacefully shortly afterwards. 

 Her parliamentary career was a parliamentary career to which she did not come unprepared, because her first interest in politics, as I recall it, was as a secretary of the Prime Minister of the day, subsequently Lord Bruce of Melbourne. It was when she was working for the Prime Minister of Australia that I think she first felt this sense of destiny which she subsequently fulfilled by entering the Parliament. My personal interest in her political career was, of course, that I was the  chairman  of the selection committee of the Victorian division of the Liberal Party which in 1 949 selected  Mrs Wedgwood,  as she then was, to be a Liberal Party candidate for the Senate election of 1949.  Her  subsequent career in the Senate, I am sure, justified the faith that the Party put in her. It was justified also by the electoral support that she subsequently achieved during the years in which she remained in the Senate. 
As  Senator Withers  said, she had a long and honourable career in the Senate but, in my mind, she was distinguished for 2 outstanding qualities. First of all, she was a woman who understood parliamentary procedures. I say that in no term of deprecation, because a woman who comes into Parliament and finds herself confronted with standing orders which have been devised for the character and quality of men and the peculiarities which they exhibit to each other from time to time sometimes feels slightly ill at ease. But the late senator understood that perfectly well and when deputising for the  President  and when acting as Temporary  Chairman  of Committees she exhibited an understanding of parliamentary procedures and a firmness of grasp as to how the Senate should conduct itself. That is the first thing for which I remember her. 
The second thing for which I remember her is, I think, more important. She was able to combine 2 careers, which I am sure male senators would find it extraordinarily difficult to do. That is to say, she was a senator fulfilling and discharging the senatorial responsibilities that devolved upon her as a senator and at the same time she was still fulfilling the life of a devoted wife to a husband who was equally devoted to her, as  Senator Poyser  observed. I do not think that in my lifetime I have seen 2 people who were so devoted to each other. The first concern of each was for the other partner. This became increasingly true as the disabilities of war wounds pressed down upon Dame Ivy's husband, who has survived her. I shall remember her for those 2 outstanding qualities which she possessed. I think the more important one was the conjugal fidelity with which she obeyed the behest of married life. I do not wish to say any more except to support the observations and remarks that have been made by my Senate colleagues and to join with others in supporting the motion which has so kindly been presented to the Senate by the Government Leader. 
-Is the Special Minister of State aware that the Prices Justification Tribunal advertised in the  Australian Financial Review  of 1 5 August that Tribunal members will be available in their Melbourne offices until 1 1 p.m. this night to consider any urgent notices of proposed price increases arising from the Budget? What is the necessity for the Tribunal's offices to be open this evening? 
I am a member of the Standing Orders Committee which discussed this matter at some length. I fully support the recommendation. The situation is obvious when one thinks about it. How can persons protest against a decision which is in favour of them? This is in effect what we are doing by demanding the right to say to the  Chairman  that although he declared your vote to be correct he is incorrect. That is just what it means. I think that if any honourable senator rose to his feet immediatelY after any vote when no division had been taken, and said: 'I want my name recorded in Hansard as being in favour of or against that motion', he would not be denied that right. On many occasions this procedure has been used at meetings at which I have been present other than in this Parliament when there has been a majority of 300 to 20 on the voices and those 300 have used their voices to demand a division in order to flush out those who voted against the question. So it can be used for purposes other than the legitimate right of a person to cast a democratic vote. So in my view the Committee is correct in saying that the person who believes a call to be incorrect should be the only person able to call for a division. If the  Chairman  on a division on a particular clause says that the ayes have it, why should the ayes dispute it by demanding a division? It seems so incredibly wrong that I believe the Committee's recommendation for a new standing order is a perfectly correct one. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Item No. 3 (Duration of Division and Quorum Bells). 
-I seek leave to make a brief statement concerning arrangements between Whips. 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Transport. Now that the proving flights of the Concorde have been completed, is it likely that approval will be given for the Concorde to fly on the London-Australia run? 
Although I am not prepared to move a motion, I would prefer to have the matter referred back to the Standing Orders Committee. I can see some dangers in the procedures that have been indicated by the Leader of the Government in the  Senator (Senator Wriedt)  and the Manager of Government Business in the Senate  (Senator 
Douglas McClelland). Those suggestions make it virtually mandatory for each Minister on each occasion to give to the senator concerned a copy of the answer before it is given in the Senate. The senator can make a political decision prior to the question being answered, either in the form in which questions are answered now or later, as to whether he will get political mileage out of it. Of course all of us will use that type of operation. We will use it to our best advantage. I think, in view of the conflict on this proposed new standing order, it would be far better if it were referred back to the Committee. The Committee, with the advice of its officers, could bring down a further recommendation. 
All honourable senators will recall that at the end of sessions- in the time of our Government and in the time of the previous Governmentone of the last announcements by the Leader of the Government in the Senate is that he has answers to 25 questions or 30 questions. There has been no opportunity for any member to say whether he required to have them answered in the Senate. We are now requiring the Leader of the Government in the Senate or the Manager of Government Business in the Senate to give advance notice of the questions which come in at the last minute. Let us face facts. On occasions, to save embarrassment, governments have delayed until the last minute, answering questions which they did not want to answer. All of us will play politics. There is no question about that. We must be honest in this debate. 
Now we are faced with either accepting something that I believe has operated quite successfully during the trial period or making it mandatory for Ministers to give in advance information which should firstly be given to the Senate. We are asking a senator, who is to receive information in advance of the information being made available officially in the Senate, to decide whether he wants the question to be replied to officially in the Senate. I can visualise a situation in which all questions on notice for which answers are available will be required to be answered verbally on Wednesdays. Equally, I can visualise a situation in which a government, irrespective of which party is in power, will say: We will not answer any questions on notice on a Wednesday'. I can visualise that kind of situation developing. This is why I suggest that the Standing Orders Committee should re-examine this question and make a recommendation based on the advice that is available to it. At this time we should not make an on-the-spot decision on an amendment that might prove to be even more burdensome to Ministers and senators than the procedure that has been under trial for some time. I ask the Manager of Government Business in the Senate to take this on board and to give it some consideration. 
I move the following amendment: 
Delete all words after 'That' (first occurring), and insert the words 'the matter be referred to the Standing Orders Committee for redrafting'. 
I know that I will lack the numbers but there is a very important reason for me to pursue this point. I pursue it on a very fundamental basis. If the whim of the Senate is to be the basis determining whether a person can ask questions placed on notice it will be a complete denial of the democracy that should operate in a parliament. I know thu there are many matters about which leave is required. Suppose that a senator desires to ask a question and one person says no to the request because he has some personal reason for doing so. The person wishing to ask the question will not be able to ask it. Honourable senators may say that the commonsense of the Senate prevails but I have seen the commonsense of the Senate upset on many occasions when there is one recalcitrant who wants for some reason to continue to call quorums. I think this proposition needs to be redrafted in order to make it absolutely certain that if a person wishes to ask a question that he has placed on notice that becomes the right of all persons, a right of the Senate, and not on the basis that one individual can say no and refuse that right. I still believe that this question needs further consideration by the Standing Orders Committee and the advice of its officers to attain what we are attempting to attain and that is the right of a person to ask a question if he so desires. 
I think that the system under trial was good and I would continue to support it. We do not want to get back to the situation where any amendment relating to the standing order operates on the basis of the whim of one person who may be in a good mood or a bad mood. It is wrong that the Senate should have something in its Standing Orders which would allow that sort of thing to happen. 
-If all we would have would be hope I would prefer to have what we have at the present time. 

 Senator Sir KENNETH ANDERSON (New South Wales) (2.40)- I must indicate that I cannot support  Senator Poyser  's amendment. The Minister for Police and Customs  (Senator Cavanagh)  made a helpful interjection when  Senator Poyser  said that he would prefer the way this standing order has been operating. As we have been operating a senator has no rights. Under this proposition we are saying that under certain circumstances the senator should have some rights. I cannot support  Senator Poyser  's proposition. The only other thing I had in mind to say in relation to the amendment is that it is written into the motion moved by the Manager of Government Business in the Senate  (Senator Douglas McClelland)  that this suggestion is to operate only for a trial period of 3 months anyway. If somebody wished to refer the matter back to the Standing Orders Committee at the end of that 3 months that could be done. I have some personal reservations about how we are now proceeding with petitions and would like that matter to be referred back to the Standing Orders Committee. What we hoped for and what we intended is not happening. It may well be that there will be time for some other things to go back to the Standing Orders Committee. This suggestion is to operate on trial for 3 months, as suggested by the Minister, and we should give it a trial. 

 Senator Sir MAGNUS CORMACK (Victoria) (2.41)- I rise merely to say that I agree with  Senator Poyser's  last observation and disagree with the contention of the Minister for Police and Customs  (Senator Cavanagh)  that the suggestion which has been under trial has worked effectively. It was given a trial because of the distortion that was taking place in the context of questions that had been placed on notice. Certain honourable senators were beginning to manufacture a procedure of their own. It may be said that what is proposed will deny the right of an individual senator and that senators do have rights in this place. So they have. But senators have rights in the Senate only in accordance with the generality of the will of the Senate although measures of protection are built into the Standing Orders. I am sorry to see that there is a feeling growing up that the present practice which has been under trial is to be discontinued. 
I now address myself to the amendment moved by the Manager of Government Business in the Senate  (Senator Douglas McClelland)  and oppose the amendment moved by  Senator Poyser.  If the motion moved by the Manager of Government Business is carried and there is a trial period of 3 months, automatically the matter must come before the Standing Orders Committee again. The relevant standing order will exist only for a period of 3 months. In order to try to get this Committee out of the bind that it is in now I am prepared to support the motion moved by  Senator Douglas  McClelland. I think we should proceed to vote on the matter although I am not going to move the relevant motion. I make the point that I support his amendment for the reason I outlined. I think that eventually we will get back to the original draft which is the subject of the Committee's attention at the moment. 
The Minister for Agriculture is no doubt aware of the concern of many people at reports that the importation of aquarium fish into Australia is to be banned or restricted. Can the Minister indicate whether there is any basis for this concern? 
-I present the following petition from 85 citizens of Australia: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate in Parliament assembled: The humble Petition of the undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully showeth: 
1 ) That Parliament should pass the Bill currently before it to establish an Australian Government Insurance Corporation. 
That an Australian Government Insurance Corporation will benefit all Australian women and men by offering equal opportunity for employment and insurance cover. 
That there is a need to establish in Australia National Interest Insurance so that cover is available against natural disasters. 
That the Australian Government Insurance Corporation will fairly compete with the general and life insurance companies thereby benefiting the industry and the policy holders. 
Your petitioners therefore humbly pray that the House will pass the Bill. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
-by leave-By arrangement between the Whips in the Senate,  Senator Webster  will not vote in divisions this day to compensate for the vacancy caused by the death of  Senator Milliner. 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Health. He will be aware that the Minister for Health announced on 1 July 1975 the purchase of the Fawnmac group of companies by the Australian Government for approximately $6m. However, it is apparent from the Budget Papers that the Government will now pay $8.4m for the group. Is the Minister able to offer any explanation as to why the Government will pay more for this group? 
I am pleased that the Opposition is not persisting with the amendment it moved during the last sittings of Parliament. I believe we are now moving forward towards the erection of a new and permanent Parliament House which has been needed for many years. I, like  Senator Withers,  normally believe that small committees are good committees. I used to like the committee of three, when two did not turn up and I was the one who did. A lot of work used to get done. I think, in this case, the task is one of great depth. Perhaps that committee will find it necessary to establish subcommittees to look into various aspects of the requirements of the new and permanent Parliament House. 
I agree with the remarks that have been made by the Minister for Police and Customs  (Senator Cavanagh)  and the Leader of the Opposition  (Senator Withers)  in relation to the appalling lack of accommodation in this building at the present time. It is my firm belief- I will be submitting my belief in the form of a report within the next few days- that only those directly associated with the operations of this House and the House of Representatives should be housed in this building. 
I believe that the Hotel Canberra, which was taken over recently for office space, could house quite a number of people who are already housed in Parliament House. Members of the Press should be housed in their National Press Club. We should not have a situation in which members of this Senate and members of the House of Representatives who have because of pressure of business been granted additional staff, have to leave that staff up to 2,500 miles away for 6 months of the year. It is a ridiculous situation to have a research officer housed in Perth, Cairns, Townsville, or even Geelong where I live, when they are needed on the spot. I believe that the standard of debates and the knowledge that could be made available to the people of Australia through their elected representatives would be much better if the persons who are employed as research officers and other staff members, the need for whom has been clearly established, were available in this House for use at the required time. 
Whilst I would not consider a comparable situation should exist in Australia at this stage to that which exists in the United States of America, in that country members of the Senate have up to 40 employees on their staffs- speech writers, persons doing research work and persons in offices in every major town in the State in which a senator operates. I do not envisage this at all in Australia but if members are to have research workers they should be available in this building. Sufficient space would be available now for this if the persons who have no real right to be in this building were not occupying vital space that the members of this Parliament should have for their use. 
I agree with  Senator Withers  that at least 2 rooms should be available to each member of this Parliament, to whichever House he may belong. My observations of the Ministers' suitesas we like to call them- have shown them to be a disgrace to the national Parliament of Australia. If people desire to interview a Minister by arrangement they have to be kept out in the corridors because the small waiting-rooms that were provided originally in Ministers' suites have been taken up by staff, simply because there is a complete lack of capacity for those Ministers to house the staff that they need to have in this building within their present accommodation. 
I think that the Joint House Committee, the  President  and the  Speaker  should look very quickly and positively at the situation that we are facing now. I would not agree to another $10m or $ 1 5m being spent on extensions to this building when there is room within this building which could be made available to the people of this House at far less expense. The staff of members and Ministers of this Parliament, the officers of the Parliament, and probably Hansard are the only 3 groups of people that I can see that it is absolutely essential to house in this building. I believe that the bottom floor is taken up by a continuing bureaucratic organisation that seems to grow like Topsy every year. The majority of the Joint House Department could well be housed away from this building. Their functions are not associated with the operation of this House or of the House of Representatives. The functions are purely administrative and could be carried out quite a distance from this building without having any effect on the efficiency of that Department. 
These are things which I propose to report in a statement I will be making to the Joint House Committee by request very shortly. I sincerely hope that the matter will not end there. The Whips have been requested to make a report to the Joint House Committee and I hope that the matter does not rest on the basis that in another 5 years we will receive a similar request. I hope that the members of that Committee, the  President  and the  Speaker,  will act very quickly on the recommendations that are submitted to the Committee in order to alleviate the problems of accommodation in Parliament House. I do not believe that the problems will be solved by building additional wings on to this building at great expense. The space is here now and a far lesser amount of money would need to be spent to provide a temporary solution to the problem of accommodation that is required by Ministers, leaders of Government, leaders of Opposition and back bench members of both Houses in order to carry out their functions satisfactorily. 
Is the Minister representing the Minister for Transport aware of a growing practice by both airlines, Trans-Australia Airlines and Ansett Airlines of Australia, to eliminate several of the nights in their published schedules? Will the Minister have this matter investigated to ensure that the public is not unnecessarily inconvenienced by the airlines in this way? 
-I present the following petition from 16 citizens of Australia: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate in Parliament assembled. The humble Petition of the undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully showeth: 
1 ) That Parliament should pass the Bill currently before it to establish an Australian Government Insurance Corporation. 
That an Australian Government Insurance Corporation will benefit all Australian women and men by offering equal opportunity for employment and insurance cover. 
That there is a need to establish in Australia National Interest Insurance so that cover is available against natural disasters. 
That the Australian Government Insurance Corporation will fairly compete with the general and life insurance companies thereby benefiting the industry and the policy holders. 
Your petitioners therefore humbly pray that the House will pass the Bill. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
My question is directed to the Minister for Labor and Immigration. It would appear that the fine city of Geelong in which I live is getting a few mentions in the Senate this morning. What is the current rate of unemployment in the Geelong district? Has the Minister carried out a special study of the employment situation in Geelong? Has Geelong had a registration rate approximately equal to double the national average for a number of years? What was the increase in registrations in the most recent figures, over previous figures? 
-I seek leave to make a short statement in relation to arrangements between the Whips on Thursday, 28 August. 
My question is to the Minister for Social Security. Has he seen reports of statements by the Opposition shadow Minister for Social Security during the weekend about the Opposition's attitude to Medibank? Is the Minister aware that the shadow Minister for Social Security wants to abolish Medibank if the Liberal Party is ever returned to government? Is he also aware that the Leader of the Opposition does not agree with his shadow Minister but in fact is anxious to continue Medibank? Is the Minister aware of reports that  Mr Chipp  has since stated that he would wish to abandon the agreements already made with 4 State governments about the hospital side of Medibank? Can the Minister tell the Senate what the effect of these conflicting proposals would be on Medibank and on the medical services available generally to Australian citizens? 
-Can the Minister for Social Security inform me of the amount of assistance being provided through the program to pay sheltered workshops $500 for every worker who is assisted into permanent normal employment? 
I direct my question to the Special Minister of State as Minister responsible for war graves. Bearing in mind that yesterday was the thirty-sixth anniversary of the commencement of World War II, can the Minister inform the Senate of the present arrangements for caring for war graves which are, of course, a matter of concern to those who lost relatives or friends in the 2 world wars and subsequent conflicts? 
In accordance with the provisions of the Public Works Committee Act 1969-1974 1 present the reports relating to the following proposed works: 
Second 3-year program for the improvement and maintenance of the Stuart and Barkly Highways, Northern Territory. 
Naval transmitter building and power centre at Humpty Doo, Northern Territory. 
The Sadadeen High School, Alice Springs, Northern Territory. 
I seek leave to make a brief statement in relation to arrangements about pairs. 
By arrangement between the Whips of the Senate,  Senator Laucke  did not vote in the division this day, to compensate for the vacancy caused by the death of  Senator Milliner. 
My question is directed to the Special Minister of State. Is it a fact that the Government has declined to purchase a 2.2- kilogram specimen of gold-bearing ore and a 471 -carat golden yellow sapphire after receiving a recommendation from the Committee of Inquiry on Museums and National Collections that the specimens be acquired for the National Museum in Canberra? Can the Minister inform the Senate of the reasons why those important and valuable specimens were not purchased by the Government on behalf of the Australian people. 
My question is directed to the Postmaster-General. In view of the persistent rumours that technical staff of the PostmasterGeneral's Department will be transferred compulsorily from country towns to regional provincial centres, can the Minister advise whether such transfers have taken place, or is this policy still under consideration? 
-I rise to support the Budget. This debate has been one of the most peculiar debates on a Budget that I have heard in the 10 years in which I have been a member of this Parliament. We have had severe criticism coming continuously from the Opposition but very few positive suggestions as to how the Opposition would solve the problem. We have also had a situation in which prior to the Budget being introduced the claim was made in almost every major speech by a shadow Minister on the Opposition side that the Government had to cut back spending drastically in the public sector. In almost every area in which we have either cut back spending or left it at the previous level we have been criticised by some spokesman for the Opposition either in this House or in the House of Representatives for doing so. I think it is appalling that the Opposition should tackle this Budget at the level of adopting completely negative attitudes rather than trying to make some positive suggestions as to how the Opposition would solve the problem if it were to become the government in the foreseeable future. 
I was intrigued by some of the criticism that was made both in the Senate by the Leader of the Opposition  (Senator Withers)  and in another place in relation to expenditures listed in the Budget that are to take place at overseas posts. I believe that a large amount of the expenditure that in fact will be incurred on overseas posts should come under the scrutiny of a committee of this Parliament. 
-I heard  Senator Wright  speak the other night. One could hardly follow what he was saying most of the time. The only thing that I could understand was his comment that the Government was a bad government. The criticism that has come from the Opposition in relation to spending on overseas posts is interesting when compared with the answers given by the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  in relation to the proposed expenditure. They show that the major cost factors in relation to expenditure at overseas embassies and chanceries and in other areas are, in the main, to be incurred on projects approved by the previous LiberalCountry Party Government. The large amount of criticism on this subject has come about at a time when the expenditure approvals of the previous Liberal-Country Party Government have come to fruition. Let us take, for instance, the Bangkok chancery and residence, listed for construction at a cost of $5. 8m. That work was approved by the previous Government. The renovations and the electrical work at Australia House in London, which are to cost $477,000, were approved by our predecessors. The expenditure of $18. 5m on a chancery and accommodation in Paris were approved by our predecessors. The expenditure of $2m on a chancery in Port Moresby was approved by our predecessors. The expenditure of $4.4m on a chancery in Singapore was approved by our predecessors. 
It has disturbed me and it has disturbed the Parliamentary Standing Committee on Public Works, of which 1 am a member, to read in the 1974 annual report of the Department of Foreign Affairs of the expenditure to be incurred in this respect. In my view some outrageous amounts are to be spent at overseas posts- a total of some $86m- on projects either already approved or to be approved in the near future. I will cite just one example at the moment. I refer to the $15m program for extensions to the chancery in Tokyo- just for extensions! 
A feasibility study is now in progress in relation to this matter, but it has not yet been approved. I hope that it will not be approved in its present form. That is what I am talking about. We had the position where the Committee of which I am a member quite recently conducted an investigation into a building that is to be constructed in Parramatta for 5000 public office workers. In addition to the office space that will be provided in that building there is to be a ground floor commercial shopping centre, a gymnasium, 2 theatres seating 750 and 400 persons respectively, a child-minding centre, a kindergarten and several other things. That building is to be part of the Civic Centre in Parramatta. As I recollect it, that figure was $9. 8m. We have an estimate by the Department of Foreign Affairs- which has not been approved, and I hope it will not be approved without much greater scrutiny- of $15m for extensions to a chancery. I suggest that at that price for extensions only it would be the eighth wonder of the world; we would be building a Taj Mahal in that city. I do not think a small country such as 
Australia should out- Jones the Joneses and compete with great overseas countries in the construction of embassies, consulates and other buildings that are listed as having been recommended to the Government or already approved. There are some very strange figures here. For the new chancery and apartment block that is to be constructed in Paris the total cost is to be $ 1 9.2m. An official residence that is to be built in Lagos will cost $600,000. That is if these proposals are approved by the Cabinet and by the Parliament in general. A new chancery in Kuala Lumpur is to be built at a cost of $3.4m, and 3 staff houses are to be built in Vienna at a cost of $300,000-that is staff houses at $ 100,000 each. 
These are matters that have been drawn to the attention of the Committee. What concerns me and other members of the Committee is that all these projects could be approved by any government, whether we or the Opposition were in government, and there would be no scrutiny of them by a committee of the Parliament. The Committee believes that these kinds of projects should come within the ambit of the Public Works Committee for examination. I know that this is not the first time the matter has been raised in the Parliament. Indeed, during the Labor Party's period in Opposition, that suggestion was made in amendments to the Public Works Committee Bill in another place. The Committee is not suggesting that every time an overseas program is proposed its members should find themselves on an aeroplane going to Singapore, Paris or some other city to examine the site or the project. The planning for the projects is done in Australia. But I believe that large projects of this nature should be examined by some committee, preferably the Public Works Committee, firstly to establish the need, and secondly to scrutinise the plans and specifications that have been put forward. I would take a lot of satisfying that Australia requires an expenditure of $19m in Paris or that it requires an expenditure of $ 15m on extensions to a chancery in Tokyo. This is an aspect that has to be examined in the amendments to the Public Works Committee Act that it is hoped will come before the Parliament in the very near future. 
Another matter that the Public Works Committee believes should be the subject of consideration relates to the system whereby the Committee is compelled to examine all government expenditure in the field of construction over $2m and is not able to make a choice as to what should be examined. In other words, the Committee believes that it would be proper for all construction operations of government to be examined selectively by it, including those of some of the statutory bodies that are now not answerable to this Parliament or to the Committee. We believe that those bodies should come within the ambit of the Committee. No doubt we all have seen in Canberra examples of buildings that should have been subject to some scrutiny by the Parliament through its appropriate Committee. I suggest, and I hope it is considered seriously, that we should forget the limitation of $2m and provide that the Committee can examine selectively certain projects that it believes are worthy of examination. 
For instance, in the city of Geelong, where I live, Commonwealth public offices were built in 3 stages. Each stage cost under the required amount, so none of the stages was subject to scrutiny by the Committee. The 3 stages were built over a number of years and all were approved by the previous Government. I do not make any comment in relation to the approval. The offices were necessary, but now they are totally inadequate. There is a very large staff in the building without any canteen facilities and there is no possibility in the foreseeable future of including in that building sufficient canteen facilities for the persons employed there. Another Australian Government building will have to be constructed on another site in the city of Geelong because it is impracticable now to extend the existing building, or at least very little extension could take place on the site. 1 believe that it is the purpose of the Public Works Committee to examine projects at that level. 
During the recess in November, I understand, the Committee is likely to be going to the Northern Territory for a week to examine the proposed construction of 6 schools, each of which will cost more than $2m and which will be almost indentical. The Committee is committed under the Act to examining these projects because they will cost more than $2m. I suggest that there should be a system whereby the Committee can be selective and can do spot checks if it believes that any department feels that the Committee is letting it off the hook in relation to a particular project. A situation has now been reached where, according to the 1974 Department of Foreign Affairs report, an $86m program will not be examined properly, or will not be examined at all, if the present system operates. 
I hope that the Minister in charge of the Public Works Committee Bill, the Special Minister of State  (Senator Douglas McClelland),  will take on board the suggestions I have made in relation to the proper functions of the Committee, to ensure that we do not have rash spending in areas where it is not necessary or where it could be deferred until such time as we are able to afford some of the luxuries that may be going into many of these overseas residences and chanceries that are listed for extension. 
I made it clear in my opening remarks that the Committee did not desire to do that in any circumstances and that the planning is done in Australia. The planning is done in this country by a committee from the Department of Foreign Affairs, and I think that committee should have to justify its planning. It may be necessary on some very rare occasions for the Committee to look at something overseas. If that is so, then I suggest that many more millions of dollars would be saved by the visit of one committee for one particular purpose than would be spent under the program that is listed in this document alone. If the Senate examined expenditures over the past years it might find that other outlays of a similar nature that have been made might not have been justified if a committee had had the proper oversight of that aspect of Commonwealth Government construction. I hope that these matters will be given serious consideration. I believe that I have indicated practical ways in which money could be saved, money could be spent wisely and money could be spent under the scrutiny of the Parliament to ensure that these things do not occur. 
Another aspect of the debate that has intrigued me is the comments made by speakers for the Country Party- or the National Country Party or whatever the name is at the present time. I have not had time yet to read this morning's newspapers; so I am not quite sure what its title is at the moment. We have heard from at least 2 speakers on the other side of the chamber what a terrible socialist government this is; that this terrible socialist government is doing everything to destroy this nation. When I think about the socialism that this Government practises, I wish that it was far more socialist than it is. In the history of Australia, whether it relates to this national Parliament or to the parliaments of the States, the party that has gained the most out of socialist legislation has always been the Country Party. It has always sought socialism in relation to its particular industries. It has gained that socialism on many occasions by deliberate decisions of the Parliament to give subsidies here and subsidies there. The Country Party wants free electricity, free telephone services, and many other matters to which I will refer upon the resumption of the sitting. 

 Sitting suspended from 6 to 8 p.m. 


 - Mr Acting Deputy President, prior to the suspension of the sitting for dinner I had mentioned in passing that the attitude of the Country Party to the Labor Party has been to declare us socialists at every level. I indicated also that in the history of Australian politics the people who have gained most from acts of governments which could be termed socialist have been members of the Country Party. Over many years they have received subsidies and the benefits of orderly marketing at all levels of production. The Country Party has always claimed that it believes in free enterprise but it does not believe in it in relation to the marketing of goods. When prices are high in the wool industry, the wheat industry or even the beef industry Country Party supporters believe the market should control the price and that should be the price which the grower gets. When the market drops dramatically they immediately appeal to the government of the day for subsidies to keep the farmers on their lands. 
I believe there should be a form of assistance to the small farmer. I have been known as one of the rural rump in the Caucus and I do not apologise to anybody for putting in Caucus the cause of the small farmer. But I can appreciate the arguments that have been put up from time to time about the unfairness of some of the subsidy systems that have existed in Australia, because very often they have not helped the farmer who may be small but is very efficient in his production. The subsidy system that has operated in this country has always made the rich richer and the poor farmer has not developed his property very much further into a viable area when nature has taken a step towards drought or flood. The needy should receive assistance and we should have a system that is fair and proper. We have heard evidence in this Parliament recently about the amounts of subsidy- more than $50,000 over a period of years- that went to certain farmers in Victoria, one of whom was the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  that was not required by him. That is one of the reasons why the subsidy system for superphosphate had to be looked at. 
We are not the only government that has removed this subsidy because I can recall that the Menzies Government removed the subsidy some years ago at the behest of  Mr McEwan,  who was then the  Deputy  Prime Minister of Australia. He removed the subsidy and gave valid reasons for doing so. It was reintroduced as a political gimmick because the farming community in Australia was in dire straits at that time in almost every one of its pursuits. The longer the present Opposition was in government the more the farmer suffered in every aspect of his operation. So much did the farmer suffer that the greatest march against a government by the farming community occurred in Melbourne when we were in Opposition. The farming community has tried to repeat it since. What did we see at the front of this Parliament House? One could have put the numbers who were demonstrating into a telephone booth and there would have been room for more. 
In those days the Country Party's philosophy was to tell the farmer to diversify when one industry was in trouble and to change to production of some other commodity that was paying well. We saw a classic example of that when at one stage of our history there was overproduction of wheat. At the behest of the Country Party the government of the day panicked and brought in a system of quotas whereby the small wheat farmer was on a quota which was less than he was able to grow the season before or the season before that. The big producers who moved into the market in order to undertake contract growing were equally cut down on a quota basis. Instead of letting the traditional farmer continue to produce, the then government cut back his quota. As an Opposition we violently opposed the move on the basis that markets should be sought in other parts of the world. We believed those markets were available. They were available; we proved that they were available. We also argued that this country could stand a full season's wheat in the silos so that we could oblige the markets that we could obtain by proper negotiation. 
We had the ridiculous situation that the government of the day would not trade properly with China. It sold wheat to China on occasions that suited it and at the same time it blackguarded that country from the platforms of this country and also in Parliament to the extent that China finally said: 'We can get the wheat we require from Canada'. We lost the market for political reasons. I would suggest that some of the political reasons were the double dealings by members of the present Opposition and of the then Government who were telling fairy tales to the traditional wheat growers of this country about the availability of markets. It is my prediction that under a Labor Government the wheat market is assured for the next 20 years at least. 
What did the then Government tell the wheat growers? It said: 'There is plenty of money in beef. Go into beef.  Senator Primmer  will tell how wheat growers from the Mallee, the central part of Victoria and Wimmera were driving down in motor cars and buying for $40 any kind of calf that had any colour of beef in it. They were buying week-old calves for $40, putting them in the boots of their cars and taking them back to the farm to be able to produce beef. When that beef got to the stage that it was saleable the market had fallen- not because of the fault of any government. No government in Australia could have saved the situation for the beef industry. The simple fact was that for years there had been a great problem in the United States in relation to the marketing of beef by United States farmers. They were holding out from the market and we were cashing in on it. 
Today we find that beef is almost unsaleable and in this situation no doubt members of the Country Party would frown on any suggestion that we should get very big contracts from those terrible socialist countries such as Russia and China. While we played around in a war in Vietnam and were offering insults directly from every platform the farmer was suffering because there was no market. One sees the whole hypocrisy of the Vietnam situation when one looks at the gentleman who received a large subsidy- more than $50,000- for superphosphate- not superphosphorus, as it was called here earlier today. He was a great believer in the Vietnam war and he believed that every young man in this country should be serving in it. 
-I think he is the Leader of the Opposition; the latest Leader of the Opposition. This is very interesting because the  Australian  of 24 March this year contained an article headed: 'Honourable grazier goes out to meet people carefully'. There are several quotes about what a great man is the present Leader of the Opposition. This newspaper report contains remarks made by the manager of his property and states: 

 Mr Russell Paltridge, manager of the Fraser property, described his boss as a good bloke. Not a country squire, but a genuine farmer with political interests. 
He does a lot for the area and he 's well liked for it. During the Vietnam war he helped graziers who were battling to get their sons out of the draft',  Mr Paltridge  said. 

 Mr Fraser had assisted poorer farmers or single parents to present a case for their sons not being conscripted.  Mr Paltridge  said that in many cases young men were necessary to the viability and continuation of small properties in the district. 
This is the kind of hypocrisy we have from the Leader of the party that supposes it is going to be the next government. Of course, I tried to get every young fellow out of conscription and out of that war that I could because I did not believe in it. There was no hypocrisy about what I did. I did my best to stop the war. We saw the present Leader of the Opposition in this Parliament use his influence as a member of the Parliament and a Minister of the then Government to prevail upon the Government of the day to get his own kids out of the war while the kids of the factory workers had no way out and had to go to the war or to go to gaol under the legislation imposed by the parties represented by the people of the Opposition. That reveals the hypocrisy of the parties opposite. So much for the hypocrisy of the National Country Party and its attitude to the Labor Party. As I said earlier, it is a Party that wants everything for itself when it is in dire straits but it wants the free flow of private enterprise to operate when prices are good for its members. All we ask for in this place is some sincerity from these people. The Opposition Parties will not solve the problems of industry by continually knocking members and supporters of the Government all the time, by asking for a handout when its supporters are in trouble or by telling us that they do not need a handout when there is a good market. 
I recall what happened with the Victorian Potato Board. It was not a very big Board but it operated successfully over a number of years so that the farmers who produced potatoes got a reasonable price for them. This went on for a number of years until suddenly there was a shortage of potatoes in New South Wales. Then we saw great semi-trailers moving into the Koroit area and into the Koo Wee Rup area in Gippsland and being filled with bags of spuds. They were then taken over the border under section 92 of the Constitution and sold for £10 a bag. This happened to such an extent that the Board was destroyed. Next year potatoes were selling for 9s a bag and people approached the State Government of that day and begged it to reintroduce the Board. This is the kind of philosophy that members of the Opposition have had. This is the kind of philosophy they will follow always. As far as I am concerned it is a case of the pot calling the kettle black. I hope this Budget is carried and I hope the National Country Party ceases to make these attacks when there is no justification for them. I often wish there were justification. 
My question is to the Minister for Social Security. Can the Minister provide information on the use being made of the telephone interpreter service? Does he believe that the expense of running the service is justified? If so, does the Minister feel that this service should be extended as soon as possible to other capital cities? 
I direct a question to the Minister for Social Security. In recent newspaper reports attention has been drawn to the fact that funds for the anti-smoking education campaign have been sharply curtailed while the allocation for tobacco leaf research has been maintained. Can the Minister comment on whether there is any inconsistency between these 2 issues? 
My question is directed to the Minister for Police and Customs. It has come to my notice that a major shipping company has recently suffered a fine of approximately $7,500 under the Customs Act for a relatively minor smuggling offence for which no real culprit could be found. Will the Minister undertake to review  the equity of customs legislation which enables blame for alleged offences, where no culprit can be found, to be sheeted home to an innocent party? 
Has the attention of the Minister for Social Security been drawn to an article in the Melbourne  Age  of 26 September in which the Victorian Branch of the Australian Institute of Welfare Officers is alleged to have said that delays of up to 3 months by the Department of Social Security in processing claims for unemployment benefits have forced many applicants into crisis situations? Can the Minister advise me of the time it takes his Department to process claims for unemployment and sickness benefits. 
asked the Special Minister of State, upon notice: 
1 ) What are the criteria for the provision of staff and use of Government cars by former Office-holders. 
) What facilities are provided for- 
former Presiding Officers; 

 Dr Cairns, former  Deputy  Prime Minister; and 

 Mr Snedden, former Leader of the Opposition. 
If staff and facilities differ, are the variations determined according to rank or on some other basis. 
-I present the following petition from 82 citizens of Australia: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate in Parliament assembled. The humble petition of the undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully showeth: 
That whereas the natural environment of Fraser Island is so outstanding that it should be identified as part of the World Natural Heritage, and whereas the Island should be conserved for the enjoyment of this and future generations. 
Your petitioners humbly pray that the members, in Parliament assembled, will take the most urgent steps to ensure: 
That the Australian Government uses its constitutional powers to prohibit the export of any mineral sands from Fraser Island, and 
that the Australian Government uses its constitutional authority to assist the Queensland Government and any other properly constituted body to develop and conserve the recreational, educational and scientific potentials of the natural environment of Fraser Island for the long term benefit of the people of Australia. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
I direct my question to the Minister representing the Minister for Transport. I refer to the comments by the Coroner,  Mr Leo,  in the Cooma Coroner's Court, following the death of 2 men in July when a bus plunged down a ravine near Thredbo. The Coroner suggested that all buses should carry tachographs- I have checked the pronunciation of 'tachographs' with the Minister for Science- to record speeds at which the vehicles travelled and which would also indicate the speed when a bus left the road. Can the Minister say whether transport authorities are prepared to consider the Coroner's proposals and whether there is a plan to require safety belts in all touring buses? 
-Can the PostmasterGeneral confirm reports that there is an increasing demand for telex services in Australia? Are such services now readily available? 
My question is directed to the Minister  foi  Social Security. As the Department of Social Security's appeal system has now been operating for 6 months can the Minister say to what extent the system is being used in respect of unemployment benefit cases? Will he also express the number of appeals lodged against decisions relating to the unemployment benefit as a percentage of the total number of claims lodged? 
-Never in my time in this Parliament have I heard a speech worse than that which has just been delivered by  Senator Davidson.  He came into this chamber with a page of notes. He repeated himself, ad nauseam, every 5 minutes for 25 minutes. It may not have been that long, but it seemed that long. We were forced to listen to balderdash, nonsense, deceit and lies in relation to the actions of this Government because he was told to come in and stage a filibuster in relation to this legislation. In effect, he accused every person in Australia involved in the redistribution of being a crook. This is virtually what he said. The top public servants of this country were given a job to carry out a redistribution on the basis of equal voting powers for all eligible people within Australia. I want to remind him that we have done it constitutionally, otherwise these Bills could not be before this House. 

 Senator Webster, who spoke earlier in the debate, proved the old axiom that liars can figure and figures can lie. He presented the greatest distortion that any man could present to this Parliament about what has happened in the Northern Territory. He deliberately misled this Senate in relation to the distribution of seats in the Legislative Assembly for the Northern Territory. We are the Party and the Government that decided that the Northern Territory should have its own legislative assembly and be able to make decisions in its own right in certain areas of government. We did it on the most democratic basis that we could. It is in line entirely with the Constitution of the United States of America. We believe that the population should be represented in the Parliament on an equal level. I refer to population- not necessarily voters- in this case. In fact, we went to the people with a referendum which sought the people's views on whether the electorates of the Federal Parliament should be divided on the basis of population. In other words, each area of population would have the same number of persons represented in this Parliament by one member in the case of the House of Representatives and 10 members from each State in the case of the Senate, as provided for in the Constitution. 
What  Senator Webster  did not tell the Senate was that the Legislative Assembly for the Northern Territory is elected on the basis of population. It is true that there are some great differences between the number of voters in each area. There is a reason for this. In the main, Darwin has a white population, of which the vast majority would be enrolled to vote. In the hinterland and the outer areas of the Northern Territory the population is mainly Aboriginal. Aboriginals are entitled to enrol but, as yet, we have not- we should not at this stage of progressforced those people to enrol. The Australian Government, by virtue of the known population of the area, decided to divide the seats in the Assembly into representation by population.  Senator Webster  knows that. He also knows that when this matter was before this Parliament distribution was based on population and not on voters. 
Indeed, as indicated by  Senator McLaren, Senator Webster  was on the Committee that looked into this matter. Yet, he got up in this House this afternoon and deliberately deceived the people of Australia by stating untruths. He did not relate the facts. As I said earlier, figures can lie and liars can figure. This is an indication of the kind of distortion that has come before this House this afternoon.  Senator Webster  knows- as all of us who have taken an interest in the Northern Territory know- that the estimates seem to indicate that only 40 per cent of the Aboriginal population have, as yet, enrolled and become voters in the Commonwealth elections and voters in the elections for the Legislative Assembly for the Northern Territory. 
Of course, we are not enforcing the rule that applies to every person who lives in the cities. The people in the cities have been voting since Federation in Commonwealth elections, with compulsory enrolment. We have not done that in relation to the Aboriginals in the Northern Territory. If we did that, the first person to criticise us would be  Senator Webster,  who is now using an argument in this House against the Government because of our humanity and our approach to the rights of Aboriginals who are not as yet enrolled and who do not have representation in the Legislative Assembly on a fair and reasonable basis. So much for the humbug that  Senator Webster  has presented in this place. He tried to tell the people of Australia that this humbug was fact. The whole argument he put forward was completely spurious. 
I remind him of the situation which applies in Queensland. We have heard examples, this afternoon of a man who gets no more than 20 per cent of the vote in an entire State- one out of five votes- and yet becomes the Premier of that State because he draws the map in such a way as to ensure he becomes the Premier. We have a gutless Liberal Party in that State which will not stand up to that man and decide that his day has passed. The same situation applied in Victoria with the gerrymandering of electorates many years ago when the Country Party was the Government of that State under a Country Party Premier. That Party did not have enough members to fill the Ministry because the Liberal Party at that time, was too gutless to join with the two major parties and throw the Country Party Government out. Thank Heavens that finally the 
Liberal Party in Victoria had the guts to join with the Labor Party and throw the Country Party out of power. The Country Party has never been in government there since, because guts were shown in relation to the rights of the people of Victoria. Until that time the Victorian Parliament had been dominated by 14 members in a House of more than 60 people. The House was governed by 14 members who had less than 9 per cent of the total State vote. This is the kind of gerrymander that the National Country Party imposes whenever it gets its claws into government. The Liberal Party in Queensland is gutless for allowing this kind of thing to go on there, and kowtowing to that Petersen person simply because it has the  Deputy  Premiership. The  Deputy  Premier of Queensland is frightened to write his own name to anything. He is frightened to move into an area of democracy for his people. He is cowed by a man who gets one vote out of five under the worst gerrymander that exists. 1 should like to refer to the situation which applies at present in Victoria. 1 ask honourable senators to examine the last State election results. The gerrymander in Victoria is almost as bad as that in Queensland. In Victoria we have got a Liberal Party Government under the control of one fellow by the name of Hamer, who makes it happen, who leads a Party which received 44.4 per cent of the vote. In the last State election it had more than 40 members returned to the House. The Labor Party in Victoria, which had a marginally smaller percentage, returned 18 members to the same House. More than 40 members were returned for the Liberal Party as compared with 1 8 returned for the Labor Party. The Victorian Government says that that is democracy. Almost two out of every three people who vote for the Labor Party are disenfranchised under the Victorian system of democracy. Under its system electoral boundaries should be drawn in such a manner that it would be able to attain government itself or as an appendage- the tail wagging the dog- in the federal sphere or in the State sphere by virtue of its balance of power. In 1 955 we saw a photograph of  Sir Henry  Bolte sitting on a tractor. He had 2 Cabinet lists, one in each pocket. It is the first time I have ever seen a farmer with his coat and tie on driving a tractor. He allegedly had 2 Cabinet lists, one in each pocket, waiting to see whether he would have to form a coalition government or whether he could govern in his own right. If he had lost one seat, of course, the situation would be that the tail would be wagging the dog in Victoria forever. 
All we are seeking in this legislation is to ask the people by referendum that we be allowed to govern this country on the basis of equal population in the electorates. We are saying that an area populated by relatively young people who have many young children should be represented by one person. We are not trying to create the situation which exists in the Upper House in Victoria today of a little tinpot electorate of 45 000 people being represented by 2 Country Party members when almost 200 000 people in the metropolitan area are represented by only 2 people in that same House. What kind of equality is that? The difference in representation is something like seven or eight to one. That is the value which the Country Party is trying to put forward that votes should have. Then we hear this nonsense that we have rigged the redistribution to keep ourselves in power. What utter nonsense. 

 Senator Melzer referred this afternoon to what has been said by  Mr Mackerras  who is one of the top men in this country in relation to electoral matters. He has had a lifetime of association with politics and with the drawing of electoral boundaries and he knows what constitutes fair play in relation to elections. He is on record as saying that this is the best and fairest redistribution he has ever seen in the history of this country. I have not heard one honourable senator opposite refute that contention in any way.  Senator Davidson,  as I said, made in 5-minute relays the same points over a 25-minute period. He said in effect that that is completely untrue, that we have rigged the redistribution. He was saying, in effect, that every electoral officer in this country who has been appointed for years as a public servant succumbed to pressure from the Government to rig the boundaries. Let him go outside this chamber and say that the electoral officer for the seat of Corio succumbed to pressure from this Government to gerrymander the electoral boundaries of that seat so that we would stay in power. Let him go outside and say that the electoral officer for Wannon, a directly opposite type of seat which is held by the Liberal Party, gerrymandered the electoral boundaries of that seat so that the Labor Party would win office. It is utter balderdash. It is untrue, and it is not worthy of any honest honourable senator to come into this chamber and tell so many untruths. 
I am sick and tired of hearing honourable senators say in this place that because we want to see fair play and because we want to ensure equal representation we are rigging the boundaries. The type of boundaries they want are those which applied in South Australia for years under Playford and those which apply now in Queensland where some little tinpot place with a population of 2,000 people will be represented by one member while in another area 25 000 or 30 000 people will still be electing one person. The time when a person can become the Premier of a State of this Commonwealth by polling only one vote out of every five should be gone forever. 
The Constitution of this country and, indeed, of the States should make absolutely sure that we have in this country the type of fair play that exists in the United States of America where the electoral system operates on the basis of population. That principle has been upheld for many years by the Supreme Court of the United States, and that is the type of representation to which people are entitled.  Senator Webster  said in effect that Aborigines who have not put themselves on the electoral roll are not entitled to representation at all. As I said earlier, if we went to those people or said in this chamber that it should be compulsory for them to enrol,  Senator Webster  would be charging us with something different. What nonsense. What a filibuster over nothing. Let us have some honesty. 
Let us have fair representation for all seats in the House of Representatives and then the best party will win. In that situation we will not have the tail wagging the dog. We will not have the situation of a person like  Mr Anthony  deciding by force of numbers whether the Australian dollar should be revalued at a time when the country urgently requires that kind of action. We will not have the situation of the Country Party saying to the Prime Minister of the country, as it did on many occasions, that he cannot do a certain thing or it will withdraw its support.  Mr Anthony  is the man who wants an election for his own gain so that he will once again become the  Deputy  Prime Minister of Australia. He is not fit to lick McEwen 's boots as far as the statesmanship and decency of a member of this Parliament are concerned. 
I hope that this legislation will be passed. I know that it will not because the Opposition is ganging up. It does not believe in democracy. It does not believe in fair play. Opposition senators are absolutely certain in their own minds that if they get into power they can put into effect a gerrymander which will keep Labor out of office for all time. 
My question is directed to the Postmaster-General. What progress has been made by the Australian Postal Commission in its plans to regionalise mail centres and what advantages are foreseen in the decentralisation of mail services? 
-Can the Minister for Foreign Affairs inform the Senate whether the announcement recently of an aid shipment of wheat and milk worth $2. 4m to the Provisional Revolutionary Government in South .Vietnam will be followed by further aid to that country? 
My question is directed to the Minister for Foreign Affairs. Has the Minister seen reports that the Government has been asked to investigate alleged spying activities of its  de facto  consul in Timor,  Mr Frank  Favaro? Will the Minister give the Senate any available information on those reports? 
-Can the Minister for Foreign Affairs inform the Senate whether he has any information concerning the fate of the Australian television crews reported missing in East Timor? 
-The Government, of course, will not accept this amendment. I cannot think of an amendment more designed to break down the recent agreement that has occurred between the Australian Council of Trade Unions and strikers in relation to disputes between the mainland and Tasmania. It is clear that during a number of recent disputes the ACTU has particularly exempted Tasmania. The penal clauses that are included in c (iii) of the proposed new clause are such that any such type of agreement would be very unlikely in the future. It is proposed that we shall go through the whole machinations that we have been through in this country before, with union bashing legislation which created the situation of a national strike at the gaoling of Clarrie O'Shea of the Tramways Union. I thought that honourable senators from both sides of this House had learnt their lesson in relation to this type of legislation. It is quite easy for the Seamen's Union or any of the maritime unions associated with it to circumvent this type of legislation in any case. They simply would decline to sign on with ships where such penalties did exist. This is not a strike action. It is just a simple action of seamen, engineers, stewards and others declining to sign on with ships that would be subject to such penalties if they broke the agreement in the circumstances outlined in this amendment. We could well find that there would be unmanned ships. Then, what would be the next move? Perhaps it would be conscription of seamen. We would get ourselves into a most intolerable situation around the whole coastline of Australia if penalties of this kind were pursued. 
Let us look at the penalty of $500 a day for any person involved in such a dispute. I appreciate that the employer organisations come under the blanket of this particular clause. The amendment seeks to impose a penalty of $10,000 a day for any company or union involved in such a dispute. It is quite obvious from the experience which the Opposition had when in government that the trade union movement will not be prepared to meet such penalties. In most cases, penalties were not met. Many of the penalties imposed under previous legislation have never been recovered. It would prolong disputes for a tremendous amount of time if such provision were part of the legislation before the Committee now. It is the type of provision that would be considered by the unions to be union bashing. It would create a situation in which seamen would be very reluctant to sign on with any ships associated with the Tasmanian trade, whether with the Australian National Line or any other company. We would then have conscription of manpower. 
-There may be plenty of non-unionists prepared to do the work, but the cargo would still have to be unloaded off the ships when they get to Tasmania. The cargo would have to be loaded on to ships in the ports of Melbourne, Sydney or Adelaide.  Senator Wright  does not realise what kind of position he is getting himself into if he tries to impose these kinds of penalties on workers because they may engage in a legitimate stoppage. In the course of their working day there are many issues in relation to matters of safety about which seamen or engineers or marine stewards strike. It is vital that they have a stoppage about these matters. It is vital that they control the safety of the ship and of the persons who travel on that ship. In recent years we have seen some examples involving safety in relation to shipping between Victoria and Tasmania. 
Our position is quite clear. Under no circumstances could this type of union-bashing legislation be accepted by the Government, because it would have the very reverse effect to that which  Senator Wright  seeks to achieve. It would kill for all time any further agreements with the Australian Council of Trade Unions in relation to maritime disputes involving Bass Strait trade. We would then have a situation in which no exemptions from strikes could be granted. One must give full credit to  Mr Bob  Hawke, the  President  of the ACTU, for the attitude that he has taken to this matter over recent months and indeed over the past 1 8 months. Exemptions have been granted because the trade union movement accepts the fact that Tasmania suffers disabilities when there are shipping strikes. The exemptions that have been granted on occasions have been most beneficial. I am certain that such exemptions would be very hard to come by if we had the system of penalties which is laid down in this amendment. I hope that the Committee in its wisdom will refrain from putting this amendment into the legislation because I believe that it will be unworkable and that it will be completely unacceptable to the trade union movement of Australia. 
asked the Minister representing the Prime Minister, upon notice: 
1 ) Was an officer of the Australian Security Intelligence Organisation authorised to 'snoop' on  Ms Joan  Coxsedge, a member ofthe Victorian Australian Labor Party's Administrative Committee, when she attended the recent Women and Politics Conference as an official delegate of the Australian Labor Party. 
Did an Australian Security Intelligence Organisation officer approach a Conference official and seek the following information: (a) where  Ms Joan  Coxsedge was staying; (b) what her room number was; and (c) who she was associating with. 
If so, who authorised this 'snooping' and for what purpose. 
My question is directed to the Special Minister of State as the Minister responsible to the Government for the Australian Bureau of Statistics. Did the Acting Commonwealth Statistician announce last week that he would be releasing at 1 1 a.m. today details of the consumer price index for the September quarter of 1975? If this is true, is the Minister in a position to give some information to the Senate about the Statistician's figures? 
-Has the attention of the Special Minister of State been drawn to a report appearing in the Melbourne  Herald  of 27 
October that a further increase in the price of bread in Victoria is expected? Is it a fact, as alleged by the Managing Director of Tip Top Bakeries Holdings Pty Ltd, that a decision on the application for this increase has been delayed 7 weeks by the Prices Justification Tribunal, thus causing considerable additional costs? 
-Has the attention of the Special Minister of State been drawn to the report on food prices in the  Australian  on Tuesday 28 October, which states that food manufacturers are wary of approaching the Prices Justification Tribunal for permission to increase prices because they fear they will lose sales, and claims that the Prices Justification Tribunal policies approve price rises so that the manufacturer has to charge the increased prices even if this results in his sales being damaged? If that is correct, how does the Minister reconcile the position with the Tribunal 's function of restraining unjustified price increases? 
-I ask the Minister for Social Security: Can he say whether a study of the pattern of calls to the Department of Social Security's Telephone Interpreter Service has been made and, if so, is he able to say whether there is sufficient community awareness of the service to justify its continuance? 
My question is directed to the Minister for Social Security. I refer to my question earlier today about the telephone service available to members of the public by which they can seek information and advice from the Department of Social Security. Can the Minister advise whether it is intended that the service will be extended to major provincial cities? 
My question is directed to the Special Minister of State. Last year  Senator Willesee,  who was representing the then Special Minister of State, presented to the Senate the report of the Interdepartmental Committee on the Review of the Public Works Committee Act. This report recommended a number of substantial changes to the Act which would enable the Public Works Committee to review the works of all government bodies except those bodies which are principally of a business nature, such as Qantas Airways Ltd. Under the current Act, the Public Works Committee is restricted to examining the works of Australian Government departments. Can the Minister inform the Senate how this review is progressing? 

 Senator DOUGLAS McCLELLANDSenator Poyser is a member of the Joint Public Works Committee and he has raised this matter with me on a number of occasions. I should mention to him that before considering the report of the Interdepartment Committee on the Review of the Public Works Committee Act the Government believed it to be appropriate that it should seek the views of the Public Works Committee and other interested bodies on the proposals of the Interdepartmental Committee. Those views have been received and indeed have been considered. The review of the Act was nearing completion when the Joint Committee on the Parliamentary Committee System brought down its interim report. This report makes several recommendations which, if implemented, would make substantial changes to the Public Works Committee. 
A major recommendation of the interim report of the Joint Committee on the Parliamentary Committee System relating to the Public Works Committee was that the Senate should establish a standing committee specifically empowered to carry out the functions of the Public Works Committee, the Joint Committe on the Australian Capital Territory, and the Joint Committee on the Northern Territory. I therefore have suggested to the Prime Minister that it would be inappropriate for the Government at this stage to proceed with proposed amendments to the Public Works Committee Act until the Joint Committee on the Parliamentary Committee System has been able to prepare its final report and that final report has been considered, examined and determined by the Parliament. 
-A precedent is being established this afternoon. Never in my time in this Parliament have I seen a member of the Opposition seeking to have tabled a document produced by the Opposition, nor have I seen a motion by a member of the Government seeking to have tabled a document produced by the Government. This is obviously a plan, a plot, and we saw the puppet rise to his feet when the string-puller said: 'Get up'. It was obvious to everybody on this side of the House that he was directed to do what he was told when he was told. We are now in a situation where we have challenged the Opposition to release freely to the Press a document which would protect any person who may be defamed in that document. But  Senator Withers  hides behind the privilege of Parliament, as he has often done, to ensure that if that document is not accurate there can be no reaction against any person. 
The whole purpose of standing order 364 is to prove the authenticity of a document. We have the situation where a person who is endeavouring to have a document published has got his puppet to argue the point that the document should be tabled so that he does not have to prove the authenticity of the document. He is afraid to walk out into the Press Gallery and give it to the Press and say: 'This is the document that we have received from a person who is no longer in Australia and who may never come back to Australia. ' 
-Senator Missen said: 'We wish he would '. 
-The moment he comes back we will welcome his presence before the Bar of the Senate as a result of a motion of the Opposition. 
We will not oppose such a motion by the Opposition. We will have the kind of examination that is proper in these circumstances.  Senator Withers  is hiding behind a standing order by getting somebody to move for him the tabling of an 80-page document that nobody on this side of the chamber has seen. We have not seen it. I cannot say whether it defames anybody. But he is certainly hiding behind the privilege of Parliament in case it does. We are simply saying that we have nothing to hide. Khemlani would have been able to come before this House on any day last week, following the statements of the Leader of the Opposition that he would facilitate- I emphasise the word 'facilitate' Khemlani 's coming before this House. We gave him 3 days in which to do it. Whilst we would not have supported such a move, we would not have opposed it. He could have been brought here for public examination. 

 Senator Missen is yapping because he has a dirty conscience in relation to what he has done in the last few weeks. He has succumbed to the pressure of a Party that says: 'If you do not do what we want you to do we will take your endorsement from you'. He is doing something that he does not believe in. Everybody knows that. The dogs are barking that he was pressured last week to cross the floor and that he said: 'Do your own dirty work. You have got us into this position. Now you have to get us out of it'. That is the kind of situation in which  Senator Missen  finds himself. I feel ashamed. 
I am unashamedly a member of the Labor Party. I support the decisions made by the Labor Party Caucus. I have never pretended, as honourable senators opposite do, that I have a free vote and that if I exercise a free vote no disciplinary action will be taken against me. Pressures have been put upon certain people in the last week. People who I thought would not succumb under the so-called free vote situation have succumbed because of the threat that they will not get another endorsement if they cross the floor or refrain from voting. But that is not what we are debating now. We are debating the question whether an 80-page document should be tabled. I do not know whether the Leader of the Opposition is also suggesting that the other documents that he has before him should be tabled. I am saying that he does not have the guts to release this document to the Press without its tabling. He does not have the guts to stand up and say: 'We will give this to the open Press of this country' and let the persons who may be defamed take the appropriate action. Again I repeat that we have not had the opportunity of seeing it. The Leader of the Opposition is hiding in a coward 's castle- the Parliament- in relation to this matter.  His  tame cat puppet has risen at the motion of a finger to move a motion to have the document tabled. 
In my time in this Parliament it has never happened that a member of the same Party has sought to use that standing order in order to have a document tabled. I challenge honourable senators opposite to show me one occasion on which a member of the same Party, whether he be a member of the Opposition or, indeed, a member of the Government, has used standing order 364 to force the tabling of a document for which the Opposition or the Government has refused leave so to do. That, is an example of the kind of Dirty Dick tricks that the Opposition is getting up to. We heard  Senator Greenwood  talk earlier about  Mr Richard  Nixon, the former  President  of the United States of America. At one time Nixon was holier than thou to  Senator Greenwood.  He put the kids into Vietnam to be slaughtered. At that time  Senator Greenwood  was saying that Nixon was right. But the moment Nixon gets caught with his fingers in the till who repudiates him first?  Senator Greenwood. Senator Greenwood  is the man who had mothers' homes raided on Christmas Day in the hope that he would catch some person who was legitimately and properly evading the draft. That is the kind of person with whom we are dealing. At the same time as  Senator Greenwood  was running around Carlton trying to find draft dodgers the Ustashi were blowing up people in Sydney. He could never find the people who were responsible for those bombings because he has never exercised his mind to do so. He was happy when that kind of thing was happening. He was happy when he had to find draft dodgers. 
-I will be happy to deal with it. 
The  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Webster)-  I uphold the point of order. I think all speakers in the debate have ranged fairly wide.  Senator Poyser  's remarks are of interest but I think that he should moderate them and get back to the point at issue. 
I am quite happy to concede that the point of order is correct. I hope the same point of order will be raised in the future when people like  Senator Missen  and  Senator Greenwood  stray from the mark in the remarks that they are making and that they will be kept to the point at issue. The point I am making now and the point I made in my earlier remarks is that a precedent is being established today by the action of a puppet in rising to his feet at the instigation of a string-puller to move a motion in relation to the tabling of documents that he believes should be tabled. The Leader of the Opposition does not have the guts to give them to the Press for free publication; so he is using a standing order of this Parliament for the purpose of having these documents tabled. He is going to win on the vote of a dead man. Good luck to him if he gets away with this kind of snide and underhand practice. 
My question is addressed to the Special Minister of State. I draw his attention to an article by Kenneth Davidson in the  Age  of Tuesday 4 November, in which  Mr Davidson  said: 
Even today, when the PJT (like the Government) understands the true role of profits and has taken a very permissive attitude to price increases, many firms have not felt able to increase their prices to the full extent allowed by the PJT. 
Does the Minister agree that the Prices Justification Tribunal understands the true role of profits and, in so doing, has taken a 'very permissive attitude to price increases '? 
My question is directed to the Postmaster-General. I understand that late last year an international priority paid mail service was introduced for urgent mail to the United States of America and the United Kingdom. Has  the Australian Postal Commission any plans to extend this service to other countries? 
