I ask the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry: Did a large Victorian co-operative milk company recently make a sale of considerable quantities of butter on a new market in the Middle East? Was the price obtained for the sale in excess of the United Kingdom price? Was the company concerned allowed a promotion payment of only 40c a ton instead of the normal payment of $1 a ton allowed for such new markets? If so, what reasons were given by the Australian Dairy Produce Board for such a price differential? 
Has the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry seen a report in a Melbourne daily newspaper of a speech by  Mr Vines,  the acting or interim  chairman  of the Australian Wool Commission, in which he is reported to have said that vital wool marketing reforms have been prevented by  a  26 August 1971 combination of well meaning reactionary forces, allied with some elements of straight out self-interest? Could the Minister name the reactionary forces concerned and the type of tactics in which they have engaged? 
I direct my question to the Minister for Civil Aviation. Has Ansett Airlines of Australia given any reason for the curtailment of its flights from Melbourne to both Warrnambool and Portland in south-western Victoria? Is the Minister of the opinion that the schedule of flights proposed by the company taking over those routes will provide a better service to commuters than that which was previously provided? 
I direct a question to the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry. In view of the fact that last week Community Aid Abroad could not locate in Australia a supply of skim milk powder for forwarding to India, can the Minister say whether any supplies are available in Australia? What supplies of the milk biscuit are available in Australia? 
Firstly, I deem it an honour to be a representative of the people of Victoria in
              this chamber. I am deeply conscious of the debt that I owe both to the Australian
              Labor Party - the party I represent - to its workers and the thousands of voters who
              have given me this right to represent them in this chamber. I only trust that over the
              years that I may be here I shall not betray that trust. I shall now speak on a lighter
              note. This afternoon questions were asked and answers given relating to the Fill
              aircraft. My attempts to gain this office parallel the history, in the time factor, of
              the Fill aircraft in that I made my first attempt to be elected to this place in 1963.
              Were I not a very modest type of gentleman I would believe that where the Labor Party
              has been successful the Government has not. Although it may have taken the Labor Party
              8 years to get me here, as yet the Government has nor succeeded in obtaining the Fill
              aircraft. 
But in a more serious vein 1 say that because of my lifelong association with
            primary industry 1 hope in the future to maintain most of my political activity on
            matters pertaining to primary industry and to people who live in rural areas. However,
            since entering this chamber I have listened with great attention to many debates. I feel
            that I cannot let pass without some comment a matter which was raised 2 or 3 weeks ago.
            In this chamber a spokesman for the Australian Democratic Labor Party used the term
            natural justice. I do not think that I have ever in my lifetime heard the term natural
            justice used so extensively. While this debate was going on my mind went back to the
            previous week when a spokesman for the same party, <inline font-weight="bold">Senator
              Kane</inline> - I regret that he is not in the chamber - in a debate centering on the
            trade union movement had this to say: 
I now take the opportunity to mention some of the political strikes. I say that
              they were not designed to improve working conditions or to get higher wages. They were
              simply and purely political strikes aimed at the very power and authority of
              government 1 will now cite some recent examples. On 4th September 1970 the Waterside
              Workers Federation struck over the case of Bunna' Walsh. It will be recalled that
                 Mr Walsh  was prevented from taking his seat in
              the Victorian ' State - Parliament because of. his failure to reveal a conviction
              for an offence committed some years earlier. It is worth recalling that his exclusion
              subsequently was upheld in the courts. 
At no time while that debate was on doI recall any spokesman for the
            Democratic Labor Party appealing for natural justice on behalf of Ronald Walsh. It may
            well be argued that, strictly speaking, the term natural justice does not apply. But I
            am of the opinion that men of goodwill would have extended the term natural justice to
            the Ronald Walsh case. In that caseI frankly believe that the law was an ass. If members
            of the Waterside Workers Federation withdrew their labour in support of a friend, a mate
            or a co-worker then I believe that that union was only carrying out its traditional role
            - a role which has ever been the role of the trade union movement wherever injustice has
            been done. Were this not the case thenI fear we would still be slaves. I am quite sure
            that  Senator Kane  in his heart of hearts believes
            just that. In conclusion on this matter, I say that my colleague  Senator Brown  and myself, who were at that time closely
            associated with the  Mr Walsh  referred to, admired
            the dignity with which that man conducted himself. At no time did he seek to vilify,
            castigate or make any rash statement about any person irrespective of whether that
            person persecuted him from this chamber or other places of privilege or through the news
            media. In that case  Mr Ronald  Walsh proved himself
            to be a man among men. 
I shall now return to the subject of the land. I was very pleased to hear  Senator Webster  in the final part of his speech make the
            comment that in some areas of primary production there is some hope or some sign of
            improvement. One could mention the dairy industry, although the improvement may be only
            momentary. One could mention the fact that wheat quotas are on the up and up and that
            quite good sales of wheat have been made. However, one must admit that in many other
            areas, particularly wool, the situation is very bleak. I was rather interested to read a
            statement, on reconstruction and finance for primary producers, made by the Minister for
            Primary Industry  (Mr Sinclair)  2 or 3 weeks ago. He
            said: 
Indeed the whole question of credit is of increasing importance to the rural
              industries and there are clear indications of a need to reexamine the demand for, and
              supply of, credit in the rural sector. In these circumstances I have asked for the
              advice of the BAE on the adequacy of existing credit facilities. 
Not before time, may I say. Although I have been established in my
            office in Warrnambool in south western Victoria for a short time only, I have received
            certain correspondence. I have in my hand a photostat of a letter that was received by a
            farmer who had traded with the Bank of New South Wales for 16 years. The man's case
            history is that after the drought of 1967 he was forced out of the dairy industry, not
            solely because of the drought but because at that stage the dairy industry was going
            through the process of changing over the method of collection of milk from cans to bulk
            and because his dairy required extensive improvements to bring it up to the new
            requirements. Because that man was in his middle fifties he decided to opt out of the
            dairy industry and to ease his way into the beef industry. His 130- acre property is
            entirely free of encumbrances. A letter that he received from the bank reads: 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry, upon notice: 
Did a  large  Victorian co-operative milk company recently, obtain  a  sale  of a  considerable quantity of butter on a new market in the MiddleEast. If so, was the price for this sale in excess of the United Kingdom price?  
Was the company concerned only allowed a promotion payment of 40c per ton instead of the normal$1 per ton allowed for such new markets? If so, what were the reasons given by the Australian Dairy Produce Board for the payment of the lower promotional allowance? 
My question is addressed to the Minister for Health. By way of preamble I point out that doubts have been expressed by some researchers in America about additives such as salt, sugar and monosodium glutamate in prepared baby foods, as published in a recent Nader publication The .Chemical Feast'. Has the Commonwealth Department of Health taken any steps to investigate the truth or otherwise of these reports? If so, what are its findings? 

 Senator Sir KENNETH ANDERSONAs an adjunct to the Department of Health we have established the National Health and Medical Research Council to which matters of this nature may be referred. I shall have to study the question after question time to see whether this is a matter which might properly be referred to the Council. In any event, the honourable senator is entitled to a considered reply from my Department, and I shall see that he gets it. 
I ask the Minister representing the Prime .Minister: In view of extended drought conditions now prevailing in East Gippsland, Victoria, has the Commonwealth Government received arequest from the Victorian- Government for financial relief? 
At the moment I do not know the answer to the honourable senator's question. As I' have explained here in the past a protocol operates in this regard whereby the Premier of a State applies to the Prime Minister when he considers that, allowing for the sovereignty of the State, the disaster involved is beyond its normal capacity to cope with. If the State in its judgement decides that it is a national .calamity which would justify Commonwealth intervention, that criterion is invoked. I am not aware whether the Premier of Victoria has written to the Prime Minister in this instance, but I will find out for the honourable senator and let him know. 
In listening to  Senator Lawrie,  who has just resumed his seat, one could well have thought that he had a foot in both camps, because although he is supporting the Government's legislation he supported the amendment, in part, when he started to speak about decentralisation. I want to make it quite clear that I heartily endorse the amendment moved by  Senator Willesee.  In particular, I lay stress upon paragraph (b) of the amendment, which reads: 
The application of special telephone charges in those areas designated for accelerated development by agreement between the Commonwealth and any State and its authorities.. 
I will come to that later. Firstly, let me say that I read with some apprehension a screed which was distributed in this chamber a few days ago and which is headed 'Reorganisation of the Australian Post Office Telecommunications Activities'. I noted the following words in the second paragraph: 
The objective of the reorganisation is to establish a number of fully equipped business management headquarters under the  control  of Area Managers. 
As just a boy from the bush and a long time dairy farmer, I am apprehensive when I read the words 'business management' because in my time I have had some experience of business managers in public organisations. In fact, one of the reasons leading to my ascension to this august chamber is related to the fact that many years ago the Victorian Railways took action similar to this and its business managers decided that because certain areas of the Victorian Railways would not run at a profit those areas had to be wiped off the books. The result was that many hundreds of people in rural areas of Victoria lost either their railway station or their entire railway service. So, 1 am somewhat apprehensive of that notification which was posted in this chamber recently. 
Before I refer to the matter of trunk line call charges I wish to say a few words about the 33 per cent increase in private bag charges. You,  Mr President,  being a long time rural dweller in a rather remote part of Victoria, will appreciate that the private bag is a means by which many people in rural areas are able to receive and send mail. Many of these people pay for this service because they belong to organisations of which they are either the secretary or the  president.  In order to be sure that the mail they deal with on behalf of their organisations is delivered safe and sound they pay a sum each year for a private bag service. I notice in the 'Australian Post Office Financial and Statistical Bulletin' for the year 1969-70 that 76 nonofficial post offices in Victoria were closed in that year. The names of many of the small country post offices in my area are running through my mind at the present time. 
I believe that because these post offices have been closed there should have been an increase in the demand for private bags; but if the Postmaster-General's Department increases the charge by 33 per cent I fear that, in the present situation of rural recession in many areas of the State, there will bc not an increase but a decline in demand for private bags, and in many areas this could well lead to this service no longer being available. When one is living in the bush there is nothing worse than having what is known as a roadside delivery, because then one's mail is at the whim of every passing dog, breeze and shower of rain and one never knows in what form one will receive' it. At least the private bag assures some security for the mail. As I said, I propose to lay a great deal of stress on section (b) of the amendment moved by  Senator Willesee..  Any politician from rural Australia who is not aware of the great controversy which is raging over increased trunk line, charges has not been doing his homework or has not kept his ear to the ground. Last year in 4 trips around Victoria I found that this matter was a redhot topic. It has always seemed very strange to me that within the ambit of an organisation one can post a letter which may go across the street or across the nation for 6c yet when one uses the other arm of this organisation one is charged on a distance basis. I do not know why this is so. Perhaps, like Topsy, this system 'just growed'. I think it is time that the Post Office and the Government had a hard look at the current situation. 
In May 1960 the Post Office introduced the extended local service areas, or ELSA. Under this scheme many short distance trunk line calls became local calls. As a result, there was a drop from 134 million trunk calls in 1960 to 75 million in 1961. That information is taken from table 32 of the Australian Post Office Financial and Statistical Bulletin for the year 1969-70. In the 10 years since 1961 the number of trunk C:,ils has again built up, and last year totalled 198£ million. I wonder why the Government or the Department cannot take a further look at ELSA and in the interests of country people, and particularly country industry, extend the local call areas and so give some equity to people who live so far from metropolitan areas. 
Let me make a comparison between charges for a business house set up in the metropolitan area of Melbourne as against one set up in my city of Warrnambool where there are many business houses, particularly small engineering firms. For a local call fee of 4.75c - as will be the case if this Bill passes through the Senate - a Melbourne businessman has available 198.500 business telephone connections plus 346,439 private connections: He has all those connections for a charge of 4.75c a call.  His  counterpart in Warrnambool who is trying to run the same business in a decentralised fashion has in toto approximately 6,000 connections. Six thousand available connections for the business man in the Warrnambool call area compared wilh half a million available to his counterpart in the metropolitan area. Both men can talk for as long as they like for the local call charge. At this level there is no great distinction in overhead charges between the 2 industries. But let us suppose that we try to put the businessman in the Warrnambool area in touch with as many people as his Melbourne business counterpart has available. We move the Warrnambool man into the next telephone district.  His  fee rises by 400 per cent for every 3 minutes he is on the blower. We have to go into the next district to come anywhere near a numerical comparison with the metropolitan man, and the fee rises by 1,200 per cent. If we go into the next district it rises by 1,800 per cent for every 3 minutes the businessman is on the phone. This last move brings the businessman into the metropolitan area where he finally must go to obtain the same numerical comparison with his business partner in the metropolitan area. 
Frankly I believe that decentralisation or regional development has little chance of making any headway while trunk line charges of that order prevail. I have made some inquiries through the Victorian Chambers of Commerce and on the telephone and by letter to many business enterprises throughout the length and breadth of Victoria in relation to this matter. In fact, information is still coming to my office and to my address in Canberra. Unfortunately some of the more pertinent material has not yet arrived but it may come in handy in a later debate. 
At this stage I shall deal with some of the disadvantages that face decentralised industry in rural Victoria because of the trunk line charges it must pay at the present time. One factory with its major activity in the country has been offered a tied line to its minor activity in the metropolitan area for 57,000. Of course, one realises that a tied line is an expensive exercise to the Postmaster-General's Department. But I suggest that this cost puts this man behind scratch when it comes to competing with his city counterpart in relation to the price of the finished article. A district base hospital 180 miles from Melbourne last year paid $3,380 for trunk line calls. Last year trunk line charges for a small engineering factory in the same town which employs 18 people cost $3,000. I quote from a letter from a small moulding factory which employs 22 people, lt states: 
We are located some 40 miles from Melbourne.  . . We are successful in exporting some of our products. Our total number of employees is not high - only 16 males and 6 females. 
It is estimated on figures to hand, that over the past financial year our telephone account was a little over $2,000, of which nearly $1,550 was trunk or metered STD calls, which clearly indicates that after the rental is taken out, the cost of local calls is negligible in comparison to the high cost of the distance calls. 
In a relatively small business such as this, an overhead expense as large as the telephone account takes a good deal of recovering and if assistance was given by way of reducing this expense, we feel sure that industry as a whole would greatly benefit. 
I have further correspondence here from a factory situated 130 miles from Melbourne. It states. 
We are of the opinion that country industries should enjoy special trunk and telex rates in view of their separation from the main merchandising centres of Australia. 
This factory employs 376 people. Its telephone charges for 1970 were S5.884 in total and the trunk call component was $3,948. For the half year of 1971 its trunk calls cost $2,022. Its telex charges for the year are estimated at $1,880. I heard someone interject - I think it was  Senator Greenwood  - asking whether that was a profitable business. It probably is, otherwise it would not be there, but I suggest that this factory's profit would have been enhanced had it been able to operate on the same basis as its city counterparts. Let me quote from a letter from another factory. It states: 
Our Company is a carpet manufacturer with 303 employees. . . . 
It is situated 47 miles from Melbourne. One obtains some idea of the overhead cost of telephone charges in rural areas when one receives mail of this order. The letter continues: 
Excluding the cost of telephone accounts in the capital cities in which we have sales offices our  . . telephone accounts have been as follows: 

<graphic href="049232197109292_69_10.jpg"></graphic>

Over 3 years there is an approximate increase of 60 per cent. The letter continues: 
A large part of the increase is due to the increased cost of the service and not to increased usage. 
Over the last 5 years the average telephone calls for another large firm - perhaps this is the daddy of them all - amounted to $55,317 per annum. Perhaps I am boring honourable senators, judging by the interjections, but if anybody would like to peruse these letters, even the PostmasterGeneral  (Sir Alan Hulme)  himself, relating to the sort of charges he is inflicting on decentralised industries, he is welcome to my file. I have a letter from a large building firm operating 47 miles from Melbourne. It states: 
We would advise that our annual charges are in the vicinity of $17,500. We are unable to give accurate figures concerning the trunk calls, as the biggest part of our usage is carried out through STD between Geelong and Melbourne; the Head Offices of most of our clients and suppliers are located in Melbourne and a conservative estimate of our STD calls would be S 14,000. 
The letter concludes: 
We agree . . . that telephone charges are  a  major cost' factor operating against this Company having its Head Office in Geelong, and we believe that some consideration should be given to enterprises operating outside the capital cities. 
A small road transport service, again operating outside the metropolitan area, wrote this letter in which it stated: 
Last financial year the Company paid a total of $7,265 for all telephone charges which included $1,215 for specified trunk calk. I fee) however, that these figures are most misleading because a high proportion of our total telephone costs are for trunk calls made STD and charged together with local calls, under the one heading, 'Metered calls'.' 
In other words, our telephone, accounts are now rendered in such a way that it is no longer possible to isolate the total cost of trunk line calls. 
I could go on presenting this evidence showing what trunk line charges cost businesses in rural areas. A report in the Warrnambool 'Standard' of 14th July stated: 
The Postmaster-General's Department ls examining the possibility of introducing uniform telephone rates. 
Quite frankly I only hope that some steps are being taken along these lines. One of the great tragedies of rural areas in Australia for many years, a tragedy that has been compounded by the rural recession, has been the drift of the children of country residents to the great metropolitan areas. A great deal of this has been brought about by the failure of governments to provide incentives to industries to move into rural areas. One sees the facts of life day by day as one travels on trains from metropolitan to country areas. On Sunday nights the youth of our country journey's to the metropolitan areas and on Friday night they travel back home to their parents in the country. Rural residents over the years have educated their children to the highest standard available in their areas, or to the best of their financial capacity, only to find, unfortunately, that when those children leave school they have been educated beyond the employment capacity of the district in which they were born and bred. Consequently the drift  to  the city goes on- 
Let us be perfectly frank. I believe that the Government is using the PostmasterGeneral's Department as a taxing device. I do not see any reason why the Government cannot, if it is so minded, use the Postmaster-General's Department as a device to help industries establish in country areas and to give further encouragement to those already there so that this drift to the metropolitan area at least will be slowed down. Perhaps in the long term this will help shift some of our population from our smog covered cities. 
My question is directed to the Attorney-General. Was he in receipt of information about the raid by the Commonwealth Police on Union House, University of Melbourne, before it took place last Thursday morning? Further, did he direct or instruct the  Deputy  Commissioner of Commonwealth Police,  Mr Davies,  to personally take charge of the raid carried out last Thursday morning on Union House? 
My question is addressed to the Minister representing the Postmaster-General. In view of the death in Brisbane last Friday of the Filipino boxer Alberto Jangalay, what action does the Postmaster-General intend to take to remove the violence of boxing from our television screens in line with the expressed attitude of the Australian Broadcasting Control Board to violence on television? Does the Board require more boxers to die during a televised boxing match before it takes action? 
I address my question to the Minister representing the Minister for Trade and Industry. Are stocks of coal purchased by the Japanese from Australia being stored on the sea bed in Japan? If so, what quantity of coal is being stored in that way? 
My question is addressed to the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry. Is it a fact that a futures market for boneless beef has been opened in New York by the New York Mercantile Exchange? Is threequarters of the meat involved in this market from Australia? Is it a fact that futures marketing once affected detrimentally the price received by Australian wheat growers and is currently affecting wool prices? Is it also a fact that the futures market opened in New York for boneless beef will ultimately be detrimental to the price received by Australian beef producers for meat sold in America? 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Foreign Affairs. Is the Australian Government negotiating to purchase a site for a new embassy in Saigon? If so, and in the light of attacks made by the National Liberation Front on withdrawing Australian troops, does the Minister consider any proposed embassy to be safe from NLF attacks? Can he give any guarantee that Australian taxpayers' money spent on this project will not be wasted as has so much in the past in Vietnam? 
asked the Minister  representing the Prime Minister, upon notice: 
Has the Government received any request from the Victorian Government for financial relief, because of the extended drought conditions now prevailing in East Gippsland? 
No. 
I join with  Senator Webster  in endorsing this Bill, as my Party has done. The report of the Australian Meat Research Committee shows that income from the levy in 1969- 70 was $744,000. In 1970-71 it has increased to $1,049,000, mainly due to the increase to 5c a head on beef cattle. In the second reading speech of the Minister for Air  (Senator Drake-Brockman),  who represents in the Senate the Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Sinclair),  it is stated that the rates of levy are to remain unaltered at lc a head on cattle weighing over 200 lb dressed weight, and one-tenth of a cent a head on lambs. The Minister's speech goes on: 
The levy is payable by the owner of the livestock at the time of slaughter and, in contrast to the levy used to finance the operations of the Australian Meat Board and the Australian Meat Research Committee, may not be passed back to producers. 
Anybody who has practised farming for a number of years, or even for some days, would know very well that it is the farmer who ultimately pays. All these types of levy are allowed for by the buyers who purchase animals from farmers. It is the farmer who pays, despite what may be written in legal jargon into the legislation. 
I agree that the amount is not very great, but I wanted to make that point to the Senate. I want now to comment on some of the projects of the Australian Meat Research Committee. The Committee states on page 8 of its report that $800,000 is to be expended over a period of 5 years on a sheep blowfly programme. Apart from foot rot, blowflies represent one of the greatest problems confronting Australian wool growers. That has always been so. Although $800,000 sounds like a lot of money, it does not really amount to a great deal annually when expended over 5 years. One hopes that in the future it will be increased, if the problem is not solved, we hope that more money will be made available to people engaged in research. 
It is my hope that a biological answer to the problem will be discovered. This would relieve primary producers including wool growers of paying the costs of chemical sprays, one of the major items in rural industry today. If the need for sprays could be obviated through biological methods producers would also save a great deal of time. 
In wet country in a period of muggy weather sheep can be blown within 4 or 5 hours of crutching. Another matter of great interest to primary producers is the successful research carried out into the importation of a dung beetle. So far, success has been gained only in the northern areas of the continent, but research is being continued in the hope that a similar type of beetle can be evolved for the more temperate regions of this country. This would be of immense benefit, not only to primary producers, but to the nation as a whole. 
The Senate has dealt tonight with legislation authorising payment of a bounty on superphosphate. That legislation could become redundant if the entire dung of the animals in Australia were to be properly utilised through the use of dung beetles. In some areas of Victoria a rather bitter debate has been waged between proponents in the Department of Agriculture of superphosphate fertiliser and those people who today advocate the use of a more natural fertiliser such as dolomite. The day may come when the use of superphosphate is diminished through the utilisation of the manure of animals. 
 According to this report of the Australian Meat Research Committee the sum of $41,000 was spent in relation to the dung beetle. On pages 14 and 15 of the report a matter is discussed which is of great importance not only to primary producers or the growers of the meat in this country but also to the consumers. The report deals with the tenderness of meat. We know that everybody likes to go to his favourite dining house and to be dished up a rather tender steak. Of course, it' does not always happen. It even happens in the Parliament House dining room that the steaks are not tender, but not very often, to be quite honest. At the present time the beast after slaughter is hung by the achilles tendon. This is the universal method. It would appear that it has been done thus ever since man slaughtered a beast and hung it to a tree. Research has shown that this type of hanging of a beast leads to the contraction of the muscles in the rump and back area. The expansion of these muscles promotes tenderness in meat. The Committee has brought forward the suggestion that it should be possible or it may be wise in the future to hang the beast in the foetal position and thereby stretch all the muscles in the body. The Committee believes that this would lead to more tender meat. I do not know how much money the CSIRO has spent in this field of research but I believe it was money very well spent because, one hopes, the market for these meats will increase once people are assured that irrespective of where they go they can be virtually guaranteed tender meat. 
On page 53 of the report there is mention of a matter on which I believe not enough funds are being expended, but one would presume that the Committee is short of funds and must draw up a list of priorities. I say that I believe not enough money is being expended because I believe that the dairy industry in particular contributes very largely to the funds by way of chopper meat. The matter I refer to is commonly known as white scours in calves. It is a very big problem in the dairy industry. Anybody who has tried to rear calves knows that once this complaint gets in amongst the animals there are all sorts of strife and, try as one might with the various chemical products on the market, there are times when all attempts fail and the animals die. I notice that only $7,420 is being expended in this field. I would hope that at some time in the very near future a much larger sum can be made available in the field of research into this scourge of young calves. 
 I am sorry. One would believe that the amount of money that is set out is forwarded to the Australian Meat Research Committee. In its fifth annual report the Committee sets out the various projects in which it is engaged.  Senator Webster  may be right; I do not know. I would be gracious enough perhaps to give him the benefit of the doubt. Nevertheless I shall carry on. Bovine tuberculosis is another matter that has been of great interest to the meat growers of this country. It has been of particular importance to dairy farmers in the State of Victoria. For many years now that State has been carrying on a very stringent campaign to try to wipe out this curse. One of the great problems involved with it, particularly to the farmer, is the immense amount of time it takes to round up the cattle so that the veterinary people may inoculate them. In 3 days time they come back and read the results. It would seem from my reading of this report that there is a possibility of a serum being evolved which will detect this tuberculosis. Of course, such a serum would be much better suited to the beef growing areas because it is not quite as easy to round up beef cattle as it is to round up dairy cattle. &lt;Bloat and grass tetany also are mentioned in the report, and research is being carried on in those fields. But as I have no desire to detain the Senate for too long I shall pass them by.  Senator Webster  mentioned cysticerosis. I can but agree with everything that he had to say. There are some discrepancies in the reports about the animals that act as hosts for the wogs - for want of a better term - that infect the sheep. There is an article in the Victorian Journal of Agriculture', volume 66, of September 1968 which is entitled 'The Guilty Fox' by  Dr L.  Morrisroe. It reads: 
A current survey confirms that that historical villain, the fox, also plays a leading role in the spread of sheep measles, the disease which is causing rejection of Australian mutton exports. 
In a broadcast which was heard on one of the ABC's Canberra radio stations on 14th October a  Mr Bonner,  the District Veterinary Officer of the Department of Agriculture at Goulburn had this to say: 
. whereas the tapeworm that causes the ovis problem, or sheep measles problem as it is known, (its full name is Taenia ovis) lives both in the dog and in the fox and also dingoes. 
I say there is a discrepancy because of this statement on page 68 of the report of the Australian Meat Research Committee under the heading 'Identity of the intermediate host': 
The painstaking examination of stomach contents for foxes, dogs, cats, and dingoes continued. At the Keith Turnbull Laboratory, Frankston, 1,000 fox, 200 dingo, and 80 wild cat stomachs have passed across the post mortem table. In New South Wales, 80 foxes have been examined. In all these examinations, there has been only one- and that questionable - identification of T. ovis. The country dog emerges as the only likely intermediate host. 
So it would appear that research is progressing rather rapidly in some of these fields and that even agricultural or veterinary officers are not quite up to date with some people in the field. Of course, it is in recent years. I do not hold this against people such as  Mr Bonner  who made this broadcast, but I merely point out that in my opinion research perhaps has overtaken some people in the field. Of course, it is in this field that the problems actually lie. 
I would like to mention here one or two matters that have not received any consideration by the Australian Meat Research Committee, in the hope that perhaps some research is being done somewhere. One of these matters is brucellosis or, as it is known in man, undulant fever. The fifth report of the Joint Food and Agricultural Organisation/ World Health Organisation Expert Committee on Brucellosis points out that brucellosis is a world wide problem. It appears in, amongst other animals, goats, sheep, cattle, water buffalo, pigs, yaks in Mongolia, reindeer and caribou, and in the United States of America a form of brucellosis has been identified in dogs. The Food and Agriculture Organisation of the United Nations and the World Health Organisation joint report recommends further research in this field. From the report it is interesting to note that a vaccine prepared from strain 19-BA has been widely used for the past 17 years in the USSR, where it is given to population groups occupationally exposed to infection. Those of us who have met persons inflicted with this complaint known as undulant fever - 10 days ago I met a man who has been very ill with it for 2 years - realise that it is a problem for anybody who is unfortunate enough to contract it. Among the matters recommended by this report for further research are the bacteriology of brucella, immunity and vaccination and diagnosis of human and animal brucellosis. I do not know whether the Australian Meat Research Committee is carrying out any investigations in those fields, but I would hope that somewhere someone has not allowed this matter to slip. While the dairying industry in Victoria has to a large extent been successful in wiping out bovine tuberculosis, I am afraid that brucellosis still presents a very large problem. 
One other matter that receives no mention in the Committee's report is a complaint known as nasal granuloma. It has given me and many farmers in my area some headaches and some personal problems. It is particularly serious in wet country. Unfortunately the Department of Agriculture in Victoria has taken the attitude that this complaint is on the decline, despite the fact that almost every day in the sale yards in the wet areas of the State one can see truckloads of perfectly good dairy cattle being sold because they are stricken with this rather distressing complaint. I hope that somewhere someone is carrying out further research because, despite all the research that has been done in the past, to the best of my knowledge science is no further advanced. I support the Bill. I heartily compliment the Meat Research Committee, the scientists and others who have worked alongside them upon their work in this field. 
The  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Prowse)  - I have considered the point of order. The practice of the Senate, as has been pointed out by  Senator Willesee,  does enable honourable senators to traverse matters that have relevance to the general subject. I suggest that there is no substance in the point of order. 
My question is addressed to the Minister representing the Prime Minister. Is it a fact that the Prime Minister,  Mr McMahon,  learned only last Thursday of the American proposal that Australia send more troops to Vietnam? Has this proposal been under discussion by departmental and military advisers for some months? If so, does this indicate that departmental and military advisers are usurping the role of the elected representatives of the Australian people? 
Earlier, the Leader of the Opposition in the Senate,  Senator Murphy,  posed to me a question to which this subsequent question has some relationship. In his statement to Parliament on 18th August on the future of Australian forces in Vietnam the Prime Minister indicated that consideration would be given to the retention of some military training and advisory elements in Vietnam. The size of these elements and their task are under discussion. We are now examining also the possibility of making arrangements to include the training of Cambodians in Vietnam. There are no Australian military advisers or instructors in Cambodia and there is no intention of sending any. Of course, this is a policy matter and one which will necessarily be the subject of consultation with allies. The Prime Minister may be discussing the matter in the United States. Honourable senators will appreciate - and this is as spoken a few moments ago by the Acting Prime Minister in the other place - that I am not in a position to indicate at this stage the outcome of this combined consideration of this matter. 
My question is addressed to the Minister representing the Minister for Trade and Industry. In view of consistent reports of potential markets for Australian produce in China, what endeavours have been made or are contemplated by the Department of Trade and industry to assess such market potential, particularly for dairy produce and dried fruits, which are affected by the loss of British markets? 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Trade and Industry, upon notice: 
Is coal purchased from Australia by Japan being stored on the sea bed near Japan? If so, in what quantities? 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry, upon notice: 
How much mutton exported by Australia to the United States has been rejected because of sheep measles, in each of the years 1969, 1970 and 1971? 
Where was the rejected meat ultimately sold, and at what price? 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry. In view of the continuing chaos in the wool industry and of a growing swing towards acquisition of wool, will the Government give serious consideration to the setting up of a statutory authority to acquire and dispose of the total Australian clip? 
My question is addressed to the Minister for Health. In view of the reported criticism of mass chest X-rays by  Mr J.  C. Villforth,  Director of the United States Federal Bureau of Radiological Health. I ask: What research into the dangers of such X-rays has the Commonwealth Department of Health carried out? Has any Commonwealth department set any standards for microwave  ovens which, according to  Mr  Villforth  car. have a tendency to leak radiation via the door? 
In relation to mass chest X-rays, if honourable senators think back to a little before contemporary times they will recall that Commonwealth legislation was brought in in relation to tuberculosis. I think it was introduced during the time of the Chifley Government. Under that Act we provided capital funds and management funds to every State for the purpose of arresting the incidence of tuberculosis in Australia. That scheme, to a high degree, was built on chest X-rays on a compulsory basis. Perhaps to its everlasting credit Tasmania was the State to seize the nettle first and the incidence of tuberculosis in Tasmania fell dramatically, as it has in every other State. Tuberculosis has practically been eradicated, so much so that many of the hospitals that were built for the purpose of treating tuberculosis are now being handed back to the States to be used for other purposes. However, I rather suspect that the question is directed to the more modern methods of mass X-ray. This is a medical question and I think I should very properly have it processed through my Department and supply an answer lo the honourable senator. 
My question is directed to the Minister for Health. Has the Minister's attention been drawn to the fact that although in aggregate numbers and in proportion to population Australia is producing a high level of medical graduates, those going into and remaining in general practice are a declining proportion to population, and, on the basis of a recent Victorian survey, general practitioners are as &lt;t group showing significant ageing? ls he also aware that many medical practitioners feel that general practice has lost its professional status and community standing in recent years, and that this, according to many doctors, is largely the reason for this drift away from the ageing within general practice? Has his Government any proposals in mind to reverse this drift, or does it regard the role and future of the personal physician as unimportant? 
I had the unhappy experience of having my character taken away, as it were, in relation to what I was reported to have said about the general practitioner. J always remember a little story I was told as a little boy by my mother. It was thai sticks and stones cun break your bones but names can never hurt you. Therefore I chase to ignore what was said about me. 
No, I am not including him. On the contrary, I think that the honourable senator's question is obviously linked to something he has read. But the fact of thu matter is that I have on record my firm recognition of the role of the general practitioner. Honourable senators will find in Hansard instances where I have made it abundantly clear that as far as I am concerned the general practitioner is the salt of the earth. He is more than a medical adviser: very often he goes far deeper in the performance of his role in community life. In fact, the purpose of the referral system by which a patient is referred by a general practitioner to a specialist is to preserve the situation of the general practitioner in any national health scheme. I am sure that we all recognise that there must always be a role for the general practitioner. Any action by the Government will always recognise the principle of the role of the general pracitioner 
It was a very unhappy experience for me to read something which I was reported to have said but which was converted to suggest that I have some feelings agaInst the general practitioners. Good heavens. I have lived with them all my life. I know them and I respect them. I have worked V'!1 general practitioners in hospital administration as have some other honourable senators. They are an essential pan of our health scheme. The Act which provides a national health scheme is so drafted, mid has been given approval by this Government, to protect general practitioners and ensure that they remain essential ib the health and welfare of the people of Australia. 
My question is directed to the Minister for Health. Did the Nimmo report in 1969 recommend that medical fund management expenses should approximate 10 per cent of contribution income for the first year of rationalisation of fund activity, 9 per cent in the succeeding year and 8 per cent thereafter? As we are now in the third year since that report' was made and as administrative expenses for 1969-70 were at 16 per cent of contribution income - as high a level as for any time since 1 956 - what steps does the Government propose to take to curtail this tremendous waste of contributors' money? 
The Nimmo report has been tabled in this place. It made certain recommendations, many of which the Government has adopted and some of which it has not adopted. That is a fact of life. To take in isolation - I would not say out of context because it would be unfair of me to say that - certain of the views expressed in the report and to pose those views as a question would seem to be in the world of unreality.. What may have been relevant, in relation to either that item or any other item, at the time the report was tabled does not necessarily remain relevant in early December, one week from when,. T hope, this House will rise. When one examines a report of this nature one has to be very careful about making 1971 judgments on what was tabled in 1968. or 1969. I come back to the issue which I know the honourable senator wanted to bring out. I will have a look at the Hansard report of his question and I will respond to it in contemporary terms. 
What reply can the Minister for Health give to the strong criticism in the official journal of the General Practitioners Society of his indifference to the problems of general practitioners? Did the article state that the Minister seemed to have neither the background nor the inclination to understand the views of professional men. that he had no time for the opinions of general practitioners and was unconcerned about the quality of general practitioners' services to the public? Does the Minister agree with the  President  of the Society in his comment that general practitioners are frustrated and angry about the present health scheme? 
This question waa posed last week and I gave a reply last week. Indeed, i had expressed my views in the previous week on the subject of general practitioners, lt i$ (rue that an article on this subject Appears in a Sydney paper this morning. That paper must have picked up the Story thai had appeared a week before in another newspaper. Last week I gave what I thought was a very full answer to a question on this subject and 1 do nol propose to add to it now. When people come to me they put their points of view. If it happens that they do not receive the response they desire it is not 
J Bally very nice behaviour to go away and blackguard the people to whom they have pui their points of view. 
I direct my question also to the Minister for Health. Did (the Nimmoreport recommend that open funds be obliged to limit their enrolment and collection activities to specified regions and that only one open fund be permitted to establish and maintain facilities in any one region? Does the Government support this recommendation which has profound implications in saving contributors' money and for improving the efficiency of operation of the scheme? If so, what steps has it taken to implement this proposal and when will these steps become fully effective? If so, what steps has it taken to implement this proposal and when will these steps become fully effective? If the Government has rejected the proposition, what is the explanation? 

 Senator Sir KENNETH ANDERSONI think that in response to a question by  Senator Douglas  McClelland last week I said that the Government had adopted certain aspects of the Nimmo report but had not adopted in entirety other aspects of it. That was a Government policy deci sion. It would be quite wrong to say that the Nimmo Report has been adopted in its entirety by the Government in its application of the scheme at the present time. In regard to the particular reference which the honourable senator made, that has not been adopted in its entirety. AfterI have reexamined the matter I shall be happy to give a considered reply to the question which has been posed about the extent of the application of the scheme. I shall give some background to the circumstances in which the Government policy has been made. 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry. Does the Prime Minister's statement that up to 14,000 wool growers should be withdrawn from the industry indicate that the Government has lost faith in wool as a fibre? If so, what facilities by way of long term loans at low rates of interest does the Government propose to allow these 14,000 wool growers in order either to diversify or get out? 
Will the Minister for Health confer with his colleague, the Minister for Education and Science, to consider the desirability of establishing a faculty of general practice or family medicine in all medical schools with the aim of uplifting the standing of this form of medical practice and of halting the serious drift away from it? 
The honourable senator says that there is a drift away from general practice and I think that is fair comment. There has  be-M  a drift away from general practice, but 1 must say that there are signs suggesting that the drift is being arrested. The honourable senator knows, as we all know, that general practice groups have been created within the framework of the medical profession and they have made many proposals for dealing with the problem of general practice. As to whether there could be general practice faculties in medical schools, I think the honourable senator would agree with me that I should get further advice on that matter from the appropriate people. I will respond to the question before we retire for the Christmas recess which I sincerely hope will be at the end of this week. May I say, with your permission,  Mr President,  that with that aim in view I would like to think that we can dispose of questions reasonably promptly. 
I shall say a few words in relation to a report which was implemented by the River Murray Commission some 12 or 15 months ago. It related to salt in the River Murray and the fears that a group of farmers in the Mallee area pf Victoria have if the proposals in the report are implemented. The main offending stream in the area is Bar Creek. I cannot recall the number of tons of salt which Bar Creek poured into the River Murray yearly. At this stage my correspondence does not allow me to follow the story right through but it appears that as a result of co-operation between the River Murray Commission and the State Rivers and Water Supply Commission in Victoria this water has been diverted into Lake TucheWOP. At this time not a great deal of concern is felt by the farmers in the district but the scheme proposes that the water shall be taken further, namely, to Lake Tyrrell by way of an open channel - when it is dug - with a capacity of 200 cusecs. Because of the rising water tables of saline water, because of the open channel method of moving the water from one lake to another and because of seepage problems inherent in such traffic of water, the wheat growers in the area are very concerned. They believe that the rising water table will ultimately spoil their land for wheat growing or any other purpose. I have no axe to grind. One can appreciate the situation of vine and fruit growers further down the river in relation to the salt problem which they have. 
I believe it is quite right that some attempt, should be made to desalinate this water or the river. But I fail to see why the problems of one farmer should be off-loaded on to another in a different area. The Ultima and District Dryland Farmers Protection League has approached me. It has the support of local organisations and local government, lt is in constant touch with the River Murray Commission whose  president  is  Mr Swartz.  In a copy of a letter dated 11th June this year, which I have here, he declined to address that body. I am not suggesting that there is any ulterior motive behind the president's move in this regard, but 1 do know that the farmers in this area are very concerned. They have tried by way of letter and by contact with such bodies as the Commonwealth Scientific and Industrial Research Organisation to find out the cost of a desalination plant in the area. Until 3 weeks ago they had not even received a . reply from the CSIRO as to the cost or the feasibility of setting up such a desalination plant. 
I am not quite clear whether the River Murray Commission has washed its hands of implementing this report or whether it  still retains some interest in the matter. J would like to have some questions in relation to this matter answered. In fact, I have already made representations on behalf of this body to the River Murray Commission. It seems to me that very shortly there will be some agitation in relation to the problems it is suggested these farmers will face if this water is moved via open channel between these  2  lakes. 
I shall say a few words about this matter of wool and the amendment as originally moved by the Opposition. Recently there has been a great deal of talk in the Press and television as a result-- 
The  CHAIRMAN (Senator Prowse)Order!  The amendment is no longer before the Chair. 
I shall say a few words about the industry and the procrastination and delay which has occurred in the industry over the years. Recently a statement was made by the Prime Minister  (Mr McMahon)  on television, I think. The Prime Minister said that he expected to see some 11,000 or 14,000 wool growers leave the industry. That situation has been deliberately brought about by this Government because over the years it has been responsible for the procrastinations and delays within the industry. Strange as it may seem - although it is not strange to us on this side of the chamber because we have had our ears to the ground and it is not strange to me because 1 live among the people who are affected - it is the small growers who have been hardest hit by this Government's procrastination and delay. It is very interesting to read statements that have been made by responsible people in the industry. Let me give a quotation from  Mr Vines,  the Acting  Chairman  of the Australian Wool Commission. In an address that he delivered to the Melbourne Rotary Club on 25th August this year he said, in part: 
As a consequence of the irreversible changes in the conditions under which fibres are marketed, which have been brought about by the synthetic fibre companies, there should have been during the past 20 years a process of gradual, evolutionary change in the marketing methods of wool, with all concerned working together for the common good to bring this about. 
This is the pertinent part of this paragraph: 
This has been prevented by a combination of well-meaning reactionary forces within the industry itself, allied with some elements of straight-out self-interest. 
I believe that statement, coming from the Acting Chairman of the Australian Wool Commission, to be very pertinent. In our opinion it is very much to the point. We have heard spokesmen for the Country Party stand up in recent weeks and admit that they have been clamouring for many years for the type of authority for which the Labor Party also has been clamouring. But, strangely enough, when it comes to raising their voices in this chamber they always come down on the side of the brokers, the buyers and the grazier element within the wool industry. 
The giant referendum that was conducted in 1965 in the wool industry throughout the Commonwealth was carried among the small wool growers. It was the big wool growers and their friends - the brokers andthe buyers - who knocked the referendum on the head. Had that referendum been carried, in my opinion, there would not have been a need for an appropriation of money of the kind that is now being made to the wool industry, because the wool industry would have been standing on its own feet. It is very interesting to look at the graph published at page 23 of the Australian Wool Commission's interim annual report for 1970-71. This graph shows the wool price index. In it we see, as we have seen so many times in the past, that the price of wool bottomed in late October of last year, just prior to the Senate election, and it peaked virtually on the day thai poll was conducted. This has been the history of the price of wool over the years this Government has been in power. The price of wool has always tended to bottom just prior to a poll of the people, and immediately before that poll the brokers and buyers - the people responsible for the manipulation of the wool market - seem to do a good turn for the Liberal Parly and the Country Party by pumping prices up for a few days, or maybe a week or two. Then immediately after the election the price of wool slumps again. This is one of the tragedies of the industry. 
This Bill, as I understand it, is necessary because the private banks have put a condition on the loan funds that they have made available (o the Commission. Those funds are to be withdrawn early next year. Because of this, the Government has had to come to the party with a sum of money. Let mc say that we on this side of the chamber are not opposed, in any way or form, to the granting of this money to the Wool Commission. The cold hard facts of the situation are that, if the Commission were to collapse, the buyers, brokers and manufacturers throughout the world would experience the greatest bonanza the world has ever seen. They would be buying wool at, perhaps, Se or 10c per lb. it is imperative that the Wool Commission operate at least until some form of statutory marketing authority evolves. 
The present situation has been brought about by the laissez-faire policies of this Government, which has always stood by this great auction system. To me it seems funny that in our society today there are very few commodities that are sold by auction, but wool is. It is strange that with our great reserves of coal, iron ore, natural gas and so on - you name it; we have it - never al any time has anyone suggested that the auction system should be used to dispose of these commodities. They are marketed at firm prices in the same way as secondary industry everywhere in the community markets its products. One of the few organisations that dispose of goods by auction is the Department of Supply. One can go periodically to Tottenham in Victoria and see the manipulation that goes on there among car and truck buyers as they jockey with one another, with their pies and what not, to beat down the prices of vehicles disposed of by the Department of Supply. 
The same situation prevails in the wool industry. Any farmer or any member of this Parliament who has ever attended an auction sale in any part of Australia will have seen the way pies and rings work. I have had the experience of seeing one person buy for 5 firms. It is futile for anybody on the other side of this chamber to say that pies and rings do not operate in the wool industry, lt is very interesting to read the article by Nan Sanders in the Melbourne 'Sun' of 27th November. She has had a great deal of experience with the Australian Wool Board. She said, in part: 
Wool still clings to the outmoded auction system for its sales, a method less efficient even than the barter system and one which proves successful only when a reserve price is stipulated in advance for the product. 
The small farmers of this nation were crying out and appealing to the Government in 1965. when this great wool promotion campaign hit the deck. They said at that time: 'We are prepared to put money into promotion, provided the Government gives us a reserve price plan'. They realised at that stage that there was no hope for promotion unless a firm price was set. Can anybody deny that the small wool growers of this nation were right at that stage of the game? The cold hard facts of the wool situation, as I see them, are that at this stage it would not matter whether the price of wool doubled or halved; it would make no difference to the price of the end product. Again it comes back to the auction system. The cold hard facts are that all that is needed in the wool situation is 3 people - the producer, the manufacturer and the consumer. 
In relation to the free auction system, what do we see? I have seen this in my own district: There are private buyers who buy from the farmers. They are buyers from the wool manufacturing firms. They take out what they want. All they use is the bellies and locks from the lots. Then they dispose of the fleece at a profit. There is no need for these urgers in the wool selling system. The sooner the auction system is cleared from the boards, the happier the wool growers of this country will be and the better off this nation will be. We have lost money left right and centre because of the procrastination and delay of this Government. I have said previously in this chamber that any government that sits on its backside and expects a consensus from the thousands of wool growers throughout the community, or expects them to come down with a firm decision at any given time, will sit there forever. Governments should have the courage to take the bull by the horns and say 'We will do this', and tell the brokers, the buyers and the graziers of this country that they will not be considered because the governments believe that in the interests of the Australian community - not only those of the wool growers - a statutory marketing authority system is the only one that can operate. 
Of course, that does not say that we believe that the creation of a statutory marketing authority is a panacea for all the ills of the wool industry. I hope that the Government will give it a go and will try to do something by this means. Some people in the industry think it is the best method. Many people in the industry who are concerned about it believe that this is something that will give some hope to the industry. At least the Government should have a go at something like this before turning 11,000 to 14,000 wool growers out of the industry. If that many growers leave the industry the Government will kill great stretches of the Australian countryside This Government has done little or nothing for decentralisation. If it turns these thousands of wool growers out of the Australian countryside it will have done something despicable for which thousands of Australian people will never forgive it. 
-I support the amendment moved by the Leader of the Opposition  (Senator Murphy)  because I tnink it is a very necessary requirement for the industry. The cold hard fact of the matter is, as we on this side of the chamber see it, that not only the Government but also many other people in our community have lost faith in the wool industry. The amendment sets out very clearly and concisely the type of operation in which we believe any government should engage if it is to restore faith in the wool industry. The mind boggles when one tries to recall the steps taken by the Government over the years in setting up committees, inquiries, conferences and goodness knows what to try to settle the problems of the industry. But it has achieved nothing. The proof of the pudding is in the eating. Over the last 20 years the plight of the wool industry has gone from bad to worse. It is patently obvious to us that something drastic is needed and that what is needed so drastically is an acquisition plan. 
Many people would not like to see an acquisition plan adopted, just as there are many people who were not in favour of the proposals implemented many years ago to pull the wheat industry out of its situation. Many people at that time disagreed with the proposals advanced by the then Labor Government to set up a statutory authority to control the whole of the Australian wheat crop. But today it is very hard to find a wheat grower who, by and large, is not thoroughly happy with the authority that was set up. It is quite conceivable to honourable senators on this side of the chamber that the same situation will prevail in the wool industry. 
At the end of the motion add -  but the Senate is of the opinion that complementary legislation should be introduced without delay to establish a single statutory marketing authority to acquire, appraise and market  the entire wool clip and that this authority should encompass the functional responsibilities of the Australian Wool Board and the Australian Wool Commission'. 
Now we have before us a further amendment which states: 
At end of motion add - but the Senate is of opinion that . . . such authority be a single statutory marketing authority-- 
In between are some words which do not add anything to the amendment moved previously. It continues:  and that it be empowered to acquire and appraise the entire wool clip-- 
What is different from the previous amendment in those words? It continues:  and the Australian Wool Board and Australian Wool Commission be dissolved and that their responsibilities be undertaken by such authority'. 
In the original amendment it was stated that the authority should encompass the functions of the same 2 bodies. I believe that in principle there is no difference in the 2 amendments. They both ask for the same thing. The first amendment was defeated in the Senate. I ask for your ruling on this,  Mr President,  before I reply to the debate on  Senator Murphy's  amendment. 

 Senator Murphy -  Mr President,  speaking to the point of order, I suggest that whilst there is a certain amount of truth in what the Minister for Air  (Senator Drake-Brockman)  is pitt ing forward and that in some respects there are matters in the amendment which were in the previous amendment, nevertheless there are some substantial differences. 
This proposition goes beyond the point of encompassing responsibilities to deal with the dissolution of the 2 bodies.I suggest, with respect, that there is nothing in the earlier proposition which deals with that. In fact one might say that in putting the new proposition we had very much in mind the fact that an earlier amendment had been moved. Consequently, this amendment is deliberately and distinctly different from the earlier amendment, even though it covers, as I concede-- 
asked the Minister representing the Postmaster-General, upon notice: 
Will the Postmaster-General consider the implementation of aflat rate trunk line telephone charge as a means of alleviating the problems caused to rural areas and decentralised industry in Victoria by high trunk line charges? 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry, upon notice: 
How many copies of  Sir Edwin  McCarthy's book 'Joint Organisation 1945-1952' does the Australian Wool Board possess. 

 Senator DRAKEBROCKMANThe Minister for Primary Industry has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
The Australian Wool Board has 1,300 copies of  Sir Edwin  McCarthy's book 'Wool Disposals 1945-1952; The Joint Organisation', being the bal- . ance remaining from the 2,000 copies originally printed. 
But God was on our side. 
I do not propose to deal further with this report because there are other honourable senators who wish to speak. 1 suggest that the Senate ought to consider whether it should rely upon its own committee for reports because, as we know, the Joint Committee on Foreign Affairs is not a truly parliamentary committee. I do not want to rake over the old question as to whether our Party should be involved on the Joint Committee but we have in the Senate an all-party committee on foreign affairs and defence which has wider powers. It does not have the circumscriptions that the Joint Committee has and I, for one, would suggest that real consideration be given by the Senate to enlarging the Senate Standing Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence. Perhaps our members who are on the Joint Committee could find a place on an enlarged Senate standing committee which would be able to report directly to the Senate without the inhibitions which may be placed upon the Joint Committee by some Government Ministers. 
1 direct my question to the Minister representing the Minister for National Development. In view of the high costs of telephone charges to decentralised industries, can the Minister give the reason why the PostmasterGeneral's Department was not represented on the Commonwealth-State committee on decentralisation? Can the Parliament expect that all the studies prepared for that committee will be released at an early date? If not, why not? 
asked the Minister representing the Prime Minister, upon notice: 
Will the Prime Minister, while overseas, discuss with the United States the possibility of sending Australian Army advisers to Cambodia. 
Have preliminary, talks on this matter already occurred between the United' States, New Zealand and Australian Governments. 

 Senator Sir KENNETH ANDERSONThe Prime Minister has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
I refer the honourable  Senator to  the reply by the Acting Prime Minister to a question without notice by the Leader of the Opposition on 10th November 1971 (Hansard, House of Representatives, pages 3221-3222), to my reply to a question without notice by the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition on 23rd November 1971 (Hansard, House of Representatives, pages 3454-3453). and to the statement on the training of Vietnamese and Cambodians in Vietnam made by the Minister for Defence on 9th December 1971 (Hansard, House of Representatives, pages 4477-4480). (2) See answer to question (1). 
My question is directed  to  the Minister representing the Minister for the Interior. Will the Minister give consideration to allowing the establishment  of  the Northern National Park in the Northern Territory or is he inflexibly committed  to  the destruction of this area and its objects of Aboriginal art by mining interests,  in  opposition to the Northern Territory Legislative Council? 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry, upon notice: 
What extra return would have been paid into the Dairy Equalisation Fund per pound of butterfat, if the quantity of butter represented by butteroil sold to milk reconstitution plants in South-East Asia had been sold on the United Kingdom market during the period 1st July 1970 to 30th June 1971. 
My question is addressed to the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry. Has an agreement been reached between the Government, the wool buyers and the graziers' association for the third price averaging plan pool to be wound up, for interlotting to be reintroduced, or bulk classed wools to be acquired and for there to be no acquisition scheme for the remainder of the Australian clip? 
Firstly, we on this side of the chamber support this Bill. The purpose of the Bill is to amend the Dairy Produce Export Control Act to allow the Australian Dairy Produce Board to carry on, and if necessary expand its activities of the type that it has promoted in particular in South East Asia in recent years. As honourable senators would know, previously the funds for this operation came from a stabilisation fund which was basically contributed to by funds accrued in our markets in the United Kingdom in post war years. But it would seem that the point has now been reached where the Board is desirous of obtaining further funds and that the stabilisation fund which previously operated will not supply these funds. Consequently this is the reason for the amendment to the Act. 
Over the years that the Board has been operating in conjunction with private enterprise or with Government industries in these markets in South East Asia, there has been quite a deal of criticism of its actions.I think we can all look back now with hindsight - even the Board's critics can do this - and see that the action the Board took almost a decade ago was the result of a very wise decision in view of Britain's impending joining of the European Common Market which will cause the Australian dairy industry to lose one of its traditional markets. Perhaps criticism is a good thing, but despite this criticism the Board has been able to show a profit over those years. I think even its critics would admit that any new industry starting up must expect a period in its infancy when it will not be able to pay dividends. It is only by a long slow process that any project is able to accrue profits, and the Board has been successful in this regard, lt is interesting to note also that over the greater part of those years the Board in its purchase of commodities from the Australian industry for utilisation in those overseas factories has paid a premium over and above the world parity rates for those very same products. In other words, the Board has done the right thing by the Australian dairy farmer. 
In reply to a question which I asked of the Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Sinclair)  some time back I have received an answer which indicates that in the short term the Australian dairy industry currently would bc far better to be placing butter that has been churned into butter oil for use in Asian markets on the markets in the United Kingdom. Because of a world shortage of dairy products, butter is currently selling in the United Kingdom in the price range from £Stg550 to £Stg600 a lon. Here again I am of the opinion that to act in this manner would be to demonstrate a very short sighted attitude indeed. If the Board in fact were to adopt this attitude it could, in return for a short term profit, jeopardise the entire future of markets in South East Asia. 
On the question of those markets in Souh East Asia, a recent publication of the Australian Dairy Produce Board points out that these plants which it has set up in Asia have secured an increased market share for Australian milk products sold in that area. Some of the figures behind this statement make very interesting reading indeed. For example, in Thailand the Australian share of the market has risen from 3 per cent in 1967 to about 50 per cent today. In Indonesia and Cambodia Australia enjoys a market share of 75 per cent and 100 per cent respectively, as well as 20 per cent of the Philippines market, and current annual requirements for raw materials amount to 25,000 to 30,000 tons of skim milk powder and about 7,500 tons of butter oil. It is not an inconsequential market. The pointers are that it will increase even though one can say that when regarded in the light of the total amount of Australian exports it is still not a large part. However, in conjunction with the cheese market which the Dairy Board has developed in Japan, it is becoming  a  sizable market for the Australian dairy farmer. The report which the Board has released contains a slight warning in these terms: 
Because of a world shortage of dairy products and higher ruling prices, the milk plants- 
That is a reference to milk plants in South East Asia -  were currently finding it difficult to obtain sufficient supplies of raw materials to meet the increasing demand for the high quality dairy products being manufactured. In addition, increased duties on imports of raw materials entering South East Asian countries and a reluctance by some governments to allow higher consumer prices to cover production costs, have caused some trading difficulties. However,  the  position should improve as there are signs of an easing in the world supply and price position and wc are hopeful that our negotiations on duties will improve the trading positions. 
It is obvious from the report that the Dairy Board is not content to sit back and allow things to happen as they will. Instead, it is fighting in the interests of the Australian dairy farmer. There are also indications that if the Board had access to sufficient supplies of Australian dairy produce long term markets would be available on the world scene, but because of the short supply of these commodities, particularly in Australia and as a consequence of a world shortage, the Board is not able to enter into long term agreements with other countries which would be of great benefit to the Australian dairy industry. 
In this regard one can only say that the action of the Government almost 2 years ago in calling for a 34 per cent reduction in dairy production has not helped the situation by any means. Frankly, I find it very hard to project into the future in regard to the world situation for dairy produce. Some people are prophesying that within a few years Australian dairy produce will be sold within the European Economic Community while others are saying that the Common Market countries are already again building up surplus stocks. This I find hard to believe in view of the present high prices and the world shortage of these commodities, but those are the kinds of reports and suggestions that one reads daily in the Press and in industry journals, and they make it very difficult to assess in the long term what the demand will be for dairy produce or what the chances of selling Australian dairy produce on the world market will be. 
There is little doubt in my mind that were the industry and the world properly organised there would be a great demand for the very high protein food produced by the Australian dairy industry. According to the last annual report of the Australian Dairy Produce Board, cheese consumption in all countries covered by the report is on the increase. As most honourable senators would know, cheese, along with wine, is one of the in things in Australia today. There are not. many good eating houses which these days do not supply their customers with cheeses. In view of the declining demand for butter in the countries covered by the report, the fact that cheese is on the up and up is a very good trend for the industry. As I have said, butter is on the decline in the broad spectrum of the countries covered by the report. In this regard perhaps the industry has been a little tardy in that it is only within the last couple of years that a committee was set up to look into the question of the basis of payment. 
Honourable senators would know that currently the method of payment for milk for manufacture is on a butterfat basis. The method of payment which seems to have been suggested by the committee, will be based on a protein - solids - not fat basis so, if the report which the committee hopes to produce in the next few months is adopted, we will see a switch in the method of payment from a butterfat basis to a protein - solids - nol fat basis. If this is the case and the dairy industry, through the. State Departments of Agriculture and their extension officers, starts to weed, breed and feed to this end rather than to butterfat, it could reduce the surplus butter with which the industry finds itself at various times. In fact, over recent, years butter has tended to become the byproduct of the industry and what were the byproducts of the industry in my day - the whey, in particular, that we fed to pigs or tipped down the. drain - have become the prime products of the industry. The whole commodity basis of the industry has been turned upside down, and whereas butter was once the premium with skim milk, buttermilk and whey the end product, the situation has been reversed. I am hopeful that if the protein - solids - not fat basis of payment is adopted we can start to breed and feed cattle and get away from the, at times, embarrassing situation with which we have been confronted in regard to butter. 
In view of the fact that the Labor Party is supporting the Bill I do not want to drag out this debate. We on this side of the House have always seen the dairy industry as a viable one. The figures relating to last year's production show that the industry produced goods to a total value of $415.Sm and exported goods to the value of $115m. According to an editorial in one of the newspapers that I read today, the dairy industry has again been set up as an Aunt Sally because of the High Court judgment in the margarine case in Tasmania. That aspect seems to have been something of a bonanza for editorial writers because everyone jumped on the bandwagon, and again we are seeing those well known adjectives concerning the dairying industry being thrown about. That has been going on for so many years. One editorial writer said that the dairying industry's exports were not worth worrying about, but T believe that any industry which can export goods to the value of $U5m in any one year is not an inconsequential industry. If the editorial writers who talk about efficiency in the industry were aware of the relevant figures, they would know that the production I have mentioned came from 2,833,000 cows on 60,000 farms compared with 3,100,000 cows on 142,000 holdings 10 years ago. 
I do not doubt that one can always find figures and statistics to back up any argument one likes to advance, but I believe that the figures I have cited show that by and large the dairying industry has put its house in order. It is an efficient industry. It has been able to cope with the many adverse situations which have confronted it from time to time as a result of actions by governments overseas, by governments at home and by flood, fire and drought. As I have said before, in my experience as I have travelled around Victoria I have found the dairy industry by and large, from cow to factory, to be far more efficient than many of the secondary industries I have seen. There is a continuous process of efficiency. One can walk into the modern dairy factories throughout the dairying districts of Victoria today and find that the management is continually pulling down plant installed only a relatively few years ago and replacing it with modern plant and modern techniques. We on the Opposition side, as I said, have maintained always that this is a viable industry. I believe it has a very bright future although I realise that there are many marginal areas in the Commonwealth of Australia where it is not easy to get the production figures obtained by their counterparts in the better areas. Be that as it may, in my opinion the industry is very efficient. 
The action of the Board in going overseas to seek markets and in establishing industries in those countries has proved to be very valuable, lt is to be hoped that in future years similar action can be taken in other countries which apparently seen to believe that the Australian dairy industry cun give them a better product thin can the industry in other countries. Those countries seem to believe that the main dairying districts of Australia, those in which the industry basically is concentrated, are very efficient sections of the world wide dairy industry. I will leave it at that and reiterate that we on this side of the House support this Bill. 

 Senator WEBSTER (Victoria) f3.28) - The purpose of the Dairy Produce Export Control Bill is to clarify the general investment and promotion provisions of the existing Act *o provide the Australian Dairy Produce Board with specific power to participate in commercial ventures as a means of expanding its existing markets or of securing new markets. As explained in the Minister's second reading speech, the position now has been reached where the Board may not be able (o depend on the Dairy Industry Stabilisation Fund to finance fully its planned activities. lt has been decided to clarify the investment powers of the Board under the Dairy Produce Export Control Act to enable it to carry on its milk plan' operations in the manner that it has been doing under the provisions relating to the Dairy Industry Stabilisation Fund. The finance for the Board's milk recombining plant operation": in principle has been drawn from the Dairy Industry Stabilisation Fund which consists of industry funds built up under the post-war contracts with the United Kingdom. 
This legislation deals in the main with the activities of the Australian Dairy Produce Board, the body responsible basically for the sale and export of our surplus milk and milk by-products. It must be most gratifying to the Board, its directors and staff to find that in another place, as was pointed out by  Senator Primmer,  a great compliment was paid to the Board for the manner in which it has conducted its affairs over past years. This Board is composed of men who have demonstrated to Australia and to the Parliament tha' they have a capacity for sound management. They have taken steps which perhaps no o:her industry in Australia has sought to take. I would like to mention the general ramifications of what the Board has done. Some year.s ago it adopted the principle not only of attempting to go to other countries, particularly in the South East Asian area, to sell its wares - a very imporant decision - but of setting up plants in those countries. retaining sufficient control, undoubtedly, to enable them to take raw dairy produce material from Australia and to reconstitute and recombine i*. That idea appealed to the Board and perhaps it is starting to appeal to the management of some other industries. 
It is recognised that this was an enormously important step. I doubt whether the benefit of this step, even in the field of public relations between Australia and some of those countries in which we have established plants, has been properly recognised. Surely we must be bringing to those countries the principles of sound technical management. We must be encouraging the governments of those countries to think well of Australia because of the efficient manufacturing plants we are putting together and which encourage local employment. In general terms honourable senators will acknowledge that the Board has demonstrated 'hat it is one of Australia's leading marketeers of produce. We must contemplate the regularity with which the Board can repeat the installation of those plants. The management mus' consider how far it can go. T imagine that there must be an enormous strain on 'he management of the Board in ensuring that these plants are adequately staffed and efficiently run in order that they reflect credit on Australia. 1 believe that in the future the Board will need all the ability and ingenuity that it can muster to control those units properly. 
As you know,  Mr Deputy President,  during the current season there has been a world record shortage of dairy products of all types. This has been brought about by a number of factors such as the restriction on production in Europe and some exceptional efforts on behalf of the European Economic Community to dispose of its previous surpluses. The shortage has been contributed to by a simultaneous decrease in production over 2 years in the Southern Hemisphere. This decrease in production occurred in all countries, including the Argentine, South Africa, New Zealand and Australia. The Board has been faced with the dilemma of attempting to meet a demand of about 300,000 tons of butter, as one product, with an estimated production in Australia of 192.000 tons. This obviously is manifestly impossible and the Board has had no option but to reduce the amount that, it could make available through private trader to trader export sales and sales negotiated by the Board itself. 
Because of the previously agreed policy of seeking markets outside the United Kingdom so as not to be left without a viable market when the United Kingdom enters the European Common Market, the amount that Australia can be expected to ship to the United Kingdom in 1971-72 will be about 9,000 tons as against a quota of some 67,000 tons that under other conditions we would ship to Great Britain. The Board and the industry have taken steps over a number of years to build up alternative markets which have been growing for some time, not only in respect of butler but more particularly, and perhaps more importantly, for items such as buttermilk and skim milk powder for reconstituting. Although the ability of many of the developing countries is less than that of developed markets such as the United Kingdom to pay for these products, nevertheless they offer excellent prospects as long term market outlets for Australia. 
A similar situation has arisen in respect of cheese. This year there will be outlets available for about 80,000 tons of cheese, whereas production in Australia will reach about 70,000 tons, lt is encouraging to consider that prices over the last 2 years have reached what is considered to be a world record, but perhaps this has been to the great disadvantage of the Australian dairying industry. To instance that, point I remind honourable senators that it is estimated that in the United Kingdom, for example, because of the price increase that has been necessary in that country, about 25 per cent of the total butter market has been lost. That would be the equivalent of about. 120,000 tons of butter. Obviously that loss is harmful to the dairying industry throughout the world and in future years it could certainly be harmful to the Australian dairying industry. 
The first page of the report of the Dairy Produce Board emphasised that the past year has been one of the most complex periods ever to confront the Australian dairying industry. The report, the text of which is excellent, goes on to discuss the few reasons which I have stated shortly to the Senate, lt is worth our while to consider the dairying industry and to attempt to satisfy our minds about it.  Senator Primmer  referred to newspaper reports, even in today's Press, which have attempted to denigrate the dairying industry. It is amazing that throughout the time that I have been a member of this place there has been scarcely one newspaper which has not taken up a daily cry attempting to attack the dairying industry for being inefficient. I am unable to say whether the newspaper reports have been encouraged by some of those industries which are in competition with dairying, but 1 suggest that here may be some justification for that view. I suggest that not one point can be instanced to show that the dairying industry in Australia is inefficient. Those of us who have had some rural experience would acknowledge the great importance of maintaining an industry such as dairying and attempting to achieve what the Commonwealth and States in future years will be spending millions of dollars to achieve, that is, the decentralisation of people and industries. The greatest factor in decentralisation in Victoria has been the establishment in areas of a viable dairying industry. 
Wholetowns in the western district of Victoria and in Gippsland are dependent for their economic life entirely on dairying. This industry is immensely important from that point of view to the whole of the Commonwealth of Australia. But it is perhaps even more important in my State of Victoria and in South Australia. 
 I had not intended to rise at this stage of the consideration of this Bill until the Minister for Air  (Senator Drake-Brockman)  wound up the second reading debate with a speech in which he said  - 1  do not decry him for saying it because it is a very popular misconception - that the reason for the present shortage of dairy produce throughout the world is a decline in production in the European Economic Community and elsewhere. I have before me only the annual report of the Australian Dairy Produce Board for  1971.  On the figures quoted in that report, it is very difficult to accept that point of view. As 1 said, the Minister is not the only one who has made that claim in recent times. My memory of the debate in the House of Representatives, from reading the Hansard report, is that a member of that chamber stated that in fact the huge surpluses that were stated to exist in the countries of the European Economic Community  2  or  3  years ago were only book entries: that that surplus produce did not exist in fact. 
Table  47  in the annual report of the Australian Dairy Produce Board for  1971  gives the cow numbers in certain countries. Honourable senators will recall that a couple of years ago the industry in Australia was told to expect a cut in production of  3.5  per cent and that in other countries - particularly Switzerland and, I think, France - dairy farmers were slaughtering cattle left, right and centre. But, according to table  47,  the only country of any consequence which showed a decline in cow numbers from  1966  to  1970  was the United States of America. There were marginal declines in countries such as Sweden, Switzerland and Denmark, but they were of no great consequence in the total numbers. In fact, in the Commonwealth countries between  1966  and  1970  there was sn increase in cow numbers. As to the non-Commonwealth countries, without adding up the figures it is difficult to say what the situation was. The  1970  figure for Italy has been left out. So, although the figure shown represents a decrease of about  5  million, with Italy's figure of  4,787,000  for the previous year there would appear to have been no decline in cow numbers. In the socialist countries there has been an increase. 
Table  48  shows the milk production in certain countries and the percentage used for manufacture. There is no proof in that table that there was a decline in production between  1967  and  1969  or  1970.  Some of the figures for  1970  are not shown in respect of some countries. In the Commonwealth countries  7,857,000  gallons of milk was produced in  1967.  The production in  1969  represented an increase on that figure. There was a similar increase in the non-Commonwealth countries and the socialist countries. In the other countries mentioned in the table the status quo was maintained. Perhaps the Minister or his advisers could assess the situation and tell the industry the facts. There is not much point in the industry being told to cut production, as it was told  2  years ago, and finding out  6  months later that a mistake has been made. In the future, if the industry is to accept figures that are used by governments, public servants and other people and to be guided by those figures, it has to have proof that the figures used in the past have been correct. I am not pointing the finger at anyone. We are all fallible. Perhaps these estimates are only educated guesses anyhow. If that is the case, I believe that the Government and its advisers have a responsibility to say so. That is the situation as I see it. On the figures set out in the annual report of the Australian Dairy Produce Board there is no indication whatsoever that over the last 3 or 4 years there has been any decline in cow numbers or milk production in any of the countries mentioned there. 
My question is addressed to the Minister for Health and it follows a question I posed on 23rd February to which I have had an answer.I now ask the Minister the following question: Would it he physically possible to treat the footwear of all persons entering Australia from known foot and mouth disease countries to prevent the possible spread of that, disease into this country? 
Quarantine regulations are very rigid and sometimes this rigidity can cause distress to individuals.I well recall that, when I was Minister for Customs and Excise, at one stage every person at a port of entry had to be asked the categorical question whether he or she had been in a certain country within a specified number of days. Regardless of status - whether that person was on a VIP aircraft, a vice-regal flight or anything else - that question had to be posed because of the regulations. None of us wants to impose regulations which are not justified, but the quarantine rule has to be very rigid. We all appreciate that necessity. 
I would need to look at the case with particularity. I have already given one answer to the honourable senator on this matter. However, 1 will take his second question, have another look at it and give a reply to it. 
My question is directed to the Minister for Air. Has the Royal Australian Air Force cancelled an order for 18 Iroquois utility helicopters worth $8m? Was the cancellation caused by the absence of adequate base facilities for the helicopters? Has any payment been made in respect of the cancelled order? If so, what was the amount and how much of it is refundable? 
Is the Minister representing the Minister for Education and Science aware that the Australian Constitution has been set as a text for social studies in Victorian schools but that many hundreds of students have been unable to obtain a copy of the document? Will the Minister take the action necessary to overcome the situation? 
I ask the Minister for Health: Is it a fact that a dependent student above 16 years of age in receipt of a Commonwealth Teachers Training Scholarship of approximately $16 a week is not covered by his parents' health insurance at the family rate, nor is he covered by the subsidised health insurance scheme? Does this mean that such a person must fully cover himself out of his Commonwealth Scholarship allowance? If so, does the Minister propose any action to overcome this situation? 

 Senator Sir KENNETH ANDERSONI would need to get the facts. I think they would come through my Department. I will certainly get the facts and make them available. 
My question is addressed to the Attorney-General. By way of preface I say that the matter has disturbed me greatly. Can the Minister give any reason why Commonwealth police would refuse to recognise a young man out on bail who has a duty to report to them daily when that young man approached them on his own at Warnambool on Saturday morning last and why, when approached by the same young man in company with a member of this Parliament the same Commonwealth police agreed to recognise him? 
(11.5)- I congratulate  Senator Webster  for raising this matter. I can appreciate the conditions under which  Senator Poyser  sat on that cold railway station in Melbourne on the night mentioned. This matter has been the subject of some discussion between  Senator Poyser, Mr Scholes,  the member for Corio, and myself, particularly in relation to the non-facilities that exist to enable the three of us to travel into the Western District of Victoria on a Friday morning. It normally happens that  Mr Scholes  brings his car to Melbourne on a Monday or Tuesday, leaves it there during the week and the three of us travel back to Gcelong in that car. As  Senator Poyser  has already pointed out, a junior officer from Duntroon can get a car at Tullamarine and travel 20 to 30 miles beyond Geelong. I have often made requests for a car to take me outside a 30-mile radius of Tullamarine, but all to no avail. Four times out of 5 of a Friday morning if  Mr Scholes's  car is not at Tullamarine  Senator Poyser  and I, in a Commonwealth car, make a mad dash hell for leather across the western suburbs of Melbourne in order to head off the Geelong train. We do not have time to catch it at Spencer Street and there have been occasions when we have not had time to write out a warrant for our tickets and we have been virtually unofficial passengers of the Victorian railway system for the trip to Geelong. 
When I have finally got back to Warrnambool at 2 o'clock in the afternoon I have found on the doorstep a Federal Minister who has had a car right from Tullamarine to Warrnambool and who  is  going back that same evening. There  is  something ludicrous about the whole situation when these circumstances can prevail. I find myself  in  a similar situation to  Senator Poyser  - he being the last home of that committee. I would estimate that if everybody in this Parliament left Canberra at  a  given time on a Friday morning I would be one of the very last to arrive back at my office. It takes about 40 minutes from Canberra to Tullamarine and 5 hours from Tullamarine to Warrnambool - a distance of 170 to 180 miles - because of this ludicrous situation. Incurred in that time is  a  120-mile drive by my wife to pick me up in order that I can be back to carry out some office functions on a Friday afternoon while my secretary is working, otherwise it leaves me only one day of the week, in those weeks when the Parliament is sitting, to operate from my office. 
I can see that there is some need for improvement allround, but the only question on which I am qualified to speak is the question of the paucity of cars out of Tullamarine on a Friday morning when 3 Federal members are seeking to travel 45 miles to Geelong. For the sake of an extra 30 miles for one car we are all deprived of a car and must get home virtually by the best ways we can. 

 Senator COTTON (Minister for Civil Aviation - New South Wales) - by leave - Without any doubt there is unanimity in the Senate on this subject. Those who have spoken primarily have  been  from Victoria, but from one's own experience one knows the problems of senators from Queensland and Western Australia, and sometimes they are more aggravated, not less. As I have listened to honourable senators it seems to me that the situation is inconsistent and in many ways manifestly unfair. I will raise it as a matter of serious and important intent with the responsible Minister and will do what I can to rectify it. 
I present the following petition from 16 citizens of the Commonwealth: 
The Honourable The  President,  and Senators in Parliament assembled. The humble petition of the undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully showeth: 
That on 10th December, 1948, Australia signed the 'Universal Declaration of Human Rights', 
Article 23 reads: 'Everyone has the right to security in the event of unemployment, sickness, disability, widowhood, old age and other lack of livelihood in circumstances beyond his control.' 
Yet, 23 years later, in our country of great national wealth and abundance it is to the nation's shame that many thousands of our people live in a state of being inconsistent with the dignity and worth of the human person - languishing in poverty and want, neglect and the lack of proper care necessary for their health and well-being. 
We; the undersigned, respectfully draw to your attention that the conscience of the nation is not at ease while the records of our country show (hat social services are not comparable with that of other advanced countries administering such services, therefore, we call upon the Commonwealth Government to immediately legislate for: 
Base pension rate  -  30 per cent -of the average weekly male earnings, all states, plus supplementary assistance and allowances based on a percentage of such earnings. Unemployed benefits equal to the foregoing. 
Completely free health services to cover all needs of social service pensioners - hospitalisation, chronic and long-term illness, fractures, anaesthetics, specialist, pharmaceutical, hearing aids, dental, optical, physiotherapy, chiropody, surgical aids and any other appliances. 
Commonwealth Government to promote a comprehensive national scheme in cooperation with the States and make finance available to provide for the building of public hospitals, nursing and hostel-type homes necessary to effectively meet the special requirements of aged people, in conjunction with a comprehensive domiciliary care programme to enable aged people to stay in their homes. 
Mental illness placed in the same position as physical illness. 
Substantial Commonwealth increase in the  $5  subsidy a day per public bed, pensioner patient in general hospitals. 
Ten per cent of Commonwealth revenue to local government for general activities which now include social welfare, health conservation and other community needs. Commonwealth subsidy for the waiving of rates for pensioners. 
Commonwealth Government to increase the non-repayable grant to the States for low rental home units for pensioners. 
Royal Commission or other form of public enquiry into Australia's social welfare structure that Australia may be brought into line with accepted world standards of the most advanced countries. 
And your petitioners, as in duty bound, will ever prn, 
Petition  received and read. 
Can the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry confirm or deny the truth of a report which appeared in the 'National Times' last week that the Randall Committee report on the wool industry is decidedly cool towards any idea of total acquisition of the wool clip? 
Is the AttorneyGeneral aware that today in the County Court, Melbourne, one Kenneth J. McClelland was sentenced to 18 months gaol for alleged offences against the National Service Act? Is he aware also that McClelland has already served one month in Pentridge Gaol whilst awaiting his appeal? Should not this month already served be allowed as a deduction from the total penalty? If so, what action can the Attorney-General take to correct this matter? 
 It is part of the question. 
If Victoria produces 60 per cent of Australia's total production of butter will it receive 60 per cent of Australia's consumption as its quota of the home market? 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Defence, upon notice: 
Has the Minister seen a report in a Melbourne daily newspaper to the effect that the United States Air Force has used nerve gas in South Vietnam; if so, will the Minister ascertain the truth of the report and, if true, inform the Parliament: 
if the use of such gas is in defiance of the Geneva Convention, and 
what action the Government proposes to deter the further use of such gas. 

 Senator Sir KENNETH ANDERSONThe Minister for Defence has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
I have seen the report. The use of the term immobilising nerve gas' appears to be inconsistent with the generally understood meaning of 'nerve gas', i.e. a highly lethal agent. The use of nerve gas has been publicly denied by the U.S. Command in Saigon. It is not Government practice to comment on the activities of our allies: I can slate, however, that no operations of the type described in the report have been conducted by Australian forces. 
and (b) See above. 
My question is addressed to the Minister for Civil Aviation, is Qantas Airways Limited to close  its cadet pilot training centre and in future recruit only pilots who have qualified elsewhere? If so, how many Qantas staff will be retrenched as a result of the closure? Further, what is to be the fate of those aircraft which Qantas used for training purposes? 
I present the following petition: 
The Honourable The  President  and Members of the Senate in Parliament assembled. The humble petition of the undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully showeth: 
That the Postmaster-General's Department, Central Administration Board's Policy of re-centralising and concentrating certain staffs, under what is called the Area Management Project, to the great detriment of the economies of the towns and related rural areas, and to the detriment of the overall morale, efficiency and independence of the Australia Post Office is against the public interest and should be made the subject of special investigation by the Senate's Social Environment Committee and by the Senate's Finance and Government Operations Standing Committee. 
Your petitioners most humbly pray that the Senate in Parliament assembled will take immediate steps to  refer  the above matters to the two committees of the Senate referred to, and in the meantime will order that: 
There win be no transfers of persons, areas of authority or operations under the Area Management Project; and 
No further appointments to positions under Area Managers or above them in the State Administrations or Central Administration of the Australian Post Office until the two committees of the Senate have investigated the matters and reported to the Senate and the Government. 
And your petitioners, as in duty bound, will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
My question is directed fo the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry. Has the Bureau of Agricultural Economics conducted a study on the future of the Australian wool industry? If so, has the study been released? If not, why not? 
The Minister for Air  (Senator Drake-Brockman)  has suggested that these 7 Bills pertaining to the dairying industry be taken together, and we on this side of the chamber see no reason why this should not be done. In the main, they are the continuation of Bills which have been passed by the Parliament in previous years. Perhaps the most important of the Bills is the one relating to the 5-year stabilisation plan for the dairying industry. This is the sixth such stabilisation plan since the first plan was introduced in 1947 by the then Labor Government. I have here a resume of the history of the previous Bills, set out in order, which shows to some extent that there has been a deterioration in the type of legislation relating to the 5-year plan. The first 5-year plan of 1947 gave to the dairying industry a guaranteed cost of production on all butter and cheese produced. It is noticed that in the second 5-year plan introduced in 1952 the industry was guaranteed only the cost of efficient production for the Australian consumption of butter and cheese, plus 20 per cent. So, as I have said, there has been somewhat of a deterioration. This document which sets out in context the history of these various plans has been provided for me by the Legislative Research Service of the Parliamentary Library. In fact, it was drawn up by the man who was responsible for the implementation of the first 5-year plan, namely,  Mr Reg  Pollard. I seek leave of the Senate to have this document incorporated in Hansard. 
It has been checked out by the Legislative Research Service of the Parliamentary Library for factual errors, and it has been passed. 
The  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Prowse)  - Is there any objection? There being no objection, leave is granted. (The document read as follows) - 

<graphic href="052232197205182_31_0.jpg"></graphic>

At industry request, the Chifley Government, in November 1946 appointed the Joint Dairying Industry Advisory Committee (JDIAC). 
Personnel- 
 Chairman, nominated by the Government, was 

 Dr J. G. Crawford of the Bureau of Agri cultural Economics (BAE). 
Industry Representatives - G.Howey, (Vic); T. F. Plunket (Qld); R. G. Gibson (N.S.W.)  and J. P. Norton (W.A., S.A., Tas.). 
Government Representatives - C. Sheehy, Controller of Dairy Products; P. W. Nette, Treasury; A. Spencer, Dept of Commerce and Agriculture; W. S. Kelly, Commonwealth Prices Branch. On resignation of  Mr Plunket,   Mr C.  H. Jamieson filled his place. 
The formation of the Committee was announced in Parliament on 22nd November 1946 by  Mr R.  T. Pollard, Minister for Commerce and Agriculture. 
The Committee's functions were: 
To advise and assist in conducting costs and other surveys of dairy farm production as guides to trends in production costs, general level of efficiency in different producing areas and the relationship between different farm methods and costs. The BAE assisted. 
Act as an advisory body to the Commonwealth on all matters connected with returns and costs in the industry, especially as these relate to butter and cheese. 
Report on all matters that may be referred to it from time to time. 
The Committee made a cost survey of 1,000 farms throughout the Commonwealth. From these, 692 farms were selected and a cost of production figure determined at approximately 2/1½d per lb commercial butter. The four industry representatives supported 2/1½d - the three Government representatives recommended2/- per lb. This price was adopted by the Government. (Naturally producers wanted 2/1½d.) 
Labour costs for the farmer and his family were calculated on the Rural Award of 1947 and a 25/- per week extra calculated as managerial allowance for the farmer. 
The Government then guaranteed a cost of production price for a period of five years commencing on 1st April 1947 and terminating on 30th June 1952. 
The price was to be reviewed annually and varied up or down in accordance with any variation found by the JDIAC and made on 2/- commercial butter base price per lb. 
During the early stages of this plan the Commonwealth had residual wartime price fixing authority and was able to fix wholesale butler and cheese prices ex factory door. 
Later, and following the defeat of the May 1948 Prices Referendum, price fixing authority passed to the State Governments. 
Annually, costs of production moved upwards. 
Note table above; - Cost of production of butter in 1947-48; 20c per lb ex factory door as found by JDIAC. By 1952 these guaranteed cost of production figures had moved upwards to 35.02c commercial butter. 
This situation arose: The move in 1949, as from 1st July, required either a consumer price increase of 2½ pence per lb commercial butter or increased subsidy of2½ pence per lb. State Prices Ministers refused to increase butter prices, thus requiring the Commonwealth to find an additional £1¼ million in addition to 6d per lb, which for the 12 months to June 1950, cost the Commonwealth Government approximately £5 million. 
Note - All butter and cheese production (home and export) was covered by the above plan. 
The Stabilisation Fund for manufactured dairy products was initiated in . 1947 and expired on 30th June 1952. The Dairying Industry Act 1952 was substituted. This act provides for payment of subsidies and the use of the Dairy Industry Stabilisation Fund in connection with the agreed stabilisation scheme. 

<graphic href="052232197205182_32_0.jpg"></graphic>

The Menzies Government replaced the JDIAC of the No. 1 Plan with a Dairying Industry Investigation Committee in May 1953. 
Functions - 
To advise on price guarantees and with terms of reference covering costs of efficient production and other functions affecting the stability of the industry. 
The Committee reported in July 1953:That owing to the market situation, and although it was recognised that costs under the agreed formula had risen 1.72 pence per lb commercial butter, no change be made in the guaranteed price for butter and cheese from 1st July, 1953. 
So the price remained the same as for 1952 (see table above). 
Additional Conditions - 
A price guarantee to remain in respect to butter and cheese from 1st July 1952 to 30th June 1957. 
The guarantee to be dependent on the States, by appropriate legislative action, putting the Commonwealth in a position to determine the ex factory price of butter and cheese for the period of the guarantee. 
The guaranteed return to be determined after enquiry conducted by an independent authority to be appointed and to take effect from 1st July in each year of the guarantee. 
The price adjustment from 1st July 1952 to be made upon the existing base price amended in accordance with the cost movements during each year as revealed by the BAE. 
Reduction of the consumer subsidy paid by the Commonwealth for 1952-53 and an undertaking not to vary the subsidy abruptly during any year of the guarantee. 
The guarantee to cover all butter and cheese consumed locally and in addition, a further 20 per cent 'to ensure production of an adequate quantity for Australian needs in adverse seasons'. 
The Dairy Industry Stabilisation Fund to be used by the Dairy Board as it sees fit, to raise returns on exports of butter and cheese beyond the guaranteed quantity to amounts not exceeding the guaranteed return. 
Any excess of returns from exports (in addition to the 20 per cent) over the guaranteed return to be paid into the stabilisation fund. 
Subsidy on preserved milk products to be withdrawn as from June 1952 and the States to  make price adjustments accordingly. 
The States enacted the required administrative legislation. 
The retail price of butter in Brisbane, Sydney and Adelaide was increased on 1st July 1952 by 1/- per lb to 4/1½d and to 4/ 2d in country areas of these States and the other capital cities. Of this amount, the increase in the ex factory return was nearly 8d per lb - 7¼d in respect of farm costs. The balance was made up by increased distribution margins and transport cost allowances and by a reduction of approximately 2½d in the Federal subsidy from 1/1¼d to l0¾d per lb. Similar reductions for cheese. 
With the elimination, after June 1952, of a subsidy on preserved milk and the increase in the guaranteed return, price additions equivalent to about l/4½d lb butter fat content were made on preserved milk products. 
The total dairy subsidy provided by the Commonwealth for 1952-53 was £16.8 million, the same as for 1951-52. 
The unsubsidised price for butter in Sydney would be about 5/- per lb and cheese 3/-. 
In June 1952 the Dairying Industry Stabilisation Fund stood at £2½ million. Withdrawals from the fund during 1952-53 were caused by the excess of the home (guaranteed) return over the return from exports in respect to the portion of exports not guaranteed. 
On non-guaranteed exports current losses for 1952-53 are estimated at 1/- per lb for butter and 7¾d for cheese. 
Rise in price of butter - 
 July 1956 - 2 pence per lb. 
 July 1955 - 4 pence per lb. 

<graphic href="052232197205182_32_1.jpg"></graphic>

Similar conditions to those of No. 2 plan apply. 
On 1st July the Commonwealth Government increased ex-factory prices for butter and cheese - butter by 2d, cheese by Id per lb. The State governments under plan No. 2 agreement approved the increase. 
How prices are determined. Before the opening of each financial year the Commonwealth Government determines the amount of subsidy to be made available for the year. 
At the same time the cost of efficient dairy farm production is estimated by an independent body, the Dairy Industry Investigation Committee. Its report goes to the Minister for Primary Industry, who then discusses with industry representatives, factors other than costs, including the market prospects abroad and at home, particularly in relation to the influence of prices on local consumption and competition of substitutes. 
The Minister then determines an ex-factory price of butter and cheese for home consumption, designed to give farmers a rate of return which will approximately cover the farm cost. This return is limited to a volume of production equivalent to home production plus 20 per cent. 
The cost of manufacturing butter and cheese (i.e. factory costs) is assessed each year by the Commonwealth Dairy Produce Equalisation Committee in consultation with the Department of Primary Industry. 
In 19S8 the DUC arrived at a cost of efficient farm production of 53d per lb commercial butter, 2d more than the previous year. 
After consultation with industry representatives, the Minister announced on 30th June that the total subsidy to be available in 1958-59 was £131 million, the same as the two previous years. 
Price of ex-factory butter to rise from 456/2d per cwt to 474/ lOd to cover the rise in farm costs (2d per lb). 
In 1958 the Commonwealth Government introduced a new factor. It decided to underwrite final equalisation values at a level of that for factories (with average manufacturing costs) to pay producers 3/4d per lb commercial butter (equal to 33ic). 
Producers received 38.75c in 1959-60 and 36.66c approximately in 1957-58. 

<graphic href="052232197205182_33_3.jpg"></graphic>

The same conditions as in No. 3 Plan applied. 
The Industry may receive some compensation from the Government in respect to the devaluation of sterling. 
Since June 1964, the wholesale price of butter was increased by 16/4d to 578/- per cwt and cheese by 9/4d to 305/8d per cwt. 
Perhaps the next most important of these Bills is the Dairying Research Bill 1972. This bill widens the scope in relation to the collection of moneys for the purpose of research. Perhaps the other most important Bill of the 7 is the Processed Milk Products Bounty Bill 1972. As was the case with the 5-year stabilisation plan, this Bill extends for a further 5 years the $800,000 bounty that is paid to the industry in respect of processed milk products which are exported. As to the Dairying Research Bill, I am of the opinion that its introduction is not before time. In the past, research levies have been paid only by that section of the industry that has produced milk to be processed into cheese, butter, butter oil, butter powder or ghee. In fact about 28 per cent or 30 per cent of the milk produced in the Commonwealth has not had a research levy paid on it; that is the percentage of milk that has been processed or sold as liquid milk for human consumption. 
I think one is quite justified in saying that in this respect what might be regarded as the poorer section of the industry has been subsidising the richer section, in particular the producers of the 22 per cent or 23 per cent of milk which has been used for human consumption. This is the most lucrative section of the dairy industry and it is not before time that, along with the processed milk section, it is brought within the provisions of the research legislation. All dairy farmers in the Commonwealth will be placed on an equal footing. Quite frankly, this omission in the past has been a bone of contention within the industry and has led to some rather bitter debates at the dairy farmer level. It is to be welcomed by the industry and by anybody who has had anything to do with the industry. 
However, I question the allocation of these funds for research. At page 34 of the 1971 report of the Australian Dairy Produce Board is a statement that only 8.6 per cent of the money collected in that year was expended for marketing research. By and large, the remainder was spent on increasing production. If one is to accept the proposals that have been propounded by Ministers for Primary Industry, the Government and other conservative elements within the community that the only future role for the dairy industry is constant contraction, one would believe that some of this research money should be expended in looking for new markets; but it would seem that the Dairy Industry Research Committee has a totally different approach to the industry from that of the Government and other conservative elements in the community. 
Its members apparently see no reason why large amounts of research funds should be spent on marketing research. According to the report, research has continued on the following aspects of dairy farm production: pasture and soil, various complaints of dairy cattle, and work on the nutrient requirements of soil types in various dairying areas. Queensland has been part of a comprehensive programme concerned with the breeding, establishment and management of new species of tropical grasses. The report goes on to say that this work has led to substantially increased stocking rates and increases in production from each cow. 
I believe I am quite justified in saying that the Dairy Industry Research Committee has a totally different approach to the dairy industry from that of the Government and other people in the community who appear to see the future of the industry as only of constant contraction. The Bill dealing with 5-year stabilisation sets out the sixth such plan. It will be noted that the Government has guaranteed only $27m by way of bounty to the industry for each year of the 5-year plan, as against the sum of $40.8m that was granted to the industry last year. Conditional upon the industry's bowing to the Government's pressure, it is quite feasible to read into the Minister's speech that the industry may receive further funds. There is no guarantee. In fact, I believe that one could quite logically read into it that irrespective of what the industry does, it will receive only $27m a year over the next 5 years. 
The Minister has laid a great deal of stress on the need for the industry to oblige him, the Parliament or the Department with a 2-price quota plan. The Minister went to great lengths to stress that the. need for the plan came, not from the Government but from the industry. Honourable senators may recall that I mentioned this in my maiden speech last August. After having been involved in the industry for 40 years at the grass roots level, I cannot accept the Minister's explanation of the 2- price quota plan. As I have already said, the largest section of the Victorian industry at a conference at about this time last year was told that it would either accept the necessity for a 2-price quota plan or the subsidy could be jeopardised. If that is not some form of political blackmail, I do not know what is. I, for one, am not prepared to accept the, Minister's word that the idea of a 2-price quota plan came from the industry. In fact, it came from the Government. 
At the conference to which I have referred the message was relayed by  Mr Nixon,  the honourable member for Gippsland. If the Government intends to direct the industry towards a 2-price quota plan, I believe that the industry has every reason to be sceptical because senators may recall that I said in my maiden speech last August that the industry was moved to accept a cut of 3.5 per cent in production as a voluntary action. That happened in May 2 years ago. Five or six months later the industry was told to take off all the brakes and go all out for production - that in fact the industry was falling behind and there was dire peril ahead for the marketing of our dairy produce. 
We have never been able to find out what person or which department made the decision to have a cut in production of 3.5 per cent. Perhaps we will never know, but it is patently obvious that despite all the information that the Department or the Minister had at their fingertips, a wrong decision was made. The decision was made in the light of a build-up of dairy prodducts, particularly in the European Economic Community and generally across the world. Within 6 months this mountain of butterfat, as it was called at the time, was virtually dissipated and Australia was in a position where we may have been forced to import butter, I believe that the industry will be very sceptical of any approach or suggestion that is made in future to have some form of restriction placed upon production. The old adage of once caught twice shy will live long in the memories of those in the industry. 
In this regard it is interesting to note the comment of the soon to be retired  Chairman  of the Australian Dairy Produce Board,  Mr Eric  Roberts. Recently be was quoted by the 'Sydney Morning Herald' as saying that one of the lessons he had learned during his chairmanship was never to judge future prospects potential or viability of the dairy foods industry. The report goes on: 
Judgments were always difficult, no matter bow the industry was placed. Governments, economists, critics and advisers had all been guilty of judging the industry's worth and future on prevailing situations, rather than on  a  long term overall picture. Past experience shows that neither the extreme high nor the extreme low has  a  long or continuing place in the industry. 
I believe that that is a warning from a man who has been at the helm of the Dairy Board for some considerable time, a man who grew up in the industry and knows what it is all about. 
One other problem has arisen already because of the talk and the pressure that has been applied for the industry to adopt a 2-price quota plan. Japanese buyers of our dairy produce are saying to our exporters: 'What is the future of the Australian dairy industry? Does it have any potential? Can we be guaranteed dairy produce over a long term period?' According to my information the Japanese are inclined to look to New Zealand because that country is prepared to give them guaranteed agreements in respect of the availability of dairy produce for up to 5 years. 
There are other things which should be considered when we talk about a 2-price quota plan. One is the fact that the average age of dairy farmers in the European Economic Community is 60 years while that of dairy farmers in this country is 50 years. I point out that last year 1,800 dairy farmers in Victoria left the industry. The number of dairy cattle throughout the Commonwealth fell to some 328,000 in the last decade and the number of holdings with milk cattle fell from 142,000 to 59,500 in the last 22 years. Any imposition on the restriction of production in Australia could lead this country within a few years to the stage where it may well have to import its butter and cheese, and, if the worst came about, even milk for human consumption. On the other hand,  despite the bleating of the critics across the nation, the armchair strategists and some dairy farmers in the community, the industry is now earning export income. It did so in the last 2 years to the extent of $115m  a  year. That is a considerable sum for one of our primary industries to earn in export income. 
Other factors have to be considered in relation to the implementation of this 2- price plan. I asked the responsible Minister a question about it some two or three weeks ago and I may raise this matter again during the Committee stage. The Senate is being asked to debate these Bills relating to the dairy industry and to vote on them although we do not know what form this 2-price quota plan will take. The mechanics of it were spelt out to some extent in the report of the Australian Dairy Industry Council some 12 months ago but in the meantime the responsible primary industry Ministers in each State have all come up with their own plan. The industry today has before it 7 proposals for a 2-price quota plan, and at this stage no-one knows what, if anything, is going to be adopted. 
The only 2 plans that I have been able to get my hands on to study are the one I just mentioned, the plan of the Australian Dairy Industry Council, and the Victorian plan which was released only a week or perhaps 2 weeks ago. Perhaps the most serious omission that I discovered in the Victorian plan is that it proposes quotas only on butter, butter oil, cheese and processed milk products and not on the very important liquid milk section of the industry. The liquid milk section is lucrative by comparison with the products for which the Victorian plan seeks a quota. I suggest that if all dairy farmers in Victoria participated in the liquid milk market and the quotas were averaged out across the entire industry so that everybody would have some 17 or 18 gallons per farm, according to the last estimates I read, then the plan would not be so bad. But at present a select few in the industry have the right of access to this market. In fact, roughly onethird of the industry has access to this market. This means that the other twothirds will be harshly treated. I have with me figures relating to the liquid milk market in Victoria. At 13th April this year there were 17,298 licensed dairy farms in Victoria and of that number 6,628 had access to the liquid milk market. The largest liquid milk contract in Victoria is for 900 gallons a day. I see no reason why that section of the industry should not be brought into any 2-price quota plan and placed on an equal basis with the rest of the dairy farmers in that State. It is noticeable that the report of the dairy industry's federal body on the quota plan makes some provision for including liquid milk in the quota. 
As I said, I have seen only those 2 reports. There is little doubt that there will be a great deal of debate within the industry over the next few months in order to come to some rationalised plan whereby each State, each farm or each factory in the Commonwealth will receive a just share of the home market if this 2-price quota plan is ever implemented. One hopes that when that day comes a just plan will have been evolved. If the type of plan proposed by the Victorian Department of Agriculture and the Victorian Minister were implemented it would lead to anarchy in the industry. There is a rather damaging situation apparent today in the industry in Victoria because only one-third of the producers there have access to the liquid milk market. It means, in effect, that while one producer is receiving, say, 25c or 26c a gallon for his milk, his next door neighbour, facing the same costs and input factors involved in the dairying game, is receiving about 42c a gallon for similar milk. This leads to bitterness and unpleasantness within the industry. 
The situation has been alleviated somewhat of late because world prices for butter and other export commodities have increased. In fact, they have increased to such an extent that one would be quite justified in saying that at the present time the industry is in one of the most affluent financial positions it has been in for a long time. The present situation will not last and I do not think that anybody in the industry expects it to last. Already, there are indications of quite a substantial buildup of stocks across the world. In fact, in mid- April 1971 butter stocks in storage throughout the world amounted to 235,000 tons. In mid-April 1972, just 12 months later, they amounted to 283,000 tons. In 1971, 245,000 tons of cheese was stored throughout the world. This year the figure is 261,000 tons. At the present time, the European Economic Community countries are subsidising exports to the value of SA342 a ton. We have a situation similar to that which arose two or three years ago. 
Whether it will again reach the proportions it reached then, I very much doubt. This is because of the other factors that I have already mentioned in regard to the dairy industry throughout the world. 
Over the years the Australian Dairy Produce Board has attempted to set up, and has succeeded in setting up, plants throughout Asia, Perhaps this is one of the better known activities that the Board has undertaken. At times these plants have been something of an aunt sally for critics of the industry. But, by and large, I think that they have proved to be successful. They have taken quite large amounts of Australian dairy produce and reconstituted it into products that have been utilised by the peoples of those Asian countries where the plants have been established. On 16th May this year the honourable member for McMillan,  Mr Buchanan,  asked a question in another place. I noticed that it was taken up by one of the Melbourne daily newspapers. The question was directed by  Mr Buchanan  to the Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Sinclair).  He asked: 
Is the Minister aware of the threat by the Australian Dairy Produce Board that it will confiscate supplies of milk powder to bolster its ailing Asian dairy plants? The Board says that it will pay only cut rates  and  that it will refuse export permits for contracts that have already been made at the high ruling rates which are current today unless factories agree to the sacrifice of existing customers. I ask: Will the Minister please stop this highway robbery and at least insist on the Board paying the going world prices? 
I was somewhat disturbed when I read the report of that question in the Melbourne newspaper. I was so perturbed that I took it upon myself to contact the  Chairman  of the Australian Dairy Produce Board. He had not at that stage of the day read the report, but he was very disturbed when I read the newspaper comment to him. We said that there were people who had gone to the extent of employing publicity agents to do what they could to damage the Board. The facts of the matter are that the Board has cancelled some permits, but only where factories have orders for thousands of tons of produce more than they can supply and where permits were granted and have never been operated upon. The Board has advised Australian manufacturers that unless it can find supplies for its plants from Australian sources it may be placed in a situation in which it will be forced to seek produce from New 
Zealand. Of course, the New Zealanders are not idiots when it comes to bargaining and long term market arrangements. They would insist on long term arrangements if the Board had to move in there. If this high price bubble burst the Australian dairy industry would find itself in a situation in which it would be stuck with its produce and have nowhere to sell it. 
I believe that the Board has adopted a very diplomatic approach to this matter. I believe that if the Australian dairy industry has set up plants in Asia it has an obligation, even at a time when world prices for dairy produce are high, to supply those plants with the produce that they require. It is said virtually in the adverse comment that the Australian Dairy Produce Board is not prepared to pay the going world rates for dairy produce for its plants in Asia. As has been reported to me by the  President  of the Australian Dairy Produce Board, in Asia the Board is obliged to compete with the New Zealand industry. Therefore, it cannot act in a businesslike way if it pays more for Australian produce than the price at which New Zealand can supply produce. I understand that the going rate for New Zealand powder is about $428 a ton. The price that the Board is paying for produce for its Asian factories is better than the average world trader to trader price. Prices are being quoted in excess of it. But my understanding is that they are rather few and far between and that when they ate all averaged out - this is according to the  Chairman  of the Board - it is paying better than world trader to trader prices. It would appear that there are people in the industry who, like many other people in our society, seek to capitalise their gains and socialise their losses. I think this is about the best way to describe the people who have started this campaign against the Australian Dairy Produce Board. 
I think I have already said that we on this side of the Senate are not opposed to the Bill, with the exception that we intend to make a request in regard to clause 8 (2.) of the Dairying Research Levy Collection Bill 1972 and also to move an amendment to clause 9 (2.) of that Bill. That will be done in Committee. Because the Opposition is not opposed to the Bills, it is rather difficult to talk for hours or really to debate the matter. The situation of the industry has improved immeasurably in regard to our world markets. It will be recalled that when the first intimations were given that Great Britain was to join the European Economic Community a great deal of distress and alarm was expressed. Distress and alarm were expressed as loudly and as clearly in :he industry as anywhere else. 
There were fears that the industry would be stuck with huge amounts of dairy produce which it would not be able to dispose of. Those fears were not realised because of several factors - the rather judicious operations of the Australian Dairy Produce Board in opening plants in Asia; the fact that production in Australia had tended to decline; the fact that thousands had left the industry; that those in it were getting older and that the number of holdings had fallen dramatically. AH of those factors have meant that last year only about 8,000 tons of butter were exported to Great Britain. It is currently estimated by those with some knowledge of the industry, including some in the industry, that next year there is a possibility that there will be only 5,000 tons of butter to export to Great Britain. That shows that the industry has not been asleep; rather that it has been working hard during the last decade to shift its export markets away from the traditional market of Great Britain. In this effort it has been successful. I believe that the industry, subject to rationalisation in certain areas, subject to good management and subject to one or two other things, will be around for a long time. As I have said in previous speeches, it provides industry, work and a livelihood for a great many of our rural towns and cities. I think it can be said, without fear of contradiction, that throughout Australia today the only rural areas that still show signs of affluence in the towns and cities are those areas which are engaged in the dairying industry. Once one moves away from the dairying areas, of my State anyhow, and moves into the wheat and wool growing areas, there seems to be a noticeable deterioration in towns and cities and in the rural work force. Admittedly, the position in dairying areas is not good, but I believe that it is out in front of the position, as I have seen it, in the wheat and wool growing areas of Victoria. 
Another factor is starting to develop in the industry. In the past it has always been orientated largely around butter. Butter has been the mainstay of the industry. Today it has become a by-product of the industry. The milk powders and solids not fat have become the cream of the industry, and this influence is starting to show at the end of the production line. Another trend which is starting to show loud and clear is the swing to cheese. It is a growth factor in the industry. The Australian Dairy Produce Board has prophesied that in the 1980s - within the next decade - cheese will take the place of butter as the main product of the industry. Cheese has been introduced into the bars, clubs, hotels and what have you throughout the nation, lt has been promoted successfully by the Board, in conjunction with the wine industry. Wine and cheese tasting nights have become a part of Australian society. They are very pleasant nights, too, if I might say so. That is another trend in the industry. 
However, one long term matter does concern me, and that is the matter to which I referred earlier - the age group of those who are still in the industry today. The average age of the Australian dairy farmer is 50 years. I believe that in the past the Government has fallen down. Because of inflation and because of high land prices, it is extremely difficult for young people to enter the industry today. I can quote only my own experience. In 1946 or 1947, under a Labor government, when land prices were pegged at £20 an acre for dairy land, I bought some land. About 8 years ago I bought the adjoining 50 acres at £143 an acre. That gives an indication of the rise in land values in Victoria during those years. There is no possible hope of young people entering the industry today unless they go on dad's farm or unless dad has made a mint and is able to set them up on their own. Any person who tries to enter the dairying industry today with less than $50,000 or $60,000 in cash is probably placing such a millstone around his own, his wife's and his children's necks that he would find himself in the position in which the industry was placed in the 1930s. If the industry is to survive the only solution to the problem, as I see it, is for long term loans to be made available at low rates of interest. That would allow young people to enter the industry. Despite the hours that are worked 7 days a week, a considerable number of young people are desirous of entering the industry. The young fellow who is brought up on the farm today cannot get to the city quickly enough, but some of those who have never had the opportunity to be on a farm are breaking their necks to get into the game. The only way that they will be able to do so is for the Government to legislate to provide long term loans at low rates of interest. 
I mentioned the situation in Victoria where there is a 2-price industry - one price for those who supply liquid milk and another price for those who supply milk for manufacture. There has been agitation to try to iron out the problem to give all sections of the industry a cut off that most lucrative side of the industry. It is very interesting to note that in April last year, from memory, in the Tasmanian Parliament there was tabled a report of an inquiry into the dairying industry in that State. The report spelled out what those who sat on the Committee believed to be the correct attitude to take for the future of the industry in Tasmania. The report recommended the establishment of a dairy board along similar lines to the authority which operates in Great Britain - a milk marketing authority to take unto itself all the milk. Then users of the milk would purchase it from that body at different prices, according to the end product which they hoped to make from it. This would equalise the position of all dairy farmers. It would mean that every dairy farmer in Tasmania would receive the same price for each gallon of milk supplied. 
That is right. It has long been my contention that a great deal of the problems in the industry in Australia today will be solved only by Commonwealth action which I suppose would have to be taken in conjunction with the States. They would have to forego certain rights. It does seem to me to be rather strange that the Commonwealth can set up a single authority to take over wheat. The woolgrowers have long been crying out for a similar kind of authority to take their wool. I believe that the long term future of the industry in Australia would be better served and that many of the parochial attitudes which are expressed from State to State in the industry would be pushed aside if a Commonwealth milk marketing authority were established along the lines of that which has evolved in Great Britain. In that way everybody in the Commonwealth who milks cows would receive the same price for his milk and that milk would be distributed by the marketing authority to the end users. That would get away from the bitterness that prevails in the industry, particularly the bitterness between those who have access to the liquid milk market and those who do not. 
I direct a question to the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry. How many economists have left or have given notice of their intention to leave the Australian Wool Board's development division over the past 12 months? Have any of these resignations been brought about by the Government's procrastination in regard to the wool industry? 
asked the Attorney- 
General, upon notice: 
Can the Attorney-General explain why Commonwealth Police in Warrnambool on Saturday, 8th April 1972 refused to recognise  Mr K.  J. McClelland, who is out on bail and has a duty to report daily to them, when  Mr McClelland  approached them alone, and yet when  Mr McClelland  approached them in the company of a member of the Commonwealth Parliament they agreed to take recognisance of the fact that he had reported to them. 

 Senator GREENWOOD- The answer to the honourable senator's question is as follows: 
Officers of the Commonwealth Police Force did not refuse to recognise  Mr McClelland.  The circumstances were as follows.  Mr McClelland  was, on 8th March 1972, released on bail on condition that he report daily, between 9 a.m. and 5 p.m., at the Commonwealth Police Office, McKenzie Street, Melbourne. 
On Saturday, 8th April 1972 at Warrnambool  Mr McClelland  approached 2 officers of the Commonwealth Police Force, Inspector McCabe and Constable O'Brien, and said that he was reporting. Inspector McCabe informed  Mr McClelland  that the conditions of bail were that he report to the Commonwealth Police Office in Melbourne. The Inspector said he would take cognizance of having seen  Mr McClelland  and was prepared to allow him extra time to get back to Melbourne. 
Shortly afterwards, in company with a member of Parliament,  Mr McClelland  again approached the officers and the question of reporting was further discussed.  Mr McClelland  saidthat he had been advised by the officer of the  Deputy  Crown Solicitor's Office, Melbourne, concerned with the case that he could report to the Commonwealth Police in any city. 
As the Inspector did not know arid could not immediately ascertain whether that advice had in fact been given he considered it prudent to accept the statement at its face value. In the circumstances I regard the Inspector's action as reasonable although I have since been informed that that advice was not in fact given. 
My question is addressed to the Minister for Civil Aviation, ls it a fact that airport workers in Fiji made an application for a minimum wage of $40 per week and that this application will be heard by a tribunal in Fiji on Monday? Has the management nf Qantas Airways Ltd slated that if airport workers in Fiji persist with extravagant claims they will force Qantas to pull out of Fiji and they, the airport workers, will then have to deal wilh American airlines? ls the Minister aware of this? Is it  true  that Qantas has made this statement? Does the Minister support it? Does he consider that a minimum wage of $40 per week is extravagant for Fijian airport workers? Does he intend to support Qantas in its continuing stand against every effort by Fijian workers to improve their standards of living? 

 - Mr President, I will be guided by your wisdom as to who should answer this question. Will the Commonwealth Government give some consideration to the provision of compensation to those Victorian fisherman whose income will now be cut to nil because of the ban on flake due to mercury content or will the Commonwealth, in conjunction with Victoria, evolve some reconstruction programme for these people similar to that which applies to some other primary industries? 
My question, likewise, is directed to the Attorney-General. ls it a fact that members of the Commonwealth Police Force kept the home of an Australian Labor Party Federal Executive member,  Mr Bill  Hartley, in Ryans Road, Eltham, under surveillance on the night of 3rd-4th June? is it a fact that police manning one of the 2 cars involved subsequently chased a car occupied by 2 guests,  Mr and Mrs Eric  McLean, for approximately 5 miles after their departure from the party? Is it a fact that Commonwealth Police apprehended  Mr and Mrs McLean  some 5 miles from Eltham and subsequently searched their motor vehicle? If the answers to the above question's are in the affirmative, what was the purpose of the surveillance? Is the Attorney-General able to state further whether there is any good reason why  Mr Hartley  or any of his friends or associates are under surveillance by the Commonwealth Police? 
asked the Minister for Health, upon notice: 
Is it a fact that a dependent student above 16 years of age, in receipt of a Commonwealth Teachers Training Scholarship of about 16 dollars per week, is not covered by his parents health Insurance at the family rate nor is he covered by the Subsidised Health Insurance Scheme; if so, (a) does this mean that this person has to fully cover himself out of the Commonwealth Scholarship Allowance, and (b) does the Minister propose any action to overcome this situation. 

 Senator Sir KENNETH ANDERSONThe answer to the honourable senator's question is as follows: 
A dependent student in receipt of a Commonwealth Teaching Service Scholarship may be covered by his parents' health insurance provided the student is: 
unmarried; 
a full time student at a school college or university which is recognised for income tax purposes; 
under the age of 25 years; and 
not liable to pay income tax. 
Although the Subsidised Health Benefits Plan is not specifically designed to provide direct assistance to dependent students, such a student could be covered if he were a member of a low income family which has qualified for the benefits. The Plan does not extend to single persons on low incomes. 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry. It is not a fact that recent proposals put forward by wool brokers throughout Australia to offer wool for sale under what is termed the 3- tier system are an attempt by brokers to head off any move by growers to obtain an acquisition plan for wool? Is the Minister aware that one woolbroking firm, namely Dalgety Australia Ltd, has issued its propaganda on the proposed 3-tier method of selling wool accompanied by a circular letter signed by its managing director,  Mr Vines?  Does the Minister believe that  Mr Vines  can capably serve both the Australian Wool Commission and Dalgety in this field? Was it not proposed on the appointment of  Mr Vines  to the Wool Commission about 2 years ago that his tenure of office would be for 6 months only? 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Treasurer. Has a Taxation Board of Review, under section 62ab of the Income Tax Assessment Act, disallowed the 20 per cent allowance on farm machinery which is used to contract on neighbouring farms? In view of the need, due to economic circumstances, for farmers to cut down on capital expenditure, will the Minister give some consideration to introducing amending legislation to have this allowance restored in these circumstances? 
I wish to bring before the Senate tonight a matter that has caused me some concern in recent weeks. It is a matter which has caused considerable concern to thousands of people throughout the Commonwealth of Australia. In Melbourne some months ago a businessman purchased a Ford Cortina motor car and because of the multiple faults, because of the poor pre-delivery service, because of the poor after sales service, in respect of which he said that so frequently had he visited the service station which retailed the article to him that he felt like a full time employee rather than a man with complaints, he decided to take action. Being not a shy type of Australian but one of those blokes who will dig his toes in he felt there was need for more action than he could receive from either the Ford Motor Company of Australia Ltd or from the Retailer. As a result, 2 advertisements appeared in the Melbourne 'Sun' and Melbourne 'Herald' of 15th and 17th July. They were only small advertisements, measuring perhaps 1 inch by1½ inches, which read: 
Purchasers of new Cortinas. 
We  are  compiling  a  report to be presented in Parliament on new XL and  L  Cortinas. If you are interested in having any complaints looked into contact . . . Expert Investigation Service. 
I saw the advertisement which appeared in the 'Sun'. It appeared in a rather obscure place on the second last page of the newspaper, mixed up with sporting notes. It is a wonder that anybody saw the advertisement, but so great was the response that the switchboard of Expert Investigation Service was jammed. It was estimated that about 700 telephone calls came in within 3 days and the entire staff of that organisation became occupied in going out and taking statements from people who complained. As a result a second advertisement was inserted in the Melbourne 'Sun' of 20th July. It read: 
Purchasers of  new  Cortinas - 
Due to the  overwhelming response  of our ads in the Sun and  Herald  our  switchboard  has been jammed with calls, for which we thank you very much. We would ask you please not  to ring  but to  submit  your  problems  in  writing. 
Since that time complaints have flowed in in the form of letters, accompanied in many cases by copies of work dockets from service stations to substantiate the claims made in the letters. I should mention that the complaints came from people in all walks of life - businessmen, doctors, lawyers, school teachers and what might be termed the common people. I have seen the original complaints. It was patent to me, after reading only 12 or 15, that a pattern of complaints was starling to emerge. They showed what in my opinion is an extremely poor type of pre-delivery service and one would go so far as to say an extremely poor article. 
Some of the complaints that are brought immediately to one's attention by a reading of these statements are that the doors will not close and/ or open and/ or lock; front end vibration; oil consumption high to excessive; water entering car through windscreen surrounds, the boot and under the dash; headlamps not properly focussed; high oil losses from engine and gearbox; master brake cylinder leaking oil; faults in electrical wiring, such as ignition turned on by headlamp switch; faulty paintwork; internal trims fall off; rear vision mirror falls off; spare parts supply extremely poor, causing long delays. In one case a wheel collapsed. There were other cases of brake and clutch failure. There is a marked similarity between these complaints and those which wereoutlined by Ralph Nader in his book 'Unsafe at any Speed', which related to the General Motors Corporation Corvair. At page 53 of his book he stated: 
Tests  of the  1963 models purchased at random  by  Consumers' Union had resulted in 32 of 32 cars displaying troubles in  the  first 5,000 miles  of  driving.  The  defects included rain leaks, a window  running nut of its channel, door handles that fell off. a broken distributor cap, a speedometer needle that fell back to zero and remained there, a broken seal adjuster, an ignition lock that wouldn't lock, a door that wouldn't latch, engines that leaked oil, directional signals that wouldn't cancel, a grossly inaccurate gas gauge, front wheels out of alignment, and headlights, as the late Mildred Brady of Consumers' Union put it, 'that aimed at the ground or at the eyes of approaching motorists or at birds in trees'. 
I think that is a pretty fair description of what has been happening to the owners of Ford Cortinas. In order to substantiate what I have said 1 feel I should be prepared to read to the Senate extracts from 2 or 3 of the complaints that have come forward. As I have said already. I have copies only, but 1 have seen the originals. 
I cannot say because complaints arc still coming in. 
It is a private investigation service which has been hired by the man who had the trouble, lt was hired at a great deal of expense to himself. 
Like all private investigation firms in Victoria, it must be licensed by the Government and each year it must apply for re-licensing. The first complaint from which I read refers to a vehicle which was purchased on 3rd December 1971. The document does not reveal at what hour of the day it was purchased but mentions that at 11.30 p.m. on that night, at the corner of Swanston and Gratton Streets the following occurred:  l went to change from top to third gear in preparation to stopping at the traffic lights on the above corner. There was a loud snap as I pressed my tool on the clutch pedal and the pedal went completely limp, banging loose on its hinge. As 1 was in lop gear, approaching a red light with other vehicles in the area  t  applied the brakes, stalling the motor, and pulled over to the kerb. . . The following day the car was towed to the service depot and the fault rectified. I was told that the pin connecting the clutch pedal and cable had broken loose. 
I shall not bother with the second problem that is mentioned, but problem 3 reads: 
On the Wednesday after Christmas 1971 I took the car for its 1,000 mile service. For approximately 2 weeks before this  I  had noticed the motor becoming noisier. 1 did not worry too much, expecting only minor adjustment (tappets etc.) lo be necessary. 1 was amazed to be told that one lobe on the camshaft had worn out. At this stage the car had done 1,416 miles. It took 3 days to get a replacement camshaft. 
In the purchaser's account of problem 4 he admits that the exact date of the fault escapes him, but it occurred at about 11.30 p.m. one Sunday night in January 1972: 
Al me intersection of Hampton and Bay Streets, East Brighton, 1 turned the heater switch to 'floor' and the fan switch to 'high'. There was a loud crackling of electric sparks, followed by billowing clouds of smoke rising from the demist  vents  at the base of the windscreen. I immediately turned all switches off and pulled over to the kerb. The crackling ceased, but by then the cabin was rilled with smoke. 1 had to open all doors and windows to let the smoke out before I could continue on my nervous way. The Ford service mechanic showed me that the fault was in the radio power input wire, which was hanging loose behind the panel. It was not correctly insulated and had jammed. . . . 
As 1. recall it. 1. did not inform the Senate that these letters of complaint have come from all over Victoria. I quote from another letter of a completely different person: 
Thai night (Saturday) 1 was driving along Brighton Road, Elwood and crossing Elsternwick Junction when the accelerator linkage came off in the middle of the intersection and nearly caused an accident by having to stop as I had no way of avoiding it. On the Monday I took it back, after taping up the linkage and it coming apart 5 times on the way back to be fixed. . . . 
The owner states in that instance it nearly caused him to have another pile-up in Spencer Street. A third letter contains some 24 items of complaint. 
 I am not quite sure where they are made. In actual fact, I understand that the body of the car is of German design. I am not sure whether it is produced in Australia or in England but I am given to understand that in England the car was referred to as the 'paper car'. As I have said, this gentleman from a country area of Victoria quotes 24 items. He states that the alternator failed twice in the first 300 miles, the material lining the roof fell down in the rear of the car and the chrome trimming on one door catch was missing. He continues to list faults in doors, carpets, rear vision mirror and boot catches as well as leaks, dust and vibration, plus faults in the glove box, paint. seat belts, beaters, brake warning light, clock, washers and transmission. But the really serious part of his letter is contained in the second last paragraph in which he states: 
When I picked it up on 22nd April 1972 I had to drive home through mountains. On the way 1 came to a slight L.H. corner. The car felt unresponsive, it continued across the road, on applying the brakes (in desperation) which are power boosted disks, nothing happened. I escaped death by inches. I hit a telegraph pole, which did extensive damage but stopped me from hurtling to my death over a cliff. 
It seems to me that this car was thrust on to the market at a time when the firm's competitor, General Motors-Holden Pty Ltd. had already beaten it to the hurdle with the Torana model. Perhaps it can be cited as a case of trying to keep up with the Joneses. Tt was whilst I was making some further inquiries to satisfy myself about the authenticity of the material that had been handed to me that I came across people who were prepared to talk about other cars manufactured by the automotive industry in Australia. 
I made it my business to have a discussion with the manager of a fairly large panel beating works. I asked him what he knew of the Ford Cortina and named some of the faults that I believed were inherent in it. He said: 'You are right, but it is not alone in. that'. He said: 'There is a Cortina here. I will take you over to have a look at it.' On the way over, he remarked that the body of the Renault was perhaps even worse than that of the Ford Cortina. A workman who was working on the tail end of a Valiant of which the boot portion had been completely removed and which had been stripped down to the floor said that it was no better. We then inspected the Cortina. The manager said that as a result of the impact which it suffered which was not very heavy, judging by the damage done to the body work, the car body had been distorted out of all proportion. He said: 'I will not be able to make an assessment of the body strength until I put the jacks on it and get some measure of the resistance to those jacks'. I went back some time later and asked him whether he would care to comment. He said: 'Yes, certainly. Just as I presumed, there was no resistance to the jacks. It went back in. At least it is not like one other car which did not come back with out causing any other structural damage*. He declined to name the other thake of car but he said: 'AH too often when you put the jacks on the back end to bring the body back into line the front end will pop out in the opposite direction'. He also remarked that this car - the Cortina - had been caught up in a rat race of cars in this range. He said that in order to compete one with the other and to keep up with the Joneses and to comply with the type of jargon that the motor magazines put out in regard to car performance, manufacturers had tended to strip what one might term the 'guts' out of the motor body in order to reduce body weight and so enhance motor performance. In fact, in referring to motor car magazines, I think I should also quote what Ralph Nader states in his book Unsafe At Any Speed'. I have always been of the opinion that these motor car magazines are only appendages of the industry, that they need the industry as much as the industry needs them and they are loath to go out of their way to nail the problems that are inherent in cars.  Mr Nader  said: 
Most of the auto-buff magazines are run on a shoestring with a small group of car-infatuated articulate people editing or writing the copy. The general tone is laudatory, but to hold their readers, there are substantial amounts of crisp criticism concerning vehicle deficiencies. However, an unwritten rule is that you never 'straight-arm' a vehicle or its manufacturer nor enter the territory, of muckraking. To use such terms as 'dangerous handling', or 'irresponsibility of manufacture' would hit the industry too close to home. Far better to talk about 'road adhesion qualities' or 'problems of quality control'. These magazines need the automobile company advertising but probably more important, they require the technical assistance of company liaison men for pictorial materials and the loans of cars which they test-drive and write about each month. 
In the 'Australian' Saturday Review of 12th August 1972, Ian Moffitt had this to say: 
It is a spangled world of sexy cars which crumple on impact, complex financing, supercharged advertising, gimmick trade-ins, earnest warranty and after-care assurances. And beneath it, more complaints to consumer protection bodies than from any other sector. 

 Mr Owen Webster of the 'Nation Review' of the week 12th-18th August had some terse comments to make about a GMH Torana which apparently he once owned. He said: 
Throughout my ownership, the horn never worked reliably. The door locks were always troublesome and both the original keys snapped  in  the locks. One day I found the exhaust manifold held in place by one bolt. I was often told the timing chain needed adjustment. Eventually the adjuster fell out. The car was off the road for 10 days awaiting parts worth $3.73. My local dealers telephoned 4 suppliers daily. 
It was to no avail. He then outlined the rigmarole that he went through. He stated: 
Knowing the ropes a bit (unlike the average hapless family Holden man) I telephoned  Mr Kevin  Cox, GMH public relations officer at Fishermen's Bend, and put the screws on. The following day, my dealer received timing chain adjusters from each of their 4 spares suppliers. 
At 27,000 miles, on a windy day, 3 of the roof trim stretchers snapped out of position wilh 3 loud bangs. They were never fixed. At 30,000 miles, the clutch went. The rest of the story until the blown piston is one of failure, of cheap shoddy fittings. 
I cannot say that it has been, but I bring this matter before the Senate because I believe it is a matter of some concern to many people. It appears to me that the finger can be pointed at manuacturers other than the Ford Co. To be competely fair to that company, let me say that it did, at a rather late stage admittedly, take back from the businessman whom I mentioned the car that the whole row started over. If my memory serves me correctly, the company had it for 2 or 3 weeks and returned it to him.  His  remarks to me, after having driven it 40 or 50 miles, were that it was a completely different car from the one that he owned originally. Also to the Company's credit is the fact that it has written to this gentleman and asked him for the names of those people who have complained. I have a copy of the letter. Paragraph 3 states: 
As advised in our letter of 27th July, and again during our discussion, we are anxious to have access to the names of all Cortina owners who responded to the advertisement inserted by  Mr  Lentin,  our objective being to attend to any conditions with these vehicles that are of a warrantable nature. 
I stress the word 'warrantable'. I believe that that word should be deleted from that letter. The Ford Motor Co, made a profit of SI 6m last year. If it cannot afford to take back all Cortinas unconditionally and bring them up to standards of safety and durability I think it should be turfed out of the country on its big fat ear. 
That remark brings me to the subject of the recall of motor cars in Australia. Ralph Nader, in his evidence before the House of Representatives Select Committee on Road Safety, said: 
First of all, it is my understanding that there is no recall or defect notification requirement in effect in this country. This leads me to suggest that the Committee might wish to put a question to the auto companies as to whether similar design vehicles have been recalled in the United States and have not been recalled in Australia. I realise that they make different models, but they also make different models having very similar design components. That would, I think, bring to light what was brought to light in Japan and England; that companies were recalling their cars in the United States and they were not recalling the same cars in Japan or England because there was no requirement of defect notification. 
On 7th July this year the Minister for Shipping and Transport  (Mr Nixon)  issued a statement concerning vehicle recall. It referred to a code that had been prepared by the Federal Chamber of Automotive Industries in consultation with officials of the various governments. Until late this afternoon the code referred to in the statement was for industry information only. Previously the Minister's secretary said that the document was currently at the printers. Late this afternoon I received a call from the Federal Chamber of Automotive Industries informing me that the document containing the code was now in its hands. I asked for a copy to be sent to me. As yet I have not received it. The thing that worries me is that the industry virtually will be judge and jury on the code and on the decisions that are made regarding recall of its products. Paragraph 5 of the Minister's news release of 7th July stated: 
Decisions on recall will be taken by manufacturers following information, including that from government authorities and drivers' motoring organisations. 
I am somewhat concerned about that statement. I do not think that if I, as a manufacturer, turn out a faulty product or a product that is unsafe at any speed - whatever the fault may be - I have the right to be judge and jury in any respect or part of the jury to decide how and when that article will be recalled. Having spent all my working life involved in a food industry, know that food is subject to departmental health inspections from the moment it leaves the farm or, in the case of dain farms, prior to leaving the farm. It is under the jurisdiction of governmental authorities until it is in. the hands of the consumers. Municipal inspectors have the right to take samples from cans on the shelves and to prosecute if any fault can be shown by tests. 
The motor car, in modern times anyhow, has been responsible for a great deal more death and injury than has the food industry. Yet the Government intends to allow this huge industry to be the arbiter as regards the recall of cars. I give one example of the situation in the food industry. Shark fishermen in Bass Strait were not consulted, let alone had a say. concerning the mercury content in fish. They were told: No more fish. I read in a Melbourne paper tonight that a fish shop proprietor is being prosecuted in relation to this matter. Yet we allow the car industry to get away with almost anything. Is it a case of the industry being so large that noone is prepared to bell the cat? Quite frankly, I think it is time someone did. I see no reason why government inspections should not take place on the production line. It seems a bit strange to me that companies which produce ships or aircraft have to put the relevant models through fairly strenuous tests before the products are allowed into the hands of the consumers. We do not adopt a similar approach with regard to motor cars. If a light aircraft were to crash anywhere in Australia tomorrow the Department of Civil Aviation would cordon off the area immediately and would go to no end of troubleto ascertain the cause of the crash. If 5 people were killed in a motor car crash - I think 5 were killed in one in northern Victoria over the weekend - there would be no such wide inquiry. Police investigation squads or accident appreciation squads, I understand, do some work. I do not know who sees the reports that they make.I am not sure that in all cases the vehicles are left until the police accident appreciation squad arrives. I think tow truck drivers might be first cab off the rank and so destroy a great deal of evidence. 
I think the complaints I mentioned earlier of brake and clutch failures indicate that vehicles rather than drivers could be responsible for more accidents than perhaps we currently credit to them. I think this matter is something at which the Road Safety Committee may well have a look. I think it is a matter at which the Minister for Shipping and Transport should have a look. I refer to the government inspection of motor vehicles on the production line and to the testing by an independent authority of motor cars before they are allowed in the hands of the ordinary citizen. As I mentioned earlier, there is a need for a totally independent body to have the say on whether a car should be recalled. I have already mentioned that I understand that this car was described in Great Britain as a 'paper' car. I am not particularly concerned whether it is Ford or any other motor vehicle manufacturer who turns out this type of vehicle. I am somewhat convinced, as a result of what 1 said earlier, that Ford is not alone in this field. But it is patently obvious to me that too many Australians are being 'taken for a ride' by the car industry. As far as the safety and durability of motor vehicles is concerned, I think that there is a great deal left to be done. 
-We on this side of the House are in no way opposed to this Bill and we hope to give it a very speedy passage through this chamber. The Bill provides the sum of $2m to the State of Victoria to carry out the reticulation, via pipes, of water in the north west area of the State of Victoria. This area is generally known as the Millewa. Until now the reticulation of water in that area, as in many other areas in that State, has been carried via open channels. I suppose, like everything else, the channels become dated and become history. I think that they were a great achievement by the men who made them; the engineers who designed them; and the surveyors who surveyed them. There is little doubt that in their own time the channels were something of a marvel for the amount of work and time that were expended by men and horses to construct them. But the channels have been a very wasteful way of distributing water. According to my figures only one gallon in 20 of the total water released from the Murray River reaches its ultimate destination under this scheme. 
The main deterrent to water flowing into such regions has been seepage and evaporation. Anyone living in a city or in a provincial town in this Commonwealth may look somewhat askance at the granting by the Government of a sum even as small as $2m to pipe water into an area known as the Mallee or the Millewa. But I can assure the Senate that to those people living in this area this grant will mean a great deal. Perhaps some of them for the first time in their lives will be able to use what we would call clean water for the purpose of washing clothes, bathing and showering instead of having to drag water from a dam. That water has always appeared to me to be muddy but the people who live in this area assure me that it is clean. 
I see some slight difference between the provisions of the Bill and its Schedule. Reference is made in the Schedule to the actual construction work that has been done or is to be done. To the best of my knowledge, at the present time all of this work has been completed. Paragraph 4 of the Schedule provides: 
The construction of  a  storage tank capable of storing approximately ISO acre feet of water, about  8  miles south-west of Werrimull. 
That work has been completed. The tank was filled but it leaked and, subsequently, had to be drained. The leak was found and patched up. So, perhaps we are voting money for work that has been done already. But I do not think that there is any disagreement on the need for this work. 
One other feature of this system of piping water is that it will mean a continuous supply of water to farms in the area where previously the dams on those farms under the open channel system were filled, I understand, once or at best twice a year. I suppose that, in effect, the people who live in this area will receive the benefits of this grant gratis, but each and every farm holder or householder in the area is responsible for the erection on his property of a 5,000 gallon storage tank as well as the necessary connections from the main to the tank. People in the area estimate that each and every land holder will pay approximately $3,000 for that work to be carried out. 
I note in the explanatory memorandum provided by the Minister for Civil Aviation  (Senator Cotton),  who represents here the Minister for National Development  (Sir Reginald Swartz),  that it is anticipated that an increase in stocking rates in this area could take place. An increase of up to 20 per cent in stock numbers is quoted. If this is feasible  -  I am not one who will say that this is not feasible; I suggest that it could be feasible  -  I believe that this increase of up to 20 per cent in stock numbers will be advantageous to those people who reside in the area. Particuarly would this have been so in recent years with such problems as wheat quotas and bad seasons for wheat growing. Any diversification that these people could make away from pure wheat to some form of animal production would be a welcome change, I am sure. 
I said earlier that the Opposition has no intention to debate this matter at length. Frankly, I believe that this is a move for the better. I only hope that Commonwealth grants will continue to be provided to Victoria for the reticulation of water to other areas of that State and to do away with the present open channel system. I might mention that the open channel system in what is termed the dry land farms of north-west Victoria has been responsible for a great deal of salination of land and pastures there. I understand that, in the Millewa district, this is not the case to any great extent. As I have already mentioned, water flows there for a few weeks of the year only. Salination is a problem in other areas. Seepage contributes greatly to the lifting of the watertable and consequently the salination and destruction of pastures together with the virtual destruction of the soil itself. I only hope that, in years to come, money will be expended in these other areas to try to eliminate the terrific waste of water that occurs currently because of the open channel system of reticulating water throughout those areas. 
Firstly, I make some claim to have been misrepresented. I defy either  Senator Webster  or  Senator Jessop  to find in the speech I made in the adjournment debate last night any attack whatsoever on the workers. 
Just be quiet for a moment and allow me to make my speech. 1 declined to infringe on the benefit that was the honourable senators; so just shut up for a moment, please. 
The ACTING  PRESIDENT-  Order! It is essential that all honourable senators have an opportunity to speak in silence. I ask you,  Senator Primmer,  not to i&gt;.*e the phrase 'shut up' in the Senate. 
Thank you,  Mr Acting President.  I was so disturbed about any repercussions that might flow from any speech I made on this matter in the Senate that I deemed it my duty before I spoke to make known to representatives of the Vehicle Builders Employees Federation of Australia in Victoria what I intended to say. I wondered why  Senator Webster  did not speak after me in the debate last night. Perhaps he did not have sufficient ammunition, or the type of ammunition that I had.  Senator Webster  appears to me to be typical of the smallminded  Country  Party representation that is exhibited throughout the Parliaments of this nation. If he wants to attack me personally away from this place he is quite at liberty to do so. But I will stand up to him man to man at any time or in any place. I made no attack whatsoever on craftsmen or technicians in the motor building industry. My attack was purely upon the assembly line - the system that evolves these types of cars. My attack was on the Ford company itself. 

 Senator Webster made his attack upon me when I was absent from this place. He made no effort to warn me that he was going to raise this matter, I understand from notes I received on what he said that he made some reference to the company that had carried out investigations into this matter. He suggested that the company had a great deal to do with the investigation of divorces. I happen to have the business card of the company concerned and I notice that amongst the work it does is commercial and industrial investigation and insurance and workers compensation investigation. I understand that it acts in a certain capacity for a semi-government department in Victoria. So, irrespective of what one might like to think about its activities in the field of divorce investigations, it is quite a reputable firm. 
A great deal of stress seemed to have been laid by both honourable senators from the other side of the chamber who spoke on this matter on the type of vehicle that 1 drive. I do not know what that has to do with it. I do not think it matters whether I drive a draught horse or a Rolls Royce. I came into the Senate last night to do what I believe was the right thing by some of my constituents in Victoria. Whether I drive a Mercedes or whatever it might be is totally irrelevant to this argument. If sufficient people came to me with complaints about the Mercedes Benz I would be just as capable of and just as vocal in this chamber at tipping the can on that company as I have done to other companies within the last 24 hours. Just let me say that currently I am on speaking terms with the General Manager of Ford who rang me today. 
I am, as a matter of fact. 
No. I find it very hard to understand the reasons behind the attack made upon me. I believe that it almost reached the level of a personal attack. In my short time in this Senate I do not think anyone can point the finger at me and say that I have made personal attacks on anyone on the other side of the chamber. In my 15 years of municipal experience this was something upon which I frowned very seriously. I am quite pre pared to talk with any person at any time, but I draw the line when personal vindictiveness is introduced. However, if that is the way honourable senators opposite like to have it I believe that they not only demean themselves but they demean the status of this chamber. 
I think that I have said all I want to say on motor cars. We will see how this matter develops. I am only sorry at this point of time that I have not been contacted by the Minister for Shipping and Transport  (Mr Nixon).  He was the one person from whom I expected to have a telephone call today. I have received several calls from the news media and from people from both sides of this chamber who have complimented me for what I had to say last night. Furthermore, people have come to me with further complaints about motor cars. This has totally convinced me that what I said last night was very close to the mark. 
My question is addressed to the Minister representing the Minister for Shipping and Transport. Is it not a fact that a statement made yesterday by the Commissioner for Consumer Affairs in New South Wales,  Mr Gallagher,  to the effect that complaints of faulty workmanship in new cars had risen by 86.3 per cent since last July, confirmed statements I made on Tuesday night during the debate on the motion for the adjournment? 
Will the Minister representing for the Interior disclose whether, in the House of Representatives election of 1969 and the Senate election of 1970 there were any known breaches of section 147 and the associated schedules of the Commonwealth Electoral Act which require the furnishing of statutory returns of electoral expenses with respect to the following: disclosure of excess expenditure above the figure prescribed by law; detecting of understatement of moneys expended by candidates, parties or organisations in the interests of candidates; failure to submit returns as required by law? Will the Minister make available a schedule of returns submitted in relation to the aforementioned elections, giving details of the contents of returns submitted by all candidates; by parties or organisations which have expended money in the interests of candidates within the definition of 147 of the Act; and by newspapers? In the event of lodgment of substantiated complaints by interested persons alleging breaches of the Commonwealth Electoral Act, will the Minister advise the Attorney-General to authorise the appropriate prosecution as prescribed by the Act? 
-I rise purely and simply to set the Hansard record straight. On the motion for the adjournment of the Senate last Wednesday night  Senator Webster  said: 
Information has been provided to me to show that the person who made the original complaint about the Ford Cortina and the Ford Motor Co. - I know the name of the individual - is at present in the process of buying a Ford Falcon. This shows the hollowness of the argument of a man who complains about a manufacturer. The individual by whom this matter was raised really has no argument with the company and is anxious to have another vehicle manufactured by the same company. 
I do not think anything I said showed that this gentleman had any particular argument with the Ford Motor Co. of Aus tralia Ltd, other than about a certain vehicle which had been produced by that company. In order to set the record straight, the facts of the matter are that an agreement to lease an XA Falcon, to be used by the company for which this man works, is currently being drawn up. 
-I cannot pull the name off the top of my head. This agreement is to be signed within the next day or two by a person representing the company which is doing the leasing. The gentleman to whom 1 referred in the adjournment debate last Tuesday night as having raised this matter is not a director of the company doing the leasing. 

 - His name is  Mr Plane.  He has sold the car, about which he has complained so bitterly, back to the company from which he bought it. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry. Has the Development Division of the Australian Wool Board produced an unpublished report which argues in favour of revaluation? If so. does the report have the blessing of the  Chairman  of the Wool Board,  Sir William  Gunn? Why has the Wool Board declined to make this report public? Did  Sir William  Gunn, as a member of the Board of the Reserve Bank of Australia, sign the Reserve Bank's report which advocated revaluation? Have all the economists employed by the Wool Board resigned? If so for what reasons? 
I direct a question to the Minister representing the Minister for Repatriation. Is he aware of the comment reported yesterday by the National Secretary of the Returned Services League,  Mr A.  G. Keys, that the League would be violently opposed to any proposal like that put forward by  Dr Robert  Hecker in relation to the repatriation system? Without entering into the controversy aroused by 

 Dr Hecker's comments, would the Government state that, as it opposes violence, it would be opposed to the RSL's expressing or carrying out violent opposition to any proposal? 
My question is addressed to the Minister representing the Postmaster-General. Will the Minister endeavour to obtain from the Australian Broadcasting Commission its reasons for dropping the very successful Australian produced children's programme 'Adventure Island'? 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Defence. Is it a fact that the Department of Supply is carrying out research on fragmentation bombs and similar devices designed to cause death and injury to persons rather than damage to real estate and machines? Are these bombs similar in type to those used by the United States forces in Vietnam against civilian populations? 
 Mr President,  I seek your guidance as to the Minister to which I should direct the following question: Has the Minister seen the photograph on page 18 of today's 'Canberra Times' depicting fashion models? If so, has he noticed that one model is carrying what appears to be a revolver? Will the Minister draw to the attention of those responsible for this photograph that clothes and not guns maketh the man? 
 I direct a question to the Minister representing the Minister for Shipping and Transport. Is it a fact that the Omega base causes radio and telephone interference up to 20 miles from its centre? Does the Royal Australian Navy propose to install Omega receiving sets in any of its vessels? If so, what is the cost of any such set? Can low frequency transmissions from Omega penetrate sea-water to a depth of 40 to 50 feet and communicate with submarines at that depth? ls the main control centre for the Omega system based at Hawaii? Can this centre alter the phase shifts and inject code into the system without the host countries being aware of the same? Has the Japanese Government the right to close down its Omega base in Japan at any time? Why did New Zealand decline to allow an Omega base in that country? Is there a blanket transmission area of 600 miles around each Omega station? Has the United States Navy been the main body concerned . with Omega development? 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for the Interior. Will the Minister follow the lead of the New South Wales Government and legislate to require second hand car dealers to label accurately every vehicle that they offer for sale, with details of its history? For the further protection of second hand car buyers in Commonwealth Territories, will he also require that dealers provide a warranty on vehicles sold, the period of the warranty to be related to the price? 
 My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry. Is it a fact that the present escalating prices being received for wool are conditioned hy a shortage of wool in world pipelines, a swing away from synthetics to some extent and back to wool, manipulators and futures marketeers on the world wool buying scene and the impending Federal election? Is it a fact that a statutory marketing authority for wool would tend to iron out the severe peaks and troughs in wool prices which have been part of the wool industry's tradition? 
I direct a question to the Minister representing the Min ster for Primary Industry. After the successful sale of wheat to China, what amount of wheat will the Australian Wheat Board have left to sell to other markets? Is there a need to fear that because of quota restrictions on production and adverse seasons Australia will not have sufficient wheat in store to allow sales of any consequence over the next 12 months? Since the Australian Wheat Board clinched the deal with China have any other potential sales of wheat been declined? 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry, upon notice: 
Will the Commonwealth Government give some consideration to the provision of compensation to those Victorian fishermen whose income will now be cut to nil, because of the ban on the sale of flake due to mercury content. 
Will the Commonwealth, in conjunction with the State of Victoria, evolve some reconstruction programme for these people similar to that which applies to some other primary industries. 

 Senator DRAKE-BROCKMAN- The Minister for Primary Industry has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
I am aware that the Victorian Government is considering the application of a ban on the marketing of school shark over a certain length because of the likelihood of mercury above the maximum permissible level being present in the flesh of large school sharks. To my knowledge the ban has not yet been applied. Rather than consider forms of compensation for the particular fishermen involved,I consider that it would be more appropriate to assist them to enter new fisheries. 
Officers of my Department have already held consultations with the fisheries authorities and fishermen in Victoria and Tasmania to prepare proposals for the development of alternative fisheries. This matter has also been raised with the South Australian Government. The Commonwealth will co-operate with the Slates in implementing any such proposals which are most likely to assist these fishermen. 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry. In view of a large amount of the current Australian wool clip being exported at prices beyond the capacity of the local textile industry and the consequent concern of that industry, does the Government contemplate introducing some scheme to bring price stability to the wool market and so help the Australian textile industry to gain a fair share of the wool clip? 
1 rise to support the legislation introduced by the Government. I oppose the amendment moved by  Senator Byrne,  which asks that estate duty be totally abolished. We on this side of the Senate cannot go along with that proposition. The reason why we support the Bills before the Senate is that we have seen and know of the problems that beset people operating smaller and medium sized businesses in our community, be those businesses engaged in rural or secondary industry or any other type of industry, when they come up against the problem of estate duty. This duty is a tragedy in cases where a breadwinner is suddenly taken away from his family. Particularly is this so in the case of the widow with a young family who, virtually before she has been able to bury her breadwinner, is beset with the problem of finding finance to pay probate duty and, at the same time, to go ahead with earning revenue to feed and clothe her family. From my own personal experience this is nothing more than a tragedy. 
Strangely enough, the percentage of taxation revenue that is collected by the Commonwealth in estate duty has declined  over  the years. In 1961-62 the percentage  of  the total revenue collected by the Taxation Office through estate duty was 1.6 per cent. It rose to 1.7  in  the years 1962-64. Since then, with slight fluctuations, it has decreased. In 1971-72 this duty amounted to only 1.1 per cent of the total tax revenue collected. It is becoming a declining factor. If we look at the statistics in respect  of  taxation for 1970-71 we  see  the tragedy of this duty. Under the heading Grade of Net Value of Estate' we find that people in the $20,000 to $29,999 bracket number 25.1 per cent of the total number of people who are paying estate duty at the present time. It seems to  me  that any person today who, on death, has assets worth $20,000 is nothing more than a person who has worked relatively hard and has been somewhat circumspect with his funds over his lifetime - long or short as  it  may have been. He has been able to build a comfortable triple fronted brick  veneer  home and have a motor car, a gold watch and perhaps a boat of some description used for leisure on Saturday or Sunday afternoons. That fits thousands of Australians. In my opinion, those people cannot  be  considered to be wealthy or affluent. One might  say  that they are comfortably off- 
The tragedy about  the  imposition of probate duties  in  that bracket  is that  they fall also very heavily on the small farmers  and  small businessmen  in our  community. In  the  majority of farming categories  in  Australia today one would  be  a poor farmer  if one,  on death, had assets worth between $20,000  and  $29,000. In fact, in most of  our  rural industries anybody  who  had only that amount of assets on which probate duty had to be paid would virtually be able to apply for rural relief. The situation in the dairy industry as I know it today, is that any farmer who, on death, did not have assets worth $60,000 to $80,000 would be virtually on the way out, and I think that would apply throughout many of our other primary industries. For example, in the State of Victoria today any person who is not milking more than 60 cows is in trouble, and 60 cows at $150 a head represents a magnificent sum of $9,000. So a widow would only have to find herself stuck with another $11,000  -  and that could be covered quite easily in the value of the land, house and all the other equipment that is necessary for carrying on that operation - to be liable for one of the smaller assessments that are made. 
Whilst we support the Bill, and we do so for the reasons I have stated, it will not greatly alleviate the situation. I am not quite sure of the situation in the other States, but in Victoria the. State Government still imposes a rather stiff tax. I have here some examples that were taken out at my request by a friend of mine. They give some idea of the ratio between the State probate duty that is struck on estates, both rural and non-rural, in the State of Victoria and Federal estate duty. On a nonrural estate of $33,485  -  the beneficiaries in this instance were a child over 21 years of age who received $1,000, and the husband who received the residue - the State probate duty was $2,167 and the Federal estate duty was $430. In other words, there was a ratio of $5 to $1 between State probate duty and Federal estate duty. 
In the second example, which again is of a non-rural estate, a gentleman passed on and left an estate dutiable at $28,171 to his widow. The State probate duty was $1,513 and the Federal duty was $255, or a ratio of $6 to$1 . I come to an example involving an estate valued at $62,254 which was left to a man after his wife had passed on. He was obliged to pay $4,729 in State probate duty in Victoria, whereas only $1,675 was payable in Federal estate duty. There was a ratio of $3 to $1 between the State probate duty and the Federal duty. There are many other examples of that type of thing. They run from a ratio of $9. to $1 between State probate duty and Federal estate duty down to the ratio I quoted of $3 to$1. 
Desirable and all as it is for the Commonwealth to get out of this area of estate duty, there is still a great deal to be done before some of the hardships and tragic problems that are involved are liquidated altogether from our society. But again I must reiterate that we on this side of the chamber cannot support the amendment which has been moved by the Democratic Labor Party. We believe it is highly desirable and fair that estate duty should be payable on any estate which is very large by our standards. Of course, whilst saying that we also realise that the people in the higher bracket normally make provision during their lifetime to opt out of estate duty. One of the tragedies about this problem - and I am sure that all honourable senators are aware of it - is that one can take out assurance on one's life to the value of $1,200 per annum tax deductable to cover probate duty. This is all very well if one is fit and well when one goes along to the doctor to have a check-up. But for a small or middle sized farmer or businessman who desires to take out assurance against probate duty, it is just too bad if he happens to have a bad heart or something like that; he just cannot get cover. Consequently, should one die one's widow and children are liable to pay this duty. 
I have before me a document which was prepared by the Legislative Research Service of the Parliamentary Library, setting out the details of the rates of Victorian estate duty and the exemption values. I ask for leave to incorporate this document in Hansard. 
The  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Prowse)  -Is leave granted? There being no objection, leave is granted. (The document read as follows) - 
ESTATE DUTIES 
Request: Details of exempt values and rates of Victorian estate duty. 
<para class="block" pgwide="yes">Answer: The proportion of the estate exempt from duty and the rates of duty payable vary according to the blood relationship between the beneficiary and the deceased. 
There are three levels of exemption, as follows: 
$12,000 for an estate passing entirely to either a widow, widower, children, under. 21, wholly de pendent children over 21, or to wholly dependent widowed mother of deceased. 
$10,000 for an estate passing wholly to children over 21 or grandchildren. 
$1,200 for an estate passing wholly to brothers, sisters, parents or others. 
<para pgwide="yes">There are separate rates of duty for categories (i) and (ii) above and rates also vary as between estates passing to brothers, sisters and parents, and those passing to others. The rates of duty are lowest in the case of category (i) and highest in the case of estates passing to 'others'. 
<para pgwide="yes">The rates of duty for estates passing entirely to either a widow, widower, children under 21. wholly dependent children over 21 or to a wholly dependent widowed mother of deceased, are as follows: 

<graphic href="054232197210111_67_0.jpg"></graphic>

I do not want to speak to this Bill for too long. When one does not oppose a Bill it is difficult to talk about it for a long time. But I want to say that on 23rd June this year the Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Sinclair)  issued a Press statement in regard to which I would like to take him and the Government to task. In that statement he claimed that the 
Government was committed to the deletion of probate duties but that the Labor Party was not so committed. He said: 
As well, it is also committed- 
He was referring to the Labor Party- 
. to the extension of death duties at a time while the Federal Country Parly is working to have death duties progressively lifted. 
Let us have a look at the facts about this matter. In 1970 when the Estate Duty 
Assessment Bill was being debated in the House of Representatives, a member of the Opposition, the honourable member for Melbourne Ports  (Mr Crean),  who opened the debate on behalf of the Opposition, moved the following amendment: 
That all words after 'That' be  omitted  with a view to inserting the following words in place thereof:  realising that some estate planning may already have been effected following the promise of this legislation on 24th September 1969, the passage of this limited Bill which offers some measure of relief from death duties in the rural sector is not opposed, but the House is of opinion that it is inadequate, as it fails to recognise - 
the extension of liability for and the burden of Federal and State death duties resulting from the pressure of inflation, 
the particularly critical situation of - 
the relatively small farm in the rural sector, and 
the small business unit in the industrial and commercial sectors, where in both cases a large part of the estate is in a non-liquid form, the dismemberment of which to meet the tax liability destroys the basis of efficient operation, and 
that difficulties are aggravated by the joint operations in this field of the Commonwealth and the States. 
The House considers that these matters should be fully examined with a view to early relief being afforded by  further  amendments of the Act'. 
It is interesting to note that on that occasion, on 21st April 1970, the Government defeated the Labor Party amendment by 61 votes to 52. Therefore it is a blatant misrepresentation on the part of the Minister for Primary Industry to issue a Press statement claiming that the Labor Party is working towards a heavier implementation of death duties. 
Let me say, as an aside, that at least on this occasion the Minister did not use departmental letterheads on which to s!ate the Labor Party. I give him full credit for that, but it has not always been the case. Perhaps this is not the place to mention this, but 1 have a whole sheaf of departmental letterheads bearing news releases issued over recent months by Ministers in this Parliament. It has become so obvious that constituents are writing to me and asking me to take up the matter of Ministers using departmental letterheads on which to issue statements for no other purpose than to slate the Labor Party. 1 do not know the rules on this matter; I have not been here long enough. However, it seems to me to be hitting somewhat below the belt. I believe that it is a misuse of public funds for any party in power to slate the Opposition by issuing statements on departmental letterheads. If Ministers want to slate the Opposition,  Mr Deputy President,  they should use plain paper in the same way as you and I and other senators on this side of the chamber have to do. 
That is about all I want to say about these Bills. We welcome the increase in the exemptions for probate duty purposes. We on this side of the chamber realise that, particularly in the rural sector because of the increase in the values of land and other assets that primary producers must own in order to operate, probate is now bearing down heavily on people with middle and small sized farms. I can cite personal examples of land in my own area which has increased in value by 700 per cent in the last 20 years. I have had some personal experience of this. It is a result of the attitude of the present Government and its laissez-faire approach to the economy of this country. It has allowed things to run haywire regardless. The Government is to blame for this current problem which in particular, speaking from the rural point of view, is besetting farmers with small or medium sized properties, or their widows and children. I have said already that it is a tragedy to be involved with an estate and to see the trials and tribulations of a young widow with a young family who is trying to overcome the burden of probate duty after her breadwinner passes on. I hope the day is not far distant when the States also will have another look at this question of probate duty and do what the Commonwealth Government proposes to do in these Bills. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Shipping and Transport, upon notice: 
Is it a fact that an Omega station causes radio and telephone interference up to 20 miles from its centre. 
Does the Royal Australian Navy propose to install Omega receiving sets in any of its vessels; if so, what will be the cost of the sets. 
Can low-frequency transmissions from an Omega station penetrate sea water to a depth of between 40 and50 feet and thus permit communication with submarines at those depths. 
Is the main control centre for the Omega system at Hawaii, United States of America. 
Can the centre at Hawaii alter the phase shifts and inject codes into the system without host countries being aware. 
Has the Japanese Government the right to close down an Omega station located in Japan whenever it chooses. 
Why did the Government of New Zealand decline to allow an Omega station to be established in that country. 
Is there a blank transmission area of 600 miles surounding each Omega station. 
Has the United States Navy been the main body concerned with Omega's development. 

 Senator COTTON- The Minister for Shipping and Transport has provided the following answer to the honourable senators' question: 
Not generally. However interference is possible into wire small 'capacity' carrier telephone systems of a type which is used in some rural areas. The Agreement currently being negotiated with the U.S. will recognise this form of interference and make adequate provision to overcome it. 
Yes. The actual cost of sets will not be known until tenders have been called. 
Yes. However the purpose of the system is not communications but purely a navigational aid to ships on the high seas and there will be no ability in the Australian station for mobile communications. 
The Omega system has no centralised control, but all transmitters operate independently. Transmitters need to be synchronised and synchronisation is achieved by local adjustments at each station. The Hawaiian station has a role in these adjustments only inasmuch as it coordinates the measurements of all the stations in the system. 
No. 
The Government is not aware of such a provision having been included in the U.S.Japanese Agreement. 
The Government of New Zealand to our knowledge, was not formally approached by the U.S. although preliminary investigations were carried out in both New Zealand and Australia. 
The signal within 600 miles of the Omega station is usable but accuracy within that range is expected to be poorer than in areas at greater ranges. 
Yes. 
My question is directed to the Attorney-General. Firstly, why arc people secretly photographed when attending peaceful demonstrations and meetings to dissent from Government policy? Secondly, by whom are they photographed? Thirdly, what use is made of the photographs? Fourthly, is it the policy of the Commonwealth police to take photographs of people both before and after their formal arrest? Fifthly, what redress, if any, is available to a person by way of return of the photographic material when the court has found him not guilty of the chargelaid? Sixthly, if any redress is available, will the Attorney-General take steps to order the return of such material in the case of a person whose name I can give him and who wasfound not guilty of charges laid? 
I wish to raise a matter that has been of some concern to me all day and for the last few days. I refer to the arrest and subsequent gaoling today of  Mrs Jean  McLean, Secretary of the Save Our Sons Movement in Victoria. I understand that  Mrs McLean  was arrested by the police at her home at about 2 o'clock this afternoon for refusing to pay a fine imposed on her some time ago for handing out pamphlets in defiance of the National Service Act. 
I heard  Senator Webster  saying 'Hear, hear'. God bless him! In my opinion there is no law under which it is justifiable to gaol a person of the moral character and fibre of  Mrs McLean.  In addition to the work that  Mrs McLean  has done over the years to make young men of this nation aware of their rights under the National Service Act, quite recently she was responsible for the release of a statement calling for an end to the blatant bombing of women and children in North Vietnam. This statement was signed by prominent Australians, including the Reverend Professor R. Anderson,  Dr Max  Charlesworth of the Melbourne University, the  Hon.  Don Dunstan, Premier of South Australia, and  Mr Clive  Holding, M.L.A., Leader of the Opposition in Victoria. Throughout Australia thousands of people such as  Mrs McLean  have been the moral conscience of this nation during the whole of the tragic and continuing episode of Vietnam and Indo-China generally.  Her  action in releasing this statement within the last few days was highlighted by a statement released by  Senator Edward  Kennedy on 9th October this year when he said, as a result of testimony given by Major-General John Pauly, Vice-Director for Operations of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, at a hearing by the United States Senate Sub-Committee on Refugees: 
It is apparent that at the highest levels of our Government - where the decisions for the massive bombing and shelling of North Vietnam are made - there is no regular procedure for observing and monitoring the damage being done to civilian populated areas. 
Interestingly enough, in the 'Age' of the same day a French correspondent, writing from North Vietnam, pointed out that in one province of North Vietnam alone the number of air strikes had reached a point where there was one air strike for every 85 people in the community. The same situation applies in the Central Intelligence Agency war in Thailand where the Plain of Jars, in the vernacular of ex-President Johnson of the United States, has been bombed back into the stone age. It is little wonder that people such as  Mrs McLean 
Stand up in moral indignation in Australia and still are prepared to defy the National Service Act and the Government because of its attitude on Vietnam. As I have said already, in her part of Victoria  Mrs McLean  has been one of the few people responsible for drawing to the attention of the Australian people the horrors and futility of the Vietnam war. Quite frankly I believe that her action and similar action by other people has caused the Government to reconsider its Vietnam commitment and, consequently, possibly has saved at least 500 young Australian lives in that conflict. To incarcerate a young mother of 2 for her continuing interest and action on behalf of the anti-war movement is an affront not only to myself but also to thousands of others throughout Australia. Therefor I call upon the Attorney-General  (Senator Greenwood)  to take the action necessary for her immediate release. 
Has the Minister for Health seen a Press report today about research carried out by a Tasmanian research team into the part played by cholesterol in heart disease? Is he aware that, according to this report, the research team believes that another fat which it has isolated - not cholesterol - is responsible for heart disease? Will the Minister endeavour to obtain the results of this study for any honourable senator who is interested in this matter? 

 Senator Sir KENNETH ANDERSONI have not seen the Press article, but I heard reference to this matter on the 6 o'clock news on radio this morning when I was getting ready to come to this place. I made a mental note that as soon as I got time I would find out what it is all about; I would ask my Department to give me a briefing on it. I have not done that yet, but I certainly will be doing it before the end of the day, and as soon as I obtain any information it will be made available to the honourable senators and to the Senate. 
asked the Minister  representing the Minister for Supply, upon notice: 
Is the Department of Supply carrying out research into the manufacture of fragmentation bombs and similar devices designed to cause death and injury to persons. rather than  to  property and machinery;  if  so, are the bombs similar in type to those used by the military forcesofthe United States of America in Vietnam. 

 Senator DRAKE-BROCKMAN- The Minister for Supply has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
No. As indicated inthe 1972 Defence Report the Karinga air-dropped weapon is being developed for use against material targets  and  is not designed to be used against personnel, while  the  research work on fragmenting warheads is applicable to warheads for existing weapons. 
asked the Minister for Health, upon notice: 
Did a report, contained in The Financial Review of 19th October 1972, state that a Tasmanian research team believes that, as a result of its studies, another fat which they had isolated, and not cholesterol, was responsible for heart disease. 
Will the Minister obtain the results of the study and make it available to interested Senators. 

 Senator Sir KENNETH ANDERSONThe answer to the honourable senator's question is as follows: 
and (2) As far as I have been able to ascertain, the results of the research on heart disease carried out by Professor Polya and  Dr Parsons  of the University of Tasmania, interesting as they are, would still seem to make it unwise, at 'this time, to disclaim the significance of any association between high levels of blood cholesterol, and coronary heart disease. 
As I understand it, the Tasmanian workers have identified a certain type of fat-like substance known as ceramide which is produced in the body at times of stress, and through its effect on the blood is said to increase the chance of a sudden, severe heart attack. In such patients a high blood cholesterol level is not considered by these workers to be disadvantageous. 
On the other hand, the majority of cases of coronary heart disease are less severe in nature, and it would seem that, in these, associations with high levels of blood cholesterol could, with justification, be viewed with concern. 
I am advised that it is not possible at this time to rule out cholesterol as a factor in coronary heart disease. This view is supported by the National Heart foundation. I am further advised that research over many years has demonstrated that high blood cholesterol levels are strongly associated with coronary heart disease, although I concede that association, in itself, is not evidence of a causal relationship. 
I consider this early report to be of considerable interest to the medical profession. I look forward to receiving details of the Tasmanian study and would be pleased to make these available to interested senators. 
I rise to support the amendment moved by my colleague  Senator Wilkinson.  I do so because I believe it is an attempt by the Opposition to place some teeth in the paper tiger that the Government has drawn up. When I say 'paper tiger' I quite frankly think that that is about all it is. It is a continuation of the series of so many reports and Bills that this Government has brought down over the years that have meant nothing but starvation and degradation for the wool industry. A few moments ago  Senator Little  made some remarks about the 6 months being too short for the Corporation to have a look at the feasibility of a statutory marketing authority to acquire and market the Australian wool clip. He seems to doubt whether it would have time. I suggest that all the Corporation would have to do is look at the plan that was drawn up by the New Zealand Wool Board's marketing body. To me, the details of that scheme would be admirably suited to the type of scheme that any organisation in Australia would draw up. Unfortunately, under pressure the New Zealand Government, like (he Australian Government, has backed off from that proposal for the. time being. Quite frankly, I see the Bill as an attempt, as I have said already, to procrastinate and delay. I see it also as a two bob each way job. As  Senator Wilkinson  has mentioned, already we have the Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Sinclair)  spelling out all sorts of things that have not even happened. He believes that the report not yet commenced by the proposed Corporation would recommend overwhelmingly the acquisition of the Australian wool clip. I do not know whether this is wishful thinking or whether it is Country Party electioneering, but it is obvious that this is what the Country Party intends to do. I believe that on the other hand the Liberal Party will be able, to go out and say to its supporters: 'You know, that is not really what we mean, anyhow'. In actual fact, I am told that  Mr Renshaw,  a member of the Australian Wool and Meat Producers Federation, is currently touring the State, of New South Wales, telling people somewhat confidentially that the Government proposes to set up this Corporation and appoint the directors to it for terms of between 3 and 5 years in order to tie the hands of a potential Labor government after 2nd December. 
That information has been relayed to me, and I have no reason to disbelieve it. 
-Senator Webster can say what he likes, but I will tell him that if I were standing for the Country Party in any of the seats which the Country Party currently holds in Victoria, I would be home doing my homework. I regret that 
I was noi present during the second reading debate on this Bil] because I wanted to speak at length on it, but 1 would like the Minister to give the Committee an assurance, if he can, that prior to the forthcoming election the Government will not just go ahead and appoint the commissioners or the other people at the top of this Corporation and so tie the hands of a future government after 2nd December. I ask the Minister whether he is prepared to do that. 
-I again ask the Minister for Air  (Senator Drake-Brockman)  - as far as I am aware he has not answered the question, which I asked last night - whether he will give an assurance that the Government will not act in haste and appoint the heads of the proposed Australian Wool Corporation prior to the Federal election on 2nd December. Would the Minister be prepared to answer that question? 
Question put: 
That the words proposed to be Inserted  (Senator Wilkinson's amendment)  be inserted. 
I wish to say a few words on the Bill in Committee to raise one matter only. As has been said already, we on this side of the chamber have no intention to oppose this Bill. I notice that under the subsidy that has been devised over the years the amount of nitrogenous fertiliser in Australia has increased in tons of elemental nitrogen from 121,000 tons to 138,000 tons. Those of us who have been engaged in primary industry and who have had the need or desire to use nitrogenous fertilisers realise the huge benefits that accrue. It requires a certain amount of fairly reasonable land husbandry in that it can be very wasteful fertiliser unless it is applied in exactly the right amounts at exactly the right times and in exactly the right conditions. On one or two occasions 1 have been caught by applying nitrogenous fertiliser and then waiting for rain that did not come. As a consequence of this - 
I rise to second the amendment moved by  Senator Wilkinson.  In supporting it I wish to say that from the Australian Labor Party's point of view, as 1 said last night, any teeth that can be put into this Bill can only be of benefit to the wool industry. I believe that this is an attempt to put some teeth into it. In debates over the last 12 or 15 months and in questions I have suggested that the price of wool tends to peak just prior to a federal election. Anyone who goes back and searches through the Hansard record will find that the Minister for Air  (Senator Drake-Brockman),  who represents in this chamber the Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Sinclair),  has tended to disagree with my suggestion. With that in mind I had a table prepared on this subject by the Legislative Reference Service of the Commonwealth Parliamentary Library. The purpose of the exercise was to prove or disprove my theory that wool prices tended to peak just  prior  to a federal election. 
I have in front of me a table which combines an index of wool prices since 1951. with the corresponding dates of Australian federal elections. The index was calculated for each Sydney auction series, using 33 wool types which are a representative cross-section of the Australian clip as a whole. Clean on-the-floor prices were computed for each of these types from the completed catalogue details. The average is related to the corresponding average figure for the 1946-47 season as the base. The source of the information is given as 'Australian wool sales statistics: analysis of Australian wool sold at auction in Australia in 1970-71'. I am not sure whether printing facilities would enable the graph which was prepared to be incorporated in the Hansard record. If they would, I shall seek permission to have the graph incorporated in Hansard. The graph shows that, with the exception of the House of Representatives election in 1969, the price of wool comparatively speaking either peaked just prior to an election or was on the way up at the time of an election.  Mr Chair  man, if it is possible to do so, I seek permission to incorporate the graph in Hansard. 
Yes. 
^1 support the amendment moved by  Senator O'Byrne.  Even though the Opposition is supporting the Bill it is not in any way in total agreement with it. It appears to me that this Government over recent years has developed a mania and an addiction for quotas and production restraints in every field of primary industry.  Senator Little  mentioned what happened in the dairying industry  2i  years ago when the Government called for a 3.5 per cent cut in production. Six months later the industry was looking for every gallon of milk it could get. Today as a result of Government policies we are importing cheese from New Zealand. I understand that the dairying industries of other countries which followed Australia's pattern at that time - South Africa is one of them - are in a rather difficult position today because they declined to store commodities at a time when they were plentiful against the day when they would not be plentiful. It seems to me that this Government has never learnt the old farming adage that every good farmer in times of plenty stores against that inevitable year which he knows is around the corner when there will be a short fall. This Government has not learnt this technique in relation to our primary industries. 

 Senator Little went on to point out that he believed there were markets for some of our commodities in Asia. I remind him that one of the reasons we are not selling some of our primary products, including fruit, in some parts of Asia is the attitude of the Democratic Labor Party to the cold war, American policy, the 'all the way with LBJ' policy, and its backing to the hilt of this Government's policy on Vietnam. To the best of my knowledge, unless the situation has changed in recent months, there is not one trade commissioner from Australia in the whole of the socialist bloc of countries. There was a trade commission in Australia from the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics some few weeks ago and the suggestion was made in one newspaper at the time that it may well be that the people of eastern Russia will be looking to Australian commodities such as canned and other fruit to be imported into Russia via Vladivostock. Why the Government should be pulling fruit trees before this market is fully explored I am at a loss to know. The fact is that Vladivostock is as close to Sydney as it is to Moscow and it appears to me that shipping charges from Sydney to Vladivostock would probably be much cheaper than the train freight charges from western Russia to that area. So it would seem that Australian industry, whether it be the fruit industry or any other, should gain a freight advantage. If there are markets there we should capitalise on them. 
This plan to compensate fruit growers for pulling trees is like so many other plans that this Government has come up with to reconstruct primary industries in recent years. With the application of the means test which inevitably is included in the back of the Bill, the whole scheme virtually boils down to nothing. One has to be broke with the backside out of one's trousers and with shoes that badly need heeling and soling before one can meet the necessary financial requirements to obtain anything under the scheme. Let us look at what will happen even if one does get it. What will this compensation be worth? By the time one put a bulldozer in to clear the trees - I suppose if one could get any sort of bulldozer for less than $20 an hour one would not be doing too badly - and by the time one cleared the trees and burnt them or carted them off the property and recultivated the land, what would be left of the compensation? Furthermore, what does one do having done that? What does a fruit grower who has some, small acreage of land - small compared with the size of other holdings - do with his land? He cannot go into dairying or put sheep or cattle on it, so where does he turn? I do not know what the answer is. 
There are 2 conflicting opinions about tree pull applications lodged so far. One newspaper report says that 2 Victorian fruit growers have accepted offers of loans while another newspaper says that only one has done so. So there is a 100 per cent discrepancy there. This would appear to be one of the reasons why fruit growers are not accepting this plan. They are not accepting it, firstly, because of the paucity of the plan and its inherent restrictions and, secondly, because they are saying to themselves: 'What the hell will I do with my land if 1 pull my trees'. This is a halfhearted measure. It is another measure which has been pushed through this House late in the session because the Government is hoping to attract some votes in hard-hit areas throughout the Commonwealth. I hope that there will be elected a Labor government which will put trade commissioners into those parts of the world where 1 am sure there are markets and so bring our fruit industry and our other primary industries back into the stable condition they once were in. 
asked the AttorneyGeneral, upon notice: 
Why are persons who dissent from the Government's policies secretly photographed when attending peaceful demonstrations and meetings. 
Who takes the photographs. 
What use is made of the photographs. 
Does the Commonwealth Police Force take photographs of people before and after their formal arrest. 
What redress is available to a person, by way of the return of all photographic material involved, when that person has been found cot guilty of a charge by a court. 
Will the Attorney-General take steps to order the return of photographic material used in the case of a person who was found not guilty of charges laid against him and whose name can be provided by  Senator Primmer. 

 Senator GREENWOOD- The answer to the honourable senator's question is as follows: (1)I am not aware that persons have been secretly photographed in the circumstances specified in the question. It is the practice of the Commonwealth Police, in cases where it is practicable to do so to take photographs of scenes at demonstrations involving breaches of Commonwealth law, for possible use as evidence in subsequent proceedings. This activity is carried on openly, without any attempt at concealment. 
See answer to (1). 
See answer to (1). 
Where a person is charged by the Commonwealth Police with an offence against Commonwealth law, the person is photographed in accordance with the law of the State or Territory concerned, for identification purposes. 
Where a request is made to. the Commis sioner, Commonwealth Police Force, the Commissioner may, in. his discretion, hand over the photographs and negatives to a person who has been photographed in connexion with a charge on which he has been found not guilty. 
Consideration will be given to the case mentioned in the question if details are supplied to me by the honourable senator. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry, upon notice: 
Has the Development Division of the Australian Wool Board produced a report which argued in favour of revaluation of the Australian dollar; if so, does the report have the concurrence of the Board's  Chairman, Sir William  Gunn. 
Why has the Board declined to make the report, referred to in (1) public. 
Did  Sir William  Gunn, as a member of the Reserve Bank Board, sign the Bank's Annual Report which advocated revaluation of the Australian dollar. 
Have all the economists employed by the Australian Wool Board resigned; if so, for what reasons. 

 Senator DRAKE-BROCKMAN- The 
Minister for Primary Industry has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
Earlier this year, the Development Division of the Australian Wool Board prepared a report for Board members on the disequilibrium in Australia's balance of payments as reflected in the build-up of foreign reserves. Since the issue was of concern to the wool industry the report outlined the issues involved and examined 3 possible courses of action which could be taken to restore equilibrium. These were: Use of exchange controls, appreciation of the Australian dollar,  a  package' including devaluation and tariff [eduction. In each case, an assessment was made of the likely impact on the Australian wool industry. No recommendations were made, however, as to the adoption of any particular course of action. 
In view of the political controversy which developed on the question as to whether Iiic Australian dollar should be revalued, the Wool Board decided not to publish the report as it believed that to do so would enable the report to be used to support various conflicting view points to the detriment of a dispassionate study of the issues involved. 
I am not aware of the attitude adopted by  Sir William  Gunn in his capacity as  a  member of the Reserve Bank Board on the question of the revaluation of the Australian dollar. 
lt is not true that all the economists employed by the Wool Board have resigned. The authors of the report did not resign because of any alleged suppression of the report. Their resignations were completely unrelated to the report and in fact, were submitted at different times before the draft report was finalised. The principal author resigned to do post-graduate university studies. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry, upon notice: 
Did a leading dairy food processing company import cheese over recent months from New Zealand; if so, what were the quantities and types of cheese. 
Why is cheese being imported from New Zealand by the company. 

 Senator DRAKE-BROCKMAN - The 
Minister for Primary Industry has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
Under the New Zealand-Australia Free Trade Agreement provision is made for an annual import quota of 1,000 tons of cheddar cheese. However last August special approval was given for the import of 450 tons of cheddar curd for processing over and above this figure conditional on the processed cheese being re-exported. 
The special approval was given because of a shortage of supplies of suitable cheese from Australian production last season and was to enable the servicing of established export markets which otherwise would be lost. 
I direct a question to the Minister representing the Minister for Science. What progress has been made towards the development of the proposed Institute of Marine Science at Townsville in Queensland? 
I move: 
That the following Address-in-Reply to the Speech of  His Excellency  the Governor-General be agreed to: 
 My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Labour. Following the action recently announced by the overseas controlled employers of waterside labour to alter the basis upon which the guaranteed wage levy will be made, I ask: What action does the Government propose to take to maintain the viability of such outer ports as Portland, Cairns, Mackay, Coffs Harbour and Esperance, which would appear to be the ports most affected by this decision? 
I have been pleased with the decision to date. As I see the situation - I say this quite bluntly - some farmers have been belly-aching when they should not be doing so. For instance, I have been unable to detect any downturn in the price of bullocks at my local market. In fact, I have seen record yardings and record prices week after week in recent times. 
Like any other section of the community, I think the farming community has its whingers right across the board. One other matter I noted with some pride with respect to the rural area is the proposal outlined by the Governor-General relative to the fishing industry. I suppose there is no better example of an underdeveloped primary industry in Australia than the fishing industry. By world standards ours is a cockle boat fleet. It is a fleet that, by comparison with other countries, goes to sea in dinghies. As a consequence other nations are fishing almost on our back door - in fact, at times they fish within sight of citizens standing on the seashore. One result is that we have to import far too much of the fish that the country consumes. The proposals of the Government to look into this matter and to apply funds for research into the industry will, I believe, do something to step up the industry and develop it into what it could and the Australian Labor Party believes it should become. 
Some of the other proposals contained in the Governor-General's Speech have already been outlined by various Ministers, including the proposal to introduce legislation to alleviate the burden on people who have to pay high interest rates on housing loans. I believe that that is a step in the right direction. It is a measure that will lighten the load of hundreds of thousands of young married couples, particularly those in our urban communities, who had to take out 2 or 3 mortgages in order to obtain sufficient finance to purchase their homes and who have virtually had an economic collar placed around their necks that weighs them down to such an extent that if either the husband or the wife became ill and could not work the retention of their homes would be placed in jeopardy. I see no reason why an improvement in the present situation cannot be achieved. It has been the practice of past governments - Labor and Liberal - to set good and sound interest rates for ex-servicemen. I do not see why that type of policy could not in some measure be extended to the civilian population of this country. 
There is one other matter on which I wish to speak. I wish to do so because it has been on my plate for the last 24 hours. This matter is linked with the Government's proposals concerning decentralisation or regional development. I am concerned about the decision of the employers of waterfront labour to go ahead and alter the rates of pay that apply in the ports throughout Australia. This will be te the disadvantage of so many of our outer ports. I asked a question on this matter this morning of the Minister for Repatriation  (Senator Bishop),  who represents in this chamber the Minister for Labour  (Mr Clyde Cameron).  I intend to follow the matter through because the decision will place in jeopardy the future of so many of our small and what should be thriving outer ports. There has been and I think still is a tendency in the maritime field in Australia towards centralisation. The major ports are copping the lot and the smaller outer ports, which should and I believe could thrive, are being deprived of business. 
I can do no better than cite the instance of the port of Portland, where one can see acre upon acre of wool stores and to where thousands upon thousands of bales of wool are taken annually and auctioned. Instead of being shipped out of that port the wool is being put aboard trains and sent to the larger ports in Victoria. To me it is an act of utter stupidity, although it may line the pockets of the conference lines, that, at the same time as a ship going to Geelong is in the port of Portland unloading cargo, bales of wool are being loaded onto a train going to Geelong to meet a ship 
My learned colleague informs me that I should have said Melbourne. He is right. This has been a long term matter of concern to the waterside workers and the port of Geelong. It does go to Melbourne. I believe that is entirely wrong. Surely that is what regional development and decentralisation are all about. Portland has the capabilities of being an important port. I understand that it is the second deepest port in the Commonwealth of Australia. It is only three-quarters of an hour from the main shipping routes. There was a period of time when cargo vessels called at that port for as little as 50 tons of cargo. That is not the situation today. It is a natural outlet for the vast hinterland adjacent to it, the south-west corner of Victoria, reaching right up into our wool growing areas in the Wimmera and Mallee regions. It is a natural outlet also for the south-east area of South Australia. I hope that the Federal Labor Government, in conjunction with what I believe will continue to be a State Labor Government in South Australia, will exert its influence on the conference lines. I ask the responsible. Ministers in both Parliaments to ensure that this port is allowed to operate effectively. When it was established it was, to all intents and purposes, to be something of a Mecca, but because of the influence of vested interests and because of a lackadaisical approach by State and Federal governments, it has been allowed to develop into what will be little more than a white elephant, and it will remain in that state unless some action is taken. 
I hope that will come about. Such an event would ensure that benefits accrue to that port. I reiterate that on 2nd December the people of this country voted for change. I believe that because of the way in which they voted they have a right to expect that change. I believe also that this Government has the ability and the determination to press on with that mandate given lo it by the people of Australia and to provide a better way of life for thousands of Australians. I am in little doubt and I am sure that any honourable senator who has done his homework, who has been around his electorate, has realised that this country is not as affluent in many areas as it could well be. 
It is a very wealthy country but there are large sections of it which are not affluent. I believe that some equalisation in this regard will be brought about by the present Government that will create a unification of this nation. 
One of the tragedies that has occurred over the 23 years that this present Government has been out of office has been the tendency to divide the people of this nation. It was done at State level; it was done at Federal level. I think that is a totally wrong attitude for any government to adopt. We believe that the policies outlined in the Governor-General's Speech will create an identity of purpose. They will create a nation with goals to be achieved and, furthermore and most importantly these policies will create a better standing for this nation, not only within itself but right around the globe. 
My question is addressed to the Minister for Primary Industry. Is this the last year in which the recently announced rural reconstruction scheme will operate? Can the Minister assure the Senate that the Government will continue to recognise the legitimate claims of primary  producers  for financial assistance in cases  of  extreme hardship? 
Has the attention of the Minister representing the Minister for Education been drawn to statements that some schools in Victoria are utilising Commonwealth scholarship money as payment towards composite fees? Should not these moneys be paid direct to a child or his parents? 
I claim the indulgence of the Senate for a few moments to add a few words to a matter I raised in the debate on a motion for the adjournment of the Senatelast August. Honourable senators may recall that on that occasion 1 produced certain papers in the Senate to show up the defects of a certain motor vehicle. I spoke for about 30 minutes about all the complaints I had received. Recently I had occasion to visit the headquarters of the Ford Motor Co. of Australia Ltd, the company concerned with the matter I raised on that occasion. I have been through all the files forwarded to the company - some 114 complaints if my memory serves me correctly. I want to congratulate the company on the manner in which it processed those complaints and the way that it dealt with them, rather successfully I believe, exceptfor 2 complainants who could not be traced. The complainants who could be traced wen: notified and asked to produce their vehicles. They did so and at the end of 2 months they were asked whether they were satisfied with the way that the company had handled their complaints. A large proportion said that they were satisfied but some were not quite sure. Even those people who said they were satisfied were again contacted in 2 months time and asked if there were any further complaints. If there were further complaints the company took the cars back and fixed them. I believe that the company did all that could have been done in the circumstances to rectify the complaints brought forward by the people I mentioned. 
I do not want my remarks tonight to be seen by anyone or any organisation as a general statement from me that I wholeheartedly agree with the attitude of the motor industry in general. I still am particularly perturbed about the fact that the industry is the body that controls the recall of motor vehicles. In this country we have not reached as yet the situation that exists in the United States of America where it is the Government that says whether a car will be recalled. I hope that the Minister for Transport  (Mr Charles Jones)  in the present Government will work towards that end. It was rather interesting to see the comments in the Press and the comments by other organisations since I first raised this matter last August. It was very interesting to see the rather extensive report brought down recently by the Australian Automobile Association. I think the report indicated that the consumer is still not happy with the product he is getting at the end of the production line in the motor car industry. I believe that it behoves governments and others to press on in the interests of motor car durability and in the interests of motor car owners and passengers who place their lives at risk every time they get into a motor vehicle - and nowadays, of course, we all use motor vehicles. 
My question is addressed to the Attorney-General. What is the essential difference in the assessment of the biological effects of nuclear explosion fallout from the reports of the National Radiation Advisory Committee up until June 1972 and of the Council of the Australian Academy of Science? 
 Mr Deputy President,  I rise tonight briefly to support honourable senators on this side of the chamber in speaking against this rather poorly worded matter of public importance which has been raised by honourable senators opposite. Quite frankly, I believe that the raising of this matter is just another red herring to delay further the passage of Government legislation through this Parliament. This Government legislation is badly needed and was supported by the Australian people. Further, the raising of this matter of public importance is an attempt to give some status to some of the greatest fascist despots that this world has seen, and I am speaking of the leader of juntas of South Vietnam over the last 20 years. When I refer to the Government's legislation, if my arithmetic is correct, there are approximately 14 items of Government business on the notice paper. The community is looking forward to the introduction of these items of Government business which we are pledged to give it, but time is running out. So let us not carry on all night with this nonsense. But now that honourable senators opposite have raised this matter of public importance, we are quite happy to debate it with them. 

 Senator Gair referred to John Curtin's conscription. As one of Curtin's conscripts of 1942 - I was 18 years old  -  I am quite proud to welcome these people to this country, and I make no bones about it. I had dinner with them tonight. 
I had dinner with these people tonight in Parliament House. I say that I am proud to have had dinner with them because J believe that they represent the aspirations of the people in Vietnam. It is all very well for honourable senators opposite, including  Senator Webster  and  Senator Greenwood,  who have never had on a uniform in their lives, who do not know what it is all about and who have never fought for the aspirations of their country on the battlefields of the world- 
The DEPUTY PRESIDENT- Order! 
The  DEPUTY PRESIDENT  - Order! I am addressing myself now to  Senator Primmer. Senator Primmer,  you have heard the request for that remark to be withdrawn. 
The  DEPUTY PRESIDENT- Senator Cavanagh,  are you raising a point of order? 
 Mr Deputy President,  if what I have said is offensive to the honourable senator I have no compunction about withdrawing the remark. Earlier this evening  Senator Sim  made remarks about stories that we have heard about Vietnam since 1954, and he referred to one of the great propaganda stories that was told about the thousands of people who were alleged to have voted with their feet by marching from the North to the South. He also referred to a further allegation that some hundreds of thousands - up to 500,000 - executions were carried out in North Vietnam, basically because of North Vietnam's land reform policy. It is rather interesting to note that  Senator Sim  is not up to date with his information because in the National Times' of 5th March 1973 Alex Carey, a senior lecturer in Psychology of International Relations at the University of New South Wales, who obviously has carried out some research into the matter, exposed these 2 propaganda stories for the fallacies that they are. He said: 
In 1954 the United States had already invested 2.3 billion dollars in assisting the French to fight Ho Chi Minh because John Foster Dulles believed (and said) that the extension of Communist control to all of Vietnam, whether by elections or any other means, would endanger the entire 'Free World'. 
In consequence Dulles was faced, in 1954, with two colossal propaganda . . . problems: to win Vietnamese support for an anti-communist, antiVietMinh leader (Ngo Dinh Diem) who had taken no part in the struggle against the French; and to win international support for Dulles' plan  to  establish the southern half of Vietnam - in clear violation of the provisions of the Geneva Agreements - as an independent anti-communist State. 
The first project in this campaign was to draw as many Catholics as possible from North Vietnam in order both to provide a minimal political base for Diem and to influence world opinion against the North. 
Bernard Fall has described the outcome: 'The mass flight was admittedly the result of an extremely intensive, well-conducted, and in terms of its objective, very successful American psychological warfare operation. Propaganda slogans and leaflets appealed to the devout Catholics wilh such themes as "Christ had gone to the South", and the "Virgin Mary has departed from the North". 
Whole bishoprics . . . packed up, lock slock and barrel, from the bishops to almost the last village priest and faithful . . . Although 65 per cent of the total Catholic population left North Vietnam . . . more than 99.5 per cent of the nonCatholics stayed put . . .' 
Tn mid-1955 Diem stepped up his campaign to suppress all real or imagined political opposition, with the result that the movement of refugees went into reverse and more people (including recent 'refugees' from the North) sought to go North than to go South. Thereupon Diem,- 
I ask honourable senators to note this - not Hanoi, sealed the border against further free movement. But that sequence of events has not received wide publicity. 
Further, Alex Carey exposes the propaganda about the alleged massacre of hundreds of thousands of North Vietnamese because of the North Vietnamese land reform program. He said: 
A recent study of Saigon archives conducted from Cornell University concludes that the massacre is  a  myth and 'the result of a deliberate propaganda campaign by the South Vietnamese and United States Governments' ('The Myth of the Bloodbath,' published by the International Relations of East Asia Project. Cornell University, 1972). 

 Senator Hannan claimed in his earlier remarks that we on this side of the chamber wanted to condemn the Americans. For any student of Vietnam the fact of the matter is that the Americans are condemned out of their own mouths. It seems strange that honourable senators opposite should want to stand up and defend their once great and powerful ally in view of the current day by day revelations about the highest office of that country at the present time. 1 have said that the Americans are condemned out of their own mouths. I shall read at some length from a book entitled 'Conversations With Americans' by Mark Lane. Some honourable senators may well recall that he was the author of a rather controversial book entitled 
Rush to Judgment' which was written after the Kennedy assassination. I think that any of us who have read the book may well be of the opinion - as I am - that we have not heard the whole truth about the assassination of President Kennedy. Mark Lane, in the introduction to his book in part states: 
First, as Americans we have been educated to believe that while the enemy quite regularly violates the codes governing the waging of war, we do not. If we are now to surrender that concept of ourselves to explain our conduct in Vietnam in relation to the acts of the enemy, we must surrender as well the rhetoric which in the past we have employed to distinguish our cause from theirs. 
Moreover, in certain wars both sides do not, cannot, engage equally in widespread atrocities. The obliteration of a village may be in the interest of one side only. Nowhere is that more obvious than in Vietnam. The concept of guerilla warfare requires that the insurgent forces become one with the population upon whom they rely for support, food, intelligence and cover. Mao wrote it, and in Vietnam the National Liberation Front (NLF) and the North Vietnamese Army (NVA) perfected it. The United States Armed Forces understand the concept well, as Mao on guerrilla warfare is required reading at the Pentagon and is the bible of the Green Berets. No doubt selective executions for the purpose of eliminating opponents particularly influential ones in the villages, are part of the theoretical and practical operations of the NLF and the NVA. But since these organizations can prevail, indeed exist, only with the support of the people of the country, mass terror practiced against the villagers would be self-defeating. If they were to decimate a village or participate in the widespread elimination of villagers their crime would not be murder; it would be suicide. 
The book from whichI am reading contains a series of articles given to the author by American troops who served in Vietnam, either after they had been discharged from the army when they went back to the United Stales or after they had absconded from the army and had been located in Sweden. Lane, at the end of his introduction states: 
The transcripts in which each person is identified have been delivered to a prominent New York attorney who was formerly counsel for the United Stales Department of Justice. 
Should the responsible agencies of government wish to investigate the charges contained in the following statements, the relevant information is accessible to them. 
As an aside let me say that this is far from being a book for squeamish people to read. It shows the length to which the militaryindustrial complex of America went to bastardise their army. We have heard stories of bastardisation in the Australian army but they pale into insignificance when compared with the type of treatment and indoctrination which was handed out to American troops. In one instance a young man under questioning was asked: 
Q: Were you ever given training in interrogation of enemy prisoners? 
A: Yes. 
Q: Where? 
A: At all of the bases. But during the last month, when I was being prepared for imminent shipment to Vietnam, we got a lot of it. We were told there how to torture prisoners. 
Q: Who gave you those instructions? 
A: Mostly the sergeants. But some officers also participated. Lieutenants and sometimes the captain. 
Q: What were you told to do? 
A: To torture prisoners. 
Q: How? 
A: It was very extensive. Many methods were described and advocated. 
Q: Such as? 
A: Removing a person's shoes and beating him or her on the soles of the feet. . . . 
Q: What other methods were taught? . . . 
A: I've been trying to forget for the past year. 
Q: What other methods were taught? Can you give me one more example? 
A: We were toldto make use of electrical radio equipment. We were told to attach the electrodes to the genitals. 
In the time left to meI shall read a further extract from the book: 
Q: Have you ever been given an order that you were to take no prisoners? 
A: Yes, I have. 
Q: By whom? 
A: The lieutenant. . . . 
Q: On more than one occasion? 
A: Yes. 
Q: And what happened then? 
A: We didn't take any prisoners. 
What does that mean? 
A: We killed everybody we caught. 
Q: Wounded? 
A: Wounded too. 
Q: Were killed? 
A: Yes. 
Q: How were they killed? 
A: Forty-fives,M -16. machine guns, stabbed them with bayonets. 
The  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Prowse)  - Order! The honourable senator's time has expired. 
My question, which is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Education, follows upon a question which was asked earlier by  Senator Poyser.  When was the proposal for a new university in Victoria first suggested? What studies into the format of the new university were undertaken, and by whom? What were the recommendations arising from such studies? 
 I direct a question to the Minister for Primary Industry. In view of the Government's announcement yesterday that it proposes to extend the wheat stabilisation scheme for a further year, can he inform me of market prospects for wheat from the 1973-74 harvest? If the crop is significantly above the last harvest, will ample markets be available at remunerative prices? Finally, does he expect the Commonwealth to make a large contribution to the stabilisation fund on wheat sold from the 1973-74 harvest? 
It was not my intention to take part in this debate but after listening to some of the silly arguments that have been put forward this afternoon by members of the Opposition in an attempt to debate this Bill I thought I should stand up and state my point of view. Surely the whole crux of this matter is people. Everyone knows that, as the population of the Commonwealth has increased, the membership of the respective Parliaments has tended to increase. The increases may have been somewhat tardy in some respects, but as a general principle they have taken place. That being the case, if the Parliament is to be truly representative of the people of the Commonwealth it is only right that the representation should be determined upon the basis of where the people live. It should be determined not by the number of cows, trees and bales of hay in an area - factors that the Australian Country Party seems to have had in mind over the years - but by the number of human beings. 
An examination of the situation in Victoria in this regard will reveal that that is exactly what this Bill seeks to do. Figures given in another place on 11th April by the Minister for Services and Property  (Mr Daly),  in answer to a question, show that on a broad basis the population of the rural areas of Victoria is declining and that the population of the strictly metropolitan area - the inner suburbs - of Melbourne is also declining. For example, in the electorate of Batman, which is in one of the inner areas of Melbourne, there has been a decrease in population between 1970 and 1973 of 116 voters. Tha same situation applies with respect to the electorate of Chisholm, where there has been a decrease of 992 voters. In the hub of Melbourne itself - in the electorate of Melbourne - there has been a decrease of 2,321 voters. 
Let us have a look at the situation in the outer areas of Melbourne, which is where the Australian Labor Party won the last election. There have been dramatic increases in the number of voters in those electorates. That is where the people of Victoria are living at this stage. In the 3 years to which I have referred there has been an increase of 14,626 in the electorate of Burke; 15,000-odd in the electorate of Diamond Valley; over 12,000 in the electorate of Flinders; 12,000 in the electorate of Holt; and 14,000 in the electorate of La Trobe. Regardless of what those people may do for a living, surely to goodness they are entitled to be properly represented in this Parliament. It is all very well for members of the Australian Country Party in particular to get up in this place, as they have been doing ever since I have been a member of this chamber, and bleat like a lot of motherless bull calves about the situation in rural areas and whinny about the fact that there is not enough representation of country areas in the Parliament. 
Let us have a look at the situation in the area of Victoria in which I live. Not one Federal member of the Opposition has an office in the whole of south-western Victoria, from the outskirts of Melbourne to the South Australian border. On the other hand, twothirds of the Australian Labor Party's Senate team in Victoria has an office outside the metropolitan area. Not one Opposition senator has an office outside the city of Melbourne. So honourable senators opposite should not come in here bleating like a lot of motherless calves about poor representation for people in the country when they are not prepared to get out into the country and service people by providing an active office 5 days a week. 
As I see it, the argument that has been put forward by the Opposition on this Bill for larger representation for less and less people in the country areas is really an argument for the provision of better facilities for members who represent those electorates and for the provision of better services for those members. I repeat that I hold firmly to the conviction that this Parliament must be made to represent people. It may be unfortunate for honourable senators opposite that in the 23 years in which they were in government they allowed a situation to develop wherein people had to move to the great metropolitan areas in order to get an income, and an education for their children. That is one of the tragedies of this nation, but the responsibility for it lies at the feet of honourable senators opposite. Now they are hoist with their own petard. People have moved to the metropolitan areas, but those who have allowed them to do that now wish to deny these people the right to be represented as fully as anybody else in the community in this, the Federal Parliament. 
I rise to support the Bill and to oppose the proposed amendment. A lot has been said by honourable senators opposite about wanting to see the 2 airline system continue on an equal footing and that is very desirable. I want to refer the Senate to what happened back in 1952 when the Civil Aviation Agreement Bill was introduced in this Parliament by  Mr Hasluck,  as he then was, the honourable member for Curtin and Minister for Territories. In his second reading speech to the Bill on 24 October 1952 he said that the aim of the Bill was:   to ensure that the major air services flown by these two companies are conducted under conditions of fair and active competition. 
Later in that same speech he said:  1 stress again the main principle of the Government's policy which was to see internal air services of Australia were conducted under conditions of active competition, so that the best possible service would be available to the Australian travelling public. But such competition implies an equal right of access to available business, lt also requires that each of the major operators should be in a position to operate on a business of solvency and that each should have such security of tenure as was necessary to enable it to plan its finance and future development, particularly in the ordering and operation of its fleet of new aircraft. 
One could say, perhaps, that the parties now in Opposition have agreed generally on that principle. But when we look closely at what has arisen since 1952 we see the cold hard fact of the matter is that things have not always been that way. One can only doff one's cap to the people who have been in charge of Trans-Australia Airlines over the years and acknowledge the ability with which they have carried out its operations despite a slant against .them by Liberal and Country Party governments over that period of 23 years. 
When we look at the situation we find, for example, that the total revenue of Ansett Transport Industries in 1971-72 exceeded $208m. On the other hand, TAA earned $120m. The difference between those figures is not a bad sort of advantage for any private enterprise to have in conflict with a government run airline. It certainly gives the private enterprise organisation greater access to funds. It has a greater turnover and surely that must mean a greater profit can be made. In airline revenue alone Ansett Transport Industries earned $150m in .1971-72 which was 25 per cent more than the total revenue of .TAA. If one looks at what happened in the last 12 months or so with the advent of Thomas Nationwide Transport Ltd into ATI, the balance of the scale against TAA has been tipped immeasurably further. 
As I said, I propose to speak against the proposed amendment relating to the superannuation fund moneys and I mainly want to confine my remarks to that aspect. The Minister for Civil Aviation  (Mr Charles Jones),  when dealing with this Bill on 22 May in the other place, tabled certain letters. I do not want to read them now; suffice to say that anybody interested in looking at them can read them in the House of Representatives Hansard of that date. The letters were from  Sir Frederick  Scherger to  Sir Donald  Anderson, Director-General of Civil Aviation, and a reply by  Senator Cotton,  who was then Minister for Civil Aviation. This was at the time that the previous Government was contemplating extending the 2 airline system. Finally it did so. Nowhere in those letters is there any suggestion from the then Government on the question of superannuation. It was not an issue in those very pertinent letters. Trans Australia Airlines had asked for certain extra rights which, incidentally, it asked for during the inquiry conducted by the committee of this Parliament into the proposed takeover of Ansett Transport Industries by Thomas Nationwide Transport - exactly the same rights. Unfortunately for TAA at that time, the committee, because of the intervention of the Victorian Government, did not get around to looking at TAA's submission to that inquiry. 
However, the rights that TAA asked for were for the provision of aviation engineering works - and surely there was nothing wrong with that. It did appear from discussions that TAA had the capacity to carry out certain works beyond those which it was carrying out atthe time and it purely and simply wanted the right fully to utilise the manpower and capital investments that it had in this area. TAA also wanted the right to negotiate Commonwealth contracts; to establish hotels, tourist accommodation; road transport services; to acquire subsidiaries or shareholdings in companies or to establish and operate subsidiaries for the purpose of the Australian National Airlines Act; and to carry out certain aerial work and charter operations. The sixth right sought was the right by amendment of section 34(2) of the Act to allow investment of moneys not immediately required. TAA also asked for the right to operate in Papua New Guinea. But in neither of its letters nor in the Minister's reply at the time was there any mention of superannuation. 
We on this side of the House - the Government senators - believe that TAA should be entitled to continue the use of portion of its superannuation fund which, as has been stated and admitted by honourable senators on this side of the chamber, is only the employer's contributions. The facts are that TAA has used part of its superannuation fund for the last 27 years with advantage to itself and disadvantage to no one else. TAA manages its superannuation fund in a manner which is quite consistent with acceptable commercial principles. Its profit and loss account bears an interest charge of 7.5 per cent on accumulated superannuation funds used in its business. Surely this is a fair and reasonable business principle. As I have said, the renegotiation of the 2-airline agreement late last year shows that the subject of superannuation did not arise for discussion. 
We believe that to introduce, as the Opposition has suggested by way of this amendment, alterations to the Act to make an arrangement for TAA to pay the superannuation fund to the Commonwealth and to be given a loan would create hardship and would in fact, on figures that I have, cause a net financial disability to the Commonwealth - to the Commonwealth, mind you - of$3. 8m. Those figures are in a statement which I seek leave to have incorporated in Hansard. 
The ACTING  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Wilkinson)  - How much is involved in the statement? 
A single page. 
The ACTING DEPUTY PRESIDENT - Is there any objection? There being no objection, leave is granted. (The document read as follows) - 

<graphic href="056232197306014_24_0.jpg"></graphic>

This amendment, if carried, also will increase the cost of TAA's superannuation fund and once that happens, of course, in a business enterprise such as TAA this increased cost must be passed on and the people who will pay it will be those who every day travel 'the friendly way' with TAA. So that what the amendment will do is to increase costs for the thousands of people who travel by TAA aircraft. It is somewhat unfortunate, as with much of Ansett business, that the Senate committee which sat last year to investigate the takeover bid had a great deal of difficulty in finding out where to go and, when it got there, just what it could find out about Ansett's business. The Government, unfortunately, does not have any details of the Ansett Transport Industries superannuation scheme. However, I understand that it is inferior to that of TAA. The only other thing I know about it is that it is negotiated with the Australian Mutual Provident Society - and that is rather interesting. When we come back to the Senate inquiry that was conducted last year, we find out that the Australian Mutual Provident Society had 560,000 50c shares in Ansett Transport Industries. We further find out that since the deal between TNT and Ansett has become a fact, the Australian Mutual Provident Society holds shares in Thomas Nationwide Transport to the value of $2,080,762. So it seems that in effect Ansett Transport Industries has ready access to its own superannuation funds by these means. To suggest that TAA is gaining an advantage because it has access to similar funds of its own is surely not a fact. That is a very good reason for permitting TAA to leave its superannuation funds just where they are. 
I do not want to hold up the progress of this Bill much further except to say I believe that if the policies of this Government are to be brought to fruition, and particularly in respect of regional development, the brakes must be taken off TAA. There must be State government concurrence in intrastate rights in order to create competition in areas which this Government will designate for rapid growth development in the various States of the Commonwealth so that people and industries that go to those areas can be provided, if at all possible, with an economic air service. I do not believe that the Government's intention will be properly developed unless each of those growth areas has a fast, regular and safe air service to and from all capital cities in this Commonwealth. I know that in my own area the impending, it would appear, demise of the commuter service between that area and the capital city of Melbourne and the rise in fare charges is creating problems. The increase in price makes it impossible for the average person to travel by this service. Still, despite the high charge, the business community continues to use the service - and it seems to me that once a business community becomes used to travelling by air, that becomes part and parcel of its operations. To be able to leave a rural area in the morning, to land in Melbourne at half past eight, to put in all day conducting one's business and then to arrive home at 8 o'clock at night is very handy. As I have said, I hope that this Bill is pushed through and that TAA is given the powers it wants, because I believe that by so doing we will create the competition about which I spoke. Rather than allow air services to rural areas to run down, we will build up better services. If that can be done, so many more of the Government's proposed policies can be carried out. 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Transport. Has his attention been drawn to Press reports to the effect that Renault (Australia) Pty Ltd has agreed to notify all known owners of Renault 16 cars of the need to have the front suspension checked? As il would appear that the fault is one of design in manufacture, rather than occasioned by wear and tear, what action if any is open to the Minister for Transport to have, the company replace the necessary parts without cost to the car owner? 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Transport, upon notice: 
Is it a fact that lap-type seat belts fitted in the rear seats of late model Holden cars do not carry any manufacture identification as set down in Clause 14 of Australian Standards E35- 1970. 
Is it also a fact that latemodel Holden, Chrysler and Ford cars are similarly remiss as regards the month and year of manufacture. 

 Senator CAVANAGH- The Minister for Transport has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
I am advised that all seat belts in current production Holdens carry identification markings in conformity with Clause 14 of the Australian Standard E3S. The identification may be on the buckle, the webbing, or an anchor fitting. In the case of a rear seat lap belt identification may not be obvious without removal of the seat. 
However, before early 1973 the Standards Association of Australia approved the attachment of an identification sticker as meeting the requirements of Clause 14. A belt from which the sticker had been removed would thus be unidentified. As a result, SAA has now tightened its approval requirements. 
The same as for (1) except that month and year of manufacture is permitted  to  be included in a code or serial number. This information is provided for the use of Authorities who may seed te identify suspect equipment at some time is the future. 
-Thank you,  Mr President.  I ask the Minister for Primary Industry: Have large stock and station firms in Victoria bought up all available quantities of exotic breed beef semen to the exclusion of co-operative and other private artificial breeding centres? Are these large firms charging exorbitant prices for such semen? 
My question is addressed to the Minister for Primary Industry. What is the current position concerning the manufacturing in Australia of a buttervegetable oil spread? 
We  are debating in this chamber the report of the Senate Standing Committee on Industry and Trade which was presented following its inquiry into Australia-New Zealand trade, and I rise to make a few short remarks. I was a member of the Committee during most of the time that it was inquiring into the New Zealand-Australia Free Trade Agreement, but I am no longer a member of the Committee. First of all, I express my congratulations to the staff connected with the Committee during the time this inquiry was under way. I think one would be remiss not to mention the excellent work done by the staff and the courtesy that we all received from the staff. This enabled the work of the Committee to  be  carried out much more precisely than would have been the case if we did not have their services. They did a huge amount of work between the Committee's hearings in order to have everything lined up so that the appearance of witnesses and the general work of the Committee was made, much easier. 
The report is rather a lengthy one and I have not had a chance to go right through it. But I wish to make a few general remarks as to how I see our trading situation. From the outset of the establishment of the New Zealand-Australia Free Trade Agreement, I formed the opinion, even though I was not a member of this Parliament at the time, that perhaps to some extent Australia's primary industries were being sold short in order that our secondary industries could gain a foothold in New Zealand. I still hold that opinion after hearing the evidence of many witnesses connected with all aspects of trade in Australia. I still believe that there are some areas of primary industry in Australia which have been sold very short in order to allow our secondary industries to develop in New Zealand. The plight of these primary industries was brought forward by various witnesses, particularly those from Tasmania. The pea industry in particular and the grass seed industry are those particularly affected. Although the grass seed industry is only very small in Australia, it would appear to have been very hard hit at different times because of this Agreement. In other areas of trade a practice is carried on which, if it cannot be classed as dumping - that is, dumping from New Zealand to Australia - must go very close to that situation. One hopes that as  a  result of the findings contained in this report action will be taken by the responsible Department to have  a  further look at this situation to see what can be done. I can well recall people giving evidence that they were being very hard hit by New Zealand jam appearing on the Sydney market because the New Zealand product was cheaper. 
One other matter which comes to mind readily and about which there was a great deal of debate at various stages during the Committee's hearings concerns the merits of the New Zealand Meat Board compared with those of the Australian Meat Board. Both Boards had their point of view out forward for them, and it would appear that there has been agreement that on third markets in particular there is a great deal of room for the development of better trading relations between the 2 organisations. In other words, there is room for both organisations to get together and take a much broader and perhaps co-operative look at third markets instead of competing with each other. Also in that regard one would hope that the Australian Meat Board would adopt some of the policies of the New Zealand Meat Board and update its marketing processes in third markets. From the evidence given to the Committee it appeared to me that the Australian Meat Board had something to learn from its New Zealand counterpart in regard to marketing, particularly of lamb, in third markets. 
I do not want to say very much at all on this matter. The report is a comprehensive one. As I said earlier, I believe that as a result of its findings certain weaknesses in the Agreement have been brought forward. I just hope that Ministers and their departments will study the document very carefully and that in areas where problems have been found remedies will be forthcoming. If the Agreement is to be developed, again I think Ministers and their departments on both sides of the Tasman have a great deal of work to do, because it appears that, despite the good intentions of those who brought the Agreement to fruition initially, in actual fact not a great deal has happened to bring about freer trade across the Tasman. 
 Mr President,  might I with respect point out to you that this is my first question for the afternoon? 
My question is directed to the Minister for Primary Industry. Has the honey industry sought the application of an export levy to finance overseas promotion? If so, has any decision been reached on the matter? 
 My question is directed to the Minister for Primary Industry. The Treasurer's Budget Speech makes no mention of any alteration to fertiliser bounties which 1 am sure are welcomed by farmers at a time when Australia should be looking for increased meat and grain production. However, I note that the Budget provides for 1973-74 bounties totalling $8m less than the expenditure for this purpose in the last financial year. Can the Minister explain this reduction? 
-The Minister for Primary Industry recently indicated that consultations have begun between his Department and State officials on the best ways and means of assisting the restructuring of the dairying industry. Can the Minister assure the Senate that full consideration will be given to submissions received from the dairying industry itself in addition to suggestions from State governments? 
-Did the Minister for Primary Industry notice Press reports this morning that merino wool prices fell at yesterday's auctions by 7 per cent? Does he agree with the reports which attribute the decline to last Sunday's revaluation of the Australian dollar? 
After listening to  Senator Byrne,  one can well understand the stance that he has adopted and, indeed, the stance which the Australian Democratic Labor Party generally adopts. That Party's stocks are so low that it is obvious that no one is taking a great deal of notice of what its members say. They have reached the terrible situation where, after many years, they have a government that they cannot dictate to. 
This is the first Labor Budget for 23 years. I think that members of the Opposition are like a lot of other people in the community. They are rather like a group of farmers to whom I spoke last week: They are suffering from future shock; they do not know what it is all about. They have yet to sit down, put their thinking caps on and rationalise a little. When they do I am sure that they will realise that this Budget lays down guidelines that will be of a great deal of benefit for many years to come to the Australian population at large. The previous Government- the Government which was defeated on 2 Decemberrelied upon the guidelines that were laid down by the Chifley Government in the post-war years. It declined to update those guidelines and its philosophies after it was elected to office in the immediate post-war years. As a consequence, Australia as a nation and its people suffered. The previous Government sold Australia down the drain. As a consequence of its actions the supporters of the previous Government are sitting where they are at present, although it did take a long time for them to be removed from office. Quite frankly, I believe that the Budget is a good one. 
It is not possible in a speech limited to half an hour to cover all aspects of the Budget. However, I want to make a few brief comments concerning one proposal in particular which has endeared itself to me. It is something about which the previous Government did nothing for 23 years. I refer to the proposal to allocate a rather small sum in the totality of the Budget- the sum of $ 1.5 m- towards the cost of setting up regional councils for social development. Honourable senators, whether they reside in the great metropolitan areas of this country or on its rural slopes, will appreciate that there is a dire need in the community for social workers. There are quite a large number of rural towns and some quite large rural cities in Victoria which to my knowledge do not have social workers. The point is there are just not enough social workers to go around. As a consequence the Australian Labor Party has been obliged to start off at the grass roots level in the training of social workers. I hope that this training scheme will train social workers in the rural aspects of social welfare problems. I say that because a totally different problem exists in the rural areas from the one that exists in the metropolitan areas. 
I wish to refer now to some of the measures pertaining to primary industry that are contained in the Budget. Once again a despairing attitude has been shown in this regard by the Government's opponents in the Parliament and by some people in the community at large. Those who have looked at these proposals in a rational manner have not held up their hands in despair. They are the ones who do not seem to suffer from future shock. Let me refer to the decision of the Government to impose a levy on the export of meat in order to pay for the cost of meeting the standards set by the American authorities. I believe that the standards which have been set are largely higher than the American authorities demand of their producers. I think that there may be some political motivation behind the setting of these standards. Until this point in time the tab for the meeting of these standards has been picked up by the taxpayer at large. I am not prepared to say whether that should or should not have been the case. It should be remembered that exports have risen from $364m to $6 12m in the last 12 months. In that period the volume rose from 373 million kilograms to 545 million kilograms. In those circumstances, I believe that the meat industry can well afford to pay the charge that has been struck to meet the cost of the inspection of its meat. 
-To the best of my knowledge it is to be used for meat inspection. If one attends the various cattle sales that are held around the countryside one will see bullocks being sold for $500 a head. One can turn a meaty cow out of the dairy and, depending on its breed, receive anything from $140 to $240 for it. I believe that the meat industry is in a fairly affluent situation at the present time. I am not denying the fact that the industry has had problems in recent times. It may well be that the industry is now merely receiving a little of the cream that it missed out on in years gone by. Let us be perfectly frank about it and admit this is one of the problems that beset industries of a primary nature because of the system under which we live- capitalism. One can like it or lump it, but it all gets back to the basics of the system under which we live. I hope that the Minister for Primary Industry  (Senator Wriedt),  together with the meat industry, will before very long evolve some plan for the rationalisation of the industry that will take punting, if one can call it that, out of the industry. As someone said recently, we seem to be able to sell most other commodities by weight. We sell our wool by weight. We do not walk up to a bale of wool and give it a kick in the ribs and say that it will go about 1,000 lb or 1,200 lb. I think it is time the meat industry got down to a basic system of weight and grade right across the Commonwealth. If it were to do that I think it would be in a much more stable situation year after year. 
Earlier  Senator Webster  mentioned something about what the Victorian Dairyfarmers Association thought about the loss of the dairying subsidy. Quite frankly, from my discussions with members of that organisation and from the position I hold in it, I think it has adopted a very rational approach. It is not the only one to do so. 
-Quite frankly I believe that by and large it does. A little later in my speech I will quote from an article in a journal which I think gives a fair description of what the average dairy farmer in Victoria thinks about it. I am not denying that some areas of the dairying industry will be fraught with problems because of the phasing out of the subsidy- the loss of 2c per lb on butterfat- but, as I have said, I think that by and large the industry in Victoria has accepted the loss and is prepared to battle on without it. 
Let me quote what the leader of the largest milk co-operative in Victoria and, I think, in Australia had to say in a journal published recently, the 'Murray Goulburn News'. The headline reads: 'Don't Despair- the Forecast is Fair'. The person to whom I am referring is  Mr E.  Curtis, who is the  Chairman  of the Murray Goulburn Co-operative Co. Ltd. He said: 
Few of us have enjoyed being described as 'subsidised dairy fanners '. Many of us, over the years, have thought aloud that we in Victoria, at least, might be better off without what has often amounted to a $27m public relations millstone slung around our necks. 
Now we are going to find out what it is like. 
We have watched our friendly rivals in New Zealand 'walk tall ' and boast of their efficiency and their ability to cope without direct subsidies. We have seen the New Zealanders use their subsidy-free status to help win them a slice of the British market until at least 1977. 
Let us be frank. The subsidy has been useful for most of us. In slim years it has put a little cream on the skim. Other times it has helped buy that replacement car. 
But for most of us the loss of the subsidy over the next two years is not going to be a disaster. In the short-term it may mean that we have to work a little harder. But if one thinks of it in terms of running an additional three cows on the average farm the sacrifice may not be too great . . . not if we gain in return some additional self-respect, more sympathetic consideration from the public and the Government, and a greater say over our own destiny. 
Much will depend on how we as thinking dairy farmers shape up to our future. We now have a greater incentive than" ever before to put our house in order- to throw off the cobwebs and the slogans of the past and show the world that we are as efficient as the New Zealanders and fully capable of managing our own affairs. lt may be that many of us have been guilty of that cardinal sin . . . of swallowing our own propaganda. Certainly we have accepted too readily many of the things our leaders have told us. We have been too uncritical of their performance, too ready to accept their arguments and their decisions, too uninterested in the policies they have formulated on our behalf. 
Any dairy farmer who is not making a good living and who is not taking a keen interest in the affairs of his industry has only himself to blame. A man who sits in a darkened room should not be surprised if he is blinded by a sudden blaze of light. 
We can anticipate some reduction in farm returns from dairying this season. That is virtually inevitable with a $9m cut in the subsidy and a reduced return from exports- especially of butter. 
But there is no sign of a return to the gloomy days of the sixties. Skimmed milk powder and milk products are still bringing excellent prices and are in great demand. If anything, we expect prices to strengthen in the coming months. Customers are still standing in line for these products. 
He finishes up: 
The barometer is set 'fair'; there is no cause for panic 
I hope that that answers  Senator Webster's  question regarding how the dairy industry in Victoria feels about the loss of subsidy. At least a large section of the dairy industry in Victoria thinks along those lines. Let us go a little further and look at the situation for the dairy industry in Australia regarding market potential for the year. These market prospects have improved quite remarkably in recent months. It is estimated that Australia will produce 1 90,000 tons of butter this year. I understand that there are orders or inquiries for some 220,000 tons of butter. Canada, which took 2,000 or 3,000 tons last year is seeking 15,000 tons this year. Therein may lie a tale. Canada implemented quotas on dairy production 7 years ago. Last year Japan took 6,000 tons of butter from Australia. I understand that this year it will be taking some 15,000 tons. Japan has also increased its order for cheese. This year that order is for over 20,000 tons. The net result of these markets, both in price and volume, may well result, in my opinion, in equalised returns to the farmer being high enough to offset the loss of bounty. I even hope that the returns will be higher, because I think that those of us who know anything at all about primary industry realise that this industry like every other industry is obliged to pay higher costs for its inputs. 
Another matter which has created quite a furore among primary producers has been the alteration in depreciation allowances. It has caused a great deal of emotion. I think that when these people sit down and think about it- particularly if they sit down and discuss the matter with their accountants- they will realise that they are not as badly off at this time as they believe they are. The loss of investment allowance was also suffered by secondary industry. In my opinion it was in reality a lurk for the Collins Street and Pitt Street farmer. However it did have a disadvantage in that it led to a great deal of over capitalisation on many farms. Again I believe that one can walk on to many farms- my own may have been one of them- where there was a tendency to over capitalise because of this investment allowance. 
-It is strange that I did not buy that until after I left the farm,  Senator Webster,  is it not? When I say 'over capitalised ' I believe that many items such as tractors, balers, headers, and what have you, were traded in not because they were worn out but because they had been written off as a depreciation for income tax purposes. This was certainly good for the makers of tractors, balers and headers. It was good for the sellers and agents in the country towns. It certainly gave a little bit of drived to many country towns. But by and large it was not of great value to the average farmer. In my experience a tractor on the average dairy farm has anything from 7 to 10 years life. Yet one consistently saw tractors being sold in some cases after three or four years just because this investment allowance was there. Other depreciable items will now be written off over thier life rather than over an artificial period. The move to have such items as clearing, initial plowing and sowing down along with drainage and soil conservation depreciated over 10 years rather than in the year of actual expenditure must act as a brake on the ravages of human beings on our forests and other marginal land. This type of depreciation allowance was utilised by the speculator who moved in, bought up cheap country, cleared it, sowed it down and cashed it in. The only return he wanted was depreciation allowance and capital gain. He certainly did not want any return from farming. 
In the world in which we live there are a large number of people who are concerned about conservation. I think that a party in national government has to keep its ear tuned to what the populace at large is saying. 
I do not think that all development is bad. What I am trying to point out is that the average and traditional farmer may have cleared a small area once in a lifetime. He is not the fellow who goes out and clears land year after year, so that in reality this was a benefit to the Collins Street and Pitt Street farmers, the doctors and lawyers who reside in rural towns and cities and who seem to be able to build up four or five farms within a very short time using this type of depreciation allowance on their income and then cashing it to get a capital gain. This is the type of operation which I believe any government aware of the thinking in the community should have accepted long ago. Quite frankly, in my opinion sufficient land is already developed in this country. If every acre which has been opened up and cleared is farmed correctly and to the best advantage there is no limit to the amount of agricultural produce we could turn off without going into these bushland and marginal areas. 
-That is more than the previous Government had. I will not take any great credit for vision but I certainly say that the previous Government had none. Generally, I believe that large areas of primary industry, particularly in wheat, wool, dairying and meat are in for what might be called good times. I hope that before long Bills can be introduced into this Parliament to implement the Labor Party's proposals for stability in meat and wool, particularly the latter. 
In closing my remarks I want to congratulate the Minister for Primary Industry  (Senator Wriedt)  on his attitude to the problems that he inherited and also for his attitude in stating time and again in answer to questions in the Senate that he will not be rushed into making ad hoc decisions that affect primary industry. I believe that, given time and thought, the primary industries under  Senator Wriedt  's leadership will benefit greatly. Although the proposals that the Labor Party has adopted may appear in the short term to be short-sighted or calamitous in the view of some honourable senators opposite, they will prove in the long term to be of benefit to primary industry. 
I understand that the Minister for Primary Industry will be visiting Japan for the forthcoming ministerial discussions. At that time will the Minister take the opportunity to raise with Japanese wool importers reports of their interest in providing financial assistance to the Australian industry to help to overcome price fluctuations which have an adverse result for both growers and consumers? 
asked the Minister representing the Treasurer, upon notice: 
Will the Treasurer provide an itemised statement of the funds paid out under the Export Incentive Grants Act for (a) the financial year 1971-72, and (b) for the financial year 1972-73, to date. 
My question is directed to the Minister for Primary Industry. In answer to a question yesterday he indicated that while in Japan next month he would be speaking to wool importing interests. In view of the volume of Australian primary products exported to Japan, will he indicate whether he will be taking the opportunity to discuss with the Japanese authorities commodities other than wool? 
My question is addressed to the Minister for Primary Industry. I understand that the Minister has received a detailed submission from the Australian Wheatgrowers Federation on a new 5-year wheat stabilisation plan. Can the Minister indicate when some announcement might be made about any new stabilisation plan? 
My question is directed to the Minister for Primary Industry. No doubt he is aware of the anxiety existing among wheat purchasing nations. In view of the expert predictions of a world-wide grain shortage this year, can the Minister indicate whether any clear picture of the likely level of Australia's wheat crop has emerged? 
My question follows along the lines of a question previously asked of the Minister for Primary Industry. In view of the reports that the Prime Minister, at his Press conference today, confirmed that yesterday Cabinet rejected the meat export levy proposed by the Parliamentary Joint Committee on Prices, will the Minister say whether such reports are correct? If so, what were the reasons for such a decision? 
-Has the Minister for Primary Industry any knowledge of a company known as Tas Stock Company (Victoria) Pty Ltd, which is now operating in Victoria but whose head office address is given as 2 Hilder Street, Burnie, Tasmania, and which sells indemnity against the loss of cattle by farmers? If he has any such knowledge, can he confirm or deny whether reports that the company is a bogus one and that its cheques are impregnated with rubber are correct? Was this firm the subject of some criticism by the Tasmanian Farmers Federation? Will the Minister ask his Department to carry out an investigation of the company? 
-Can the Minister for Primary Industry say whether reports are true that he has filled the producer vacancy on the Australian Dairy Produce Board with an appointee from an organisation other than the Australian Dairy Farmers Federation? Is this appointment a break with the normal pattern of appointments to the Dairy Produce Board and does the appointment comply with the provisions of the relevant Act? 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Transport. Has the attention of the Government been drawn to the announcement by the Ford Motor Company of Australia Ltd that it is recalling 9,000 Falcon motor vehicles due to faulty engine mountings in a suspected 3,000 vehicles? In view of the fact that in isolated cases this fault has apparently resulted in engine movement and consequent breakdown, will the Government refer this matter to the relevant investigatory body for a report on safety aspects of the vehicles concerned? 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for the  Navy,  upon notice: 
Has the Royal Australian Navy recently designed an improved type of life-saving; if so, is this jacket in use by Navy personnel. 
Will the jacket be made available to citizens generally through commercial outlets. 
-Has the attention of the Minister for Primary Industry been drawn to a Press statement by the Opposition spokesman for primary industry,  Mr Street,  claiming that the Government is selling large quantities of food products at cut-rate prices? Is it true that the Government has arranged sales at cheap rates? Would not recent agreements made with China, Japan, East Germany and other countries indicate that Australian primary producers are assured of long term sales at beneficial rates? 
I refer the Minister for Primary Industry to the new wool research and promotion program announced by him last night. Why has the Government decided to take a greater role in financing research work while leaving the wool industry with more responsibility for promotion? 
I refer the Minister representing the Minister for Transport to the recent report in the 'Australian' that the Victorian Car Consumers Association has proposed that there be a register of all vehicles involved in accidents where substantial damage has resulted. Has the Government had time to evaluate this proposal? If it has, would the adoption of such a register be likely to result in higher manufacturing standards and more stringent safety controls throughout the car industry? 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Science. In view of the experience over the proposed site for an institute of marine science at Cape Pallarenda in Queensland with regard to pollution, will the Minister have discussions with the Victorian Government on its proposals to site a similar institute at Portsea? Will not a similar problem arise at Portsea if the Victorian Government goes ahead with this scheme? Has the Minister read the case for the establishment of an institute in Western Victoria put forward by  Dr O'Brien  of the Warrnambool Institute of Advanced Education? Would not this be a better area for a marine institute in view of its attributes? Has the Royal Society of Victoria declined to meet  Dr O'Brien  and other members of the Western Victorian Institute Committee to discuss their case? Have any plans been drawn up at a national level for the rationalisation of marine institutes in Australia? Will the Australian Government have any financial commitment towards the proposed institute in Victoria? Will the Minister discuss this matter of the siting of marine institutes with officers of the Commonwealth Scientific and Industrial Research Organisation and, if necessary, ask that that body investigate the merits of all sites in Victoria so that we can be assured that the site selected will be the most advantageous from a national point of view? 
I direct my question to the Minister representing the Minister for Transport. Do Australian driving rules lay down that all new cars must be fitted with an effective demister? If so, will the Minister investigate reports that many GMH Toranas are on the road with ineffective demisters because of a badly designed control cable, the inner of which breaks, thus making the demister inoperative? 
-Is the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs aware of an article appearing in today's 'Australian' entitled 'ABCs of Black Policy'? In this article a journalist, who is unnamed, asks whether it is 'too much to ask to get him'that is the Minister- 'to spend a week with Kevin Gilbert at Taree to discuss Kevin's book'. In view of this statement I ask the Minister whether he has had any discussions with  Mr Gilbert?  If so, what is the Minister's attitude towards this Aboriginal? 
I present the following petition from 35 citizens of the Commonwealth: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate in Parliament assembled: 
The humble petition of the undersigned citizens of the Commonwealth respectfully showeth: 
That the present systems of financing of hospital and medical care in Australia are outdated, complex, unwieldy, and provide inadequate or no security against health care expenditure for a substantial proportion of the people of Australia; 
That the costs associated with the present schemes fall disproportionately on people having low and middle incomes; 
That there is an urgent need for a new national health insurance scheme, to which each person receiving an income should contribute an amount which is equitably calculated on the basis of that income, and which provides adequate security to each person against the costs of care for every kind of illness and injury. 
Your Petitioners therefore humbly pray that the parliament will speedily pass appropriate legislation to bring the benefits of an equitably financed, universal, and comprehensive health insurance scheme to the people of Australia. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
A petition in identical terms from 36 citizens of the Commonwealth was presented by  Senator Brown. 
Petition received and read. 
-Has the Minister for Primary Industry noted the comments of  Colonel McArthur,  the  Chairman  of the Australian Meat Board, in today's Press urging cattle men to put more stock on the market to avoid abnormally large yardings later in the year and a consequential price slump? Does the Minister support the Board Chairman's views? 
-Has the Minister for Primary Industry seen the report in today's 'Australian' that the Government is to spend $2 7 m to buy votes in the country? Can he say whether yesterday's announcement on dairy restructuring was purely a vote-catching gimmick or whether these adjustment proposals had been thoroughly thought out? 
-I give notice that on the next day of sitting I shall move: 
That the Senate take note of the report to the Prime Minister by a working group, dated May 1974, relating to rural policy in Australia. 
Grants to the States 
-Has the Minister for Customs and Excise seen recent newspaper articles which refer to possible dangers to Australia's livestock industry because of the outbreak of foot and mouth disease in Bali which is being visited by an increasing number of Australian tourists? Is he satisfied with the steps taken by the Department of Customs and Excise to prevent this disease entering Australia? 
I present the following petition from 41 citizens of Australia: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate in Parliament assembled: The humble petition of undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully showeth: 
That the existing National Health Scheme involves a vast amount of public money distributed by private Benefit Societies and that it is necessary to joint one of these to qualify for the full Government Health subsidy. 
That it is far too expensive and discriminates against lower income groups a lot of whom cannot afford the cost of membership or private medical treatment. 
That it is inequitable, inefficient and does not satisfy the needs of the community. 
Your petitioners therefore humbly pray that you will urgently legislate for a Comprehensive National Health Insurance Scheme, financed from taxation, and covering everybody instead of only those who can now afford it. 
And your petitioners, as in duty bound, will every pray. 
Petition received and read. 
My question is directed to the Minister for Agriculture. Has the Minister seen reports of a speech, highly critical of the Government's rural policies, made yesterday to the United Farmers and Woolgrowers Association of New South Wales by its past  President, Mr C.  Renshaw? Is it true that  Mr Renshaw  is a member of the Australian Wool Corporation? Is  Mr Renshaw  's attitude in direct conflict with the expressed views of other farming organisations? 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Foreign Affairs. Has the International Committee of the Red Cross written to the Australian Government seeking support for the participation of the Provisional Revolutionary Government of South Vietnam at the conference of government experts on weapons to be held in Switzerland in September and October this year? If so, has the Australian Government replied and can the Minister say in what vein? 
I rise to support the International Monetary Agreements Bill but at the same time to express some fears or doubts about Australian aid, particularly within the context of this Bill. When moving that the Bill be read a second time the Treasurer  (Mr Crean)  in the other place pointed out that the purpose of the Bill is to obtain parliamentary approval for Australia to take up a special increase of US$4 1.1 4m in its subscription to the capital stock of the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development- or, as it is more commonly called, the IBRD. The Treasurer went on to outline the functions of the IBRD and its affiliated institutions. The Treasurer pointed out, as did  Senator Cotton,  that the IBRD extends loans on conventional terms to creditworthy members. 
Unfortunately, the Bill does not outline the areas or the countries which will receive aid indirectly as a result of Australia's generosity, but one wonders whether any of it may be going to such places as South Vietnam. If it is, I am somewhat concerned about it, particularly when the Treasurer used the term 'creditworthy'. I understand that the World Bank as a result of a meeting last year sent an economic survey mission to Saigon in May and November to assess the economic situation in South Vietnam. I also understand that the findings of the mission were that the economy in that country was in a very bad shape, that in fact the economy can pay for only 6 per cent of its total imports and less than one-fifth of its total budget. If that be the case therein lies the reason for my apprehension. It would appear that as a result of meetings of some countries connected with the World Bank organisation it was decided that the United States of America would grant, through the World Bank, up to US$400m per annum to Saigon for at least 20 years to aid that country's economy. 
It seems somewhat strange also that whilst the United States government is content to pour aid, by way of the World Bank, into South Vietnam, there is no recognition by that government or in this Bill of the Provisional Revolutionary Government of South Vietnam- the Government that was recognised by the Paris agreements and a body that controls a rather extensive area of South Vietnam. One would think that if the World Bank was in any way impartial it would at least allow some of its aid to be used by that Government in that country. It leads me to ask whether the World Bank is purely and simply an economic wing of American foreign policy. I also ask whether- no one has been able to answer me so far- Canada has declined to participate in discussions on this question of aid through the World Bank and, if so, why? If possible I would like someone to answer that question because it seems to me that the Canadians may well be expressing some doubts about America's role and the role of the World Bank as regards aid to underdeveloped countries. Just as an aside, I think we should also look at the role Australia has played in relation to aid given to some countries and South Vietnam in particular. That is again the reason why I express some apprehension about the role of the World Bank, and it is the reason I ask where this money will finish up, which government will get it and to what end it will be used. 
Australian aid in South Vietnam in the past has in some cases been utilised to provide water supply systems at military bases. Da Nang is an example of this. Australian aid has been utilised also to provide water supplies at Vung Tau, which previously was an American base and where I understand the United States is now planning a major port development. Australian SEATO aid to South Vietnam has been utilised to supply water systems at strategic military command centres at Bien Hoa, Can Tho and another base in the central delta region. 
Finally, I want to say that I have grave doubts as to the proper utilisation of Australian government funds, in this instance by way of government to government aid. My own experience overseas earlier this year showed me that there was a great deal left to be desired. It does seem to me that we are content to pour money into underdeveloped countries. We send to these places a number of people of high repute. They are well meaning people but unfortunately they are people who do not understand the grass root problems. It seems to me that the country and the people applying the aid would, in many areas, be far better served by utilising the services of some of the thousands of tradesmen who are available in their own country- bricklayers, people who do electric wiring, carpenters, practical farmerswho can get right down on the ground and show these people in other countries the way a job should be tackled. I do not by any means denigrate the efforts that people in underdeveloped countries, particularly their tradesmen, are making, but some of the things I saw overseas would make one weep blood- all for the lack of a good practical man who would get down on the ground and, using his skill, pass on his knowledge to his kind in these underdeveloped countries. 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Defence. In view of protests made yesterday by workers at Government factories in Melbourne expressing concern that trade unions and workers have been excluded from talks on alternative work, will the Minister in future ensure that workers have representation at all discussions on these matters? 
Will the Minister for Agriculture clarify the Government's present attitude to restrictions on margarine production in Australia. Is it true, as claimed by many people, that abolition of margarine quotas would have very harmful effects on the Australian dairying industry? 
I ask the PostmasterGeneral whether he has seen reports recently which indicate that the Post Office is investigating a new form of mail delivery which would enable mail to be posted free by the sender and paid for by the recipient. Such reports also mentioned the use of this facility by members of Parliament in their communications with their constituents. Can the Postmaster-General say what the current position is in these investigations and whether such facilities will be made available free to members of Parliament? 
-Has the Minister for Foreign Affairs seen an article in this morning's Australian Financial Review' which states that in 1 973 official Australian aid came to only 0.45 per cent of the gross national product, compared with 0.59 per cent for the previous year? Is this statement true? If so, what is being done to correct the situation? 
I ask: Has the AttorneyGeneral seen a report published in a Melbourne weekly newspaper of 10 August which alleges that the former Attorney-General,  Senator Greenwood,  ordered investigations by the Australian Security Intelligence Organisation intoamong myself and others- two of his party colleagues, namely,  Mr Killen  and  Mr Chipp?  If so, can the Attorney-General verify the authenticity of the allegations? 
-I ask the Minister for the Media: Can he say whether there has been any increase in Australian programs on television since the introduction of the second stage of the points systems on 30 June? In which areas of programming is there designed to be an increase under the revised points system? 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Transport, upon notice: 
1 ) What information does the Minister obtain regarding the safety-related defect campaigns carried out by motor vehicle manufacturers. 
Were the first Bedford ERV6 model trucks released with helper springs too short at the rear; if so, how many of these trucks were sold. 
Did the manufacturers concerned recall the vehicles for modification; if so, how many were returned for modification. 
Can the Minister for Foreign Affairs provide any details of the condition of the Australian tourists who were injured in a bus smash in Kiyev in the Soviet Union? 
asked the Minister representing the Treasurer, upon notice: 
Who are the Directors of the Wellbuilt Furnishing Company. 
Who are the Directors of Dacon Furniture Manufacturers. 
What taxation has been paid by these companies in each of the last five years. 
Who are the creditors of the Wellbuilt Furnishing Company and what amount of money is owed to them. 
My question, which is directed to the Minister for Foreign Affairs, refers to the Australian Government's recognition of the republic of Guinea Bissau. Does this recognition also constitute recognition of the claim of Guinea Bissau to the Cape Verde Islands? 
-This debate probably has gone on for far too long. The motion is of no great moment to this country. However, as I indicated to my Whip earlier that I would speak I now desire to say a few words. Quite frankly, as I have said, this censure motion is of no great moment to the politics of this country. The motion will do nothing for the people of this country. One is hard put to understand the reasons why the Opposition should put forward such a puerile matter when there are so many other things with which we could far better fill in the day. The subject which the Opposition again brings out from under the bench is the battered old communist can- the same can as a previous Prime Minister utilised very effectively in the 1950s. I fear that that is where the minds of many of the Opposition senators still are. 
If there is a matter that this chamber would be far better off discussing for the betterment of the people of this country, it surely is a matter which has been raised in the Press around the world because it concerns countries right around the world. It has been raised in the Press and by various political spokesmen in Australian in recent weeks. I refer to the formation of vigilante groups and the ultra right wing forces in Australia. The development of these forces will play a far bigger role in the politics and history of this nation, if they are allowed to continue than would the Ermolenko affair or the recognition of the Baltic states of Eastern Europe. People such as  Mr Colin  Hines, the New South Wales  President  of the Returned Services League, are talking about the formation of a private army of 100,000 men. We also know from an article by 
Allan Farrelly in the Sydney 'Sun' of 19 August of the formation in Melbourne a year ago of an organisation known as the Friday The Thirteenth Committee which comprises top ranking intelligence and security officiers and is alleged to have links with the Citizen Military Forces and the Army. These are the sorts of organisations that this Parliament would be better off discussing, rather than the matter that is before the chamber today. 
There has been mention throughout the day in speeches by Opposition senators- in fact this is included in the motion- of concern about the denial of human rights. It seems rather strange to me that Opposition senators raise this matter of human rights only when it concerns the liberty or impinges on the rights of a person from the socalled communist countries or countries of the Left. Since I became a member of this Senate I have yet to hear any member of the Opposition express any concern about the liberty of any person from anywhere other than a communist country. I have yet to hear mem bers of the Oppositionraise their voices for the Nelson Mandelas of South Africa or Rhodesia. I have yet to hear them raise their voices about the civil liberties of people in South Korea, South Vietnam, Spain, Portugal or Chile. One can go on virtually ad infinitum. In fact, at the time of the Ermolenko incident Opposition senators tried to create in Western Australia another Petrov affair, which was one of the most shameful ever perpetrated on the nation of Australia. However, thanks to the courage, integrity and honesty of the Minister for Foreign Affairs  (Senator Willesee)  and his officers they were forestalled from creating a second Petrov incident. 
At this stage I think it is rather interesting to have a look at some of the personnel who were involved in this incident in Western Australia and at their political history and backgrounds. Two of the significant participants in the action taken in Perth to try to prevent  Mr Ermolenko  from leaving Australia were  Mr Harding,  the State organiser for the Federated Clerks Union in Western Australia and  Mr P.  O'Brien, a lecturer in politics at the University of Western Australia. Both these men have rather interesting political pasts. Both of them masqueraded as if they were acting in the interests of  Mr Ermolenko.  Both steadfastly held that Ermolenko did not wish to leave Australia, even after a large number of eminent and respectable people had, through personal discussions with him, testified to the contrary. The political allegiance of both these men is significant. They support extreme right wing political movements. 
They have a history of irresponsible and hellbent opposition to the Australian Labor Party and to the Australian Government. In fact, both are dedicated to destroying the Australian Labor Party and the Australian Labor Government. Firstly, let us have a look at  Mr O'Brien.  I think that Victorian senators will recall him rather well. While he resided in Victoria he created no end of problems for the Victorian branch of the Australian Labor Party. I see my colleague  Senator Brown  nodding his head in assent. In the early 1960s  Mr O'Brien,  in concert with a group of right wing academics- a notable member was  Mr Frank  Knopfelmacher- took over the Melbourne University ALP Club and then proceeded to propagandise on behalf of extreme right wing political elements but under the dishonest title of the Australian Labor Party. Articles under the ALP Club letterhead were produced to damage the ALP. The same articles often appeared at Monash University under the banner of that University's Australian Democratic Labor Party Club. This shows the duplicity of  Mr O'Brien.  He is well-known for taking advantage of his position as lecturer in politics at the University of Western Australia to propagandise to students, under the guise of academic teachings, his views about the danger to the community of the policies of the Australian Labor Party.  Mr O'Brien  has always defended American involvement in Vietnam. He has been a firm advocate of conscription in Australia. He has firmly stuck to these positions despite the fact that public enlightenment has left him as one of the few advocates from the extreme right for this cause. He has consistently associated himself with fringe right wing groups such as the World Freedom League. Those who have known him describe him as a full-time fanatical anticommunist. During the time that  Mr Ermolenko  was in Perth, and after he had left Perth,  Mr O'Brien  played an active role in distorting in newspapers in Western Australia what had happened. Suddenly he became a noted correspondent for the Bulletin'. As well, he ensured that there were ample public demonstrations at the Perth airport. He became known as the leader of a group at the airport called the Baltic watchers. He is just one of the types of people with whom the Minister for Foreign Affairs, his officers and people of goodwill had to contend. 
Let us have a look at one of the other gentlemen,  Mr Harding. Mr Harding  has had a history as a spokesman for the Democratic Labor Party on the Trades and Labor Council in Perth. He is a regular proposer of motions to the Council which are designed not to further union interests but to emphasise problems and to bring down the Australian Labor Government. I understand that last night at a union meeting  Mr Harding  sought to do against the secretary- I think it is  Mr Coleman-  of the Trades and Labor Council in Perth exactly what the Opposition is trying to do to the Minister for Foreign Affairs. When the matter was put to the meeting  Mr Harding  lost the motion 64 votes to 1. That is what members of the Trades and Labor Council think of  Mr Harding  in relation to the activities which he carried out during the rather dramatic week at the Perth airport.  Mr Harding  alone of those who personally interviewed  Mr Ermolenko  continued to claim that  Mr Ermolenko  was not speaking the truth. This fellow  Mr Harding  is something of a psychic. He told union members that he read an appeal for help in  Mr Ermolenko  's eyes. On the instructions of  Mr Harding  and other State Federated Clerks Union officials the Federated Clerks Union members at Perth airport continued to black ban all flights on which  Mr Ermolenko  could have left Perth.  Mr Harding  was instrumental in preventing the secretary of the Western Australia Trades and Labor Council from addressing Federated Clerks Union employees at the airport. When those employees finally arranged for the secretary of the Trades and Labor Council to address them- in spite of  Mr Harding's  effortsthey had the full facts presented to them for the first time. They agreed to reverse the instructions from the Federated Clerks Union officials that the black ban be maintained. 
Both the Federated Clerks Union State executive and the Federal executive were in continuous consultation with  Mr Harding  in order to prevent  Mr Ermolenko  's departure. They denied their union members the opportunity to learn the facts. The dedication with which  Mr Harding  and  Mr O'Brien  continued efforts to confuse the situation in Perth and to prevent  Mr Ermolenko  's departure after all others concerned had been satisfied that it was his wish to leave can be explained only by the personal bipartisan commitments of both men to damage the interests of the Australian Government. Their interest in  Mr Ermolenko  's welfare was a dishonest cover for their real motives. I think that is sufficient information for those of us who have knocked around the political movement for a number of years to get a fair idea of the motives of some people who claim that  Mr Ermolenko  wanted to stay in this country. 
I shall close with a rather short discourse about the recognition of the Baltic states and what was said here today by- if I remember correctlySenator Greenwood and  Senator Carrick.  If it was not said by both it was said by one of them. Suggestions were made that Australia would get votes from the Soviet Union, other countries of the Soviet bloc or the developing countries in support of  Senator Willesee  's candidature for  President  of the United Nations General Assembly in 1975 as a quid pro quo for the Australian Government's de jure recognition of the incorporation of the Baltic republics into the Soviet Union. Those suggestions are baseless. 
I wish to explain the situation that occurs in relation to these elections. The election of the  President  of the General Assembly is dictated by the convention that each year the major geographical groupings of the United Nations members take turns in choosing from amongst themselves an agreed candidate for the presidency. For example, in 1974 it is agreed that the developing countries group in the United Nations will provide the  president  of the General Assembly. It is expected that Algeria will provide the  President  as agreed by that group. The group's nomination will be accepted by all other members of the General Assembly without a vote. In 1975- this is the year in which it has been suggested that  Senator Willesee  will throw his hat into the ring- it is agreed that the Western Europe and Other Countries group, of which Australia is a member, will provide the candidate. The campaign for the candidacy of  Senator Willesee,  therefore, is confined to seeking the agreement of members of that group to his candidacy. The members of that group are: Australia, Austria, Belgium, Britain, Canada, Denmark, the Federal Republic of Germany, Finland, France, Greece, Iceland, Ireland, Italy, Luxembourg, Malta, the Netherlands, New Zealand, Norway, Portugal, Spain, Sweden and Turkey. It is clear then that there is no point in trying through any action whatsoever to obtain the support of the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics or of any other country outside the Western Europe and Other Countries group for Australia's candidacy. 
In closing, I wish to state that I support, as do all honourable senators on this side of the Senate, the down to earth, forthright decision that the Minister for Foreign Affairs made in Perth some 2 weeks ago. I believe, and I am quite sure that the bulk of the Australian people believe, that the action he took was to the best advantage of the young Russian who was the victim of political stunters in Perth who are opposed to the Australian Labor Party. 
The ACTING  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Marriott)-  I call  Senator Greenwood  who will be closing the debate. 
-I move: 
That the Senate take note of the report to the Prime Minister by a working group, dated May 1974, relating to rural policy in Australia. 
At the outset I indicate that I believe that the document which the working group produced will set down the guidelines and broad philosophy for agriculture in Australia for a long time to come. The paper, which is the result of the initiative taken by the Labor Government since it came to power in 1972, is something of an historic document. It is the first paper on agriculture which has been drawn up by a government for more than 20 years. It sets out some of the problems- to a large extent, probably all of the problems- confronting the rural sector and, whilst not drawing any conclusions, presents many thoughts on ways and means by which these problems can be overcome. In drawing up the document the working party considered more than 100 submissions from primary producers, academics, and one would believe, people from a vast cross-section of the Australian scene. However, it must be stressed that the document is by no means the policy of the Labor Government. As I said earlier, it should be a guide to this Government and, one would assume, to any government that governs Australia during the next few years. 
The great overriding problem that one sees in agriculture- it is perhaps being pointed up at the present time- is the instability in income for the primary producer. This is not new; it never has been new in the Australian agricultural scene. Prices of various products have fluctuated due to problems across the world and across Australia. They fluctuate because of the economic policies of importing countries and the quirks of nature in Australia itself. One only has to think of the price trends in wool and beef for as short a period as the last 12 months to have some realisation why some farmers in the community are presently expressing some anger. At the present time a prime bullock sells for about $140, whereas earlier this year a beast of exactly the same quality and type was selling for almost $400. The price of wool fluctuates not quite as severely as the price of beef, but almost at the same rate. 
The Australian Labor Party realises that in these circumstances there is bound to be some frustration, anger and qualms expressed about the future of agriculture in Australia as farmers see it. However, I say to those farmers who are talking about taking militant action, such as driving their tractors on to the roads, cutting off the supply of produce to their counterparts in the cities and doing all sorts of things short of engaging in civil war, that in my opinion they should go back, sit on the slip rail and rethink or reanalyse the case, and not come out, as many of them are tending to do, and blame the Government. Quite frankly, I think that if they sit down in a rational way and think the thing through properly, they will realise that to a large extent they are the victims of the free enterprise system which many of them have proclaimed and continue to proclaim as being the be-all and the end-all of society. They also will realise, if they think this matter through, that a good deal of their problem lies in the finance and politics of the European Economic Community, Japan and America. Perhaps, while they are doing this within the framework of the free enterprise system in which so many of them glorify, they will take a cold hard look at the free auction system. 
And also, as  Senator McLaren  rightly points out, have a look at Dennys Lascelles Ltd and the various other stock groups that have battened on to them ever since Australia was taken away from  Senator Bonner's  people. If any move has been made to try to solve the problems that beset primary industries at the present time, surely it is the initiative that was taken by the Minister for Agriculture  (Senator Wriedt)  when he formed the Rural Advisory Council. This body is chaired by a man whom I know personally-  Mr Heffernan  of Victoria. He is a man of high calibre and high integrity. If those who sit under his chairmanship are of the same calibre and integrity- I have no doubt that they are- then I believe that this organisation can be a strong link between the growers or the farmers and this Government or any other government. I believe that, once this Council gets to work and sits down with the Minister and his advisers, many of the problems now confronting the primary industries will diminish. 
The Green Paper, as it has become known, touches on most, if not all, of the facets of agriculture in Australia which are too numerous to enumerate in total. Apart from a basic background of agriculture, it goes right through Government assistance, stabilisation and efficiency, land and rural credit policies, agricultural research and extension services and marketing policies including market information and communication. Let me say here that, if there is an area in which governments and primary producers in the past have been remiss, it is this very vital area of market information and communication. One has only to be aware of the situation that applies in the meat market of New Zealand to be fully aware that in Australia we have not even started to think about doing our homework as it relates to market information and communication. It has been a dead area and it is one of the areas that will have to be moved on very quickly in order to help the meat section of our market to which it specifically applies to cope with the problems of today. Primary producers take their stock to the market. No one who takes them there can give a guarantee of quality. At the other end of the line no one ever lets the farmer know what type of meat the market actually requires. So we have farmers continuing to produce animals that may or may not be, by some fluke chance, the type of meat that the consumer requires. 
The Green Paper also goes into the field of rural reconstruction, the welfare of rural people, land utilisation, environment and conservation, decentralisation and so on. As I said earlier, the list goes on ad infinitum. One area which it does not touch and which is giving and has given a great deal of concern throughout rural Australia in recent years- perhaps the concern has always been there but lately it has been highlighted- is the question of rural towns. The working party may have felt that this matter was outside the scope of the brief which it was given. But I believe that it is time that some other working group was put to work to study rural towns. It may well be that an offshoot of the Department of Urban and Regional Development could carry out this task. The interim report of the Henderson Committee, which was presented earlier this year, pointed up the fact that the rate of poverty is twice as high in rural towns as in metropolitan areas. 
To come back to the Green Paper and more specifically to marketing, there has been a good deal of discussion amongst the primary producer organisations in recent years on this question of marketing and the opinion has been expressed consistently that if marketing can be improved from the farmer's point of view there is bound to be a higher return for the goods which they produce. The farmers have felt that better marketing through the introduction of better techniques would increase their pay packets. It was rather disconcerting to read that section of the Green Paper and to be informed by the people who compiled it- I believe that they had sufficient information on which to base their case- that the costs of better marketing as they currently apply and will apply in the future will mean that despite better marketing by the farmer he will not receive any higher price for his produce. This is a rather alarming situation. It continues the situation that has always prevailed with primary produce in that the farmer, of course, only receives what is left after all the other people involved have taken their share out of the final price. If it is the case that improved marketing techniques by primary producers will not give them an increase in income, then one wonders where primary producers will go for an increase in their income. The overwhelming majority of primary producers in this country are hard working and, within the restrictions of their total environment, very efficient. Yet we are told in the Green Paper that no more than 4 per cent of our farmers have received a post-school education. In fact, of the developed nations Australia has the lowest percentage of farmers with a post-school education. I believe that this must be a cause for some concern on the part of the Government because, as I read the agricultural scene, having lived in it all my life, and as I see it projected into the future, it is very obvious to me that over the next decade or so people with no post-school education will not be able to cope with the intricacies and the techniques which are constantly evolving in agriculture. I believe that here is a task for some governments to give serious thought to, and frankly I do not know how one gives farmers a post-school education over any extended period if they are to continue to look after their farms. Farming has always seemed to me to be rather a 24-hour job, but perhaps we can evolve some system whereby these farmers can be relieved of their duties over a period of time to allow them to engage in further academic studies. I believe that the authors of this paper deserve the thanks of all of us. 
As I have already said, it is a very comprehensive document. I guess that it has been studied by hundreds if not by thousands of people across rural Australia and by not only farmers but also academics, agricultural extension officers and people in departments of agriculture. The call for the paper- people have contacted me- has virtually utilised every copy which has come to print at this stage. In fact, it has been a very hard document to obtain. For that reason it might not be distributed as widely as it could well be but I believe that the great bulk of people who are interested in the matter by some means or other will have access to a copy. I think that covers all I wish to say about the matter. I repeat that I believe it is a first class document, put together by a hardworking group of people and that, to a very large extent, it will be the bible for agriculture in Australia for the future. 
The ACTING  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Milliner)-  Is the motion seconded? 
My question is addressed to the Minister representing the Minister for Manufacturing Industry. Is it a fact that spare parts for black and white television sets are becoming unobtainable? If so, is this due to a deliberate policy by manufacturers as a means of forcing people to purchase colour sets? 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Transport. Can he confirm that the first report on the inquiry into the maritime industry has been received by the Government? If it has been received, what action has the Government so far taken as a result of the recommendations in that report? 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Transport, upon notice: 
Did General Motors-Holden's Pty Ltd produce HQ Model Holdens in 1973 which were fitted with defective clutch plates, if so, how many cars were produced with this fault. 
How many such cars were recalled or what procedures were adopted to replace any faulty clutches and at whose cost. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Transport, upon notice: 
Were Bedford trucks placed on the market with a reverse gear which slipped out on steep grades. 
Would such a fault affect the safety of the trucks. 
How many such trucks were sold and what steps did General Motors-Holden's Pty Ltd take to overcome the fault, and at whose cost. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Transport, upon notice: 
1 ) Were a number of Holden HQ and Torana LJ cars produced in which the head rest would not remain in an extended position. 
Were a number of HQ Holden Sedans, coupe and station wagons placed on the market with rear springs of insufficient strength to safely allow the towing of trailers or caravans: If so, how many. 
Were such vehicles recalled. 
Did General Motors-Holden's Pty Ltd recently carry out an advertising campaign urging the public to buy AC Spark Plugs to reduce pollution: If so, does this advice in any way conflict with the fact that on some Torana LJ engines it has been found necessary to remove a restrictor on the air cleaners. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Transport, upon notice: 
1 ) Were a number of Holden HQ and Torana LJ cars produced in which the head rest would not remain in an extended position. 
Were a number of HQ Holden Sedans, coupe and station wagons placed on the market with rear springs of insufficient strength to safely allow the towing of trailers or caravans: If so, how many. 
Were such vehicles recalled. 
Did General Motors-Holden's Pty Ltd recently carry out an advertising campaign urging the public to buy AC Spark Plugs to reduce pollution: If so, does this advice in any way conflict with the fact that on some Torana LJ engines it has been found necessary to remove a restrictor on the air cleaners. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Transport, upon notice: 
Did General Motors-Holden's Pty Ltd place on the market HQ Holden and LJ Torana vehicles with fuel tanks subject to leaking at the seams: if so how many such vehicles were produced and what steps were taken to overcome the fault. 
Would such a fault affect the safety of the vehicles. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Transport, upon notice: 
Did General Motors-Holden's Pty Ltd place on the market HQ Holden and LJ Torana vehicles with fuel tanks subject to leaking at the seams; if so how many such vehicles were produced and what steps were taken to overcome the fault. 
) Would such a fault affect the safety of the vehicles. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Transport, upon notice: 
1 ) On how many Holden HQ, Bedford CF and Torana LJ Model cars did General Motors-Holden's Pty Ltd replace oil pumps, and at whose cost. 
Was the fault a result of incorrect checking procedures on the transmissions of these vehicles. 
-Has the Minister for Agriculture seen reports of the impending withdrawal of Kraft Foods Ltd from the cheese equalisation scheme? As it has long been agreed that this company has been the linchpin of equalisation, what action, if any, can the Australian Government take to prevent the collapse of the scheme should Kraft withdraw? 
My question is directed to the Postmaster-General. In view of Leyland 's current difficulties and reorganisation, does the Minister expect any problems in relation to the purchase of Leyland mini-vans for the courier service? 
-Has the Minister for Agriculture seen reports of accusations by the leader of the Australian Democratic Labor Party,  Mr McManus,  that the Prime Minister is responsible for the present low returns to rural producers? Does the Minister agree with these accusations? 
-Has the AttorneyGeneral seen the section of the transcript of last 
Saturday's Australian Broadcasting Commission program 'Four Corners' in which a member of the Sydney Stock Exchange criticised the AttorneyGeneral for not prosecuting directors of companies registered in the Australian Capital Territory 'arising from their telling lies during the minerals boom'? Is there any evidence in the report of the Senate Select Committee on Securities and Exchange that such directors did tell lies? Is there any evidence that directors of New South Wales companies and/or members of the Sydney Stock Exchange did indulge in malpractices during the minerals boom? 
-Has the Minister for Agriculture heard complaints that the National Rural Advisory Council is not truly representative of farmers? Can he tell the Senate what is the composition of the Council, its role and what emerged from its first full meeting? 
I  present the following petition from 497 citizens of the Commonwealth: 
To the Honourable the  President  and the Members of the Senate in Parliament assembled: 
The humble petition of the undersigned citizens of the Commonwealth of Australia respectfully showeth: 
That, we, the undersigned, are not opposed to the simplification of divorce proceedings, but have serious objections to the Family Law Bill 1974; 
That, the concept of marriage contained in Section 26 subsection 2 is of marriage as a transitory, and temporary union dissolvable by the simple passing of a period of twelve months separation; 
That, such a concept of marriage will destroy the contractual nature of marriage, undermine the total commitment of two persons to each other and threaten the integrity of family life which is the basis of our society; 
That, a Bill with such serious implications deserves to be considered as a matter of public importance and be the object of the community debate which it warrants. 
Your petitioners most humbly pray that the Senate in Parliament assembled should vote against the Bill in its present form, allow public consideration of amendments and then vote to so amend the Bill as to strengthen and support marriage and the family in a manner acceptable to the people of Australia. 
Your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
I  present the following petition from 17 citizens of Victoria: 
To the Honourable the  President  and the members of the Senate in Parliament assembled: The humble petition of the undersigned citizens of the State of Victoria respectfully showeth: 
That the Family Law Bill (1974) is a matter of public importance; 
That the subject matter of the clauses of the Bill will ultimately have the widest effects on the lives of the citizens of Australia; 
That the proposals contained in this Bill are not adequately known to the citizens of Australia; 
That the Bill as such has not been the object of the public scrutiny, dialogue and debate which it deserves; 
That for these reasons grave concern is felt that the Bill may be passed before the community is aware of its long term consequences; 
Your petitioners most humbly pray that the Senate in Parliament assembled should vote that the Family Law Bill ( 1974) be made the subject of further community study and that to facilitate this aim the debate on this Bill be adjourned until April, 1975. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
-I bring up  the report of Estimates Committee D relating to the particulars of proposed expenditure for the year 1974-75, together with the Hansard record of the Committee's proceedings. I move: That the report be printed. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Defence, upon notice: 
Is the Royal Australian Navy co-operating with American scientists to hunt submarines of the Union of the Soviet Socialist Republics in the Indian Ocean, using sonar equipment. 
Have the Americans set up sonar tracking stations around the Australian coast, including one inside territorial waters adjacent to the Great Barrier Reef; if so, was such a station established with the concurrence of the Australian Government. 
What control over the station referred to in (2) does the Australian Government have. 
Has the Minister for Agriculture seen reports of the farmers' meeting, attended by fewer than 100 people, in Melbourne on Sunday afternoon? If so, does such a small response indicate that earlier rallies of farmers in Victoria may have been motivated by the Liberal Party, the Australian Country Party and the League of Rights and were not in fact gatherings of farmers with genuine grievances towards the Australian Government? 
I ask the Minister for Repatriation and Compensation: In view of the Australian Labor Party's announced policy to restore the war widows' pension to not less than its 1949 value, can the Minister say whether this value has yet been reached? If not, when will it be reached? Can the Minister give an assurance that these pensions will not be allowed to drop to the unrealistic levels experienced during the 23 years of Liberal-Country Party government? 
I ask the Minister for the Media: Did the Department of the Media convene an international television symposium in Sydney last week? Can the Minister say how it was received by those who attended it and what have been its results? Is it intended to hold similar seminars in the future? 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Labor and Immigration, upon notice: 
1 ) Was  Mr J.  Grenville, the Federal Secretary of the Clerk's Union, a member of a recent delegation to a meeting of the International Labour Organisation. 
Was  Mr Grenville  a member of one of the International Labour Organisation's commissions and the only person from all ofthe participating nations to vote against a resolution condemning the Government of Chile. 
Could the status of  Mr Grenville  at the meeting be construed in a way which would suggest that he was representing the Australian Government at this gathering. 
How did  Mr Grenville  come to bc appointed to the delegation. 
I ask the Minister for the Media whether his Department has made any attempt to ascertain a profile of the media industries. Has the Department looked into employment structure and numbers? Has an effort been made to evaluate what the media industries are worth in their many forms? Has there been an opportunity to look at the question of ownership of these industries? 
-I present the report and transcript of evidence of the inquiry by the Standing Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence into the adequacy of the Australian Army to perform its necessary part in the defence of Australia. 
Ordered that the report be printed. 
I move: 
That the Senate take note of the report. 
In considering the matter of the adequacy of the Australian Army the Committee has attempted to review and assess the efficiency and capabilities of the Army at the present time and for the years immediately ahead. The terms of the reference have been taken to include not only consideration of the size and structure but also a range of factors relating to the Army's capabilities, efficiency, competency and professionalism. Although we have focused our attention primarily on the Army we have been acutely aware that the Army's part in our defence cannot be isolated from the overall effort which involves all 3 Services. Accordingly we have referred to each of the Services and have recommended various courses of action which affect them. The Committee has been conscious also of the need to view the Armed Services' role in the defence of Australia in the much broader context of the social, economic and political determinants of national wellbeing. 
The Committee's report comprises 3 broad parts. In the first the Committee considers Australia's strategic situation together with other considerations and constraints relating to the practical problems of defence planning. We have aimed in this part to highlight the principal features which affect Australia's defence policy and hence determine the scope of the overall defence effort required of the 3 Armed Services within the context of our total national capacity- in other words, to formulate our views concerning the nation's overall defence requirements. The second and by far the greatest part of the report concentrates on the Army as a whole. In this section we have considered and recommended various courses concerning the organisation and capabilities of the Army, its arms, equipment and manpower, and the support which is provided by the Royal Australian Navy and the Royal Australian Air Force. Higher command and control problems have also been examined, together with the problems which confront the profession at arms in peacetime. Our conclusions and recommendations are summarised for convenience in the final part of the report. Although I do not wish to speak at length at this stage, I believe the Committee's recommendations are worthy of close consideration by the Government. We feel sure that the report, which has the unanimous agreement of the members of the Committee, will promote considerable debate in a variety of forums, including this chamber. We look forward to such debate. 
On behalf of the Committee I wish to express sincere appreciation to the many individuals and organisations who presented evidence to us and who assisted with the inquiry in a host of ways. The Committee is appreciative of the specialised advice which was provided by  Colonel J.  A. Warr throughout the duration of the inquiry. Finally, special mention should be made also, I believe, of my colleague,  Senator Drury,  who chaired the Committee from the commencement of the inquiry through to the final stages of the preparations of the report prior to leaving in August for the United Nations. I commend the report to the Senate. 
I ask the Minister for the Media whether the Australian film industry is in a sound state and as such is now in a position to spread its activities outside this country. If so, is this a sign of a growing international reputation? How does this situation compare with the industry's position before the present Government came to office? 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Transport, upon notice: 
1 ) Has the Melbourne to Canberra overnight rail passenger service via Goulburn now been suspended for a period of ten weeks. 
Have other mainline services, such as the 'Southern Aurora' and 'Spirit of Progress' between Sydney and Melbourne now returned to normal. 
If the answers to (1) and (2) are in the affirmative, what are the intentions of the Commonwealth Railways Commissioner, the New South Wales Department of Transport and the Victorian Railways Department concerning restoration of the Canberra overnight service. 
My question is addressed to the Minister for the Media. Are television stations approaching what is called the nonsurvey period? Is this the time when the quality of programming falls off because many popular productions go into recess, to be replaced by low quality repeat shows, many of them imported? Is this related to the fact that the ratings survey firms do not conduct surveys? Is the Minister prepared to do anything about this in the interests of the Australian viewing public who usually have to face up to a wasteland of television entertainment over the next 3 months? 
-I bring up a report from the Senate Standing Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence. As the report is only 2 paragraphs in length, I trust that honourable senators will bear with me while I read it. It reads: 
Under the terms of the resolution re-appointing the Legislative and General Purpose Standing Committees on 1 7 September 1974, the Standing Committees have power to inquire into and report upon matters which were referred to them during previous sessions. 
In the light of this discretionary power, the Standing Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence has considered three references in this category, namely: 
Thailand '; 
All matters relating to the recognition of China and the status of Taiwan'; and 
The role of ANZUK as a result of change in Australia 's defence establishment in South East Asia '; and has resolved not to proceed with them. 
My question is directed to the Minister for Agriculture. Is it correct that the leader of the National Action Group recently indicated that it had been necessary to form such an organisation because of the inability of the Australian Country Party to represent the interests of rural dwellers and primary producers? Is it also correct that the Orange Branch of the Australian Country Party is reported to have passed a motion of no confidence in the New South Wales Liberal-Country Party Government, condemning that Government's attitude towards rural dwellers? Can the Minister confirm that the present Australian Government will continue to consider sympathetically submissions from rural interests? 
My question is directed to the Minister for Agriculture. I ask: Is it a fact that the Iraqi trade delegation that was recently in New Zealand has returned home without visiting Australia? Did the mission purchase meat in New Zealand and has it made any offers to buy meat from Australia? 
I direct my question to the Minister for Agriculture. I understand the Minister has had in mind for some time revising the powers, functions and composition of the Australian Dairy Produce Board in order more effectively to meet the present day demands of the market place. Can the Minister inform the House when any developments might take place in this regard? 
My question is addressed to the Minister for Agriculture. In view of the widespread interest amongst wool growers in the continuation of the floor price plan for wool beyond the current season, I ask: When will the Minister be in a position to announce the Government's intentions in this regard? Has he received the views of the Australian Wool Corporation on the continuation of the scheme? 
Has the Minister for Repatriation and Compensation given any consideration to the plight of South Vietnamese refugees, particularly the orphans who are being flown to Australia? Will he make available the facilities of his Department to assist in this operation? 
-Will the Minister representing the Minister for Social Security tell the Senate what steps have been taken to ensure the welfare of the 200 orphans from Vietnam who have already been brought to Australia? How can the Australian Government be sure that these children are adopted by suitable parents? 
-Has the Minister for Agriculture seen reports to the effect that it may now not be possible to fulfil the Russian order of beef due to the low contract price and a recent slight rise in the price of beef on the hoof? 
My question is addressed to the Minister for Agriculture. Is it a fact that prices for Australian meat are increasing in the United States? If so, what are the reasons? 
-Can the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs give the Senate details regarding the Rumbalara Aboriginal housing settlement in Victoria? Is it correct that the Aboriginal people in the area desire to reside there once again, although the State Government has not agreed to hand ownership of the land to the Aboriginal community? Has the Minister any idea whether this hand-over will take place? If so, when is it to take place? 
-I ask the Minister for the Media: Can he inform the Senate whether the Australian Broadcasting Commission is to continue to co-operate with the National Broadcasting Commission of Papua New Guinea after that country achieves independence? 
-Has the Minister for Manufacturing Industry seen Press reports of a speech by the Queensland  President  of the Institute of Surveyors,  Mr K.  Davies, to the effect that there is confusion and demoralisation in Australia's small business sector and that discrimination against small enterprises is rife in Australia? Is there any factual basis for those statements? If so, does the Minister intend to do anything about it? 
My question is directed to the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs. Has the Minister been given the opportunity of studying the book entitle'd 'Voices From Other Cultures', which was edited by Robin Burns? The book implies that there have been blatant examples of racial discrimination against a trained Aboriginal nursing sister who is employed by the Aboriginal Medical Service in Sydney. The woman concerned was asked to leave a restaurant in Kings Cross during the course of a meal by a member of the staff of the restaurant because of - 
My question is addressed to the Minister for Agriculture. What stage has been reached in the Minister's plan to reorganise the Australian Dairy Produce Board? Has the Minister discussed the proposed measures with the industry? If so, what has been the reaction? 
-The Minister for Agriculture will recall Opposition members in the House of Representatives forecasting on Tuesday great gloom and depressed prices on the wool market because of the delay in announcing the floor price for 1975-76. Can the Minister indicate what is the position on the wool market at the present time? 
-To speak at any length in this debate at this hour of the night so late in what has been a rather heavy session of the Parliament would be almost akin to a dairy farmer being pulled away from his evening meal after a hard day's work to go to assist a cow that is calving, to help a cow that has milk fever or something like that. Therefore, it is not my intention to speak at any length. As has been said already, the proposals before the Senate tonight will set up an Australian Dairy Corporation to replace what has been for many years the old Dairy Produce Board. 
As  Senator Bessell  mentioned, the new Corporation will have a membership of eleven. I think that the industry must surely be very pleased with the attitude that the Government has taken in regard to representation on the new Corporation of dairy farmers themselves. Whereas in the past the producers were entitled to only 3 representatives on a board of thirteen, on the new Corporation the dairy farmers have an entitlement to 3 members out of eleven which, in effect, increases the dairy farmer representation on the Corporation. As I have said, I think the Minister for Agriculture  (Senator Wriedt)  is to be congratulated for his endeavours in that field. I have no doubt that he was under a great deal of pressure from the industry, as he would be from all other industries at the time of revamping any statutory body, to place more people from all camps on that body. In this instance however he has, I think, been very wise and, because of the diversification of the industry in Australia, has retained the dairy farmers' strength on the proposed Corporation at three, which is, as I have said, a greater proportion than it was under the previous Act. 
The Bill also increases the trading powers of the Corporation. Within the industry over the last decade both at farmer level and at farmer body level the question of marketing has become a rather topical issue. Perhaps it may be said belatedly that the industry is moving into this field; and thanks be to the Minister that that is the case. It is an area, I believe, where to a large extent the industry has fallen by the wayside. Let us hope that with the appointment of specialist people to the proposed Corporation the Corporation can now catch up with what it may have been lacking in the past. 
I noticed in one of this morning's newspapers that the Board had moved into the Middle East and obtained a market in Iran. On a visit that I was privileged to make into that area some 18 months ago I was informed by the Iranian Minister for Trade that dairy produce was one commodity that the Iranian Government was in search of. We were told that the Iranian Government was prepared to do deals on a long term basis- 5, 10, 15 or even 20 years- and money was no object. To me this type of deal is the ideal situation ibr all primary produce boards or corporations, provided we can guarantee some form of supply over periods and have an assured market when the goods are produced. This is certainly much better than the old catchascatchcan situation which prevailed with a great deal of our produce in times past. 
The proposals we are debating tonight are the second major effort by the Labor Governmentwhich is so often described as being antiruralsince it came to office to revamp the dairy industry. Previous proposals allowed for the broadening of the marginal dairy farm reconstruction scheme and granted interest free loans to dairy farmers to assist in the switch-over from water cooled or canned milk to refrigerated bulk milk vats. I know that there has been a great demand for this money right across Australia and even in my own State where, I believed, demand would not be as great as it would be in some of the warmer climates. However, in my own region alone it is anticipated that perhaps some 1 700 to 2000 dairy farmers will be applying for funds to switch over. I think that endeavours like this by the Government and by the Minister must surely lay somewhat to rest the hoary claim of the Labor Party's being anti-rural. If we have a look at other aspects of our policy in the cold, hard realities of daylight and see the money that this Government has been prepared to spend in regard to the wool industry and the money that it has poured into the beef industry, surely such claims fall flat on their face. 
The dairy industry has changed, is changing and of course must continue to change. Hundreds or perhaps thousands of dairy farmers have gone out of the occupation over the last 1 5 or 20 years. The industry is tending to settle itself into what one might describe as the traditional dairy farming areas rather than in the marginal land as was sometimes the case in the past. This has been done not out of desire but out of necessity, as we see if we trace the history of the dairy industry in this country since the settlement by white Anglo-Saxons some 200 years ago. 
I take  Senator Bonner's  point, it was probably an invasion. As  Senator Bessell  has mentioned, the dairy industry requires people to work long hours- in many areas, 7 days a week, 365 days a year. For that reason it has become exceedingly difficult in that industry to obtain labour, particularly youthful labour. One cannot blame young people for wanting to work a 40-hour, 5-day week so that they can go and play football or drink beer on a Saturday or Sunday or do things that their mates in town want to do. Because of this the industry has tended to become more capital intensive, and this in turn has created a problem for young people to be able to establish themselves on a dairy farm. A dairy farm is probably no worse than a sheep farm or a beef farm but because the industry is capital intensive it is creating problems for the young people who wish to enter into it. The figures that have been taken out over recent years show that the average dairy farmer in Australia is of my age group and older. I know jolly well that if I tried to go back and milk 85 cows right now I would not be able to manage it. 
As I mentioned before, in the past the industry has been fragmented into 2 sections. This has created deep divisions within the industry. We find that one section of the industry has had access to the liquid milk market, which is a reasonably lucrative market, and the other section has had access only to the manufacturing section. As a result of situations that have evolved and as a result of agitation, moves are being made in the dairy industry. At least in Victoria the situation is being reached where every dairy farmer in that State will have access to both markets. That in turn will create much less friction and will lead to a greater degree of unity in the industry there. In conclusion, I congratulate the Minister for Agriculture for his endeavours in this field. Since he took up his portfolio he has done a magnificent job, despite what our political opponents and many conservative farmers outside have said. At least the dairy farmers, the beef farmers, the wheat farmers and the other farmers who have had the honour to sit down and discuss matters with the Minister have all gone away agreeing that he is a man who will sit and discuss matters with them and that he is one of the best Ministers, if not the best Minister, in charge of primary industry that this country has ever seen. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time, and passed through its remaining stages without amendment or debate. 
asked the Minister representing the Attorney-General, upon notice: 
1 ) Did an officer of the Australian Security Intelligence Organization attempt to keep under continuous observation a Palestinian, Abou Bassan Layhari, while he was recently in Australia. 
Did an Australian Security Intelligence Organization officer recently interview a  Dr Hadj,  a medical teacher at the University of Melbourne, with respect to his attitude to the medical treatment of alleged terrorists. 
If the answers to ( 1) and (2) are in the affirmative, why is the Australian Security Intelligence Organisation making a special point of observing, harassing and interrogating Arabs visiting or residing in Australia. 
I present the following petition from 1 8 citizens of Australia: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate in Parliament assembled: The humble Petition of the undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully showeth: 
1 ) That Parliament should pass the Bill currently before it to establish an Australian Government Insurance Corporation. 
That an Australian Government Insurance Corporation will benefit all Australian women and men by offering equal opportunity for employment and insurance cover. 
That there is a need to establish in Australia National Interest Insurance so that cover is available against natural disasters. 
That the Australian Government Insurance Corporation will fairly compete with the general and life insurance companies thereby benefiting the industry and the policy holders. 
Your petitioners therefore humbly pray that the House will pass the Bill. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
My question is directed to the Minister for Foreign Affairs. What progress has been made in the exchange of official diplomats between Australia and South Vietnam? What aid does the Australian Government envisage giving to South Vietnam by way of war reparations? 
I direct a question to the Minister for Agriculture. This week has seen the opening of the new wool selling season. Has the Minister any information about price prospects at wool auctions? 
My question is addressed to the Minister for Repatriation and Compensation. Can he advise what will be the total payment available to totally and permanently incapacitated pensioners when the pension increases announced in the Budget become payable in November? Can he also advise what taxable income is the equivalent of these amounts? How do they compare to current average weekly earnings? 
My question is directed to the Special Minister of State. Do local governing bodies in Australia deal with many single purpose or specific development projects? Are such projects within the ambit of the Grants Commission scheme? 
My question is directed to the Minister for Agriculture. Is it a fact that the New South Wales Government has announced retrenchment of staff employed on the cattle brucellosis and tuberculosis eradication campaign? If so, is it true that these retrenchments have been caused by a reduction in the Australian Government's contribution to the campaign? 
-I was somewhat intrigued by the scenario thrown up by  Senator Sir Magnus  Cormack who has preceded me in this debate. Perhaps there is some truth in what he had to say in regard to the continental defence of Australia. It may well be that a platoon of Popeyes, with spinach in season on the Ord, would do better that 20 battalions of Reds were lettuce in season. One of the tragedies which I see in relation to the Defence Force Reorganization Bill is the proposal by the Opposition to refer the matter to the Senate Standing Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence. Since it has been in opposition and for 23 years prior to that, the Opposition has had a long record in relation to committees, pigeons and pigeon holes. It seems that it is not content with breaking its own record and all past records; it wants to try to force this Government into breaking its record by having matters referred to committees and hopefully pigeon-holed. 
As  Senator Drury  has already mentioned in his speech, the Foreign Affairs and Defence Committee is already up to its ears in work, having just completed one reference, starting on another and having a further one on the notice paper. I cannot quite perceive that the Senate is justified in sending further work to that Committee. It may well be the straw that breaks its back. Quite frankly, this matter has been under discussion and mooted around the portals of power in this country for long enough. I believe that it is time that some action was taken. If a decision of this magnitude cannot be taken in a time of peace, in a time when most of the evidence that has been obtained in recent years by that Committee to which I referred earlier is to the effect that there is no threat to Australia in the foreseeable future or for a number of years, then it will never be taken. 
The proposal before the chamber is to give effect to the reorganisation of the higher management of the defence forces and the Department of Defence. As I have said, it is a matter which has been bandied around for a long time- I believe for too long. It is time someone took a decision. The previous Government shelved the matter. Nothing was done until the Labor Party came to office in 1972. Prior to that, as every honourable senator would know, the defence establishment was made up of 5 departmentsDefence, Navy, Army, Air Force and Supply. As a result of a series of steps taken since 1972 the activities of those departments have been wound down and integrated into one Department, namely the Department of Defence. The Department of Supply became the Department of Manufacturing Industry, with its defence science functions being transferred to the Department of Defence. 
One of the arguments- I suppose the main argument- in favour of the proposals of the Government is that the proposed organisation provides a complete and integrated framework within which all matters related to defence can be considered and implemented. The changes will improve both ministerial supervision and the presentation to Parliament of the nature and cost of the various defence functions. The military power of command is clearly defined with, for the first time, a clear line of command for the defence force under the Minister from the Chief of Defence Force Staff through the chiefs of each Service. A single Department of Defence will enable improvements in administration, particularly in force structure planning, resources allocation, financial management and the management of civilian personnel. Service officers at all levels will be associated much more closely with the process of formulating policy advice and recommendations to the Minister than has been the case previously. The Department of Defence, presuming that the Bill is carried, will in future contain all the factors essential for policy making, support for the armed services and their running at the highest level. 
The new organisation makes provision for both military and strategic intelligence to come under the one control- that is under the Joint Intelligence Organisation. The JIO will have a deputy director who will be responsible for purely military intelligence and, on the civilian side, a deputy director whose job will be concerned with strategic intelligence. The matter of intelligence received a passing reference in the hearings of the Senate Standing Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence when the reference on the Australian Army was before it. Although the Senate Committee's report refers perhaps more to intelligence under actual battle conditions, I believe the comment in paragraph 5.18 of the report is worthy of quotation. It reads: 
Although the Committee was not able to pursue the topic in detail, there is cause for concern at the quality of the intelligence which our forces are able to obtain at the present time. This field would seem to be one in which Australia has relied on Allied support in the past. It would also appear to be a field in which we could develop expertise because of our industrial capacity in the electronic and related fields. 
Another important factor in the new organisation will be the Strategic Policy Branch. Using defence analysts this part of the Department will be responsible for long range considerations concerning possible threats to Australia. Hopefully this branch of the Department can obtain a clearer idea of the longer term preparations that this nation may have to make to be adequately secure. One certainly hopes that such a branch will be staffed with level-headed citizens who can prevent us from being involved in any future Vietnams where our defence forces were used in the past in an offensive rather than a defensive role. I am quite sure that this country is not devoid of people who can act out that role as it should be acted out. 
The new organisation will also contain within its cloak the Supply and Support Services Branch. This will give the Department of Defence a central direction and control over very necessary logistic functions responsible for provisioning, equipping and movement of the armed forces and a multitude of like facilities. The Government believes that that Branch will ensure not only a quicker and better reaction from national resources, when needed, but also a more co-ordinated approach in the logistic support to the forces. The Senate Standing Committee's report to which I referred earlier refers also to logistics and points out that in past wars we have relied to a large extent on Allied cooperation for this ingredient. The report goes on to suggest that it would be unwise to plan on the same co-operation in the future. 
The new organisation proposed in this Bill has been criticised on the ground that it gives too much control to the Secretary of the Department, but I believe that a close look at the Department's makeup will allay any such criticism in that the Secretary and the Chief of Defence Force Staff will jointly control the Department, thus, as it were, rendering unto Caesar all things that are Caesar's and unto others all things that belong to them. The Chief of Defence Force Staff will not only work directly with the Secretary in the running of the Department but he will also be the principal military adviser to the Government and to the Minister and will have a significant influence on the formulation of defence policy in conjunction with the Secretary and the various branches of the Department. 
I do not intend to speak at any length on this matter. I believe it has been discussed in the circles that understand the basics of our military forces and that over the years those people have, after much discussion and consultation, come to a conclusion that it is time that the command and the top echelon of our defence establishment should be restructured. After all, it is 1975, not 1875. Like people, organisations which do not update their thinking eventually go to the wall. Were this country unfortunate enough to be involved in a war in the future- I know we all hope that will never be but we are aware of the historyI believe that the type of department that is being established under this Bill will lead to a better performance throughout the ranks of our defence forces. 
Despite the fact that we Australians usually proclaim ourselves to be peace loving citizens, for some strange reason we seem to have got ourselves involved in a terrible number of wars in the last 75 years- mainly, I think in retrospect, other people's wars. I trust that in the future wiser counsel will prevail. I know that while this Government is in office that wiser counsel will prevail and indeed is already prevailing. We have already made it clear that our own forces are for the defence of Australia and are not to be used to prop up decadent regimes in the area. I hope that any future government will adopt a similar line, will follow the same course and will not expend the flower of our youth on filthy wars. 
The previous Government's record on the Vietnam issue was not good and I am quite sure that in retrospect in their less impassioned moments the members of the Opposition appreciate that. The use of 400 dead Australians as cannon fodder for a dubious regime in Vietnam is not the role that Australians should be playing in this area. I will go further and say that were any government in the future to attempt another such escapade the youth of Australia would refuse to do its dirty doings for it. In the meantime, I believe that the proposals before the Senate this afternoon will give a more efficient and effective structure to our armed forces and also- perhaps the most important factor in the proposal- will do away with a lot of what we have seen in the past, that is, rivalry between the various arms of the Services. 
-Did the Minister for Agriculture see a recent Press statement by the Opposition spokesman on agriculture,  Mr Sinclair,  claiming that Labor leaders have misled dairymen by stating that the $ 19.2m appropriated in the Budget for dairy adjustment was additional to the $2 8 m originally allocated for this purpose? Does the Minister know which Labor leaders made the alleged statement, as claimed by  Mr Sinclair,  and what are the facts concerning funds for dairy adjustment? 
I support the Budget. After listening to the tirade of around the world conversation related by  Senator Carrick,  the previous  speaker,  quite frankly I think it is a pity that he and others on that side do not go out into the community and wail on the shoulders of the people and tell the pensioners in our society about this terrible Government and this terrible Budget. I have personal knowledge of pensioners in the community who for the first time in their lives have been able to put a few dollars into a bank account- something they were never able to do under the previous Government. Let us look also at the Budget allocation for education. We notice a 4-fold increase in 2 years. Go out and tell that to the thousands of students and the thousands of mums and dads who for the first time in their lives see some opportunity for equality in education across the globe instead of having opportunity centred on the private schools, as was the case in 23 years of Liberal-Country Party rule. Go out and tell those people who were not previously able to afford hospital or private medical insurance. Go out and tell them and get your answer from them as to what this Labor Government is doing. It has increased by almost $ 15m the Budget allocation in the field of health services, mainly to support Medibank. They are the people who will be answering at the next poll. They are the people who will see the benefits of what this Labor Government has done in 2 years. I am quite sure the Opposition realises that the sting has been taken out of its arguments by this very commendable Budget which has been brought down at a time of some economic stress in Australia. There has been a lot of wailing and bleating. The Liberal and Country Parties traditionally go to the wailing wall about unemployment. They rant and rave. No one bothers to look at some of the basic problems of and some of the basic reasons for high unemployment in western democratic so-called free societies. 
-Senator Townley is ranting on like some bull calf that has lost its mother. It is rather interesting to look at the Western democratic societies in the postVietnam era and co-relate what has happened in those societies in the wind down from Vietnam to the question of unemployment. In America, which is not at war, there is high unemployment. Australia no longer has troops in Vietnam, our 7000 troops having been withdrawn. There is no more killing, raping and murdering in Vietnam. There is high unemployment in Australia. Great Britain has been fraught with the problem of unemployment since she started to retract from her once colonial empire. 
One is entitled to raise those points and ask, is it not the capitalist system that is causing the problem, not the other factors that the Opposition would like to attribute to it. We do not see high inflation rates in communist or socialist countries. We do not see high unemployment in communist or socialist countries. I wonder what the answer is. Also, we have to look at the extremely high rate of technological advance in society in the world today. As we travel around the community we see 2 men doing work in some areas of commerce and industry which, 40 years ago, would have been done by possibly 1000 men. Perhaps we no longer need to wonder why we have high rates of unemployment. 
I am a little concerned that the trade union movement in Australia has not taken up the cudgels with an argument for earlier retirement of people from the work force. It seems to me to be totally wrong that an Australian male should be obliged to work until he is 65 years of age before he can retire and receive a pension, while thousands of teenagers are walking around the streets of this country looking for employment. I see no reason why the age for retirement could not be reduced by 5 years. By doing so we could provide employment for younger people in our society who have to make their way through life and who will become somewhat perturbed by having to endure long periods of unemployment. We wonder why we have rebels in our society. We wonder why in our society we have students and young people who drink and perhaps smoke pot or something else to excess. Do we ever bother to analyse the reasons why they do this? All we do is mouth a lot of hoary old phrases. I throw in that suggestion for what it is worth in relation to unemployment. 
-Senator Townley says that it is not worth much. At least I have made the suggestion. I have not heard anything half as profound coming from his brain since I have been here. Now I will move to another area. Last year the total Budget allocation for agriculture included an amount of $289m for the Australian Wool Corporation. Many primary producers and Liberal and Country Party supporters have been at the wailing walls of the rural Press of this country during the last couple of weeks bemoaning the fact that the Budget allocation for agriculture has been cut this year. One would almost think that their throats had been cut. The facts of the matter are that the amount of $289m was provided in the Budget last year to support the Wool Corporation. I might add that it was funded by a socialist government. Of course, the making of these complaints about the cut in the Budget allocation for agriculture is fairly traditional, because its suits the thinking of a lot of primary producers. They have always sought to capitalise their gains and to socialise their losses. 
When we reduce the Budget allocation for wool by $209m, because it is the thinking within the wool industry that the demand for wool and the price for wool will increase, it makes a rather sizable dent in the Budget allocation for agriculture. The Government, with the benefit of the thinking from within the wool industry and of the experts whom it employs through the Public Service, believes that the Wool Corporation will not be required to concentrate so heavily in the purchasing area this year, and for that reason it has cut the Budget allocation for wool from $289m last year to $80m this year. I am quite convinced that should the need for further funds arise, because the predictions are astray, this Government will come back into that field. The Government's endeavours in that field have represented the greatest move that has ever been made by any government in Australia to support the wool industry. That is something that our opponents can not deny in truth. 

 Sitting suspended from 5.45 to 8 p.m. 

Prior to the suspension of the sitting I was speaking about what the Labor Government had done for the wool industry in Australia and had pointed out that in last year's Budget a total of $289m was allocated to the Australian Wool Corporation to purchase wool because of the economic downturn in the textile industry throughout the world. 
I had also pointed out that that was the greatest project ever undertaken by any government in Australia in relation to the wool industry. 
In response to the interjections I most freely admit that that money was made available by way of loans, but by the same token it must be conceded that it was an allocation from a Federal Budget by a Labor government. It does not matter whether it was by way of a loan or a grant; the fact remains that $289m was allocated by the Labor Government, which is sometimes called by its opponents a socialist government, although I would not concede that point. Honourable senators opposite cannot have it both ways. The point is that to their way of thinking a socialist government in this country has contributed $289m to the great Australian wool industry, which is something that they were never prepared to do in the 23 years in which they were in government. The facts of the matter are that that $289m saved the wool industry of Australia from collapsing completely. I had also pointed out that in view of the projected improvements in the demand for and price of wool the Australian Government believes that similar funds will not be needed in the forthcoming year and that in view of the advice and information received a sum of $80m had been allocated for the reserve price plan for wool, I am quite convinced, as I said prior to the suspension of the sitting, that if more funds are needed the Labor Government- this so-called socialist Government- will support the wool industry. 
I think I may have reached the point of saying that the drop of some $200m in support for the Wool Corporation has meant a large drop in the total Budget allocation to agriculture or primary industry in Australia. Of course, rural writers and the conservative elements in the rural community have gone to the wailing wall and have complained in large banner headlines that the Labor Government is denying assistance to rural industry. I do not quite know how they can equate that with what has happened in the past. I point out that in the current Budget increases have been granted in particular areas to people engaged in agriculture. For example, the Government has increased the funds provided for research and promotion. In its 23 years of rule the Liberal-Country Party Government propped up all types of industry for no reason other than the fact that the people engaged in those industries were its supporters. 
I have watched the development of thinking within the rural community over the last ten or fifteen years and I have noticed that there has been a demand for more funds for research and promotion. I know perfectly well from my trips overseas as a parliamentarian that there are markets overseas. The Minister for Agriculture  (Senator Wriedt)  has been to the Middle East and has perceived that there are those markets, as was told to him prior to his going there. There are markets overseas and this Government is doing its utmost to get out and capture those markets. That should be the ultimate incentive to primary industry, not props at home. 
The Government will also pick up the tab to the extent of $4m in respect of meat inspection costs. This has been a fairly hot potato amongst the conservative element of primary industry, particularly the conservative element in the membership of the National Country Party of Australia in this House. They have moaned like the proverbial bull calf that has been taken away from its mother, and they have bleated about the meat inspection costs and the levy that was placed upon the industry to cover those costs but, despite the levy that has been placed upon the industry, the Government will still pick up a tab for $4m to cover the ultimate costs in that area. The Government will pick up a further tab for $2m to cover the shortfall in the industry levy of 0.6c per lb. for the brucellosis and tuberculosis campaign. As is well known, the Industries Assistance Commission has a reference on this matter before it at the moment. 

 -If Senator Webster had been milking cows for as long as I have and had seen what has happened to the superphosphate subsidy he would not raise that matter, I think that the incongruous situation in regard to the superphosphate bounty and the superphosphate industry was answered in this House last week when it was pointed out that those who could most afford to pay for the superphosphate used were the greatest beneficiaries of the old superphosphate bounty. Quite frankly I think there is a case to be put for some alleviation of the problems experienced by the small producers who provide the bulk of the production of primary industry. 
I am not prepared to go to the point of subsidising to the extent of $5,000 a year properties which are perfectly viable but whose accounts, if they happen to be owned by a company, show at the end of a year that they make a profit of only $400. We well know that those properties of 7000 and 8000 acres have made money over the years. When I talk of the small producer I talk of the battling farmer with a family who has always had it tough. The Government is searching for answers to the problems of those people. 
Let me move to the dairying industry and point out that in the current Budget there is an allocation of $ 19m to complete the Government's promise to provide $28m to that industry by way of interest free loans. I emphasise the fact that interest free loans are to be provided to the dairying industry by  Senator Webster's  so-called socialist government. That is the greatest bonanza that the dairying industry has even received since a Federal Government has been established on this continent. Of course, the dairy farmers will clamour for it. There may be some problems. I think that there will be more clamouring for it than the money will cover, but that is another problem. In my own district alone some 1000 to 1500 dairy farmers have availed themselves of this opportunity to switch from water cooled milk or canned milk to refrigerated bulk milk. That has all been made possible by this so-called socialist government. 
-They probably do not, but we will try to educate them. The terrible thing that has happened in Victoria with respect to the granting of this money- this interest free money- should be explained to the House tonight. The Victorian Government, which is a Liberal Government- in particular its Minister for Agriculture,  Mr Smith,  who happens to be my local member, and its Premier, together with other members of it- has consistently slammed the Labor Government, claiming that it is antirural. The generous, so-called socialist government in Canberra has given $28m, much of it interest free, to the dairying industry, and what happens in Victoria? The Victorian Government receives a handout from Canberra and decides that it should not all go to the dairying industry. The Government of Victoria is going to get a cut of this. What does it do? The State Electricity Commission of Victoria, because it has had to extend power supply to dairies which have converted to refrigerated bulk milk, decided that it will make a charge. It decided that that charge will come out of the $28m that this socialist Government has given to the dairy industry in Victoria. 
-Yes. Originally the charge was $85 per horsepower of the motor that was required to refrigerate the milk. The average motor is 10 horsepower. Ten horsepower motors were required for refrigerated bulk milk vats. The State Electricity Commission, the rural finance organisation in Victoria which handles the funds, and the State Government decided to get in on the act. As far as I can ascertain, they were successful in getting their grubby little hands on one million of those dollars which came from this socialist Government to the Victoria Government. The State Electricity Commission got hold of $ lm. The point about this is- 

 -No, Senator Webster would not know. He is so far out of touch with the industry. The point is that it will cost every dairy farmer in Victoria who converts to refrigerated milk $800 to $1,000. It is rather interesting to read the Agreement in relation to Marginal Dairy Farms Reconstruction Scheme in Victoria in 1974. On page 14, referring to loans for the installation of vats, clause 1 5ba. ( 1 ) states: 
Subject to clause 15bc- 
I do not know whether that was before Christ or before someone else- 
The Authority may make interest-free loans to the owners of marginal dairy farms for the purpose of- 
meeting, in the case of a particular farm, the cost of the purchase and installation on the farm of a refrigerated vat of such size and standards as may from time to time be agreed by the Minister or a person authorised by the Minister for the purpose and the State Minister or a person authorised by the State Minister for the pupose, for the storage of whole-milk intended for use as fluid milk for human consumption or in the manufacture of butter, cheese or other products; and 
Making such other improvements- 
These are the important words- on the farm as are required to enable the whole-milk in the vat to be collected from the farm. 
That is contained in the Agreement. But these grubby little Victorians under Hamer and Smith and their cohorts were not satisfied with that type of an arrangement. They wanted money. So, in effect, the Victorian Government and its instrumentalities have been responsible for ripping off from the dairy farmers of Victoria a sum of about $lm. They wanted some of the funds that this socialist Government- so-called by some people- this Australian Labor Government has given to the dairy industry free of interest. I think it is totally immoral of those people to publish their vilifications of this Labor Government in Canberra while they are prepared to get their grubby fingers on that type of money. That is bad enough where the State Electricity Commission- the instrument of the Victorian Government- is required to upgrade its facilities from 240 volts to 400 volts. That is necessary to supply the required electricity to the refrigerated vats on farms. But it goes even further than that. It has come to my attention that hundreds of farmers in my immediate area after the extremely dry period in 1967-68 decided to install irrigation plants. They bored for water. It was an expensive project but many of them were fortunate enough to strike flows of 20 000, 30 000, 40 000 or 50 000 gallons a year. 
It was a taxation deduction on which, in those days, the farmers were able to capitalise. That cannot be denied. When they struck that water and saw the benefit which could be achieved for their farms, they installed large electric motors. They upgraded the electric power supply to their farms. In effect, to install now a 10 horsepower motor to switch from watercooled milk to refrigerated milk would be like plugging in an electric shaver to one's domestic supply. One farmer reported to me that he pays $14,000 a year in State Electricity Commission charges on his farm. Now that he has installed this refrigerated vat, despite the fact that the State Electricity Commissionthis instrumentality of the Victorian Governmenthas not had to lift one finger to upgrade the supply to that farm, he is still being charged $80 per horsepower for the motor installed. Others were promised that their electricity supply would be free of charge earlier in the scheme. The instrumentality of the Victorian Government has gone back on its word. It is charging them the same rate of $80 per horsepower. It is of no good for  Mr Hamer, Mr Smith  and their cohorts in the Victorian State Parliament to slam this Government- this socialist Government, this centralist Government as they refer to it- and at the same time to pluck out $ lm of the socialist funds that have gone to the dairy industry in Victoria. Which Government, in these circumstances, is being anti-rural? I leave that to honourable senators to judge. 
I wind up on the note on which I began. I believe this is one of the greatest Budgets that has ever been introduced by an Australian Government if, for no other reason than a political reason: It has taken the sting out of our opponents. They are flailing and wailing around so forlorn that they do not know which way to turn. It has taken all the heat out of any talk of election in Australia. I think the Treasurer  (Mr Hayden)  has to be complimented. Might I finish on this note - 
-Senator Wright, no doubt, wants me to finish early because he is worried. During the couple of years that this Labor Government has been in power it has been more maligned, I suppose, than Jesus Christ himself. It has been more maligned than some of the great leaders around the world that history has ever known. One area in which we have been badly maligned is defence. The record will show that the comments I am about to make are true. For 23 years our opponents talked about the defence of Australia. What did they ever do? They sent boys through the barrel of death to Vietnam. That had nothing to do with the defence of Australia. Our opponents sent those boys to Vietnam to be slaughtered in the interests of everybody bar the Australian nation. 
What does this Budget do for the defence of Australia? It purchases the first tanks that have been purchased since the Chifley Government ordered the Centurions- those clapped out tanks that were sent to Vietnam a few years ago. The defence of Australia requires tanks. This Government, after 25 years of Liberalism and conservatism, has got around to updating the tank equipment of the Australian Army. And what else? For all these years our opponents have talked about defence, but have they ever bought an anti-aircraft weapon? I remember when my younger brother was called up for service in the Citizen Military Forces. In those days I told him he was a fool. But he was full of vim and youth and thought he was doing the right thing for his country. Later he agreed with me that he had been a fool to join Bob Menzies' boys. He recalls those days when there was this concept of the reds or the greens, or whoever they were. Some lads were sent in then with obsolete planes; others had 3.7 inch guns and Bofors guns which could not be brought to bear on the targets quickly enough. The Opposition parties have talked for years about the defence of 
Australia, but it took this Government to move into the area of anti-aircraft weapons and to say that the Bofors guns, which were obsolete in 1945, are now completely obsolete. I think at some time or other the people of this nation will make a decision about who is playing with defence, who is playing with the rural industries, who is playing with health and who is playing with education, as against who is being completely honest about those things. I believe that in the ultimate the Australian people will answer and say that the Labor Party is honest. I support the Budget. 
My question is directed to the Minister for Police and Customs. In a statement issued by the Minister it was claimed that a new computer system in the Department of Police and Customs will help to save the community millions of dollars annually in transport costs. I ask: Is that a new role for the Department of Police and Customs? 
I ask the Acting Attorney-General whether he has read the article in today's  Australian Financial Review  which comments on a report of the New South Wales Corporate Affairs Commission concerning insider trading in the shares of Queensland Mines Ltd. According to the report the New South Wales Commission has conceded that  there are inseparable jurisdictional problems in the way of prosecution action because the company in question was incorporated in the Australian Capital Territory while the relevant conduct took place in New South Wales. It also appears from this article that there was a grave deficiency in a relevant provision of the New South Wales securities Act in that while it prohibits the dissemination of misleading information it does not apply to an omission to disclose information. I ask the Acting Attorney-General whether problems of this kind would arise if the Corporations and Securities Industry Bill, which the Opposition seems determined to defeat by one means or another, were in operation? 
I wish to speak for a minute or two on the matter which was raised earlier by  Senator Greenwood.  It appears to me that he spoke with a great deal of indignation because, allegedly, someone had intruded on someone's privacy in order to get some idea of how much superphosphate certain individuals in the community had been receiving. It is patently obvious that  Senator Greenwood  is not from a rural area because such information as to the amount of fertiliser which is used by one's neighbour is common knowledge among farmers. People talk; people discuss. Farmers, in discussions with one another, will freely admit the rate of application which they use on their pastures each year. 
-Senator Young, if I lived in the area, I would have a very close guesstimate of the amount he used. 
I will tell the Senate the amount of fertiliser half a dozen of my neighbours use to the acre each year. As I said, this is common knowledge. No one wishes to hide it. Furthermore, even without that knowledge, to walk adjacent to one's neighbour's property and to analyse the pasture its health will indicate to the trained eye the rate of application of fertiliser per acre per annum, for how many years it has been applied and whether other trace elements have been thrown in periodically. In the case of the property which seems to have been mentioned quite a great deal, goodness me, the whole electorate of Wannon is basically aware of the amount of superphosphate which is put on that property each year. I do not see any reason why any Minister would have to go to the Department of Police and Customs or to the fertiliser company and look at their files to obtain that information. In relation to that property, being the size it is, one could do a mental calculation at the rate of a bag of superphosphate per acre applied each year and that would give one a round figure of some 600 tons per annum. Half a bag to the acre means some 300-odd tons per annum. One does not have to go to computers or to company files. One only has to use a little of farming nous. 
The application of fertiliser differs from area to area depending on the nature of the farming enterprise. In the Goulburn Valley, for example, which is under irrigation the fertiliser used on average would run to three or four bags per acre. In areas where the farmer goes in for fine wool he might use half a bag every second or third year. In the area to which I belong it is generally conceded that about a bag per acre is the average application. 
There is just one other point. This is why I cannot understand the indignation of  Senator Greenwood.  A recent court case in the Riverina district threw up the fact that certain individuals were purchasing fertiliser on which a bounty had previously been paid and were exporting it. If the Minister responsible- I assume it would be the Minister for Police and Customs  (Senator Cavanagh)-  is not able to obtain from companies information as to where Bill Smith or Joe Brown obtained fertiliser and if he did how much he received, then how are people who have misused the fertiliser bounty to be tracked down? The bounty does not apply on fertiliser distributed or sold outside Australia. 
Has the attention of the Minister representing the Minister for Defence been drawn to Press criticism of the carriage of some Service personnel in a Royal Australian Air Force Hercules to take part in a football carnival in Sydney at the end of August? Will the Minister indicate whether this occurred and whether it represents a change from Service practice over the years? 
My question is directed to the Minister for Agriculture. I understand that a special meeting of the Australian Agricultural Council was held last week to discuss the problems of the beef industry. Can the Minister outline the outcome of the meeting? 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Foreign Affairs upon notice: 
What progress is being made towards the achievement of a constitutional settlement in Southern Rhodesia? 
Can the Minister for Agriculture confirm reports that cattle prices have increased in Australia? If so, what are the reasons? 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Manufacturing Industry, upon notice: 
Arc replacement parts for black and white television sets becoming difficult to obtain; if so, is this due to deliberate policy by manufacturers to force people to purchase colour sets. 
-I present the report and transcript of evidence from the Standing Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence on its inquiry into the United Nations involvement with Australia 's territories. 
Ordered that the report be printed. 
I seek leave to move a motion for the Senate to take note of the report. 
I move: 
That the Senate take note of the report. 

 Mr President, in presenting this report, I would like to make several observations for the information of honourable senators. No doubt other members of the Committee will wish to comment on the report at an appropriate time. The Committee's inquiry resulted from concern by the Senate over the United Nations involvement in the affairs of the Cocos (Keeling) Islands. Indeed, the Committee of Twenty-four's report on the Territory raised a number of questions concerning the relationship between domestic jurisdiction over territories held by member states of the United Nations on the one hand, and the growth and exercise of international authority by the United Nations on the other hand. 
Although the Foreign Affairs and Defence Committee's interest was not confined solely to the Cocos (Keeling) Islands, the Committee did make a 6-day visit to the Territory in June to assess the validity and balance of the Committee of Twenty-four's recommendations, and to gain first-hand knowledge of conditions experienced by the Islanders. Consideration was also given to the United Nations involvement with Australia's former territories, as this has influenced the United Nations and Australia over Cocos- and might possibly bear on future events. 
During the course of the inquiry, the Committee examined the international legal obligations on Australia as an administering power, as a background against which to consider the present and possible future involvement of the United Nations with Cocos and with Australia's other island territories. In chapter 4, the Committee has concluded that Australia is obliged to prepare the Cocos Island people so that they may make a free decision as to their future status. This future status may involve independence but it may also involve some form of association with Australia. Australia is, however, under no obligation to treat independence as the main alternative status- especially in the case of a territory which is not a viable separate entity- and may press strongly for integration or association. Indeed the Foreign Affairs and Defence Committee favours a form of free association between the Islands and Australia, and believes that Australia should encourage the Cocos Islanders to consider the merits of such a choice. 
Throughout the inquiry the Committee has paid considerable attention to the welfare of the Cocos Islanders and it is clear to us that substantial changes are required to allow the Cocos Island community adequate opportunity to develop socially, economically and politically as an entity independent of the Clunies-Ross Estate.  Mr Clunies-Ross  informed the Committee that, as a result of economic and governmental pressures, he had decided to sever the family's connections with the Islands and to negotiate the transfer of his assets to a Cocos Island Community Co-operative. The Committee believes that serious consideration should now be given to acquisition of the entire estate for this purpose. We believe that the establishment of an island co-operative would assist significantly in the creation of an integrated community with a sense of responsibility and purpose, and concur with the view that acquisition of the estate is the most practical means of giving effect to the reforms which are desired for the benefit of the Cocos Island people. 
I believe that the Committee of Twenty-four's visit and report have generally been helpful in bringing about necessary change and have acted as catalysts in the development of a policy framework for the territory. However, the Committee has expressed concern that in the process, the Cocos Malay community has been seriously unsettled. 
It is clear to us that a number of internal changes are required on Cocos before the islanders can engage in a final act of selfdetermination. The Committee believes that Australia should not be in a hurry to force the islanders to choose any one option in preference to another and we hope that the Committee of Twenty-four will be amenable to the deferment of any kind of plebiscite for some years and will accept that, as the administering power, Australia is in the best position to assess the most appropriate time for such an act. In view of the ordinance now before the Senate relating to the acquisition of land on Cocos, and in view of speculation concerning the islands generally, I believe that the Foreign Affairs and Defence Committee's report has come at a propitious time and will be of benefit to all members of parliament. I commend the report to honourable senators. 
President, I ask for leave to make a short statement. 
asked the Minister for Agriculture, upon notice: 
1 ) Is it a fact that gross financial mismanagement of the Co-operative Farmers and Graziers Direct Meat Supply has taken place. 
Did farmers and graziers allow $1,862,000 funds to be paid over to a number of companies, including one controlled by  Mr Maxwell  Newton. 
Did the co-operative, under the same management, incur debts of over $14,000,000, which includes a debt of $6.4m owed to the Australian Industry Development Corporation. 
What percentage of loans made to the co-operative from the Australian Industry Development Corporation and the Victorian Government have been repaid. 
-Has the Minister for Police and Customs seen recent Press reports that kits are available for people to grow and process tobacco in their own back yards? Does the Minister propose to take action to bring this practice under control? 
My question is directed to the Minister for Foreign Affairs. Can the Minister advise the Senate whether any progress has been made in negotiations with the Papua New Guinea Government over the future of the Torres Strait? 
I ask the Minister for Agriculture: In view of reports circulating in dairying districts that butter fat prices are to fall by up to 15c per lb due to pressure on markets caused by large stocks of produce particularly in the European Economic Community, has the Minister been approached by dairy industry leaders for discussions on this matter? 
My question is directed to the Minister for Social Security. I preface it by referring to petitions which have recently been presented to the Senate requesting that pensions be maintained at 25 per cent of average weekly earnings. Will the Minister advise what percentage of average weekly earnings pensions are currently and what they will be when pensions are increased in November? Does the Minister have any figures relating to similar percentages for the period immediately prior to the Government's coming to office in December 1 972? 
I direct my question to the Minister for Agriculture. It concerns loans to beef producers under the $40m combined AustralianState governments scheme and the $20m allocated through the Commonwealth Development Bank. Can the Minister say how much has actually been lent from each of these funds? 

 -Mr President, I bring up the report from Estimates Committee A together with the minutes of proceedings. I also table the  Hansard  report of the evidence taken. 
Ordered that the report be printed. 
-Did the Minister representing the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs see the Australian Broadcasting Commission Four Corners program at the weekend, which reported that a number of Northern Territory Aborigines had been detained on a rape and assault charge and had signed statements to this effect when in fact it was proven that the charges were specious and that the method of obtaining the statements was questionable? I ask: Is this a common police practice in the Northern Territory when dealing with Aborigines? 
My question is directed to the Minister for Agriculture and concerns the current depressed market price for skim milk powder. I ask whether any action has been taken at the international level to improve market prospects for skim milk powder. Have all or only some milk companies cut prices to dairy farmers? 
-Can the Minister for Police and Customs advise the Senate whether a Bill to create the Australia Police is about to be introduced into the Parliament? If so, will interested organisations get an opportunity to consider and comment on the contents of the Bill? 
My question is directed to the Minister for Police and Customs. I refer to an article which appeared on 1 4 October in the  Daily Mirror  concerning a change in the duty free buying patterns of Australians shopping overseas. The article points out that since last March visitors going overseas may bring back to Australia goods to the value of $200 with an additional $160 worth of items admitted at a duty rate of 20 per cent. Could the Minister inform the Senate if the details contained in this article are correct and if unaccompanied baggage could be included in the values mentioned? 
My question is addressed to the Minister for Police and Customs. I draw his attention to an article which appeared in this morning's  Canberra Times  and to radio news reports relating to a protest meeting planned for next Wednesday by the Australian Capital Territory Police Association. Is the report correct? Will the Minister meet officials of the Police Association? Would the Minister describe his attitude towards the Association as conciliatory or otherwise? 
-Has the Minister representing the Minister for Agriculture seen recent Press reports on beef production which show an increase for the September quarter this year of some 140 000 tonnes over production for the same quarter of last year? Does this indicate that export markets are re-opening for this commodity and leading to increased prices for beef at district sales? 
My question is addressed to the Minister representing the Minister for Agriculture. What are the facts concerning reports that the Australian Meat Board has curtailed approvals to ship meat to the United States of America? 
My question is directed to the Minister for Police and Customs. I refer to a question I asked the Minister on 14 October concerning relations between Aborigines and police in Alice Springs. In reply the Minister advised that he would be visiting Alice Springs to have discussions with a Reverend Downing and the police to see whether it was possible to develop a more accurate system of law enforcement. Due to the fact that the Senate is now sitting and will be sitting again next week, thus rendering the Minister unavailable for that visit, could the Minister advise the Senate what action he has taken in relation to the establishment of an inquiry into the alleged rape and murder of Paula Sweet? 

 -Mr Deputy President, it was rather ironical that  Senator Maunsell  early in his speech should mention his Queensland colleagues and make some of the assertions that he did because I am given to understand that the Premier in his State closed down the State Parliament this morning because he says that he wants to go out and do battle against the socialists in Canberra. It would appear to me to be just another move by that Premier to close down the House of the people in that State and to spend his time agitating and working against this Government in Canberra which is attempting to do something for the people of that State. Because the Premier has been spending so much time vilifying and fighting Canberra, maybe he has not had time to draw up any Bills to present to his Parliament; so he has been forced to close the Parliament down. 
We are dealing with a message from the other place in regard to Appropriation Bills (No. 1) and (No. 2). Quite frankly, the whole exercise has become one of very tedious repetition. Of course, that has been brought about, as we and the taxpayers and residents of this country know, because of the obstructionism of the Opposition in this chamber. It has come about despite the earlier assertion by the Leader of the Liberal Party when he came to the throne of that Party that obstructionism would not be carried on for its own sake. I believe that the whole exercise has been very aptly described in one of the best analogies that I have seen. My colleague  Senator McLaren  would appreciate this because I know that he has been through the same school of life as I went through. This exercise was summed up by a journalist who referred to the Opposition members as being very much akin to a pack of farm dogs around a. heap of wood looking for reprehensible circumstances- as  Mr Fraser  has been looking for them.  Senator McLaren  and other honourable senators of our generation would appreciate that all too often that heap of wood turns out to be covering either a field mouse or a fighting tom cat. Of course, if the tom cat comes out the pack of farm dogs is scatttered to the 4 winds. 
I predict that in this case the heap of wood in which the Leader of the Opposition is looking for reprehensible circumstances has already spewed forth a fighting tom cat. That fighting tom cat is to be found in the 70 per cent of the Australian people who were polled who have said to the Leader of the Opposition: 'Pass Supply'. Of course, if he does not pass Supply he will be like that pack of farm dogs; he will be scattered to the 4-winds. The result of the poll which was published in this morning's newspaper showing that 70 per cent of the people polled were in favour of passing Supply is a fair indication, I think, of what the electors are starting to feel and to express about the Opposition's obstructionthe opposition by the Liberal and Country Parties. Quite frankly, if  Mr Fraser  does not make a decision very shortly I predict that he will be slaughtered, that as the heir apparent to the  R.  G. Menzies empire, he will go to the wall. Even the Press has turned on him. The editions of the Age, the  Sydney Morning Herald  and the  Australian Financial Review  that I have read today have all said: 'Pass Supply'. 
It may also be fitting to mention that I understand, early next month, the National Trust in the western district of Victoria is declaring an open day at the home of  Mr Fraser,  Nareen. Anybody who has been to Nareen or has passed it would appreciate that it is a home of some historical consequence, as are many of the artefacts inside it. So I say to members of the Opposition that  Mr Fraser  will be very well catered for early in November- he will have an historic home to go to. I suggest that some other members of the Opposition might have a look over their shoulders to see where they are going to go, unless they use a little bit more prudence than they have used to date in regard to their continued objections to the Appropriation Bills. 
Since 1972 the Labor Government has moved into areas of need that were long neglected by our predecessors as the government. To name three or four of those areas, I refer to Medibank, family law, legal aid and the Children's Commission. They are areas of need, as I have said, that were neglected for 23 years. 
As my colleague  Senator McLaren  says, we have provided far better conditions for pensioners. They are now in the position where they are salting a few shillings away each week- not like they were previously when they were hanging on every election and were given a pittance of 50c just prior to an election in an attempt to bribe them. I think it is quite apparent that because Labor has done what it has done the electorate is starting to appreciate it. In a statement on 5 June of this year the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  said: 
We have seen this year a number of significant Government programs brought to fruition. Others have been brought to the point of implementation. Their benefits will soon be flowing to the Australian people and the particular groups who need them- the low-income earners, the children, the sick, the handicapped. Radical and enduring social reform is not achieved over night. 
I am sure that we will all appreciate that point. He continued:  lt is not achieved by spending more money, though money is certainly needed. 
I think that the more pertinent part of the Prime Minister's statement is this reference: 
It requires new institutions, new scales and priorities . . . 

 Sitting suspended from 1 to 2 p.m. 

-Before the luncheon adjournment I was quoting from a statement of the Prime Minister made on 5 June this year in another place. I pointed out that, in relation to the reforms which the Labor Government had promoted since 1972, the Prime Minister had said, amongst other things:  lt is not achieved by spending more money, though money is certainly needed. It requires new institutions, new scales and priorities, new social attitudes, new political guidelines, new efforts at co-operation, new men and women in positions of authority. This process can be difficult and painfully protracted, but eventually the results will show. 
Later in the same statement he said: 
We have developed and extended our legal aid service. Six regional offices of the Australian Legal Aid Office have been opened this year and more than 60 000 people have been assisted. 
I am quite sure that every honourable senator has had some insight into the benefits those 60 000 people have gained through this Government's proposal and development of the legal aid service. The Prime Minister went on further: 
Two other achievements of the present session reflect something of the Government's fundamental social and human priorities. The Family Law Bill- a monument to the former Attorney-General, now  Mr Justice  Murphy- has completely refurbished the marriage and divorce laws of Australia and done away with the medieval concepts of guilt and fault. 
Despite the attempts of this Government to carry out these reforms in much needed areas, the conservatives and reactionaries both in this place and outside, some of them even at the top echelon of State governments, have resisted by every means they can think of the implementation of these reforms. They have resisted them to the bitter end, in many instances even taking the matters as far as High Court decisions. One consequently asks oneself: Why? Why the bitter and sometimes twisted reaction to legislation designed to assist the great mass of people out in the electorate? Why do these people opposite and their stooges in other places believe that they and they alone are born to rule, that they know best? Why do they wish to deny the common people the benefit of Labor's legislation? It is patently obvious to me that these people believe in a class system. They believe that only the better off classes have the right to proper legal representation before the courts, proper medical and hospital treatment and benefits, that only their children should have the right of access to pre-school care and kindergartens, that only the wealthy classes should have those benefits and that only the wealthy classes should have the benefit of the best education that this country can afford. 
Of course, they still cannot stomach the fact that they are in Opposition. That is becoming more and more obvious every day. We on this side of the House hoped that the Opposition would get over that hangup and after perhaps twelve or eighteen months in Opposition would suddenly realise that it was in Opposition and no longer the Government. But that does not seem to have become a fact. The Opposition still hangs onto the myth that it is the Government. There have been the convention breaking exercises of the State governments, particularly the one in Queensland, which had the audacity in its convention breaking exercise to appoint a nonLabor member to this Parliament over the body of  Senator Milliner.  I believe that that was not so much a mischievous act as a coolly calculated manoeuvre to get control of the numbers in this place.  Senator Greenwood's  ill-tempered attack on a High Court judge, I believe, was no accident. It was a deliberate plan to attempt to downgrade the status of the High Court because a few days previously the High Court had handed down several decisions in favour of legislation that this Government had put before the Parliament over the last couple of years. There is the question of  Mr Khemlani  's presence in the country at this time. As I said before,  Mr Khemlani  is the rabbit in the wood pile that the pack of dogs was hoping to find, but it is patently obvious that the rabbit has either gone up a hollow log or underground and the tom-cat, in the form of an irate public, has come out and scattered the pack. I claim that it is no accident that  Mr Khemlani,  is here now. 
Power, and power at any price, is  Mr Fraser's  motto. He seems to see himself as a latter day Messiah moulded in the Menzies pattern. Convention and constitution can be disregarded so far as he is concerned. In Chile and other countries around the world his ilk have used the CIA and guns to overthrow democratically elected governments. The Opposition is not quite yet at the point where it can do that in Australia. It would like to see this Government overthrown, a government which has been popularly elected twice within 3 years and given a mandate. Unfortunately for the Opposition, the mass of Australian people outside are stirred. They are the tom-cat in the woodheap and they will not stand by and see this Government overthrown by jackboot tactics. I believe that the Australian people, in keeping with a long history that seems to be part of our culture, will not bow down to jackboot-type leadership from  Mr Fraser  or  Mr Anthony.  I predict that  Mr Fraser  will go the way of many previous Liberal leaders. He is destined for the political scrapheap, and as I said earlier, he will be a fitting statue in his homestead early next month when the Historical Society opens it for public gaze. 
I do not wish to say any more, except to repeat what I said earlier. The whole debate on the Appropriation Bills has become tedious repetition. Unfortunately for each and every one of us in this place, the whole institute of Parliament is being downgraded while this wrangle goes on. The sooner some of the more liberal members in  Mr Fraser's  Party stand up to him and say: 'This far, no further', the sooner democracy will be allowed to go on and the Government to get down to the job, the economy to be brought back into its proper perspective and the Australian people to see the further results of Labor legislation flow. 
I ask the Special Minister of State: Is he aware that an auction was held in Melbourne last week of early Australian coins and medals? Did the Minister take any action to ensure that these important relics of our past are kept in Australia? 
I direct my question to the Special Minister of State and it concerns the appointment of the Maritime Industry Commission of Inquiry 2 years ago. I understand that during this time the Commission has travelled overseas on 2 occasions. In view of the duration of the operation of this Commission, I ask: What has been achieved to justify the cost involved? 
I ask the Special Minister of State: What is the purpose of the United States Bicentennial Fellowship Scheme, which has been advertised in the national Press by his Department? Who is eligible for the fellowships and what are the benefits? Also, what has been the public reaction to the Scheme? 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Foreign Affairs. In view of claims by the socalled  Deputy  Governor of the Indonesian held areas of East Timor that 60 000 people, mostly women and children, have been massacred by Indonesian troops or so-called volunteers, I ask: What protests have been made to the neo-fascist Government of Indonesia by the Australian Government? 
I ask the Minister representing the Prime Minister: For what purpose did the Prime Minister order the confiscation of the radio transmitter operated by  Mr Bella  in Darwin on 25 January, thereby jeopardising the chances of the United Nations special envoy visiting East Timor? Did the Minister for Foreign Affairs  Mr Peacock,  in his discussions with his Indonesian counterpart  Mr Malik,  agree to have the radio closed down? If so, did  Mr Peacock  speak with his tongue in his cheek when on 8 February he said that he regretted that the United Nations special representative had not been able to proceed to East Timor? 
I do not intend to discuss at any length the remarks of  Senator Baume,  who has just resumed his seat, but I shall comment rather shortly on what the honourable senator said in relation to this chamber. I remind him that one of the present Ministers of his own Party- I refer to  Mr Killen,  the Minister for Defence- is on record as having said, after the appointment by the Premier of Queensland of a non-Labor senator to this chamber to replace  Senator Milliner,  that the Senate was a 'tainted House'. I am quite sure that I speak for the great majority of Labor senators when I say I agree with that remark. It is all very well for  Senator Baume  and others on his side of the chamber to eulogise the Senate as having been the body responsible for defending this and defending that in Australia. I believe, as I think the whole Labor movement which was supported by 43 per cent of the Australian populace on 13 December last believes, that it was the Liberal Party, with some help from the National Country Party, which was responsible for what happened prior to 1 1 November. The responsibility for those events does not lie with the Senate. The Senate was used by those 2 groups because they had the numbers. We well know and have always believed that the Senate is a numbers House and a party House; it has never been a States House or anything similar. 
Having read the speech of the GovernorGeneral delivered last week I hold the opinion that  Mr Fraser  's Government has set about undoing the initiatives of 3 years of Labor Government. Everywhere one looks today- this is demonstrated by every paper that one picks up- it is patently obvious that Labor's initiatives over its 3 years of office have either been curtailed or are under threat. From Medibank to the Children's Commission, through a whole range of projects the threat exists; the axe is held over their heads. I had occasion before the assembly of this Parliament to want some information on the attitude of the new Government to the Department of Urban and Regional Development. I asked my research officer to telephone the Liberal-Country Party to find out what the attitude of the new Government was, only to be told that the new Government had no policy on urban and regional development, or if it did have a policy it was not in print. It was certainly unavailable to me. The present Government has also scrapped Labor's Australian Housing Corporation, at a saving of $29m. That Corporation would have made funds available to first time home buyers, young married couples, to enable them to achieve their desires. That has all gone by the board. How far can one go in a penny pinching in order to produce a credit squeeze? 
In the city of Geelong, the former Labor Government set up an arbitration inspectorate. It supplied one car for the officers of that inspectorate to work in the south-western district of Victoria. Having had to ring that office with some queries a fortnight ago I was informed that that car had been taken away from the inspectorate and that in fact the officers concerned are now not allowed to use their own cars and to claim mileage in the course of their work. If they want to do any work in the area they must travel either on public transport or by Shank's pony. I point out to anybody who does not realise the fact that the whole business of that inspectorate is to look after the workers covered by Federal awards. This means that every worker under a Federal award in Corangamite, the electorate of  Mr 
Street, and in Wannon, the electorate of the Prime Minister,  Mr Fraser,  will, at the present time under this Government, receive no protection whatsoever. The only area which officers will be able to cover will be the city of Geelong which is in the Federal electorate of Corio. 
What a miserly piece of penny pinching this Government has stooped to in curtailing the use of one car. Officers required it to cover an area of perhaps 1 50 miles by 60 miles. By no way known will workers under Federal awards in that area receive any benefit from what was a Labor Government initiative. How much further can the Government go? There was all the talk during the election campaign of the Liberal Party wanting to curtail unemployment and to do something about it. 
The Labor Government as one of its initiatives during its 3 years in office set out to fund historical museums to try to retain some of the past history of this country which could be lost for all time due to natural causes and the neglect of mankind. A group of people in Warrnambool, the city in which I live, set out to establish a maritime museum because the whole of the southwest coast of Victoria is a graveyard for hundreds of sailing ships. I suppose one could say that these ships wrote the history of this part of the country. As I have said, in an attempt to do something about this matter these people decided to establish a maritime village. Under Labor's proposals they would have received funds once the Victorian Government gave them a sufficiently high priority. 
When the Liberal Party came to office it announced that under its cuts it would no longer fund any man-made historical projects. The result is that 26 men were put off their jobs a fortnight ago- in an area where the unemployment rate is such that 43 people vie for every position available and where 1722 people are registered as unemployed. This is a level of 7.9 1 per cent as against the national average of 5.66 per cent. Interestingly enough, of these 1722 people, 1040-odd are young people under the age of eighteen years. Under the guidelines laid down by  Mr Fraser  and his Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations,  Mr Street,  all of these young people from 16 to 18 years of age will be liable to conscription in that they will have to move away from their homes or they will starve. It is deportation, or industrial conscription, or starvation under  Mr Fraser  and the Liberal Party for those young people. 
One can go further in showing up the Government's penny-pinching. Adjacent to the city of 
Warrnambool is a small fishing village of some 2500 people. This is possibly the cradle of white civilisation in Victoria because sealers, whalers and others visited that area from Van Diemen 's Land long before Melbourne was discovered. This area was once a thriving port. Again, under the Labor Government, with funds from Canberra research was being conducted by a firm from Sydney to try to gather together the history of the small town and to have it written down in perpetuity and to have the many old homes recognised as historical homes, which they are. But again word was received a fortnight or 3 weeks ago that this plan had been curtailed. So much for the attempt by the Liberal and National Country parties to introduce a credit squeeze. I suppose it is understandable. We on this side of the chamber know that such projects as these are beyond the philosophy of the Liberal and National Country parties. Their god is the gross national product and tax deductions for big business. 
Let us have a look at how their Prime Minister has been exposed for all time. He has been exposed by what he said during the election campaign and by what he said later on once he became the Prime Minister. I think that perhaps the best example of the duplicity of the Liberal and National Country parties and in particular of the Prime Minister is set out in a leading article in the Melbourne  Age  of 3 1 January by Allan Barnes. He starts his article by stating: 
At 7 o'clock last night, Malcolm Fraser's political credibility lay in tatters on the floor of committee room number one in Parliament House, Canberra. 
In a Press conference lasting just 20 minutes, the Prime Minister had succeeded in casting doubt on every undertaking he gave in his election policy only 2 months ago. 
To any ordinary person's reading  Mr Fraser  had reneged on his pledge to support wage indexation, virtually admitted that his promise to make swift cuts in Government spending had been made rashly and hedged on his undertaking to index income taxes. 
On top of that he had totally ignored a request made to him a "few hours earlier by Ministers from every State government, including the 4 Liberal-Country Party States, that he should delay until Monday an announcement of the Government's decision on wage indexation. 
But the Government's decision also involves issues of justice and political integrity. People should be able to expect that a Prime Minister will abide by undertakings he gives in an election campaign, particularly in a carefully prepared, written policy. 
The article goes on to expound  Mr Fraser's  policy delivered some 2 months earlier. As I have said, this article shows the credibility of the present incumbent of the Prime Minister's office. 
In an address to a group of American senators on 7 January  Mr Fraser  said that America had no reason to be ashamed nor should she apologise for her foreign policy because it was right. So I expect that from here on while the present Prime Minister holds his position this country's foreign policy will revert to the cold war theories of the 1950s and the 1960s. It will be back to all the way with LBJ. To say that America had no reason to be ashamed nor should she apologise for her foreign policy because it was right was a fairly dogmatic statement for anybody to make. Anybody who has been through the Vietnam fiasco- and we all have- will doubt such words and will wonder what is coming next. As I have said, we will see the old cold war logic or nonlogic. This is coming about at the present time. We are told that the Russians are coming. I think that the situation is shown up by  Mr Fraser  's stance on such things as Diego Garcia, which I believe is nothing more than an attempt by the Prime Minister to turn the eyes of this country once again to false problems abroad in order to get the populace to look out so that they will accept financial and political screwing at home. 
Last Thursday and again today I sought information from  Senator Withers,  the Leader of the Government in the Senate, on a matter which has given me some concern, namely, Timor. In my question on 19 February because I referred to the Government of Indonesia as neo-fascist  Senator Withers  replied: 
. when an honourable senator makes comments such as that about Indonesia- a country with which we have close and friendly relations- I really do not know whether I should even attempt to seek to get information for him. 
At first I thought that this might be an attempt by the honourable senator to intimidate me. But I do not think he is quite that type of man. I assure him that if he thinks he can stop me asking questions by half threatening me like that, then he and I will have words about the matter. I asked another question today on the same subject but did not receive an answer. Perhaps  Senator Withers  is attempting to cover up the Timor debacle or perhaps he is not aware of what has gone on- I do not know. But it has appeared to me that in recent months mass genocide has been committed right on Australia's doorstep by Indonesians. One can call them volunteers or what one likes; they are without a doubt Indonesians. 
The complicity of the Prime Minister and the Minister for Foreign Affairs  (Mr Peacock)  in this action was shown up, I think, by the actions of the Commonwealth Police and people from the Post Office in confiscating a radio transmitter which was operating out of Darwin. Quite frankly I believe that once that transmitter was confiscated all chances of the United Nations special envoy getting into East Timor were knocked on the head- and that was the way it turned out. It has been suggested with a great deal of force that  Mr Peacock,  in his discussions with his counterpart in Indonesia,  Mr Malik,  came to an arrangement to allow thai radio transmitter to be confiscated. We may never know whether that is the case. But whilst Ministers of this Parliament refuse to answer questions put to them by members of it I think we are entitled to suspect the worst. 
There have been claims made by the puppet Governor of the Indonesian-held areas of East Timor, Lopez da Cruz, and published in the Australian Press that 60 000 people, mostly women and children, have been massacred in East Timor. That represents roughly one-tenth of the total population of East Timor. Not a word of protest have we heard from either the Prime Minister or his Minister for Foreign Affairs on this matter. What a golden opportunity was created for the militarists of Indonesia by the events in this chamber and another place of 1 1 November. The hiatus created an opportunity for Indonesia to move in and do what she could do and did in East Timor- to rape and pillage the people and the countryside- and then, as I have said before, tell us that volunteers were involved. Just how naive do these militarists of Indonesia think we are? 
One of the things that worries me about the whole filthy episode is how many of the so-called volunteers may have been led by Indonesian army officers who were trained in Australia? Was any of the military equipment that has been bought from or given to the Government of Indonesia by the Australian Government used to massacre people? We do not know about that. We may never know. Quite frankly, I think it is time that Australia reassessed its attitude to some of the people in Indonesia. I have referred to some of them as neo-fascists and that is what I believe them to be- extreme right wing militarists. It is their second military venture abroad. The West Irian incident was the first one. Where is the next one going to be? Will it be in Papua New Guinea or to the north? We may find out one day. 
There was a time when a great deal of respect was held by many people in Indonesia for Australia because of what was done in the years after World War II when we befriended Indonesia and gave her an opportunity to break away from her colonial past. I think a great deal  of that respect still remains. But I do not think that any of us in this country should hold our heads high and regard ourselves as friends of the militarists of Indonesia whilst they massacre, rape, torture and pillage a minority group which happens to live adjacent to them. As I have said previously, particularly during the election campaign, I wholeheartedly support the attitudes and actions of those trade unions in this country which have placed black bans on ships, mail and what-have-you to Indonesia whilst war rages in Timor. 
I think that the great majority of Australians -in fact all Australians- should hold their heads in shame at the pillaging and genocide that has been committed there on people who supported us staunchly in the 1940s, who laid down their lives alongside our own troops and who fought with them, protected them and helped them to get out when things became too tough. We are now not saying 'boo' to the generals and the leadership of Indonesia because they are alleged to be good friends. I certainly do not want friends like that and I do not know how many others in Australia do. I believe that the great bulk of the people of Australia also feels the same way. 
It is interesting to read a couple of the Press statements that have been issued on this Timorese conflict, because if there is one figment of truth in them they make one suspect some fairly high people within government circles in Australia. I refer firstly to a Press release which was issued by the Campaign for Independent East Timor on 27 January, which reads: 
Last Saturday I spoke with a senior officer of the Department of Foreign Affairs in Canberra. I had earlier been contacted by him indirectly when I was in Canberra last Tuesday (20 January) on other business. We then arranged, through a third person a carefully prepared rendezvous on the Saturday. 
The senior officer informed me that he had decided to tell us of certain information concerning the situation in East Timor and concerning government policy, because he felt a moral duty to expose the pro-Indonesian policy of the government. 
He said as a returned serviceman he was disgusted at the complicity of the government with Indonesia's invasion of East Timor, because the invasion would result and was already resulting in the slaughter of tens of thousands of East Timorese, who had so nobly helped Australian servicemen in World War II. 
The senior officer said that during  Mr Andrew  Peacock's visit to Jakarta and his discussions with Indonesian Foreign Minister Adam Malik,  Mr Peacock  had agreed to close down the Fretilin radio transmitter operating in Darwin. 
He also agreed that the Australian Government would do nothing to help the UN Special Envoy reach Fretilin-held areas of East Timor and would refuse the use of Darwin as a base for the envoy's efforts to reach the Fretilin-held areas. 
The senior Foreign Affairs official also said that  Mr Peacock  had promised  Mr Malik  that the Australian government would attempt to use its influence on the media to tone down articles critical of Indonesian involvement in East Timor. 
The senior officer said the Government had in fact adopted the policy outlined in Australian Ambassador to Jakarta,  Mr Wollcott's  secret cable, published in part in the  Canberra Times  earlier this month. 
The Press release goes on in a similar vein. A second Press release from the same source on 28 January reads: 
A group of prominent Australians, Portuguese and Timorese in Sydney and Melbourne met at 74 Homebush Road, Strathfield late last July to put the finishing touches to the coup which occurred in East Timor on August 11, and began the train of events which led to the Indonesian invasion. 
The house they met served at the time as the private residence of  Mr Deolindo  Encarnacao, and also as the Portuguese Consulate in Sydney. 

 Mr Deolindo was for many years Portuguese Consul in Sydney. He is Timorese. Although the Strathfield house no longer serves as the Consulate and a new Consul arrived last year,  Mr Deolindo  still works three days a week in the Portuguese Consulate, now situated in Union Carbide House, Liverpool Street, Sydney. 

 Mr Deolindo has been receiving almost daily coded messages from Indonesian puppet forces and the Indonesians themselves since they captured Dili. 
It is rather interesting to read the assertions made later on in this Press release which states: 
An additional reason is the role of  Mr T.  Dodson, Portuguese honorary Consul in Melbourne, who is also  chairman  of Timor Oil.  Mr Dodson  is in almost daily contact with  Mr Deolindo,  concerning news and requests from UDT forces and the Indonesians in Dili since December 7. 
It goes on to point out in the next paragraph: 
Timor Oil began renegotiating its leases in East Timor last June with Portuguese representative, Engineer Barbosa. The Portuguese put stiffer conditions on the leases than previously, particularly on repatriation of profits. He also demanded that the company's headquarters be in Dili, not Melbourne. He told our informant in Darwin after he was evacuated following the August 1 1 coup, that the Timor Oil representatives had continually stalled on negotiations. He believed Timor Oil was waiting for the coup or the invasion, as Indonesia gave much better conditions than the Portuguese, or Fretlin, were likely to offer. 
It mentions other people including  Mr Jaime  Santos:  . . Jaime Santos who had come to Australia shortly before obstensibly as a representative of Oceanic Oil Exploration, an American company from Denver, Colorado, which in December 1974 had obtained offshore oil leases of East Timor. 
The Press release refers to arms smuggled into East Timor and mentions other people who attended the same meeting. They included  Mr Michael  Darby and former brigadier Bernard J. Callinan, a director of British Petroleum (Australia), a prominent member of the 
National Civic Council and Australia Democratic Labor Party, a former captain of the Australia commandos in Timor during World War II and a frequent visitor to East Timor ever since.  Mr Deputy President,  as I said earlier, if there is one shred of truth in any of these matters asserted in those Press releases, there are a lot of people in Australia who have a lot to answer for in relation to the terrible tragedy that has happened in Timor. 
I wind up my remarks by just saying this: If Indonesia is not told sooner or later by some other country or countries that it, we, or they are not prepared to stand by while Indonesia goes on military excursions which can only be likened to what Hitler did in the late 1930s, Indonesia will lose a whole lot of friends. I had hoped that  Mr Peacock  at least would stand up and tell these people, 'Thus far and no further'. But, as I said earlier, it appears that because of the Prime Minister's stance we will revert to the old cold war theories of the 1950s and 1960s. Diego Garcia is one example of this. The Indian Ocean is a very big place and the Russian Navy has just as much right to be there as any other navy. It is rather interesting to note that during the whole period when the American Congress, Press and White House were saying that all work on Diego Garcia had been curtailed because of a vote in the Congress- the supply of funds had been curtaileddespite those statements work never ceased. In fact, the necessary goods were being shuttled to and fro constantly to allow the project to continue. 
Whatever honourable senators opposite may say about the former Labor Government's performance during our 2 eighteen-month terms of office, at least we can say that not once did we try to distract the attention of the populace of Australia from problems at home by conjuring up mythical enemies abroad. Perhaps that was our downfall. Perhaps we should have been dishonest, as it appears the present Government intends to be, and conjured up a mythical enemy out there- the red threat or the yellow peril- as the present Government appears to be doing so that it can get away with anything with the populace here at home. 
My question is directed to the Minister for Science. Has work on the national animal health laboratories at Geelong been stopped pending a decision on whether the project will proceed? Is the Minister aware of the importance the primary industries of Australia place on the proposed facilities as a protection against exotic animal diseases? 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry. I ask: In view of a statement by a member of the Australian Dairy Produce Board that opening prices for butterfat next July could be as low as 42c a lb for Victorian dairy farmers, what assistance does the Government intend to provide to keep these farmers financially viable? 
I ask the Minister representing the Attorney-General whether Commonwealth Police recently entered Melbourne University and, in an endeavour to trade information, alleged that I had signed an affidavit supporting the admission of  Mr E.  Zananiri to Australia? If so, will the AttorneyGeneral inform the said Police that I have not signed any such affidavit? 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Defence, upon notice: 
What Army and or RAAF exercises were carried out in Victoria on the evening of Thursday, 1 2 February 1 976. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Defence, upon notice: 
Who gave permission for Laverton Air Base in Victoria to be used for the 1976 Australian TT International bike race. 
Was a fee charged for the use of the base; if so, was it paid. 
How many hours of work did Defence personnel contribute to the meeting. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry, upon notice: 
1 ) Has the Minister noticed criticism by  Mr Hugh  Lavery of David Lavery and Son Pty Ltd of the proposed plan for the dairy industry initiated by the Australian Dairy Corporation. 
Is the firm, D. Lavery and Son Pty Ltd controlled by interests in Hong Kong. 
Is the firm also agent for the New Zealand Dairy Board and, as a result, is responsible for importing New Zealand dairy produce into Australia. 
Does the same firm own any manufacturing premises in Australia, or does its investments consist solely of warehouses. 

 Senator Cotton The Minister for Primary Industry has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
1 ) Yes. The Company has informed my Department that its criticism was in response to the Australian Dairy Corporation 's wish to obtain industry reaction. 
The Company has also provided my Department with the following information about the remainder of the honourable senator's question. 
The shareholding of the Group is held 5 1 per cent by the Dairy Farm Group m Hong Kong and 49 per cent by the Lavery family which holds a casting vote on the directorate. 
The Group is one of the agents of the New Zealand Dairy Board and handles cheese shipped to Australia within the NAFTA agreement. 
The Group maintains no manufacturing premises in Australia. Its ancillary services, including warehouses and related equipment in Australia are valued at upwards of $2m. It is involved in processing outside Australia as an outlet for Australian dairy products. 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Post and Telecommunications. Does the Prime Minister take over the present 10 Telecom Australia exchange lines when he is in residence at Nareen? Has this created the necessity for a new 10-pair cable to that district? What is the length of the new cable required? When did the work commence, and when will it be completed? What is the estimated cost of the work? Will it be funded by the Prime Minister's Department? If not, why not? Why is a 10-pair cable necessary? On how many days of the year is it anticipated the Prime Minister will use the new or old lines? Was the job subjected to a cost justification analysis? 
-Is the Minister representing the Prime Minister aware that because of cuts in expenditure and ceilings on employment within the Public Service the National Library has been forced to curtail its film lending facilities even to the point of the curtailment of teaching aid films to educational institutions? Will the Minister take this matter up in an attempt to have the situation remedied? 
I rise tonight to speak in opposition to the proposal that is before the Chamber. I do so not out of any form of malice to the National Country Party, to the Liberal Party or particularly to the beef producers of this country, but because we on this side of the chamber believe that it is not the type of legislation that will go down in history as being beneficial to the beef industry. We believe that there are other forms of assistance, which can well be applied, over and above this form of assistance, which will be of greater long term benefit to the industry. It appears that the Government, in introducing this legislation, had the benefit of the Industries Assistance Commission report on Financing Promotion of Rural Products. On page 21 of the report the Commission states: 
The Commission has concluded that the Government should meet the cost of export inspection for all meat although the case for Government subsidy is stronger for beef, for the reasons given above, than for other meats. Should it be deemed necessary, however, to recoup meat export inspection costs through a producer levy this should be funded from separate slaughter levies on various meats rather than from an export charge. The total cost to the Government of subsidising meat export inspections would be about $ 19m. 
One presumes that this will be the cost perannum. In the next paragraph the report goes on to state: 
The Commission has further concluded that the current system of statutory export inspection of meat should be retained, and that efforts should continue to arrange a single system of inspection in association with the State governments. 
I will have something to say about that second paragraph later. It is interesting to note that in his second reading speech on 4 March, as reported on page 427 of  Hansard  of that date,  Senator Cotton  stated: 
The Government has now decided to go further and to remove the charge on all meats, not just beef and veal. The purpose is to ensure that there should be an immediate improvement in prices paid for livestock. 
I refer honourable senators to page 516 of the House of Representatives  Hansard  of 3 March. The Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Sinclair)  in his summing up after all honourable members who wished to take part in the debate had spoken on this Bill, had this to say: 
There is no guarantee that the various people along the chain from the meat exporter back to the producer will not absorb some of the charge. However, the reason put forward for the lifting of the charge was to minimise the risk of the charge not being passed back to producers. On each occasion I have spoken on the measure I have emphasised that we look to those who at the moment might be able to take the benefit of the charge- that is, the exporters- not to use it in an export promotion, not to absorb additional wage charges for other imposts through it, but to pass it back to the producer so that the industry itself can survive. 
It would seem to me that in that statement the Minister for Primary Industry is refuting part of the second reading speech itself. While the Government expresses the opinion that it is doing these things for the good of the beef producers, the Minister is prepared to accede to an argument that in the long term it may well be that beef producers will get nothing out of the Government's move in this area. As a beef producer myself, I believe- and this is why I am opposed to the Government's proposal- that beef producers, like anybody else in our society who produces articles for consumption or for wearing or whatever it may be, have a social responsibility to put their product on the market as free from disease as they can possibly do it. I am of the opinion that while the taxpayers and the community generally pick up the tab for meat inspection, there is no incentive on beef producers to weed and breed for better and cleaner meat for the consumer. 
There is a classic example of this in the State of Victoria where, at the present time, cancer in cattle is a notifiable and compensatable disease. In my own district, every Sunday morning one can see cattle carriers and transporters bringing loads of Hereford cattle into the local abattoir. These cattle are riddled with cancer, particularly eye cancer. While the Victorian government is prepared to pay a fee because this disease is notifiable and compensatable, there is no responsibility or incentive placed on Hereford growers and producers in the State of Victoria to weed and breed for a cancer-free beast. Anybody who knows anything about Hereford cattle will appreciate that eye cancer is extremely prevalent. 
They are extremely susceptible to it, because of the effect of sunlight on the pigmentation of their eyes. There is a simple way out of this problem. Cancer can be bred out by introducing progeny, particularly bulls, which have a brown pigmentation in the eye. However, as I said, while the taxpayer of Victoria is picking up the tab for that complaint there is no incentive whatsoever for growers to breed the disease out. It is a wonder to me that other beef producersshall we say Angus beef producers- in the State of Victoria have not raised all hell about this situation in that State. 
-Not at all. That is an example of what happens when someone else is prepared to accept the responsibility for diseases in animals. I said earlier that I wished to speak on the question of dual inspection. I think it is one of the major problems in this situation. The Bill before this chamber seeks to remove a charge placed on meat producers for the inspection of export meat. I have not had the time, nor have I bothered- if I had bothered, I would have found the time- to go into the cost to the Australian beef grower of this dual inspection. 
It is a fact that in every State of the Commonwealth except South Australia dual inspection arrangements exist. South Australia permits the Australian Department to carry out the inspection under the Meat Inspection Arrangement Act. The veterinary officers in charge at the export works, who are Australian Department officers, do not have the ability to control State employees where there is a joint team, and on numerous occasions conflicts arise. Constitutionally, the Commonwealth does not have statutory or constitutional power to deal with meat for the domestic market. The Commonwealth Department has effective power only where meat is for export. The 2 meat inspector groups have different rates of pay and terms and conditions of employment, although they work alongside one another. Separate amenity blocks have to be constructedone for the Federal inspectors and one for the State inspectors- and State employees cannot be transferred interstate to handle peak requirements in other States. In Victoria, although meat may have been passed for export it must still be branded with the brand of the Victorian inspector before it can enter the domestic trade. By removing that requirement and eliminating some of the inspectors, an annual saving of at least $600,000 would be achieved. 
That opinion was expressed by  Mr A.  K. Holland in an article in the  Land.  I am afraid that the date on the photocopy is not clear. The opinion expressed by people in the trade- exporters, abattoir managers and so on- is that dual inspection is a most wasteful exercise and in effect ends up simply as a money spinner for State governments. A situation exists at one abattoir in Victoria where the inspection costs run at the rate of 18c a carcass for calves, sheep and lambs; $1.44 for cattle; 45c for vealers; and 72c for pigs. Despite dual inspection at that abattoir, if any of those carcasses are transferred to South Australia the Government there levies a meat inspection charge of half a cent per lb. If they should be sent to New South Wales, the State Government there imposes a meat inspection charge of lc per lb. All this is being done at a time when in many cases, producers are getting almost nothing for their stock. It seems to me that in many instances meat inspection at our abattoirs, particularly when the meat crosses State borders, costs much more than the price producers are receiving for many head of stock. 
The situation is farcical when it is considered that 2 men- a Commonwealth inspector and a State inspector, both highly qualified- stand side by side on the killing chain, each looking for exactly the same thing, each inspecting glands for various diseases. The producer or perhaps the consumer- we shall never know which, because the abattoirs pass on the charge, as they do with everything else- is being charged for this dual inspection. One has to remember that throughout this country there are abattoirs which do not export meat. In that situation there is a requirement only for a State inspector. For the life of me I cannot see why we should be required to fund this dual inspection at an export abattoir. In many saleyards in Australia at the present time, particularly after 6 o'clock at night when the buyers knock off and there are still 300 or 400 head of stock to be auctioned, the farmers are receiving $3 and $4 a head for quite good vealers and as low as 50c a head for meaty and chopping cattle. Strangely enough, in regard to meaty and chopping cattle, when the animal is dressed and boned out and the meat goes into the cartons, the price for meat inspection is 90c for a 60 lb carton, or 1 1/2c per lb, which is far above the price the farmer receives for the beast itself. 
I know that for many years long discussions have been held at Agricultural Council meetings to try to overcome this problem. I hope that someone will get a move on. In a country such as 
Australia, where we all speak the same language, where we all dress in the same way and where we have no ethnic barriers to cross in relation to trade, it has taken years and years to try to reach finality in this matter. It is little wonder that we go to war at the drop of a hat because someone else is black or brown or communist when we cannot overcome a very minor problem in our own community. In that respect some excellent evidence was given to the Brewer Committee on the meat industry in New South Wales in 1972, and I am sure that anybody who wants to study the situation would be helped by reading that evidence. When questioned on the matter of dual inspection, almost every witness agreed that it was wasteful and unnecessary. 
Finally, I wish to refer to the other aspect of the Bill relating to the deletion of the charge of 0.6c per lb for the eradication of brucellosis and tuberculosis. I think that one of my first speeches in this chamber, about 4 years ago, in a debate on a meat Bill, was on the subject of brucellosis. Again, anybody who is involved with the industry appreciates the problems presented by brucellosis. The disease is world-wide. It is found in yaks in the Andes, in polar bears in the Arctic, in camels as well as in sheep and, in this case, in beef cattle. It is a particularly insidious disease if it is passed on to human beings in the form of undulant fever, and one only has to talk to the secretary of any meat workers union to gain a realisation of that. I think that the Government has to be credited with using a little bit of nous in making its decision to replace this charge, which has applied only to export meat, with a charge of $ 1 a head on all stock. I see no reason at all why stock killed for the domestic market should be relieved of the charge. As I said, it is a particularly widespread disease and I have had a lot of experience with it. I fail to understand why the Government should do away with the meat export charge at this stage and then apply the new charge on 1 July next year. That does not seem to be common sense to me. 
One matter I wish to raise tonight relates to the attitude and the actions of the Victorian Government. Those of us who follow primary industry in Victoria are all aware that last year the Victorian Government disposed of its 2 meatworks the Victorian Inland Meat Authority works at Bendigo and Ballarat. We are reaching a situation in Victoria at present in which the incidence of brucellosis is very high. No one has been able to give me an estimate of the proportion of cattle in Victoria which are inflicted with brucellosis but it would be relatively high. It is suggested that it will not be as high as the incidence of tuberculosis in the early days of the anti-tuberculosis campaign in Victoria when, in some cases, whole herds were written off but it still remains very high. 
The problem that will now face the campaigners for the eradication of brucellosis in Victoria is the lack of space in which to kill the animals. That problem particularly confronts the Department of Agriculture. The tragedy of the matter is that had the Victorian Government retained at least one of its abattoirs- only one may have been necessary- it could have been designated for the handling of brucellosis condemned cattle. Such cattle could have been transported by rail. The abattoir at Ballarat in central Victoria is ideally placed to enable the transportation of cattle from all over Victoria, particularly by rail, to allow them to be slaughtered, to allow farmers to be compensated and some progress to be made in the brucellosis eradication campaign. 
I direct my question to the Minister representing the Minister for Post and Telecommunications. Subsequent to the Government's confiscation of the radio transmitter operated by  Mr Tony  Bella in Darwin on 25 January, was an applicaton made for a licence to operate a transmitter? If so, when was the application lodged and when can the applicant expect a decision? 
I direct a question to the Minister for Industry and Commerce. Is it a fact that 2 Ballarat valve manufacturers, namely, M. B. Johns Ltd and Eureka Valve Manufacturers Pty Ltd are in financial difficulties due to the importation of cheap valves from overseas? Is he aware that these 2 companies employ some 800 men, all of whom are in danger of retrenchment unless some form of protection by way of increased tariff or quotas is applied? 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Transport. In view of the Government's announced intention to set up an Omega station in Australia, and in view of the fact that Tasmania is a preferred site, what cognisance will be taken of the attitude expressed by  Mr Neilson,  the Premier of that State, who is reported to oppose strongly the establishment of such a base? 
I rise to speak rather briefly in the debate on the States Grants (Fruit Canneries) Bill 1976 which basically provides financial assistance by way of loans to a handful of canneries to enable them to pay the growers in those areas for the 1974-75 season's crop. If one looks at the history of assistance in recent years which has been given to fruit canneries by the Federal Parliament, one sees that this is the fourth occasion since 1 970 when Bills of this nature have been before the Senate. That indicates the position of the fruit canning industry in Australia. The industry is fraught with a malaise which unfortunately is confined not only to it at this stage. It is a malaise that is bearing down also on the beef industry, to some extent on the wool industry and, as the previous speaker noted rather well, on the dairying industry. We have reached a situation in at least some of these industries- perhaps for some it is only temporary but for others I fear it may be on a long term basis- in which they are at the end of their tethers so far as export markets are concerned. 
I digress slightly to state that I have been a dairy farmer for some 40 years. I was one who thought that there was a rainbow around the corner or that the goose would lay the golden egg. But I have come to the conclusion that the salvation for that industry lies solely in its home market with perhaps a reliance on a minor export market. As I read the situation, that is exactly the situation that the fruit industry in particular faces. The industry grew up when we had complete access to the United Kingdom market for everything that it could produce. It was its golden era. I believe that today the industry faces a situation, through events that have occurred in Europe over the last decade, of being precluded from these markets. Today nations that we hardly realised had fruit exports are getting access to what was once our traditional market. I refer to a country like Greece which will receive duty-free preference into the European Economic Community for its fruit and to other countries like Italy. They will take over Australia's position as a fruit exporter in the EEC and particularly the United Kingdom. 
In effect all this Bill is doing is providing for a welfare payment to perhaps 2500 fruit growers in Victoria, South Australia and New South Wales. I have no doubt that the growers concerned would be somewhat indignant at the use of the term 'welfare payment' because they would not see it in that light. But if they were to stand off from their industry for a little while and rationalise it I think that they also would agree, when the chips are finally down, that it can be seen as only a welfare payment. As I said earlier, unless favourable markets can be foundmarkets that will pay a price that will enable the producer to earn over and above what he is earning at the moment and allow him to stay in the industry- the industry must be rationalised and brought back to one which produces only for the domestic market. At the moment some 40 per cent of our produce is retailed overseas. From memory about 30 per cent of the market is provided by local consumption. I believe that that is where the industry's future lies. 
I believe that the amendment which was moved by my colleague  Senator Walsh  is far more pertinent to the future of this industry than is the Bill before us. The Bill allows a breathing space for the industry, the Government and everybody concerned with the industry to sit down for perhaps another 12 months and investigate where the industry is going. The trauma- it can only be described as trauma- that is being experienced and will be increasingly experienced by the producers of canned fruit as they watch their industry decline is not something that anybody takes great pleasure in watching them suffer. One can readily appreciate the highly disadvantageous position that these fruit growers are in at the present time. To see everythingtheir lifetime, perhaps in many instances every cent that they have in this world, the work of their wives and families- crumbling or potentially crumbling before their eyes is not a pleasant sight for anybody who appreciates their position. But I believe, as I have already said, that unless some rather advantageous market can be found quickly the industry must surely rationalise and look only to the domestic market. To that extent I believe that the quicker the Government gets round to examining the existing report of the Australian Industry Development Corporation or an updated version of it the better it will be for the growers engaged in the industry as they will experience much less heartburn. 
I direct a question either to the Minister for Social Security or to the Minister representing the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations, whoever has the responsibility for the matter. Have members of the Australasian Meat Industry Employees Union employed at the Thomas Borthwick &amp; Son Pty Ltd works at Portland in Victoria who decided to work the minimum tally as allowed for in their award been laid off by that company? Did some one hundred and twenty of these men apply for unemployment benefits? Has the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations,  Mr Street,  instructed the Registrar of Social Security at Hamilton in Victoria that these men are not to receive the benefit? Did the chief industrial officer of Thomas Borthwick &amp; Son Pty Ltd send a telegram to the Registrar seeking to influence the latter's decision on the workers' entitlement to benefit? 
-By way of amendment to the motion moved by  Senator Sim,  I move: 
Leave out the words 'Senate Standing' and insert the word Joint'. 
The situation in which this Parliament finds itself in relation to foreign affairs and defence committees is somewhat ludicrous. It is ludicrous that 2 chambers of a parliament sitting virtually jointly, within a few yards of one another, should each require a committee to investigate matters pertaining to foreign affairs and defence. We in the Australian Labor Party believe that there is a need for some rationalisation of the committee system. Despite everything that it has going for it- we believe that it has a lot going for it- the committee system has tended to become the tail that is wagging the dog. I refer particularly to honourable senators. The workload of honourable senators sitting on committees has become something of a burden in recent years. That is one reason why we believe that there is a need for rationalisation and a need for this reference to go to the Joint Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence. As  Senator Sim  has pointed out, the previous report in relation to the Indian Ocean was brought down by a sub-committee of the Joint Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence. I think it would be somewhat cheeky for this chamber to take over the role of that Committee by looking further into this question. For that reason I have moved this amendment. 
Amendment negatived. 
Original question resolved in the affirmative. 
I preface my question, which is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Foreign Affairs, by saying that on 1 9 February this year I asked the Minister a question relating to a claim made by  Mr Lopez  da Cruz, Vice-President of the so-called provincial government of East Timor, that some 50 000 to 60 000 people had been massacred by Indonesian troops operating in that country. On 2 March the Minister replied, in part: 
In response to its inquiries in  Jarkarta,  the Government was informed that the figures of 50 000-60 000 mentioned by  Mr da  Cruz related to victims of the fighting since it first began in August 1975, and that the figures included the 40 000 refugees who fled to Indonesian Timor in August and September . . . 
I now ask: From whom in Jarkarta did the Government obtain its information that the 50 000 to 60 000 casualties included 40 000 refugees? Is the Minister aware that  Mr da  Cruz has repeated his allegation in that he is quoted as saying 2 weeks ago 'I have told the Press in Jarkarta some 50 000 to 60 000 people have been massacred', only on this occasion  Mr da  Cruz seeks to blame Fretilin for these excesses? 
I listened with some interest to the argument put by the previous  speaker, Senator Walters.  It seems to me that in the main she was arguing for the reintroduction of the superphosphate bounty in order to employ, as one would gather from her speech, hundreds of thousands of people. Anyone who has any interest in rural areas or in superphosphate would be able to tell the honourable senator that in the main the spreading and carrying of superphosphate is conducted over 3 or 4 months of the year and that for the person so employed it is a part-time job only. With the mechanical means available in this modern age the number of persons employed, particularly in spreading and carting superphosphate, has dropped off very drastically over the last decade or 15 years. 
Whilst  Senator Walters  raised this point she did not think to mention that perhaps what is lost in one area is picked up in another. The fact that superphosphate is not carried and spread around rural Australia as much in recent times is a great saving to our rural roads because superphosphate is one commodity which has an effect on minor rural roads which are not constructed for this type of heavy traffic. 
-Of course, those honourable senators who laugh at the idea do not live in rural areas and know nothing of rural roads. 
-Milk tankers are basically used on roads that have been upgraded to carry them. Superphosphate tends to be carried down country lanes which were not designed to carry heavy traffic. If  Senator Walters'  argument were to be carried to its logical conclusion we would be spreading superphosphate  ad infinitum.  I wonder where her philosophy would lead us with regard to the increased production we could expect to achieve. At this stage the Australian farming community has dairy products, wool and beef- they are the 3 major users of superphosphate- running out of its ears. It seems to me that they will be running out of the ears of the industry for some time due to the curtailment of overseas markets, particularly following Britain's entry into the European Economic Community, and the increased production of some of these commodities around the world. 
As my colleague  Senator McLaren  pointed out last night, the bounty has a long and somewhat political history. It was first introduced in 1913 and carried forward in various stages. It was reintroduced in 1942 or 1943 by the Chifley Labor Government, removed in 1951 by the 
Liberal Government under  Mr Menzies,  reintroduced, interestingly enough- this is why I referred to superphosphate having a somewhat political history- in 1963 when the then Menzies Government was in a situation of having a majority of only one in the other place. That subsidy was allowed to expire in 1974 by the Labor Government and is being re-introduced at this time because of an election pledge by the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser). 
Unfortunately, as I see it, the people who have clamoured for the reintroduction and continuation of this bounty over the years have never looked beyond the political aspect or the more immediate future. No one has bothered to look at the long term effects of the application of superphosphate and to have regard to the various industries which benefit by its application. No one has bothered to look at the long term prospects of the beef industry, the dairying industry or the wool industry or to determine where those industries go from here. As I said a moment ago, those are 3 industries which patently at the moment do not require the assistance of a superphosphate bounty. I am sure that when rural people rationalise the events of the last two or three years and the next two or three years they will see that all that the present Government is doing is trying to make superphosphate a panacea for the current evils or problems of their industries. The Government is trying to cloud the issue for the farming community by reintroducing the superphosphate bounty. By this means the Government hopes to shut the minds of those in that community to investigating or probing any further into what might be wrong with their industries. 
It is rather significant, I think, that some rural organisations have opposed the reintroduction of the superphosphate bounty. In August last year, cattlemen appealed to the then Minister for Agriculture,  Senator Wriedt,  not to restore the bounty but rather to allocate funds in other directions. They believed that there was much that could be done to greater benefit by such an allocation of funds. In January of this year, the Australian Cattlemen's Association appealed to the present Government not to reintroduce the bounty - 
. . . pointing out that producers who most need government assistance could not afford to purchase superphosphate in the first place. As  Senator Sir Magnus  Cormack would well know, there are hundreds of farmers in his area in south-western 
Victoria who at present will not be able to afford to buy superphosphate, bounty or no bounty. The Labor Government came in for a great deal of criticism not only in this Parliament but also outside the Parliament because of its disinclination to continue with that bounty. Unfortunately, at the time when that opposition came, world prices for phosphate rock increased dramatically. There was an increase of up to 350 per cent in the price of phosphate rock from Morocco, Florida and other countries where that resource is freely available. 
However, despite the criticism that was levelled at the Labor Government by many people, I was rather interested to have the views of one primary producer at least who rationalised the position rather differently and who expressed the opinion that he was much better off under the Labor Government without the superphosphate bounty than he had been under the previous Liberal-Country Party Government when the superphosphate bounty was available. He rationalised in this way: He used around 20 tons of superphosphate per annum and prior to the country going metric, the bounty that applied to that 20 tons of superphosphate was worth $240 per annum to him. He rationalised that whilst the Whitlam Labor Government had taken that bounty away it had replaced it in the first instance by introducing Medibank which was worth $140 per annum to him. The same Government gave grants to local government. In the case of this farmer, the grant from the Grants Commission to local government was equal to 1.5c in the dollar on rateable property. In this case that was the equivalent of 6 tons of superphosphate bounty. 
He also rationalised that the 4-fold increase in education expenditure under Labor had made a dramatic improvement in the education facilities at many country schools, his own included. Finally he said that the Labor Government had taken the bit in its teeth and introduced a floor price plan for wool to the total of a guarantee of $356m which was the equivalent of 9 years' superphosphate bounty right across Australia. So all in all, as he said, he was much better off without the superphosphate bounty and with a Labor Government. 
It is interesting to read part of the dissenting report of an Associate Commissioner of the Industries Assistance Commission,  Mr Robinson.  As my colleague,  Senator McLaren  said in this place yesterday, had certain pressure or certain epithets not been used in regard to another person-  Mrs Hylda  Rolfe- perhaps the decision of the IAC would have gone the way of the minority report. On page 8 of the report,  Mr Robinson  says in part: 
A selective intensification of agricultural extension activity in this area may be of more real assistance to a wider group of farmers than would a bounty based solely on fertiliser consumption. 

 Mr Robinson believes that a short term interim bounty will assist few users of phosphatic fertilisers substantially, most present users only marginally and some former users not at all. Far from laying the groundwork for a full report which would consider fundamental, long-term issues, relating to fertiliser usage and its impact on the balance of Australian agriculture, the interim bounty and its retrospectivity will thus tend to cloud the issue and distort the emphasis of the future course of the inquiry. 
He does not consider that the present circumstances justify an interim bounty. They may, however, justify a series or urgent inquiries into the problems of specific farm sectors which are not already under inquiry. 
Of course as I said previously, what the Government hopes will happen is that the farming community will see this as a panacea for all problems, so that they will no longer seek government assistance. I ask honourable senators opposite: Of what import will the reintroduction of a superphosphate bounty at the rate of $ 1 1 .8 1 per tonne be to the 450 dairy farmers who met in the open air at Echuca last night? Not one of them will be in a position to apply superphosphate, bounty or no bounty. Unless something further than a superphosphate bounty is given by way of aid or unless some rationalisation or rational approach to the industry can be thought out, then the $11.81 per tonne to these farmers is as nothing. 
Of course I am one who has long held the opinion that it is the price that a farmer receives for his commodity- the farm gate price- that affects his mind as to whether he applies superphosphate or not, and whether he applies superphosphate lightly or heavily. I know from my own experience in the rural community that in a good year when prices are high, farmers tend to spread a little extra superphosphate whereas when times are hard, the soil goes without or the farmers apply only half a bag of superphosphate to the acre. When times are good and continue to stay good for a year or two, the rate of application of superphosphate climbs up to a bag, a bag and a half or even 2 bags an acre. That situation prevails whether or not the superphosphate bounty is payable. It is the end price that the farmers receive in their kick that motivates them to spread superphosphate. It is not the presence of the bounty. 
As I said previously, in my district at present when butter fat prices are down to 50c a lb- a price which will not permit any dairy farmer to continue in operations- when good vealers are selling for anything from $4 to $ 1 5 a head, when bobby calves are selling at about 75c to 96c a head and when sheep currently are being given away for dog and pig food, who will apply superphosphate because this bounty has been reintroduced? The application of superphosphate will take place only when the prices for these commodities are increased and farmers have a shilling in their pockets. Because of the reasons I have advanced, I am opposed to the reintroduction of this bounty and support the amendment moved by the Opposition. 

 Senator Sir MAGNUS CORMACK (Victoria) (5. 13)- I listened last night to the speeches made by  Senator Walsh  and  Senator McLaren  in this debate. I listened to  Senator Primmer  this afternoon, I found myself totally and absolutely in an intellectual and mental maze when listening to the 3 honourable senators as I tried to follow them down the various paths they had marked out to support their arguments. I must deal with  Senator Walsh  first. I recalled to my mind what he was saying last night by noting down various comments that he made at that time and then making the effort this morning to read the  Hansard  report of what he said. I ended up in a far more confused situation than I was after listening to him speak last night. I remind  Senator Walsh-  there are technical and scientific grounds for the statement I am about to makethat the human ear can take in only 40 per cent of the words that are spoken and the brain understands only 10 per cent of that. That is the position of a normal human being. The human ear would not absorb even 40 per cent of what  Senator Walsh  was saying. So I wrote down on a piece of paper last night the significant phrases in the honourable senator's speech. I ended up with 2 such phrases and when I examined them again this morning, I came to the conclusion that they as well were meaningless. 

 Senator Walsh has an interesting background as a wheat farmer in Western Australia, as was his father and, I assume, his grandfather before him. As  Senator Walters  pointed out early this afternoon, we use phosphatic acid in the soils of Australia today because our soils are leached. Australia is an old continent and the leaching process has gone on for half a million years. So the amount of inherent fertility in the soils is minimal. In South Australia so much of the early agricultural practice was developed and worked out at the Roseworthy Agricultural College where the practice of introducing ground rock phosphate into the soil was begun in an attempt to increase the yields of South Australian wheat farms. Finally a soluble form of phosphate known as superphosphate was discovered. There is one interesting thing to bear in mind,  Mr Deputy President,  as you would well know as a man of the country, as were many dozens of your forebears. I shall speak about South Australia, a State I know very well. 
I shall deal not only with the price of wheat and the use of superphosphate in the wheat industry. I move on to the other area that seems to have attracted the attention of honourable senators opposite. They complain about phosphate being spread on pastures. Last night  Senator Walsh  observed that all this does is produce food which the poor of the world cannot consume. I shall deal with that in a moment. No honourable senator opposite referred to the objectives of the Phosphate Fertiliser Bounty Act 1963, Act No. 78. The Industries Assistance Commission interim report on superphosphate states: 
The objectives in that Act may be inferred from statements during the Second Reading Debate: 'A Superphosphate bounty . . . will encourage the most economic use of our agricultural resources and in particular, will act as a stimulus for further expansion in pasture improvement'; 
It also states: 
Not only will the subsidy reduce farmers' costs and assist to increase their production but it will also increase the volume of production that Australia has for export and thus enable us to earn more overseas funds'; 'restore the balance of profitability between the primary industries and the secondary and tertiary industries ; 
That last sentence is the important one, because by the end of the 1950s and the beginning of the 1960s the massive rise in cost inflation was overtaking primary producers at all levels in the wheat industry, the meat protein industry, the wool protein industry or whatever other industries. Costs were high, but it was not a matter of price at the gate, as  Senator Primmer  said. In fact prices had reached such an extraordinary dimension as to make the farmer, the grazier or the primary producer at all levels no longer able to absorb the costs that were being erected in Australia as a result of pressure from the urban and metropolitan mass. Unless I am provoked, I will not put it in any weaker or stronger terms than that. 

 Senator Primmer referred to the price that is being paid for poddy calves at the gate on his dairy farm in that fertile area of Warrnambool, where probably superphosphate is not required because I should imagine that it is the richest province in Australia. But that is not the point. The point is that, notwithstanding the vast surpluses of meat in Australia, there is no reflection of this in the butcher shops when housewives go to buy their weekend meat. The reason for that is quite simple. For example, any man who lives on the land and hires a truck to take his cattle to market knows that during the last 4 years the cost of transporting cattle by road has risen by about 30 per cent to 40 per cent. If he transports his cattle by rail he knows that about 20 per cent of the cattle are dead when they get to the other end. He also knows that when cattle get into the hands of  Mr Cullen  of the Australasian Meat Industry Employees Union- a union well known to  Senator McLaren-  it is almost impossible to get the meat out at the other end of the chain system because it becomes so expensive. After the Meat Industry Employees Union has taken its whack, the meat, when it lands in the butcher shop, is very expensive. The producer does not receive the benefit of the high prices that are paid for meat in the butcher shop. 

 Senator Sir MAGNUS CORMACKSomeone from Western Australia can remind me of how much that meat works at Albany lost last year. I think it was $500,000. 1 have been looking at balance sheets, too. In mediaeval times when produce of one sort or another reached Europe it was terribly expensive because it had been mulcted all the way along the transportation line by pirates, governments and the equivalent of guilds of one sort or another. Things have not changed one bit in 500 years. There is a new group of robbers organised by statute in this country. 
Let me return to the use of phosphoric acid in the soil and indicate how important it is that it be used in Australia. In the immediate post-war years under the Australian Labor Party Government there was acquisition of large properties in western Victoria, as would be known by  Senator Primmer.  On those large properties were put a large number of returned servicemen in order that they might be settlers on small properties. The reason that these large areas were resumed compulsorily was that the science of pastures had reached the stage at which, using the quantitive term, the ratio of one dry sheep to 2 acres could, by the use of legumes, be transferred to something like 3 sheep to one acre. To enable that pasture change to take place it was necessary to apply phosphoric acid to the depleted soils of Australia. There are hundreds and thousands of these soldier settlers not only in Victoria but in other States of Australia, including Western Australia. There are also settlers who were privately settled and who were encouraged, to use the words of the Industries Assistance Commission, to go on that land to increase production and to increase productivity. The moment one deprives those lands of soluble phosphoric acid in the form of superphosphate they tend to become deserts. I could take honourable senators over large areas of Australia at present where, simply because of the abandonment of this system by which there was underwritten into the Australian primary industry a means of maintaining production and productivity, there is a regression to minimal returns, in quantitative terms and qualitative terms. The word 'regression' was a favourite of  Senator Walsh  last night. 
The matter has reached the stage it has simply because of a rancorous personal vendetta which was first injected in the Senate to attack the present Prime Minister of Australia  (Mr Malcolm Fraser).  It has been enlarged and broadened, in the same way as the industrial dispute concerning the Federated Storemen and Packers Union in Australia has broadened. The matter was a simple one. The Union is holding up all wool in Australia today because of what was a simple demand for an extra $6 a day or $6 a week. It has been broadened into a whole industrial dispute. I use that analogy in relation to the superphosphate bounty in this debate. Different claims about this, that and the other are constantly being expounded, until the electorate, I imagine, is totally confused. One part of this country that is not confused is the people who are meeting the test of what is in front of them and what is occurring to them. 

 Senator Walters referred to unemployment. It is in quite massive proportions in the country. It is in massive proportions in the service industries which are there to support the primary sector. For example, the honourable senator mentioned that in Tasmania, which is within her personal knowledge, elements of that tertiary servicetruck owners, truck operators, truck transporters and garages who have to rely on their ability to maintain equipment of one sort or another- are out of work. So it is not simply a question of the amount of superphosphate that is being used, whether it should be used or whether it is being used improperly or properly. The fundamental fact is that it is precipitating a revolution and honourable senators opposite have not addressed themselves to the solution of this problem. 
I am willing to admit that there is an element of truth in the observation that has been made that when times are good there is a good deal of phosphate used but wrongly used. I have heard scientists refer to farmers or primary producers using it cosmetically. That is quite true. When times are good it has been used rather lavishly and primary producers have been encouraged to use it lavishly. However, oddly enough- and  Senator Primmer  did not address himself to this point- it is a curious inverted form of saving money, because when phosphoric acid is applied to the soil it is not all used as plant food in the year of its application. It appears to have a residual capacity of something like 12 per cent a year so that if it is applied for 5 years there is something like 60 per cent of residual phosphate in the soil. The farmer understands this perfectly well; he is not a fool. Members of the Australian Labor Party regard him not only as a fool but also as a hewer of wood and a drawer of water who is there to produce the underwrite the basic area of the economy as cheaply as possible. 
I have seen  Mr Cullen.  I have been at meetings in the country at which the Australasian Meat Industry Employees Union has been represented. All  Mr Cullen  has offered to the farmers is the assistance of his Union to solve the problem of the disposal of meat. I do not know what the devil that means and I do not think farmers know either.  Senator Gietzelt  referred to the trade unions sending a mission to Russia to engage in trade negotiations. Russia has never bought any commodity in the world unless it has been at lower than world parity price. Russia lives on the surpluses of the western world and even if it wants meat from Australia it will not buy it unless it can get it at a lesser rate than the going rate anywhere else in the world. 
I rise to move an amendment to the motion moved by  Senator Knight.  I move: 
Leave out the words 'Senate Standing' and insert the word Joint'. 
I do so for the reason expressed by the Opposition on a previous occasion. We hold the belief that unnecessary duplication occurs in references to the Senate Standing Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence and the Joint Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence. We believe it is not in the best interests of the members or of the Parliament. As I have said previously, Senate committees by their very proliferation have become virtually the tail which wags the dog. For that reason I have moved the amendment. 

 Senator Sir MAGNUS CORMACK (Victoria) (4.10)- I feel that I should intrude at this juncture to support  Senator Knight's  motion and to oppose the amendment moved by  Senator Primmer.  I do so for a simple reason. The Senate Standing Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence was set up some years ago. It was established as one of the standing committees of the Senate for the specific reason that the Parliamentary Joint Committee of Foreign Affairs and Defence is an amorphous committee of substantial numbers. It has a constant stream of preoccupation from various members of the Committee, comprising as it does members from both Houses and from separate parties inside the Parliament. The result is that it is almost impossible to get a reference through the Joint Committee simply because of the weight of business. There is a tendency in a large committee for people to be unable to come to some definite proposition so that the Committee can report to the Parliament. There are a lot of other reasons why the Senate Standing Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence was set up. Most of the objections which originally frustrated the Parliament in the context of that Committee have disappeared with the effluxion of time. 
Nevertheless, the primary argument which I have advanced is still valid. I suppose I am not being out of the way or in any way impugning the obligations which rest upon me as  Chairman  of the Parliamentary Joint Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence by saying that the Committee is already fully occupied with references which have come to it from various interested members of the parties comprising this Parliament. In my opinion, simply because of the interests of various members and of various groups of members on the Joint Committee a reference such as the one which has been put down by  Senator Knight  would go to the bottom of the business paper of the Joint Committee. I doubt that it would ever see the light of day. There is a third argument to which I should draw the attention of honourable senators. The previous Administration propelled through both Houses a recommendation that both Houses should set up the Parliamentary Joint Committee on the Parliamentary Committee System. I have had the honour to serve on that Committee for some time as you have,  Mr Acting Deputy President.  I now sit on it again. That Committee is in the process of coming to certain conclusions. I hope that the report on the Parliamentary committee system will be available to the Parliament before very long. 
An interesting thing emerged as a result of hearing witnesses and having discussions on that Committee. The evidence was given in public session so there is no breach of confidence when I make the observation that the weight of evidence taken by the Committee indicated that the Committee system should operate on the basis of each House doing its own thing. Obviously, when that report comes down, it will be the subject of severe debate. In the meantime I think the Senate standing committees and general purpose committees should be allowed to continue. We should not anticipate the feelings and wants of various people in various parts of the Parliament. I know that it is the wish of honourable senators opposite to have joint committees. One of the difficulties, as far as the Senate is concerned, is not that the Senate tail is wagging the parliamentary dog; what happens is that joint committees comprise twice as many members from the House of Representatives as it does senators. So the tail is left in the air and the dog goes through some sort of physical contortion. I for one hold that the Senate is a House directed by the Constitution to carry out certain functions. It has developed an expertise in various areas. It examines matters thoroughly and reports with far greater speed than do joint committees. I could carry on these arguments to a far greater degree but I think they sustain the right and the belief of honourable senators on the Government side that this reference should go to the Senate Standing Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence. When the report of the Parliamentary Joint Committee on the Parliamentary Committee System comes down I hope that all honourable senators will support the system of Senate committees. 
Amendment negatived. 
Original question resolved in the affirmative. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Post and Telecommunications the following question, upon notice: 
Does the Prime Minister take over the present 10 Telecom exchange lines when he is in residence at Nareen; if so, has this resulted in the necessity for a new 10 pair cable to be installed to that district. 
2 ) What is the length of the new cable required. 
When did the work commence and when will it be completed. 
4 ) What is the estimated cost of the work. 
Will it be funded by the Department of the Prime Minister and Cabinet; if not, why not. 
Why is a 10 pair cable necessary. 
How many days of the year is it anticipated that the Prime Minister will use the new or old lines. 
Was the job subjected to a cost justification analysis. 
I direct a question to the Minister for Social Security. She has announced that she is talking to insurance company representatives, the Australian Council of Trade Unions representatives and State Ministers about a proposed national compensation scheme. Does she intend to ask the representatives of the various voluntary welfare agencies who took such a great interest in previous attempts to introduce a compensation scheme to contribute to her deliberations? 
To follow up questions addressed to the Minister for Administrative Services I ask him how he equates a Cocos Islander receiving 6 rupees a week, paid in plastic tokens and redeemable only at his boss's store, with the Minister's own use of cheques, bank and credit cards? Is he aware that despite his assertions about housing standards, Cocos Islanders have no stoves, flywire, refrigerators, running water or toilet facilities of any kind? Is he also aware that most Cocos Islanders, because of the method and paucity of payment from the Clunies Ross estate, would find it extremely difficult to pay fares in order to leave the Islands, and further, that any of them who could muster such funds and leave would not be free to return to their kith and kin on Home Island? Is the Minister also aware of the lack of any higher education facilities on the Islands? 
I ask the Minister for Education whether he has been able to reconsider his original decision to suspend country sittings of student assistance review tribunals? Has the Minister been able to give consideration to the request of the Australian Union of Students that it be permitted to represent country students who are disadvantaged at metropolitan sittings of student assistance review tribunals which are hearing appeals against tertiary education allowance scheme decisions? 
I rise to speak on this motion because I believe that Australians can have no cause for joy about the events that have occurred in East Timor in the past year, in particular. Any pretence we have of mateship with the Timorese or of giving them a fair go has long since evaporated. Quite frankly, we will be seen as a nation of dingoes when the chips are down. We used East Timor and its people 30 years ago when we, as a nation, believed ourselves to be in imminent danger of invasion. Now when our former allies have been invaded by a superior power we turn our backs and let them be. Worse than that, by some of the actions this nation has taken since 7 Decemberthe cancelling of the right to operate a radio and other matters- we have, in effect, stuck the slipper in while our mates were down. 
At a time such as this I do not have great pride in being an Australian. I then ask myself: Am I being fair to the populace at large? Am I being fair to the great majority of people in this nation when I said that we might be seen as a nation of dingoes? I wonder whether the people of Australia too were not misled by the propaganda which has poured out of Indonesia in the last 12 months. I wonder whether the citizens of this country have had the wool pulled over their eyes, just as certain individuals in our community and in the Indonesian community tried to pull the wool over the eyes of members of Parliament. Would I have been blinded to the facts of the situation had I not listened to the first hand information  Senator Bonner, Senator Gietzelt, Mr Fry  and other members of this Parliament were able to bring back from East Timor for those of us who were interested. 
It is rather interesting to look back now and to realise that last spring the Labor Caucus Foreign Affairs and Defence Committee, having some interest and concern about the developing situation in East Timor, asked the Indonesian Ambassador to address it one evening about the matter. The consensus of all present as we left that room was that the man was seeking to pull the wool over our eyes and that, in fact, he had distorted the truth and tried to hide the facts from us. I reminded the same gentleman of that fact after the coup in Australia on 1 1 November when I sent him a telegram some time between 11 November and the end of November 1975. The telegram I sent to  His Excellency,  Ambassador for Indonesia, reads thus: 
Reports in today's media confirm my suspicions that Indonesian forces are involved in East Timor. Such action will alienate Australian friendship with Indonesia as was suggested to you by the Labor Party Caucus Foreign Affairs and Defence Committee some weeks ago. I trust Indonesian forces will be withdrawn and the Timorese people allowed to develop their own future free from interference. 
I have not received either an acknowledgment or a reply to that telegram. Perhaps the most disturbing factor about the information concerning the problem in East Timor as it affected myself and other members of this Parliament whom 1 know was the part played by the Department of Foreign Affairs. On 7 October last year the Joint Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence invited the Secretary of the Department of Foreign Affairs to address us. When  Mr Renouf  came he informed us that he did not wish to speak on any subject but suggested that we throw the meeting open and ask him questions. There were 3 or 4 questions asked of him about the situation in the Middle East and then the questioning immediately got around to Timor. It was patently obvious to me and to one or two others, from the answers to questions that we received, that the Department of Foreign Affairs could be charged only with gross incompetence or, as I suspect, a cover-up in this matter. 
I asked myself whether it was possible for the Department of Foreign Affairs, with men who have served for years in various posts in ports of call around the globe and who surely have built up some expertise in information gathering, to be misinformed about a situation which is occurring only 600 miles from our backdoor, or front door, which is the term that I am sure my colleague,  Senator Robertson  from Darwin would demand that I use. Whichever door it be, this situation is occurring 600 miles from our shores, and our own Department of Foreign Affairs could not give the Joint Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence any information of a factual nature. In fact, I am told that prior to leaving the meeting  Mr Renouf  admitted to at least one member of the Committee that it was patently obvious that the department would have to update its information on East Timor. 
This is a shocking example of bureaucratic cover-up. If this is the attitude of the bureaucrats in the Department of Foreign Affairs, it is no wonder that Australia became involved in Vietnam 10 or 11 years ago. When any government in this country, regardless of its political colour, can receive the deceptive information that the Joint Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence received on that morning in October, it is little wonder that this country has gone to war mistakenly many times. I think it is to the eternal shame of the Department of Foreign Affairs- in fact, the department should be tipped upside down and a lot of heads should roll- that politicians cannot get from a department factual information about a developing situation so close to our own shores. 
I spoke about this matter during my speech in the Address-in-Reply debate. I mentioned then that I believed that quite a number of Australians can be held responsible for or were partakers in some of the mischievous deeds which have been done in East Timor over recent months. I mentioned also the possibility that people with a vested interest in the future of oil in that country- Timor Oil and the Oceanic Exploration Company of America- may also have been involved. Allegations have been made and no attempt has been made to disprove them. As I have said, the confiscation of the Fretilin radio on a technicality was a case of sticking the slipper in when our mates were down. 
Of course, while we talk here the war in East Timor goes on. I was assured again today, from personal contact with a gentleman in this Parliament, that the strong reports that are coming out of East Timor about heavy casualties being inflicted on the Indonesian forces are correct. The reports indicate that the Fretilin forces have admirably adapted the guerilla tactic adopted by the Vietnamese, the tactic of hit by surprise, take what you want from your enemy and fade away. The Fretilin are proving with great success, by utilising the weapons captured from their invaders, that they will equal the Vietnamese in guerilla tactics in a war that will go on for many years to come. So far, unfortunately, the only people who seem to have taken a great deal of interest in the human question of providing aid to the Timorese people have been that group of trade unionists and aid people who are currently fitting out and loading a ship in Cairns, I understand, to take supplies of food and humanitarian aid to the people of East Timor. They are the only people who have taken any practical steps to try to do something to alleviate the suffering of the people of East Timor. I think they are to be congratulated. I hope that the present Australian Government will give some form of moral support at least to these people for the courage, and the heart that they have shown when the rest of the nation, by and large, has let the people of East Timor down cold. 
I ask the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry: In view of the sudden price rise for chopper cattle at auction in Victoria following the small mass slaughter operation in the Goulburn valley, will the Minister ask the Minister for Primary Industry to conduct a royal commission into all aspects of the Australian meat industry? 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Post and Telecom.munications, upon notice: 
Was an application made for a licence to operate a radio transmitter, subsequent to the Government's confiscation on 25 January 1976, of the transmitter operated by  Mr Tony  Bella in Darwin; if so, when was the application lodged and when can the applicant expect a decision. 
-Is the Minister representing the Minister for Health aware that studies carried out by  Dr Joan  Woodhill of Prince Henry Hospital in Sydney and others have demonstrated a high incidence of vitamin deficiency amongst pensioners? Will not the removal of vitamin preparation from the pharmaceutical benefits list impair the ability of doctors to treat such pensioners? Will the Minister review this decision with a view to improving the general health of pensioners in the community? 
asked the Minister for Education, upon notice: 
1 ) Will the Minister provide a summary of tertiary institutions that currently are amalgamating with other tertiary institutions. 
To what extent is reciprocity granted in Australian tertiary institutions between subjects credited in Colleges of Advanced Education and Teachers' Colleges on the one hand and Universities on the other. 
To what extent do Universities recognise Colleges of Advanced Education degrees and diplomas as creditation for (a) entrance, and (b) admission, to post-graduate degree courses. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Post and Telecommunications, upon notice: 
1 ) What is the proportion of administrative staff to program staff within the Australian Broadcasting Commission. 
2 ) What is the ratio of administrative expenditure to program expenditure. 
3 ) Is revenue from Australian Broadcasting Commission productions sold to other outlets paid into the Commission 's funds or into Consolidated Revenue. 
asked the Minister for Education, upon notice: 
What amount of Federal Government funds were made available to non-Government schools in the electorate of Wannon in the financial years 1967-68, 1968-69, 1969-70, 1970-71, 1971-72, 1972-73, 1973-74, 1974-75 and 1975-76 to date. 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry. In view of the statement made yesterday in Leongatha by the Minister for Transport,  Mr Nixon,  that there will be financial assistance for emergencies- I remind the Minister that  Mr Nixon  was speaking in relation to the dairy industry- can the Minister indicate when the dairy industry is likely to know how much assistance it will get and when it will be received? 
I  present the following petition from 19 citizens of Australia: 
To the honourable the  President  and Senators of the Senate in Parliament assembled. The humble petition of the undersigned students and staff of Christ College and State Colleges of Victoria respectfully showeth: 
That Teachers recruited outside Australia by the Victorian Education department have their income taxation exemption for the period of their stay in Australia cancelled. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
-I present the following petition from 1 3 citizens of Australia: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate in Parliament assembled. The humble petition of the undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully showeth: 
That the Family Planning Association and similar organisations throughout Australia contribute to the welfare and well-being of a great proportion of the Australian people both in family planning and in an advisory capacity on the prevention and control of social diseases. 
Your petitioners therefore humbly pray that urgent consideration be given to a favourable decision on the continuation of Federal Government finance to enable the activities of the Family Planning Associations and like organisations to proceed unimpaired throughout Australia. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
Madam Acting  Deputy President,  I wonder whether I should even bother to speak on these Bills because I suppose that everything that can be said about them has been said. As has been stated, the 2 Bills are designed to allow the implementation of the $ 1 per head levy on cattle slaughtered. The money received from this levy will be used for the anti-tuberculosis and antibrucellosis campaigns. I am not quite clear on one point, and perhaps the Minister for Industry and Commerce  (Senator Cotton)  when he replies to the debate can indicate the correct position. I believe it is stipulated that the levy will be payable only on cattle killed over a certain weight- perhaps 200 lb. As I say, I am not clear on that point. 
It is expected that the levy of $ 1 per head on cattle slaughtered will return roughly the same amount of money that was collected under the previous legislation which provides for an export charge of 0.6c per lb on beef and veal. As  Senator Thomas  has said, some States have advanced much further than others in the eradication of both these diseases. He also said that Tasmania is now declared provisionally free of both diseases, and I think that the State is to be congratulated for that. Victoria is provisionally free of TB. New South Wales and the non-pastoral areas of South Australia are deemed to be provisionally free of TB. Western Australia, south of the Kimberleys, is deemed to be provisionally free of TB, as are some areas of Queensland. 
Tasmania stands out alone as being provisionally free of brucellosis. In order to be provisionally free of the disease, the percentage of reactors in the State herd must be below 0.2. One of the interesting things about Tasmania- I presume that the situation is still the same; I know this was the situation for many years- is that it was impossible to send to Tasmania or for Tasmania to import a beast that had been inoculated with the anti-brucellosis strain 19 vaccine. There have been arguments amongst cattlemen about the rights and wrongs of the strain 19 vaccination. I have heard many farmers argue that once they gave that vaccine away their losses due to brucellosis dropped. There may not be any scientific explanation for it, it may have been a fluke. But in the case of Tasmania, I suppose that because it got its number of reactors very low it did not want to risk reintroducing the disease by allowing in cattle injected with the strain 19 vaccine. 
The Top End of the Northern Territory is considered to be provisionally free of brucellosis as is most of Western Australia. Queensland, from Cape York Peninsula to roughly the tropic of Capricorn, is also considered to be provisionally free. That points up the fact that with respect to both diseases, but particularly tuberculosis, there are quite extensive areas of the Commonwealth which are now deemed to be provisionally free. But looking at the spread of the national herd we realise that there are still millions and millions of cattle in areas that are far from being provisionally free. Possibly more than half of our national herd is in New South Wales and Victoria where brucellosis is endemic. If we are to clear our herds of both of these diseases, but particularly brucellosis, the campaign must go forward as rapidly as it can; otherwise, as  Senator Thomas  pointed out, we may strike rather great difficulties with our export markets. . 
The incidence of contagious abortion is worldwide. It was pointed out some five or six years ago in a report by an expert committee of the World Health Organisation that the disease is found around the world, in goats, sheep, water buffalo, pigs, yaks, reindeer, caribou, and even polar bears. One form of the disease was found in dogs in America. Interestingly enough, for more than 20 years a vaccine has been available in the U.S.S.R. for the vaccination of persons occupationally exposed to this disease. That is the only country of which I know where that is done. What the results of that campaign have been I do not know. 
As has already been said, in human beings the disease which is called contagious abortion or brucellosis in cattle becomes undulant fever. It is particularly prevalent among meat workers, meat inspectors and veterinarians. Quite a large number of veterinarians have infected themselves accidentally with this disease in the process of vaccinating cattle by missing the beast and hitting themselves with the needle in the finger or in the arm. They have contracted undulant fever. 
It is a most unpleasant illness as  Senator Baume  probably would know, if anybody would know. However, I wish to correct a statement that was made by the honourable member for Eden-Monaro  (Mr Sainsbury)  in the other place on 29 April to the effect that approximately 70 people a year died from this disease. My investigations lead me to believe that such is not the case. This may have been a misunderstanding or bad use of words by the honourable member. It may well be that 70 people a year are reported as contracting the disease. That aside, it does have very serious effects on the health of any person who happens to contract it. In dairy herds, as I well know, the disease causes a great loss of production. It can lead to a particularly high incidence of calf mortality. 
In conclusion, I trust that this program will be stepped up. If it is to be stepped up, particularly in my own State, I hope that the Victorian Government will give some consideration to the re-opening of the Victorian inland meat works. The meat works at Bendigo is still closed, I think. That would be an ideal situation in which these cattle could be mass slaughtered and removed from the scene very quickly. As the shadow Minister for Agriculture,  Senator Gietzelt,  has said, we on this side of the Senate wish the Bill a speedy passage. God bless the Government and the Department in their endeavours. 
Sitting suspended from 6 to 8 p.m. 
I direct a question to the Minister for Education. In view of the parlous financial position of students in receipt of the tertiary education assistance scheme allowance, is it proposed that the allowance be increased from its present level of $30 a week? If so, when and by how much? Also, will the allowance be indexed? 
asked the Minister for Administrative Services, upon notice: 
Can the Minister supply details of the cost of security incurred at each official function attended by the GovernorGeneral,  Sir John  Kerr, from 1 July 1975 to 1 April 1976. 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs. Did some 384 American school teachers arrive in Melbourne secretly last Wednesday at a time when 650 Victorian teachers have been declined entry to the Diploma of Education course? Is it planned that 100 teachers from the United Kingdom will arrive in Victoria on I September this year? 
My question is directed to the Minister for Education. The Minister will recall a question I asked him on Wednesday last, which in part was relative to reports that 100 school teachers from the United Kingdom will arrive in Australia on 1 September. Will the Minister consult with his counterpart in Victoria and, if it is a fact that there is now a surplus of teachers in that State, will he ask the Minister for Immigration to curtail the issue of visas to the teachers from the United Kingdom? 
I rise to speak briefly on these 3 Bills before the Parliament in relation to the dairy industry and to give support to the Opposition shadow Minister for Primary Industry,  Senator Gietzelt,  who I believe has done his homework very thoroughly; I think he is to be commended for the arguments he has put forward in the Senate today. As has been pointed out already, the 3 Bills will appropriate $3.5m for dairy adjustment to follow the $28m provided by the Labor Government for the same purpose in 1 974. The second Bill, the Dairy Industry Research and Promotion Levy Bill, will repeal the existing butter fat levy legislation. The third Bill, the Dairy Industry Research and Promotion (Miscellaneous Amendments) Bill will replace the existing Act with one allowing for a levy to be struck on whole or liquid milk as well as butter fat in order to finance the administration and promotion activities of the Australian Dairy Corporation. 
It is not before time, in my humble assessment, that such legislation was introduced. For years the liquid milk section of the dairy industry has been exempt from a levy. From my knowledge of the political history of the dairy industry, I believe that the only reason why the liquid milk section of the industry has been exempt is that it has always been better organised, far more vocal and higher up in the chain of dairy politics than the manufacturing sector. The pity of the whole exercise, I suppose, is that as with most agricultural industries, it is only in times of crisis that some advances seem to be made. But that Bill will certainly overcome an anomaly that existed in the industry for a long time and break down some of the antagonisms that have developed in the industry on this question for a number of years. 
As I have said, the Dairy Adjustment Amendment Bill will appropriate $3.5m for short term measures only. But I note also in the second reading speech of the Minister for Industry and Commerce  (Senator Cotton)  that $ 1 .5m of that $3. 5m has to all intents and purposes been expended already by the States. That amount of money will be spent to pay back the States. I would suspect also, without knowing what the position is amongst the restructuring authorities in the States, that the applications are already in and that they will eat up the remaining $2m that is being appropriated. If one breaks down the figures, one finds that if every farmer applied for the maximum loan of $4,000 and were to receive it, only 500 farmers would benefit. If we take cognisance of the fact that on top of this money being appropriated by the Federal Government the State governments must also contribute a like amount, 1000 dairy farmers across Australia could receive the maximum loan. This means that roughly one dairy farmer in every forty in Australia at the present time would receive the loan. I think this indicates the short term nature and the paucity of the funds being appropriated. 
The Minister noted in his second reading speech that the dairy industry was facing serious problems when this Government took office. In fact, the dairy industry had been facing serious problems when the previous Liberal-National Country Party Government was in office, as was noted in the speech of the Labor Party shadow Minister for Agriculture,  Senator Gietzelt.  We had 23 years of Liberal rule. During tha* whole period the fortunes of the dairy industry, like the rest of Australia's agriculture, waxed and waned. No serious attempt was ever made to come to grips with the basic problems confronting those industries and the dairy industry in particular. As  Senator Gietzelt  said earlier, in 1960 the McCarthy Committee report was brought down. The Liberal and National Country Party governments sat on that report for 12 years. They did not even open the report to have a look at its recommendations. It was not until the advent of , a Labor Government in 1 972 that the report was brought out of the archives and action started to be taken on its recommendations. Of course, as the dairy industry realises now, had that report been consulted during the 12 years when it lay in . the pigeon-hole, the industry may well have been in a far better position today than it is currently. 
Some criticism has been levelled at the Labor Government during the period 1972-75. I believe that  Senator Gietzelt  basically laid those untruths to rest. He said that the Whitlam Labor Government had started to face up to the basic problems confronting agriculture and the dairy industry in particular. It will be remembered that the Labor Government did not, in fact, have a 3-year term of office. It had two 1 8-month terms. It is asking a little too much for any government to overcome the residue of problems as a result of 23 years of mismanagement by another government. But, as I have said, the Labor Government when in office set out to restructure the industry by the implementation of some of the McCarthy Committee recommendations. As a basis for that move, it established the Australian Dairy Corporation in place of the old Australian Dairy Board. I think that those of us who were involved in politics of the industry knew pretty well that the old Australian Dairy Produce Board was a pretty political sort of operation. Unfortunately, there were members of the Board who perhaps could have been retired much earlier than they were. Thanks to  Senator Wriedt,  the then Minister for Agriculture, over those two 18-months periods, that Australian Dairy Corporation was established. For the first time in the history of the dairy industry there was an authority looking after it which contained men with marketing expertise. Of course, the pity of it all is that before the new Dairy Corporation could get under way, another crisis overcame the industry. 
The dairy industry in my State of Victoria is- in my opinion, as one who has had over 40 years of experience in it- in the worst situation it has ever been in. The crisis in the industry, of course, is compounded by severe drought conditions right across the dairy areas of Victoria. It is compounded further by extremely low prices for chopper cattle. In fact, the current mode of operations is to give away stock or shoot stock. On top of all that, over quite large areas of Victoria there has been the worst cricket plague in living memory. Thousands of acres of pasture have been laid bare. Of course, there will be no recovery in those areas until perhaps mid or late spring. At the present time one of the other problems that is confronting the industry is the anomaly whereby factories, by virtue of their product, are paying different prices to farmers. The factory that my farm currently supplies is paying 60c per lb for refrigerated bulk milk. Adjoining farmers are receiving only 50c per lb for milk of the same quality. That situation again leads to stresses and strains among producers in the same industry. 
The cost of production as assessed by the Victorian Department of Agriculture is approximately 54c per lb. 1 think that it is actually 54.5c per lb. But this did not stop the farmers at the meeting at Warrnambool addressed by the Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Sinclair)  asking for a Government support of 70c per lb. I might indicate to the Senate that that meeting was the only one in the State of Victoria which was not organised by the new dairy farmers organisation, the United Dairy Farmers of Victoria. It was sponsored and run by the local farmers themselves. That probably accounts for the difference between the guaranteed price which that meeting sought and the price that was asked for at the other meetings, which was 55c per lb. 
Quite frankly, a Government guarantee of only 55c per lb will see thousands of dairy farmers walk off their properties. It will destroy the souls of those farmers and their families. If farmers are to remain viable in the industry I estimate that a guarantee of between 60c and 65c per lb is what is needed. As my colleague  Senator Gietzelt  said earlier, this problem is arising basically because of the extensive production of dairy products in the European Economic Community. I noted in statistical data presented in a paper some 6 weeks ago by the Dairy Corporation that in the EEC stocks of skim milk powder at 11 March this year were 1 157 681 tons or tonnes- I am not sure which-as against a holding at the same time last year of 398 937 tons or tonnes. That shows roughly a three-fold increase on stocks at hand in the past. When this sort of crisis has developed in the past- it has happened almost in the fashion of a miracle- one of the centrally planned economies has moved in and bought extensive stocks of skim milk powder at bargain or give away prices. It has cleared the market and allowed the Australian industry to export again at what was basically a paying price. Whether the same thing will happen again at this stage no one knows, but in the short term this is the only hope for the Australian dairy industry. 
Again, as  Senator Gietzelt,  who has his finger right on the pulse, said, the problem in the EEC has been brought about because of the goals and the political aspirations of the Community itself for a common agricultural policy. The fact is that the governments of France and West Germany have been elected by virtue of the dairy vote. As politicians are the same all over the world, it is most unlikely that they will deprive those farmers of the high subsidy they are presently paying them and be kicked out of office for doing so. As far as one can see, perhaps for the next 5 years, we can expect this very inefficient dairy industry in the European Economic Community to be fostered by way of subsidy at the expense of the highly industrious and intense dairy farm areas of this country, particularly in Victoria and Tasmania, where the bulk of our export commodity is produced. 
Let me deal again with the position in my State of Victoria. It seems to take a crisis situation before governments move and before farmers will get together and finally decide to agree, even if it is only to disagree, or to come together concerning their differences. In Victoria the authorities have at last- only momentarily, regrettablystopped issuing dairy licences. The recent announcement by the Victorian Minister for Agriculture,  Mr Smith,  was to the effect that the Victorian Government will be making moves to allow a wider spread of the liquid milk market over the whole of the industry rather than have it retained by what could only be termed the silvertails of the industry. Again, it took a crisis to bring that situation about. 
Just over 5 years ago I was in a rather invidious position myself. I appeared before a Victorian Milk Board inquiry to advocate that very theory. I proposed that the liquid milk market should be spead right across the board and that every dairy farmer producing milk of the quality required should have equal access to that market. I can well remember the  chairman  of that inquiry threatening me with all sorts of dire consequences because I told the truth. Unfortunately, I was not able to prove my claims because, to do so, I would have had to dob in all my mates, and I have never been one to do that. I was threatened with all sorts of diabolical punishments because I told the truth. I detailed the facts about the rorts which were going on in the Victorian dairy industry at that time. 
I suppose that if I had the time, the ability and the research facilities now available, I would have been able to go further and find out the very things which the Victorian dairy industry inquiry found out and published in a report which it produced either late last year or early this year. It pointed out the rorts and the rackets which were being perpetrated by certain vested interests in the dairy industry including certain industry factory managers and others in high positions who have used the knowledge that they have obtained from sources within the industry to line their pockets or to line the pockets of their factories with the attitude of letting those in the rest of the dairy industry go to hell. Again one hopes that the Victorian Government will take action in these areas to see that the industry is straightened out. 
I conclude on this note: As has already been said, I do not think any question can arise in the mind of any person who has had a look at the Australian dairy industry in recent times and our declining export markets as to the options available. There are 2 options available to governments of the day. We are talking about the Australian Government. One is to continue to subsidise the present number of dairy farmers at the present or increased rates of production. The longer the present situation continues, the higher the subsidies will need to be to keep dairy farmers above some form of peasantry. The price of doing that must be offset against the other option which is to rationalise the industry to a stage where it is producing sufficient for the home market and for the better paying export markets such as cheese in Japan, with some surplus to allow for adverse seasons and for the possibility of new markets in other areas of the world which would pay for those dairy products. Those are the 2 options which are available to the Government today. I hope that the Liberal and National Country Parties will see the light and press on with one of those options. 
Quite frankly, my option would be a pretty heavy rationalisation of the industry to remove dairy farmers from the form of peasantry in which they are currently. A number of them will not like it because this is the only life that they know. The problem must not be compounded by allowing young men to enter the industry, as thousands are doing at the moment, and finding themselves at the mercy of the money lenders of this country, with their wives and children being forced into work in the dairy and the cowyards Such a situation only brings the industry back to the state in which it was when I grew up. At that time it was a case of mum, dad and the kids all working in the dairy with mud up to their knees. Is was not very pleasant. But that is the future for the dairy industry in Australia unless this Government moves urgently, firmly and heavily. 
asked the Minister for Education, upon notice: 
1 ) What is the current Government policy towards the proposition of the previous Government, favouring the amalgamation of the Australian University Commission and the Commission of Advanced Education. 
What are the new deadlines for the submission of amended recommendations of the Australian University Commission and the Commission of Advanced Education io the Australian Government for drafting the education segment of the Budget. 
Have any instructions been given to the funding Commission on the issue of triennial planning of education expenditure. 
Has the funding Commission been relieved from meeting its original deadline for the submission of reports. 
Is the Commission awaiting advice from the Government by way of guidelines for the preparation of an amended submission. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations, upon notice: 
Can the Minister supply the registered unemployment figures for the Electorate of Wannon over the past 3 years, including the number of unemployed in each town and the occupation of the same. 
I direct a question to the Minister for Education. Is it a fact that the Government intends to cut its present payment of 75 per cent of the salary of kindergarten teachers as from 1 January next year? 
I present the following petition from 1 1 citizens of Australia: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate in Parliament assembled. The humble petition of the undersigned members of community organisations respectfully showeth: 
There is a growing interest and concern in all sections of Australian society for the conservation of the environment, natural and man-made. 
That there are also rapidly growing pressures by powerful forces tending towards the destruction of the Australian heritage. 
That it is therefore urgent to appoint the Australian Heritage Commission, which was approved by both sides of this Parliament and to give the Commission sufficient independent staff, resources and funds. 
That Technical Assistance Grants and Administrative Support Grants to community organisations are needed to partially redress the gross imbalance in technical expertise and resources suffered by community groups in pressing the community's case against the exploiter. 
That a proper balance between the Government programme of public austerity and the need for action in conservation would be a modest increase in the budget allocations in these areas over that of 1 975-76. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
I present the following petition from 3 1 4 citizens of Australia: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate in Parliament assembled the petition of the undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully showeth: 
That distress is being caused to social security recipients by the delay in adjusting pensions to the Consumer Price Index months after goods and services have risen, and that many medications, formerly a pharmaceutical benefit, must now be paid for. 
In addition, State Housing Authority waiting lists for low rental dwellings for pensioners become never less, and funeral costs increase even greater. 
Your petitioners call on the Australian Government as a  matter of  urgency to: 
Adjust social security payments instantly and automatically on announcement of increases in the quarterly Consumer Price Index. 
Restore pharmaceutical benefits deleted from the free list. 
The States Grants (Dwellings for Pensioners) Act 1974, eroded by inflation, be updated and increased to overcome the back-log. 
The funeral benefit be updated to 60 per cent of a reasonable funeral cost. This benefit when introduced in 1 943 at 200 shillings ($20.00), was seven times the pension at that time of 27 shillings ($2.70), per week or more than twice the basic wage of 97 shillings ($9.70). 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
I present the following petition from 47 citizens of Australia: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate in Parliament assembled. We, the undersigned citizens of the Commonwealth by this our humble petition respectfully showeth: 
That Medibank has proved to be the cheapest and most efficient means of bringing health care to Australian citizens and that the citizens of Australia have received Medibank as a great and valued social reform. That Medibank has proved itself to be a far superior system of health care than was offered by the private funds prior to July 1973. 
Your petitioners therefore humbly pray that the Government will observe the promise made by the Prime Minister in his policy speech that 'We will maintain Medibank and ensure the standard of health care does not decline '. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
-I rise to support  Senator Douglas  McClelland in his motion which states: 
That the  Lands Acquisition (Repeal) Ordinance  1976 as contained in the Cocos (Keeling) Islands Ordinance No. 1 of 1976, and made under the Cocos (Keeling) Islands Act 1955-1 975, be disallowed. 

 Senator Douglas McClelland later in his speech on page 1 92 of  Hansard  stated: 
The original purpose of the introduction of the Lands Acquisition Ordinance by me when I was Special Minister of State in the Whitlam Labor Government on, I think, 10 September 1975 was to bring about some form of change on Cocos (Keeling) Islands. 
Later in relation to the time that this matter was brought forward the honourable senator stated: 
We as a Government at that time were engaged principally, as every honourable senator will remember, in endeavouring to get our Budget accepted by the Parliament. Because of the urgency of the situation we decided to adopt the course that we followed, lt was a matter of urgency because for so long undertakings had been given to the people of the Cocos Malay community- by the McMahon Government as well as by the Labor Government- and to the United Nations by governments, and apparently nothing had been done other than the introduction of primary school education on Home Island and the appointment of an administrator. 
At about that time the Senate Standing Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence was engaged in pursuing the following reference which the Senate had handed down to it on 3 December 1 974: 
Role and involvement of Australia and the United Nations in the affairs of sovereign Australian territories. 
I think some honourable senators on the Committee would already know that there was quite some discussion as to whether that Foreign Affairs and Defence Committee should go to Cocos (Keeling) Islands to have a look at the situation for itself. Ultimately the decision was made that it would; but I point out that some attempts did appear to have been made within the bureaucracy to curtail the visit by the Senate Standing Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence to these islands, for what purpose I am not quite sure. Nevertheless, as I said, the Committee did visit the Islands. The interest of the Committee in the matter went back to the visit in August 1974 to the Cocos (Keeling) Islands by the United Nations Committee of Twenty-Four. It is noted that paragraph 33 of the report of the Senate Standing Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence, entitled  United Nations involvement with Australia's Territories,  states: 
In November 1974 the Committee of Twenty-Four considered and adopted by concensus the report of the visiting mission to the Cocos (Keeling) Islands. In general terms the report was critical of conditions in Cocos and called upon Australia as the administering power to implement reforms. The Australian representative indicated general acceptance of these recommendations. The Committee of Twenty-Four also agreed on a statement, subsequently adopted by the General Assembly, concerning the Cocos (Keeling) Islands which recorded the General Assembly's appreciation of Australia's participation and its willingness to receive a further visiting mission to the territory. 
The report, which is rather large, goes on to point out some of the things that the Committee found on arriving at the Cocos (Keeling) Islands and talking to the people there. 
The matter which concerned  Senator Douglas  McClelland as the responsible Minister at the time was raised in discussion with  Mr Clunies  Ross. The following is stated in paragraph 53 of the report of the Senate Standing Committee: 
A related issue concerns the continued presence of the Clunies Ross family in the Islands. As a result of economic and governmental pressures,  Mr Clunies  Ross informed the Committee of his decision to sever the family's connections with the Islands and to negotiate the transfer of his assets to a Cocos Island Community Co-operative. 
The report states in paragraph 54: 
The Committee urges that serious consideration now be g' iven to acquisition of the entire Estate in order to establish a Cocos Island Community Co-operative. The Committee believes that such a co-operative would assist significantly in the creation of an integrated community with a sense of responsibility and purpose. The Committee concurs with the view that acquisition of the Estate is the most practical means of giving effect to the reforms which are desired for the benefit of the Cocos Island people. 
In the light of that evidence, which was given to the Committee in its discussions with  Mr John  Clunies Ross, it would appear that the steps being taken by the Minister of the day,  Senator Douglas  McClelland, had the agreement of both the Government and  Mr John  Clunies Ross. From our discussions with  Mr Clunies  Ross in the privacy of his own lounge room it was patently obvious that at that stage he was prepared to accede to the Government's wish and to have further talks with the Minister and come to some arrangement whereby his property could be handed over to some form of co-operative in which everybody could participate, provided just compensation was applied. 
That being so, I find it rather hard to understand why the Senate Standing Committee on Regulations and Ordinances should have come down with the decision that it made. Here was a man who had stated to us as members of the Senate Standing Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence that he was prepared to talk with the Government. I know that  Senator Douglas  McClelland had been talking and continued to talk with him. Now we have a committee of this Parliament moving in and telling both of those consenting parties that they should not deal with each other. I find that a little hard to understand. 
One of the things that perturbs me, and I am sure other members of the Senate Committee who visited the Islands, is that if there are any protracted delays in carrying out some form of progress on the Cocos (Keeling) Islands anything could happen. We read and hear today of problems which have arisen in other countries. One that readily comes to mind is the problem in South Africa where individuals in the community have had their progress retarded for many years. Such action builds up frustrations to boiling point and we then find people being murdered, shot or incarcerated for no reason other than that one party will not give way and will not come to some form of agreement. 
Those of us who visited the island could well see the situation that prevailed. The Committee took with it two qualified interpreters. To the best of my knowledge this was the first time that a parliamentary committee had been to Cocos Island and had taken interpreters. In that respect the Senate Committee was miles ahead of the United Nations Committee of Twenty-Four. On one occasion  Senator Sir Magnus  Cormack and myself were intruded by the Committee to meet with the islanders and to talk about their problems. This we did in the village square, and afterwards we went into the people's homes and discussed their problems with them. It was obvious that these people knew that there was a better life somewhere else. They have relatives on Christmas Island and in Western Australia who are able to tell them of the disparity between their respective life styles. 
Conditions on Cocos (Keeling) Islands are deplorable. To be gracious, perhaps not all of the problem has resulted from the policies of John Clunies Ross. It may be just that history has passed the Islands by. We must realise that these people have no running water in their homes, no refrigerators, and no stoves on which to cook. On Home Island the only toilet facilities are those in the homes of the manager,  Mr Dixon,  and  Mr John  Clunies Ross. Every other person on the Island must use the lagoon for that purpose. We talked to the doctor and learned of the continual re-infection of the children with hookworm and respiratory diseases. We talked to the mothers and learned of the lack of educational opportunities. We heard of the frustrations of the younger ones who, off their own bat, had been able to educate themselves to work in some position, like the young lass working in the doctor's surgery who wanted to go on further with her studies but found that under the existing laws she could not get into Australia to further her education. Several people spoke to us in this vein. I suppose the people who had the greatest impact were the mothers who appealed to us to do something to allow their children to receive a better education. 
We sat in the committee room in the Golf Club on West Island and had passed to us notes which had been smuggled into the room because the persons smuggling them feared that John Clunies Ross or  Mr Dixon  might find out that they were on that Island illegally. One presumes that had the supply ship bringing the 6-monthly cargo to the Islands not been in on the day we were there and had not all the men been working on it we would have met a great number of the men of the community who also would have expressed some grave apprehensions about their future on the Island. 
I do not want to say much more at this stage. I hope that before this debate is finished. I will hear from the Minister,  Senator Withers,  of some proposals that he or his Government has for this community. It does seem to me that, unless he does just that, after the vote is taken on this motion the indigenes of the Cocos (Keeling) Islands will be left in that backwater until the advent of a Labor government some time in the future, perhaps 1978. 

 Senator Sir MAGNUS CORMACK (Victoria) (4.59)- I am bound to support the Cocos (Keeling) Islands Lands Acquisition (Repeal) Ordinance 1976. I hope to make my reasons quite clear. First I want to address myself to the two proponents- first the mover,  Senator Douglas  McClelland, and then  Senator Primmerof  a motion for the disallowance of the repeal ordinance, which was introduced by  Senator Withers.  Not one element of argument has been produced either by  Senator Douglas  McClelland or  Senator Primmer  on the correctness or otherwise of the repeal. All we have heard is a description of the conditions on the Cocos (Keeling) Islands. 
I will address myself quite clearly in support of  Senator Withers  for specific reasons.  Senator Withers  has already canvassed the fact that the Regulations and Ordinances Committee met a rather alarming situation. Recommendations from that Committee have nearly always been accepted by the Senate; I can recollect only one exception in 44 years. Those recommendations are now not being accorded that almost unanimous support that they have been accorded in the past. Rumours around this great, vast and whispering rotunda which is Parliament indicate that the capacity of this Committee to operate on an unanimous basis and get unanimous recommendations accepted has now come to an end. This fills me with a great deal of alarm. 

 Senator Withers already has canvassed the recommendation of the Regulations and Ordinances Committee, namely that the ordinance should be repealed.  Senator Withers  took the short cut and repealed the ordinance himself without creating a debate in the Senate. That was unanimously supported by that Committee. The recommendation was supported on the ground of the framework of reference which the Committee was given in 1932. This has already been canvassed but has to be re-emphasised. No Government should be allowed to use the subordinate legislative power to give effect to matters which should be the subject of a statute of Parliament and not the matter merely of an Executive Council recommendation to the GovernorGeneralinCouncil. That is the issue. 
Since 1932 this Committee has made its recommendations on the terms of reference that were given to it by the Senate. As I say, the recommendations have been accepted with one exception. I am also aware that when I was sitting on this side from 1951 to 1 953 and in subsequent years the Committee was supported by members of the Australian Labor Party who are now in Opposition. We had to fight tooth and nail with our own Ministers. We always made our point of view prevail, not by going in to a Caucus but simply because right was on the side of those members of the Regulations and Ordinances Committee who demanded the repeal of the ordinance. 
Let me give an illustration. One which comes readily to my mind is one which I quoted to  Senator Primmer,  who was a member of the Senate Standing Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence at the time and before we went to Cocos (Keeling) Islands. At that time, honourable senators will recollect, threatening gestures were being made for the acquisition of the land of  Mr Clunies  Ross and his family. I pointed out to that Committee- I am not breaching any confidentiality which is imposed upon me as a member of that Committee- that the Government which I supported and which had been defeated in 1 972 was confronted with the acquisition of a copra plantation in order to allow for the further development of indigenous people in an area in which the Commonwealth of Australia had direct responsibility. The Parliament of Australia then put through a Bill for an Act to allow for the acquisition on just terms of a vast coconut plantation known as the Plantation of Arawe on the island of Bougainville. It was done by statute. It was not done by the gugger-mugger process of shunting an ordinance through the Executive 
Council to acquire land compulsorily in an Australian dependent territory. Bougainville was a dependent territory at that time. 
The scene changes and we come to a most disquieting situation which I think I should mention to honourable senators. It was obvious that members of  Mr Whitlam  's Government were pondering in their minds how they could handle this Cocos (Keeling) Islands situation. No legislative process was to be brought down so that acquisition and treaty could be made under just terms. The matter was put on basis of seizure. Then they involved themselves in what I think is one of the most complicated forms of conspiracy I have ever come across in my experience as a parliamentarian. They invited a sub-committee of the Committee of Twenty-Four- the so-called Decolonisation Committee of the United Nations- to send a mission to the Cocos (Keeling) Islands. This was nothing but a charade and a propaganda exercise. Members of the Government knew perfectly well what was to happen. They knew that members of the mission would be briefed in Canberra and then carted across to the Cocos (Keeling) Islands. The members of the mission had no interpreters with them. They entered into no communication with the people. They spent a couple of days on the Island. They came back to Australia and were debriefed. They then went to New York and solemnly reported to the Committee of TwentyFour that Australia was reprehensible in its management of the Cocos (Keeling) Islands. It may well have been- I do not know- but that is an arguable matter which I do not intend embarking upon at present, notwithstanding the piteous tales that I have heard from  Senator Douglas  McClelland and  Senator Primmer. 
The Commonwealth Government of Australia then proceeded to move into action. How did it move into action? It moved into action under placitum (xxix) of section 51 of the Australian 
Constitution which provides that the Commonwealth has the power to make treaties with a foreign power, in this case the United Nations. The Government undertook to do what the United Nations wished it to do. It applied that foreign power to the compulsory acquisition of land in an Australian territory and then proceeded to acquire it. That is the reason- more particularly than any other- why I say that  Senator Withers  was entirely justified in repealing the regulation which  Senator Douglas  McClelland wants rehabilitated. In the first instance, I believe, the Regulations and Ordinances Committee was entirely correct, under the terms of reference given to it by the Senate in 1932, in asking for the repeal of this acquiring ordinance of  Senator Douglas  McClelland. The ordinance was not in just terms. It was in defiance of an administrative, an Executive and a parliamentary attitude which the previous Government had displayed towards their compulsory acquisition of the Arawe plantation in Bougainville. The Government proceeded to go outside that power and invoke placitum (xxix) of section 5 1 of the Constitution and give itself the power to proceed against the Clunies Ross estate on Cocos (Keeling) Islands. At this stage it decided to bring down the ordinance for compulsory acquisition. 
I am aware of the incident mentioned by  Senator Primmer.  It occurred during the lunch we were having with  Mr Clunies  Ross at his homestead.  Mr Clunies  Ross asked me whether I would go out with him to his office. I left the luncheon table with him. He should have asked  Senator Primmer-  I did not know why I was being invited out there. He then said it was his opinion that the situation was of such an order and nature that he was under the pressure of the majesty, if you like to put it that way, or the vast resources of the Government of the Commonwealth of Australia and there was nothing else for him to do but to get out. He came back to the luncheon table and made the announcement that he was willing to sell to the Commonwealth Government. But he was not willing to sell to the Commonwealth Government on acquisition terms that were less than just. 
I do not care who it is. Clunies Ross may claim that he is not an Australian citizen; as far as I am concerned he is an Australian citizen. But whether he is an Australian citizen or not, he is sitting on a territory which is a sovereign territory of Australia and he is entitled to justice. Moreover, before I left the island I gave Dixon, his manager, the address of the solicitors in Sydney who put together the terms of compensation calling for the payment of, I think, $4.5m or f 4.5 m- I forget the exact details at the momentfor the acquisition of the Arawa estate. In this way at least the man who was entitled to justice of one sort or another could get access to technical and legal advice to enable him to protect himself against the action of the Government of the Commonwealth of Australia acting under the foreign power of section 5 1 of the Constitution. I think that this whole operation was a dastardly piece of- I cannot use the word that I want to use because you,  Mr Acting Deputy President,  would order it to be struck out but anyone who knows me will know the one that was coming to my lips when I withdrew it at the last moment. 

 Senator Withers says, you may take your pick. But there are 2 grounds for repealing the ordinance and I repeat them. The first is the just and proper one used by the Regulations and Ordinances Committee to show why the ordinance inspired by  Senator Douglas  McClelland and his Government should be repealed. It is impeccable reasoning. The second ground is that it is the first time in my knowledge acquired during the 20 years I have been around the Parliament of Australia that the foreign power contained in placitum (xxix) of section 5 1 of the Constitution has been used in a domestic matter for the acquisition of property. I think that the Senate would be recreant on those 2 grounds if it ever allowed  Senator Withers'  action in repealing the ordinance to be overturned. 
Of these 2 grounds the one that interests me the most is the attempt by a government to go circuitously around the Australian Constitution. This is indicative of the sort of experiences that perhaps we will have to undergo in future years. This is the first time that the foreign power has been used to obtain a domestic solution in Australia. I hope it is the last. I hope that in the future this Parliament will never allow this to happen. Such action is disgraceful. On those terms I support the arguments put forward by  Senator Withers,  I reject entirely  Senator Douglas  McClelland 's motion and I hope that the Senate does so as well. 
-Has the Minister representing the Minister for Health seen the reply of the Minister for Health,  Mr Hunt,  to a question asked in the other place yesterday in relation to the community health program in Victoria?  Mr Hunt  said that the Government in no way had abandoned the community health program and that he had asked officers of his Department to consult Victorian authorities to ensure that no restrictions were imposed in Victoria that were not absolutely necessary. If this is the case, I should like to know why the St Albans Community Health Services Society at St Albans in Victoria, after at least 2 years of negotiation on the building of a centre in that suburb, would have received a letter from the Victorian Hospitals and Charities Commission dated 23 July 1 976 which in part states: 
We regret to inform you and your Committee that any Capital Building Program for your Centre will have to be temporarily deferred. 
That decision, I add, was made after the Commission had reviewed the budgetary requirements for 1976-77. How many other proposed community centres in Victoria have received similar letters? 
-Can the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry tell the Parliament when the Crawford report on the Australian dairy industry will be released, and to whom? 
I ask the Minister representing the Treasurer: Has the Australian Government recently acquired a loan of $300m from the International Monetary Fund? If so, does such a loan carry with it any conditions disallowing expanded social welfare programs and benefits to the Australian community such as have been laid down in the past to dictatorships such as Chile, which received funds from the IMF after the coup which overthrew the elected Allende Government in September 1973? 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Treasurer. Can the Minister say when the grants recently announced to be paid to local government bodies will be available to them? Will such grants be paid in a lump sum or by instalments? 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Transport, upon notice: 
1 ) What involvement will Australia have in the Conference to be held in September 1976 under the sponsorship of the Inter-Governmental Maritime Consultative Organisation to discuss proposals for a global maritime satellite system for merchant shipping. 
If Australia does have an involvement will the Minister supply details of the proposed satellites, their functions and capabilities. 
Will the proposed system in any way intrude on the role of the Omega base the Government proposes to establish in Australia. 
asked the Minister representing the Treasurer, upon notice: 
Has the Australian Government recently acquired a loan of $300m from the International Monetary Fund. If so, does such loan carry with it any conditions disallowing expanded social welfare programs and benefits to the Australian community, such as have been laid down in the past to dictatorships such as Chile which received funds from the Fund after the coup which overthrew the elected Allende Government on 11 September 1973. 
I direct a question to the Minister representing the Minister for Health. I refer to the statement by her colleague, the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs, that investigations are proceeding into misleading advertising by the Hospital Benefits Association in Victoria. As it is not known how long it will take for a determination to be made if the matter is referred to the Trade Practices Commission, will the Minister ascertain as quickly as possible whether the Health Insurance Commission can produce information for the public to refute the 8 incorrect and damaging assertions about Medibank cover compared with cover by HBA? I ask this question because it is clear that HBA is relying heavily on frightening possible Medibank subscribers who may not otherwise learn the truth about these claims until early next year, by which time they will suffer a severe financial penalty if they then attempt to transfer to Medibank. 
-Can the Minister for Administrative Services inform the Senate whether his Department has received allegations of racial discrimination on Christmas Island? 
Can he confirm or deny that Australian citizens of Asian descent working on Christmas Island are receiving wages up to 300 per cent less than the equivalent Australian rates? Do these allegations relate to the Department of Administrative Services? What steps, if any, are being taken to investigate these allegations? 
-Has the Minister representing the Prime Minister seen the report in today's  Canberra Times  of the Prime Minister's address to the 61st Returned Services League Conference wherein the Prime Minister is reported to have said in part: 
If the concern we have expressed on the basis of evidence before us is misplaced- and the evidence is much more substantial than the public evidence . . . 
I ask: Does this mean that those public servants from the Joint Intelligence Organisation, the Department of Defence and the Department of Foreign Affairs who have been before the Senate Standing Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence in recent months to give evidence on the Indian Ocean reference have withheld information from that Committee? 
-I give notice that, on the next day of sitting, I shall move. 
That the following matter be referred to the Senate Standing Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence for inquiry and report: The need for an increased Australian commitment toward development in the South Pacific. 
My question, which is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Environment, Housing and Community Development, follows an earlier question. Is it a fact that, given funding at the rates set in past years, the Albury-Wodonga Development Corporation will go into a profit situation at the end of 12 years from the date of starting and will repay all government moneys by the end of the twentieth year? 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations, upon notice: 
1 ) How many currently unemployed persons in each State of Australia possess post-secondary qualifications. 
How many currently unemployed persons in each State hold university degrees. 
) In each field of academic study, what are the numbers and percentages of unemployed university graduates and college graduates. 
Of those university graduates who are currently unemployed how many possess (a) a first degree, including honours degree; (b) a first degree with a diploma or certificate; (c) a second degree; and (d) a higher degree. 
How many unemployed persons are qualified in each State to teach (a) in pre-schools; (b) in primary schools; and (c) in secondary schools. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Post and Telecommunications, upon notice: 
Is it intended to renovate and improve the Port Fairy Post Office with a view to its reoccupation by the postal and telecommunications authorities. If so, when is it likely that tenders will be called for the work. 
I ask the Minister for Administrative Services: Does the appearance of margarine on the tables in the parliamentary dining rooms represent a new trendiness on the part of the Liberal-National Country Party Government or is it simply a sop to the margarine manufacturers? 
I wish to refer to divisions 480 and 483 which relate to the accountancy operations of the Postal and Telecommunications Department. I am indebted to my colleague  Senator Colston  for taking up this matter at Senate Estimates Committee C in my absence overseas. My query in relation to the accountancy of Telecom may be only for my own edification. I want to refer to the hire charges which that organisation makes for its equipment. According to the information that  Senator Colston  was given, the hire rates of cranes up to and including 5 tons is $ 1 . 1 0 an hour. That seems to me to be ludicrously low for any type of crane but particularly for one up to 5 tons. For cranes over 5 tons and up to and including 9 tons, except crawler mounted, the rate is $1.45. If we go right through to a 10-ton Austin- Western the hire charge rate is $32 a day or $4 an hour, one presumes, for an 8-hour day. When we go to tractors we find that for a crawler tractor up to 10 000 lbs the hire rate is $2.60 an hour. For crawler tractors over 60 000 lbs or 30 tons the hire rate is $24 an hour. There are no wheeled tractors up to 3000 lbs in service but for wheeled tractors over 3000 lbs and up to 6000 lbs the hire rate is $ 1.05 and for over 10 000 lbs the hire rate is $5.80. 
I can recall about twelve of fourteen years ago hiring a crawler tractor of about 40 or 50 horsepower and the charge was then $12 or $14 an hour. I am wondering how Telecom can hire out its equipment at such a ludicrously low charge and still remain viable. Quite frankly, unless the fuel is charged separately, the hire charge would hardly cover the cost of the diesel fuel for the particular machine, let alone depreciation and running repairs. I am wondering whether the Minister could at some time in the near future obtain for me a breakdown of the accounting as it relates to that sort of equipment within the department and let me know how the department can run at any sort of a profit on such low charges. 
My question is directed to the Minister for Education. Is he aware of criticism made recently by the Victorian State School Parents Clubs and the Victorian Council of 
School Organisations relating to inadequate education funding for new schools and the maintenance of existing schools? Is the Minister aware that the 2 parent organisations have stated that the cut in capital funding is delaying the completion of a 3-year building program based on needs by up to 7 years? Is the Minister aware that this has increased the problems of learning in second rate, dilapidated and limited facilities? In view of this situation will the Government investigate these claims and undertake to release sufficient funds for capital expenditure to reverse the downturn in the schools building program? 
I ask the Minister representing the Minister for Defence: Is it a fact that 435 officers resigned from the Australian armed forces between December last and the end of August this year? Does this figure indicate that the rate of resignations means that just as many officers will leave the armed forces under the Liberal-National Country Party Government as did under the previous Labor Government, which had to contend with the winding down of our forces due to the ending of our commitment in Vietnam? 
I refer to clause 6 (2) (b), which reads: 
A State shall- . . . (b) allocate the remainder of the amount amongst local governing bodies in the State on a general equalization basis, that is to say, on a basis that has the object of ensuring, so far as is practicable, that each of those local governing bodies is able to function by reasonable effort, at a standard not appreciably below the standards of the other local governing bodies . . . 
Frankly, I believe that this sub-clause is rather loosely worded. To me, the implementation of a provision such as that by the allocation of funds will react against any proposals for amalgamations or rationalisation of local government bodies and will, in effect, prop up uneconomic municipal councils almost  ad infinitum.  Coming from a country area, I am aware that throughout the State of Victoria there are quite a number of small local government bodies. I would not want without a great deal of debate to see the indigenous people in these areas deprived of their own little local government bodies, but when it comes to the question of economics there is a great amount of wastage. There may be three or four small municipal bodies geographically close together, each with an engineer, a shire secretary, a clerk and a rate collector- all the things that go to make up a local government enterprise- when in effect after some detailed discussions and with a little less parochialism in the area the whole community would be far better served by rationalisation or amalgamation. If that came about better services could be provided for all. I see this clause of the Bill as a means of propping up these uneconomic areas unnecessarily. 
-Is the Minister representing the Prime Minister aware that in less than 24 hours the United Nations will vote on a resolution reaffirming strong support for 
East Timorese self-determination? In view of reports that the Australian delegation at the UN is to abstain from speaking and voting on this resolution, can the Minister state clearly Australia's position in regard to East Timorese self-determination? 
-Can the Minister representing the Minister for Defence tell the Parliament the type of situation which is envisaged by the following statement on page 33 of the Defence Paper put down by the Minister for Defence recently? I quote:   . . Parliament may well wish to consider whether the purpose of better training and better sense of participation would justify provisions authorising compulsory call-up of Citizens Reserves for limited periods in international situations proclaimed as requiring augmentation of the forces, but not proclaimed as a state of war or time of defence emergency . . . 
Is another Vietnam-type commitment envisaged by the present Government? 
-Is the Minister for Education aware of a letter circulated to Thai students studying in Australia by the Thai Embassy calling for students to spy upon other students? Does not the Minister agree that such surveillance is an infringement of the rights of students while studying in Australia? Further, will the Government call upon the Thai Embassy to cease such activities? I remind the Minister of a decision taken last year to grant residence status to Indo-Chinese students in Australia. In view of this precedent, can he inform the Senate as to when the Government will provide residence status to Thai students who are deeply concerned about their prospects of liberty upon return to Thailand following the brutal coup in October 1976? 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Defence, upon notice: 
1 ) Have 435 officers resigned from the Australian armed forces between December 1975 and August 1976. 
Does this figure indicate that just as many officers will leave the armed forces under the Liberal-Country Party Government as did under the previous Labor Government, which had to contend with the wind-down of forces due to the ending of Australia 's commitment in Vietnam. 
Yesterday I asked a question of the Minister for Education  (Senator Carrick)  relating to the status and standing of students from Thailand in this country. Today after question time the Minister extended to me the courtesy of a further reply. I would like to speak somewhat briefly on this matter. In a letter dated 13 October this year addressed to members of the Senate and members of the House of Representatives- a letter which I believe most members of both Houses would have received- a group of Thai students in Australia said: 
We, a group of Thai students in Australia, would like to express our deep concern about the imminent threat of intimidation by the repressive military regime which recently grabbed power in Thailand. 
Later in the same letter they said: 
We therefore beg you to give immediate consideration to granting permanent residency to any Thai national now in Australia who cannot return to Thailand for fear of life or liberty, and to ensure the security and well-being of all Thais in this country, irrespective of their political beliefs. We further request that the Australian Government grant refuge to Thai students and others who are forced to flee from Thailand in fear of their lives and liberty. 
Yesterday I referred to a letter which I said I believed had come from the Thai Embassy in Canberra. I would like to read into the  Hansard  a translation of that letter. It reads: 
The following is the translation of a letter received from the Students ' Section of the Royal Thai Embassy. 
No. SR 1009/Special 
-by leave-I thank  Senator Sim  for his remarks about my chairmanship of the Senate Standing Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence and I reciprocate by saying that  Senator Sim  as  chairman  of that committee in the latter part of the reference did an excellent job in bringing about the ultimate report. As he said, it was not an easy reference. It was far from easy. We were delving into an area on unknown ground and a lot of the evidence that was received took a great deal of searching for and researching. One could speak at some length of the problems with which the Committee and its staff were confronted, problems such as interpreters and various interpretations of the same matter being given by various people. The secretary,  Mr Hocking,  put in many hours of work to tie up all the loose ends and finally present the Committee with a draft report. These problems were part of the reason the report took so long to present to the Senate. It is to the credit of the Committee as a whole that it was able to change horses in mid-stream and still have a consensus on the findings. 
I agree with  Senator Sim  that with some departments there was a great deal of buck passing, petty jealousy and a total lack of co-ordination. Whilst the Australian populace put its heart out to the refugees from Vietnam some 18 months ago, in my opinion there was a feeling abroad that once they were brought here they were safe and all would be well. The facts which emerged from our investigation show that all is not well and that a great deal more work needs to be done by governments and departments if we are to bring refugees into this country again in similar circumstances and if they are going to settle down and live a fulfilling and rewarding life in this country. I believe that a number of refugees who have been settled in this country from Vietnam, as the report indicates, would have been better off if they had stayed in their own country. Many of them will be a burden on their families and the taxpayers of this country until they pass on. They are not of a fit state of mind and have not had sufficient education to be able to cope with the intricacies of life in a society that is totally different from their own. Some of the human tragedies, which are still there for anyone to see at places such as Wacol, would be an eye opener for many people in the community. There are wives with children still separated from their husbands, sons and daughters separated from their parents, none of them knowing where the others are. Unfortunately, for reasons best known to themselves, prior to or upon entry into this country many of these people gave false names, addresses and ages. That is a problem with which they and the bureaucracy in this country will be confronted for a long time. I do not wish to say anything further at this stage,  Mr President,  and I seek leave to continue my remarks at a later date. 
Leave granted; debate adjourned. 
-I ask the Minister for Social Security whether she will table the legal advice on which the Department of Social Security bases its view that students on vacation should not be considered as unemployed. Is there separate legal advice for those students who believe their last vacation to have been in September this year and who are in no sense on vacation while trying to find permanent work? 
-The Bill before us enables the Commonwealth Government to provide up to $ 15m on a dollar for dollar matching basis with the States for beef carry-on loans in the current year. Quite frankly, it is a somewhat miserly sum compared with what the beef industry received over the last full year in which the Labor Party was in office. The Labor Government in its last year in office provided to the beef industry $2 8m by way of Commonwealth Bank funds- that was granted in December 1974- $ 19.6m from Government funds in April 1 975, and $ 1 .2m to Northern Territory producers, making a grand total of $48.8m. That is why I believe that the present Government has been somewhat tardy in that it has had 12 months in office and at this point in time the beef producers are to receive a miserly $ 1 5m. This is $ 1 5m from a Government that pretends to be the farmers ' friend. I say 'pretends ' in the light of statements which were made by the present Minister for Primary Industry,  Mr Sinclair,  during the last 12 months in which the Labor Party was in office. I will give a couple of examples. A statement made by  Mr Sinclair  to the Queanbeyan-Canberra branch of the Graziers Association of New South Wales in October last year was reported as follows: 
The death warrant of the Australian beef industry would be signed unless the Government took action to assist the beef industry. Assistance for the industry was urgently needed and long overdue. 
The same gentleman,  Mr Sinclair,  now the Minister for Primary Industry, in September last year said: 
Up till now the Labor Government has chosen to callously disregard the position of the beef industry. 
These words ring rather hollow when one has a look at the evidence of the actions of  Mr Sinclair  as the Minister in the present Government responsible for primary industry matters who can only get around to giving $ 1 Sm to the beef industry, compared with the $48.8m given by the Labor Government in its last full year in office. Then, in the role of a seer, in September last year  Mr Sinclair  said: 
Australia 's agricultural marketing position overseas would improve dramatically under a Liberal-Country Party government. 
We all have a pretty fair idea of what has happened to that prophecy when we talk about beef and particularly the American market. 
Somewhat unscrupulous exporters, who no doubt were in league with their counterpart importers in America, were caught sending meat into the United States against the law, resulting of course in cuts in Australia's export quota to America- a country which traditionally has taken more than SO per cent of our meat exports. 
Speaking of exports brings me to another point. Whilst Austraiian meat producers have been pushed into a corner over the last couple of years, to a stage where, because of low pricesgiveaway prices- third grade beef cattle have been shot and buried, both on and off the farm; where the prices for cattle have been so low that farmers have shot or allowed to die cattle which were in any way ill rather than send for the veterinary surgeon, because of the expense involved; and where saleyards throughout the country were inundated with livestock which were given away from almost daylight until after dark. The farming community, the producers of those animals, have gone from relative affluence to abject poverty. At the same time there has been one other section of the industry that has gone from strength to strength. That section of course is the meat exporting section. This matter was highlighted in another place by the honourable member for Fraser,  Mr Fry.  I do not intend to §o into any great detail about it. Anyone who is interested in it can read the House of Representatives  Hansard  of 9 November. In that speech  Mr Fry  produced figures which he obtained from the Research Service of the Parliamentary Library and which showed that in 1975-76 exporting companies had increased profits by anything from 60 per cent to 400 per cent. 
I feel that this proves that those farmers who stood and watched their cattle being shot or given away at the saleyards and who had that gut feeling at the time that they were being ripped off were right. They were being ripped off, and I believe that they were being ripped off basically because the Australian meat industry is not organised. In fact, it is totally disorganised. Totally disorganised is the way many people engaged in the beef industry have wanted it to be, do want it to be and will want it to be, because whilst the industry itself is disorganised powerful sections in the industry are able, because they themselves are organised, to rip off the producer and to make profits for themselves. In effect, they rip off the great bulk of any money that is to be made in the industry and throw the crumbs to the producer. 
Such organisations as the National Country Party and stock and station agents scream socialism if beef producers, or any other farmers for that matter, dare to question the auction system or any other facet of the industry which has been and is considered traditional. Of course, even the farmers at times are victims of this system of total free enterprise and of disorganisation within their own industry. I think that is quite common knowledge amongst meat exporting firms. Because of that disorganisation they at times can be the victims of exploitation through our  ad hoc  approach to overseas marketing of our meat. Because we have a multiplicity of exporting firms selling overseas, importing firms in other countries are able to pick off one firm and play it against the others. That is quite a common practice in the meat industry, as an honest manager of any exporting firm will tell you. 
The same sort of situation prevails in the meat industry today as prevailed for some years prior to 1947 when the Australian wheat industry was organised and when the Australian Wheat Board became the body totally responsible for exporting and selling our wheat on overseas markets. Those people who had previously exploited the farmer were pushed aside. They were certainly pushed aside from the wheat industry. Of course, they still continued to rip-off the producers in other areas of primary industry. 
Quite frankly, I remain totally convinced that one answer to the problem facing the Australian beef industry today is to establish a statutory body- the Meat Board could perform this functionto utilise the present powers to sell on the overseas markets to the exclusion of private enterprise so that any private meat marketing firm overseas which wants to import into its country Australian beef, or Australian meat for that matter, will have to do so through the authority and pay the going rate. In that way it would not be able to telephone Thomas Borthwick and Sons (Australasia) Limited at 4 o'clock in the afternoon and ask at what price it could purchase blade-bone steak or something else to send to America. Then the Australian firm would ring back the American firm to say: 'Yes, we have got X amount of meat here which you can have at X cents per lb'. It could be told by the overseas company: 'I am sorry, we have been to another company which can do it for 32c per lb'. That is the way in which those firms traditionally have beaten down the price around the Australian countryside. Of course, it is the Australian producer who finishes up with the backside out of his trousers. 
The  chairman  of the pastoral division of the Victorian Farmers Union raised this matter in an article in the magazine  Victorian Farmer  of October last.  Mr Crowe  said: 
The VFU pastoral division is concerned over the recent announcement by the United States  President, Mr Ford,  that the U.S. meat imports will be limited this calendar year. 
The import quota Tor Australian meat could be significantly smaller than the import level agreed to in 'voluntary restraint' negotiations earlier this year. Australia could possibly lose eight million pounds of meat exports, worth approximately $4 million. 
There is a strong possibility that some Australian meat which has entered the U.S. via Puerto Rico will be included in this year's quota. 
The division is also deeply disturbed about the Australian Meat Exporters' Council threat to seek a writ in the High Court to prevent the Federal Government and the Australian Meat Board from introducing controls on the export of Australian meat to the U.S. in 1977. 

 Mr Crowe said further: 
The problem of getting meat into the U.S. has been a continuing one over a number of years. It is well time the Meat Board was restructured and took a strong hand in controlling the exports of meat into the U.S. whether direct or through other areas. 
I think that that statement indicates that at least some sections of the meat industry in Australia realise that what I have just said in relation to the powers of the Meat Board represents one way in which the industry can go forward. 
Sitting suspended from 6 to 8 p.m. 
Prior to the suspension of the sitting for dinner, I was quoting from a statement by  Mr Des  Crowe, the  chairman  of the meat committee of the Victorian Farmers Union. I was only half way through the article in question, so I shall now continue. It states: 
The licensed exporters to this point of time seem to be unaware of the disruption that can be caused to the Australian meat industry should they overstep the mark in any export area relevant to the U.S. quota. 
The recent action by meat exporters only serves to highlight the urgent need expressed by the VFU- 
That is the Victorian Farmers Union- and AWMPF- 
That is the Australian Wool and Meat Producers Federation- for the establishment of a new Meat and Livestock Corporation with producer membership majority as soon as possible in order to organise the livestock and meat industry. 
The livestock producer pays for the running of the Australian Meat Board and should have a major say in the destiny of his product, which he takes from one to three years to produce, '  Mr Crowe  said. 
The VFU is anxious that the Federal Government establish a meat industry conference consisting of representatives of the producer organisations and with a similar structure to the Australian Wool Industry Conference. 
I do not necessarily go along with everything that  Mr Crowe  has to say in that statement, particularly when he calls for a majority of producers on any statutory body, but I believe he has put his finger on the pulse of one of the biggest problems currently besetting the beef industry. 
Finally I come to marketing generally, I suppose in relation to primary products overall, but in this instance in relation to the meat industry in particular. In 1960 the Australian Cattle and Beef Research Committee was established. In 1966 its charter was extended to include sheep meats also. Last year that body spent over $4.5m of producers' and taxpayers' funds on a great range of research projects some of which, in my opinion, in the current over-supply situation could only be described as way out. Whilst one realises that research cannot be turned on and off like a tap, I believe that in some areas some of the research that is being paid for by producers and the taxpayer could well be phased out and the question of marketing could take a higher priority. 
-Well, I have been through the research committee's more recent report, and, as I say, it would be hard to pick out some of the things that could be phased out. Quite frankly, when one looks at the problems that the industry currently has and has had in the past and will continue to have in relation to marketing, I do not believe that enough stress has been given to this area of the industry over the years. I hold the opinion that, unless something is done and more stress is placed on marketing, the meat industry will be in the doldrums for a long time or will suffer severe ups and downs, troughs and peaks. I simply suggest to the Meat Industry Research Committee that they should look very hard at this money that is being spent. It is a lot of money- $4.5m in one year. I suggest to them that some of that money may be better expended on some research on meat marketing. Honourable senators know as well as I know that it is from the time that the produce leaves the farm gate and arrives on the consumer's table that the great profits are made. Regrettably, the farmer does not partake of those profits. As we all know, over the years he has been content, like every other producer, to be finished with the produce when it goes out of the farm gate. He allows other people to rip him off. The consumer is in the same position. I believe that some solution to this problem will only be brought about by a lot more money being expended in that marketing area. 
All of us who have been involved in the meat industry know that despite the problems that the meat producer is confronted with and despite all the diseases, etc., with which the industry is fraught, the Australian farmer, because of his approach to the industry, because of his efficiency, wins out. That has been proved by the massive increase in our herd numbers over the more recent years. I think, from memory, the figure has risen from 24 million to 32 million or 33 million head of cattle. That surely indicates that at this point in time research has done a very good job. The farmer, as a beneficiary of that research, has also been able to do a very good job. But as I said earlier, once the produce goes out through the farm gate the farmer is no longer in control, and that is when he is ripped off. I finish on that point- that that is an area where the farmer may well put a little bit more pressure on his industry generally to have, as I have said two or three times, more work done in the area of marketing. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Post and Telecommunications, upon notice: 
How many one and five watt citizen band transceivers have been imported into Australia over the past year. 
My question is directed to the Leader of the Government. Is it a fact that Commonwealth police in the persons of Sergeants Drew and Facey are harassing organisations and people involved in a wide range of activities in Melbourne, including Community Aid Abroad, Action for World Development, the Australian Union of Students, Aboriginal Dental Services and people involved in the Campaign for an Independent East Timor, allegedly seeking information as to any demonstrations planned in support of the people of East Timor? Are those police activities a forerunner to the taking of similar actions to those taken against the people and organisations opposed to Australia's commitment in Vietnam during the 1960s and early 1970s? 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Environment, Housing and Community Development, upon notice: 
Would the Albury-Wodonga Corporation, given funding at the rate set in past years, go into a profit situation at the end of 12 years from the date of starting and will it repay all Government moneys by the end of the twentieth year. 
-Can the Minister representing the Minister for Foreign Affairs cast any light on the recent loudly proclaimed actions of the Indonesian Government in the reported release of some 2500 political prisoners? Were those 2500 persons released  en masse  or does that figure represent the total number of people released over some years, or were the 2500 people merely moved from prison to detention camps? I ask this question in view of somewhat conflicting reports on this matter. 
-May I refer the Committee to clause 13(1) and ask the Minister for an explanation? It seems to me from the explanatory notes on clause 13 (1) that the only person or persons who could be the recipients of a grant under this clause would be those who could pay cash for the purchase or the building of a home. I believe that no bank or lending institution will grant money for that purpose unless the person requiring the home is the actual owner of the land whereon the building is to be placed. A person who is eligible for the grant may purchase a rural property and then at some subsequent date a son or daughter of that person who could be eligible for a grant also could, by virtue of this clause, apply for and receive the grant. That person could then erect or place the home on the property of the father or mother, as the case may be, and at some subsequent date, for all sorts of reasons, could walk off the property. Would this clause not mean that the home would then revert to the parent and therefore, in effect, the parent could well be the recipient of 2 homes savings grants? 
I am not sure that it is a valuable step. One of the problems confronting rural people in this day and age is the viability of a property. A person may well go onto the land at a period of time when it is a viable proposition for the son or daughter of that person also to settle on the property. This is happening almost every day. We all know that because of the inflationary trends that prevail in our society that farm may well become a non-viable proposition. The countryside is full of dwellings built by sons or daughters on their father's or mother's property. Within a decade, the son or daughter has left. The point I am raising is that, in that instance, a parent is placed in the position of being able to be the recipient of 2 homes savings grants. He is put in an advantageous position when compared with every other citizen in the community. 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Prime Minister. I ask: In view of the important work already carried out by  Dr Jean  Martin in her longitudinal study of Vietnamese refugees in Australia- a study curtailed by the present Government- and  Dr Martin's  attempts to obtain funds for a follow-up study next year, will the Minister discuss with the Prime Minister the question of a government grant to allow this important study to be carried out? 
I direct a question to the Minister representing the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations. Can the Minister provide details of funding under the community youth support scheme? What groups and organisations have received funding? Has the department received criticism of the scheme from community organisations and trade unions? Can a person who receives the $6 a week allowance for the so-called voluntary work receive the unemployment benefit? Is it true that the community youth support scheme is not available to self-help groups? If those groups are ineligible under the scheme, on what basis were those necessary groups of unemployed excluded? Finally, is the Department prepared to alter the arrangements in order to enable self-help groups to become eligible under the scheme? 
-My contribution to the debate wm be rather short and, I hope, somewhat sweet. The purpose of the Dairying Industry Research and Promotion Levy Amendment Bill, as has already been said, is to put beyond aU doubt the legality of the research and promotion levy struck on aU milk produced in Australia. The New South Wales Dairy Industry Authority has questioned the legality of the Dairying Industry Research and Promotion Levy Act and that is the reason why this amendment to the Act is necessary. Knowing the dairying industry for the vindictive industry it has been over the years, if it were proved by a court of law that the Commonwealth levy were invalid such proof would lead only to a backward step being taken for the whole industry in Australia and to an increase occurring in the factionalism that has been part and parcel of the industry since it was established, and which of course still exists. 
Frankly, despite the efforts of governments and people of goodwill throughout the Commonwealth, inside and outside the industry, I believe that factionalism and parochialism will exist until the industry is some day organised on a national rather than State basis. It is now history that this factionalism in my own State of Victoria resulted for years in the existence of 2 dairy organisations, each believing it was putting forward the right theory for the future of the industry and the people within it. Each of those factions had other factions within them- a whole milk faction and a milk for manufacture faction. Thanks to the Victorian Government that system was done away with by the amalgamation of the 2 State bodies. However, not to be denied, another faction concerned with the allocation of quotas for liquid milk has sprung up over recent months. People who had a vested interest in maintaining the  status quo  feared that their future was threatened and they formed an organisation known as the Milk Producers Association. Despite the small numbers of people involved these people were extremely vocal and became a rather militant pressure group within the industry. 
As has been detailed by my colleague the shadow Minister for Agriculture,  Senator Gietzelt,  and as we all know, the problem has been caused by the variation in prices between what was obtainable in the liquid milk market and what was obtainable in the milk for manufacture market. I suppose that it has been highlighted by the stockpile of dairy products in the European Economic Community, in particular, in recent days. Dairy farmers in other countries who are totally uneconomic by any measure of Australian dairy standards have been able to use their political muscle to win subsidies from governments which rely on the dairy industry to stay in power. 
However, there seems to be a glimmer of light at the end of the tunnel. There are now indications that governments, particularly in West Germany and France, may be starting to flex their own muscles. I believe that the writing is on the wall for the attitude that has prevailed within those 2 countries in relation to high subsidies for dairy products. Perhaps within 5 years- within a decade at the outside, anyhow- those uneconomic dairy farmers will be forced into the same cold, hard world of marketing and world parity prices as their Australian and New Zealand counterparts have had to contend with for years. When that day comes 1 believe that the money for which this Bill provides- money for research and promotion; money that has been spent by the Australian dairy industry- will be money well spent. 
Some questions have arisen in my mind in relation to funds that have been expended over the years by people involved in research. I do not think that sufficient work has been done in this area. Money has been expended right, left and centre for production unlimited. Like the farmer in every other branch of the Australian agricultural industry, the Australian dairy farmer is a fairly efficient sort of chap. He is capable of producing milk in the same way as his counterparts are capable of producing beef, wheat or wool. There is no worry about that in Australia. The dairy farmers are an extremely efficient, hardworking group of people who, despite everything that nature and society can throw at them, can still produce. Therefore I believe that to some extent the money that has been expended on research for production, particularly the money that has been expended in recent years, is money that could well have been expended in other areas. Over the last 15 years some 22 000 dairy farmers in Australia have left the industry. Despite that, those who have remained, because of efficiency and the capital that has been poured into the industry, have been able to hold production at about the same level. I think that that is an indication of the efficiency of the Australian dairy farmer. 
I think that certain questions should be asked of the researchers, They include: What will be our share of the world markets in, say, 5, 10, 15 or 20 years? How many producers will we want? What size herd will be required to make a farm viable? Can the traditional family farm survive? I somehow doubt it. Will any person acting alone be able to raise the deposit required for the purchase of a farm? How many young people today can look forward with any hope of working towards ownership of a dairy farm, where the capital investment is at least $100,000 and that is for a farm which may or may not be viable at the end of a decade? Is there really any need for the traditional pattern of striving towards ownership to remain? Is it really necessary for a person who has a desire to till the soil to attempt to own it in order to fulfil that desire- in effect, to live poor and die rich? 
Can we evolve cooperatives and co-operative farming? That is a question that has been thrown around the industry. I noted with some satisfaction that  Senator Wriedt,  when he was Minister for Agriculture, made moves within his Department for an examination of the question of co-operatives and cooperative farming in Australia. I suggest that this is an area in which some research might be done. It is all very well for  Senator Wright  to poohpooh and carry on but he is not concerned about the future of the dairy industry if he is still thinking in terms of the traditional family farm. If he knew anything about the industry he would know that the family farm is a dying institution and that if farmers are to survive, particularly those in the dairy industry, some other pattern must be evolved. 
I would know more about dairy farms than  Senator Wright.  He would not know which end of a cow to bail up or which end of a bull to dehorn. Quite frankly, I believe it is time that some of the ad-hockery was taken out of this industry in particular and I suppose agriculture in general, otherwise we will have the situation where another 22 000 dairy farmers will walk off their farms over the next 15 years and we will finish up without an industry or with a situation where those who are left in the industry are poor and broken down, as was brought to light by the report of the Committee of Inquiry into Poverty- the Henderson Committeewhich was referred to by  Senator Gietzelt. 
I believe that the more recent report of the Industries Assistance Commission gave some indicators or pointers- provided some glimmer of hope- to the future of the dairy industry. Unfortunately the conservative element of the industry, particularly in the manufacturing section of the industry, has done its utmost to decry, destroy and vilify the IAC's report, as it did when the Australian Labor Party was in government and set up the Australian Dairy Corporation. Those people screamed socialism and, as a result, frightened thousands of conservative dairy farmers away from the approach that the Australian Dairy Corporation was taking at that stage. I understand that the Ministers for Agriculture have set up a working party of State and Federal departmental officers to study the report. I also understand that that working party was to have come back with its report about a week ago and that, as a result of that report from the departmental officers and also the feed-back that the industry is receiving from farmer organisations and farmers themselves, the matter will be discussed at the next meeting of the Australian Agricultural Council, which I believe is to be held in February. Hopefully some progress will be made from that point. 
I was interested to read an article in the  Victorian Farmer  of 23 November of this year in which some doubts were cast in relation to the time factor concerning the results of the report and future legislation. The article reads: 
Even presupposing the Federal Cabinet can get the agreement of the States in February to whatever course is proposed, there will be very little time left to get legislation through Federal Parliament in the autumn session and implemented in time to launch a new marketing scheme from July 1, 1977. It is believed, however, that Primary Industry Minister, Ian Sinclair, is going ahead with the drafting of legislation for a new levy Act of the type necessary for the implementation of Stage 1 of the IAC scheme and this will be ready for swift introduction once a decision is made. 
Meantime, the Australian Dairy Farmers Federation has decided its attitude to the IAC scheme. 
The ADFF decided it wanted both Stages 1 and 2 of the report implemented on July 1, 1977, with the Dairy Corporation handling the administration, except for revenue distribution (equalisation), which it wants controlled by a subsidiary company of the ADC. 
I suppose that the dairy industry of Australia once again is looking forward to some action by the Federal Government in the hope that the future can be made somewhat brighter. 
One of the more depressing features of the industry over recent times is the very low underwriting which the Federal Government made to the industry at the start of the financial year. Wherever I have travelled in Victoria the matter has been raised with me. The Victorian section of the industry asked for underwriting at 55c per lb. The Federal Government underwrote only to 50c per lb. The dairy farmers themselves feel that there was no reason why the Federal Government could not have underwritten at 55c per lb. It would have given them some hope at a time when prices were at an all-time low. The  President  of the Victorian Farmers Union was critical-as far as I know, he still is very criticalof the Liberal-National Country Party Government over that action earlier this year. In a Press release in Melbourne on 26 July he said: 
It proved the Government was posing as the farmers' friend. Its true policy is to neglect, abandon and ruin with harsh unrealistic and unwarranted policies . . . Rather than help efficient dairyfarmers survive the Government's policy is to squeeze them out in droves with malicious premeditated callousness and cruelty, dished out by insensitive bureaucrats. 
Another glimmer of light for the dairy industry in Victoria was the recent announcement that the Victorian Government has agreed to restructure the industry in that State and to establish a totally new industry body. One could go on and talk for a great deal of time, but I presume that honourable senators would like to get out of this place this week. For that reason I will make my remarks on this action rather terse and brief. As I said earlier, the great problem that has been confronting the Victorian industry is the question within the industry of who has had milk contracts to supply the lucrative metropolitan milk market and who has had to supply the rest of the milk for overseas markets, where prices at times could only be described as disastrous. 
I note with a great deal of satisfaction that the Minister for Agriculture in Victoria has agreed to phase out milk contractors. I wonder about the diamond studded handshake they Will receive when they move out. I can agree that any person who bought into a property which held a milk contract over the last 5 or 6 years should receive some form of compensation. I cannot, for the life of me, see why a person who has had a milk contract for 100, 150 or 200 gallons for 30 or 40 years should receive $250 a gallon for that contract. That is what I referred to as a diamond studded handshake. Of course, there is only one place from which the money can come, and that is the industry itself. What it largely means is that the 'have nots' are paying again to the 'haves'. As I said, the concept is good, but I am rather regretful that people who battled along for years within the industry at low prices should now be expected to buy out their share of the liquid milk market at a rate of $250 a gallon. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Foreign Affairs, upon notice: 
Has an approach been made to the Australian Government by the Government of the Libyan Arab Republic seeking an exchange of diplomatic relations between the two countries. 
If the answer to ( I ) is in the affirmative, when was the approach made. 
3 ) What were the terms of the reply to the Government of the Libyan Arab Republic and on what date was the reply sent. 
Is the establishment of diplomatic relations between the Governments of the Libyan Arab Republic and Australia under active consideration. 
What are the details of relationships established in the field of agriculture between the Governments of Western Australia and South Australia and the Government of the Libyan Arab Republic 
-Is the Minister for Industry and Commerce aware of the comments made by the Associated Chambers of Manufactures of Australia in its annual report for 1976 relating to devaluation? For the Minister's information I quote a section of the report as follows: 
However at this stage the advantages of devaluation could be only temporary and the cost to the national economy of such a move unduly high. 
In view of the massive 17.5 per cent devaluation, followed 9 days later by a 2 per cent revaluation, can the Minister outline the Government's projection of the inflation rate over the next year resulting from devaluation? Can he confirm reports that the effect will be between 3 per cent and 4 per cent? Does he not agree that the Treasurer's objective of single digit inflation is now in shambles and the Government's economic strategy in disarray? 
asked the Minister representing the Prime Minister, upon notice: 
How many Ministers of the Australian Parliament travelled overseas between 2 December 1972 and 1 August 1973. 
How many persons accompanied them and what were the total costs. 
How many Ministers of the Australian Parliament travelled overseas between 13 December 197S and 1 August 1976. 
How many persons accompanied them and what were the total costs. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Defence, upon notice: 
1) Can the Minister inform the Parliament what type of situation is envisaged in the statement on page 33 of the Defence paper put down by the Minister for Defence recently, viz.: 'Parliament may well wish to consider whether the purpose of better training and better sense of participation would justify provisions authorising compulsory call-up of Citizen Reserves for limited periods in international situations proclaimed as requiring augmentation of the forces, but not proclaimed as a state of war or time of defence emergency'. 
Is another Vietnam type commitment envisaged by the present Government. 
I direct a question to the Minister representing the Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs. I preface it by stating that I have received a number of representations from East Timorese refugees now residing in Australia who are extremely concerned at the delays in processing visa applications from East Timorese refugees in Portugal. When does the Government intend to make a decision concerning East Timorese in Portugal? Is the Government treating them as migrants or refugees for the purpose of visa applications? 
Will East Timorese refugees in Portugal who have no relatives in Australia be permitted to reside in Australia? 
I draw the attention of the Minister representing the Minister for Post and Telecommunications to a statement made by the Minister for Foreign Affairs on 20 October 1976. He stated: 
. this Government has not recognised Indonesia's incorporation of East Timor . . . 
In view of this refusal to accept Indonesian sovereignty over East Timor I ask: Is the Minister aware of reports that postal and telegraphic services between Australia and Dili, East Timor, have been restored? On what basis were the arrangements made? Who authorised the arrangements? Was Portugal, the sovereign country, consulted about the renewal of communications? If not, why not? 
I rise tonight to raise again the unfolding story of the tragedy of East Timor. I have been motivated to rise by articles in the Melbourne  Herald  yesterday and the Melbourne  Age  today wherein it is claimed that  Mr Jim  Dunn, after visiting Portugal, released a report containing some rather frightening allegations, including allegations that Indonesian troops in East Timor at the time of the initial occupation and thereafter rounded up young girls in trucks and raped them, shot 1 50 men in a south coast town because they tried to stop troops interfering with their women, shot entire families which lived in houses which displayed Fretilin flags, killed as many as 500 Chinese in the first days after the invasion, dug up graves and removed valuables, and used cigarettes and electrical instruments to torture women in a special interrogation unit in the top floor of the Tropical Hotel in Dili. Those are rather frightening allegations for any person to make. For that reason, I wholeheartedly support the call by my colleague the Opposition Whip  Senator Georges,  for the establishment of a Senate select committee to inquire into such matters, particularly the matter of the death of 6 Australian journalists and the manner in which they have been alleged to have been killed. 
It has been a long, slow and sorry process for the people trying to get the facts from Timor. Unfortunately I believe that at least one of our own government departments has not helped in this matter. Over the last 12 to 15 months we have had Press, radio and television reports of the Christain churches- in particular, if my memory serves me correctly, the Roman Catholic Church in Indonesia itself- having sent high ranking prelates to East Timor to collect information. They released a report on 19 November of last year. It was a rather frightening report. Radio reports from East Timor have continually reported atrocities having been committed by Indonesian troops. We have now the report of  Mr Dunn,  which was prepared by him after talking to East Timorese refugees in Portugal.  His  report has been supported by the reports and statements which were made by  Mr Gordon  Bryant, M.H.R., after his visit to Portugal during the Christmas recess. 
I believe it is high time that some persons in this country- 1 can think of no better personnel than a committee of honourable senators- sat down and analysed just what has gone on in East Timor over the last 12 or 18 months and tried to come to some conclusions about how Australian citizens died in the holocaust that was brought down on Dili in those early days. We had some rather unconvincing statements- in my opinion they were unconvincing- from an Australian team that went to East Timor to investigate those deaths. I know from speaking to people both within and outside this Parliament that many other people also remain unconvinced about the statements that this team brought back. As I have already said, it would appear that we know of dozens of witnesses in Portugal. There also must be a great deal of evidence in the Department of Foreign Affairs in this country. I believe that there is, if only it can be extracted. On top of that we seem to have had a multiplicity of government departments other than that Department and, perhaps more particularly, nongovernment agencies making statements over this period of time. Again there must be a multiplicity of witnesses and a great deal of evidence available. 
On top of that we have the information available from the East Timorese community in Australia, which is comprised of people who fled the country at the time and people who were here beforehand and who have received information as a result of messages sent through by all forms and means. Honourable senators may recall that during question time earlier today I ask a question of the Minister representing the Minister for Post and Telecommunications  (Senator Carrick)  in relation to the Australian Government's actions of recent date. It now appears that we have a telegraphic connection with East Timor. I raised that question because of a reported statement by the Minister for Foreign Affairs  (Mr Peacock)  that Australia still has not recognised the incorporation of East Timor within Indonesia. If that is the case, who organised this telegraphic communication? Was it done through the Indonesian Government or the Portuguese Government? It is a rather strange set of circumstances indeed. 
I return to my earlier statement that I believe that a great deal of information must be available within the Department of Foreign Affairs. I am on record publicly and privately as having canned the Department of Foreign Affairs as early as slightly over 12 months ago. It will be recalled that at that time  Mr Woolcott,  the Australian Ambassador to Indonesia, was alleged to have sent cables to the Department in Canberra asking the Australian Government to try to persuade the Australian people that there was nothing all that bad about the Indonesian moves into East Timor and that they should not panic and saying that the Government should tend to play down the scene somewhat. It was rather alarming to me to note Press reports that  Mr Woolcott  is to be appointed as our Ambassador to the United Nations. To me that is an endorsement by this Government of the actions that  Mr Woolcott  took over 12 months ago when he sought to pull the wool over the eyes of the Australian population at large. 
I think everyone here will recall the publication of those official cables, which I believe were altered by  Mr Woolcott  and the infamous statement about letting the dust settle, which was published on 16 January of last year, wherein he urged that the tragic plight of the East Timorese people be put aside. In this regard he was arguing a case which served only the interests of the Indonesian Government and its military forces.  Mr Woolcott  's appeasement of Indonesia undeniably reached its zenith in a cable he sent to the then Minister for Foreign Affairs,  Senator Willesee,  in November 1975 in which he advised  Senator Willesee  that he had not conveyed the full text of a cable from the Australian Government to the Indonesians in order to conceal the full extent of the concern expressed by Australia at Indonesia's covert activities in East Timor. I have already related in this chamber- I think I did so on 24 February of last year- some details of a meeting which the foreign affairs and defence committee of Caucus of the then Government had with the Indonesian Ambassador at the conclusion of which every member of the Government's committee was of the opinion that the Indonesian Ambassador was a liar. I repeat that  Mr Woolcott  consistently played down the events in East Timor and in doing so acted virtually as an agent of the Idonesian armed forces. To do so is in my opinion an act of complicity with Indonesia 's policies in East Timor. 
We have read about the effect of the Indonesian invasion. We know that there have been allegations about up to 100 000 people being killed and of rape, destruction, torture and, above all, the total suppression of the right of the people to self determination and independence. I believe it is a disgrace that a man who was so closely involved- right up to the hilt- in the brutal designs of the Indonesian military forces should now represent Australia in the United Nations. It is rather ironic when one considers that on 2 occasions the United Nations General Assembly has expressed its opposition to Indonesian activity in East Timor, and now Australia will be represented at the United Nations by such a discredited figure. I believe that all Australians concerned with justice will feel some disappointment, and surely some apprehension also, that this appointment is being made. 
I want to stress this point also: It seems to me that for the present Government it is a case of horses for courses. The type of statement made or the final action taken by this Government seems to depend upon the political persuasion of the country wherein atrocities are alleged to have been committed. A great deal has been said about recent alleged atrocities under a gentleman by the name of Amin in Africa. The Minister for Foreign Affairs made a statement about the alleged killing of Archbishop Luwum; yet the same Minister has not expressed any concern about the massacre of 100 000 people in East Timor. That is about all I want to say. I have said in previous speeches that this matter is a blot on the character of Australia. The word 'dingo' is not a nice one to use, but in my early days it was used to describe a person who ratted on his mates. I looked up that word in the New Oxford Dictionary recently published in this country. It is a very true description of a person who rats on his mates, particularly in times of stress. That person is a dingo. For our action or lack of action in East Timor over the last 1 8 months we must go down in the minds of the people there as a nation of dingoes. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations, upon notice: 
How many currently unemployed persons in each State of Australia possess post-secondary qualifications. 
How many currently unemployed persons in each State hold university degrees. 
In each field of academic study, what are the numbers and percentages of unemployed university graduates and college graduates. 
Of those university graduates who are currently unemployed, how many possess (a) a first degree, including honours degree; (b) a first degree with a diploma or certificate; (c) a second degree; and (d) a higher degree. 
How many unemployed persons are qualified in each State to teach (a) in pre-schools; (b) in primary schools; and (c) in secondary schools. 
-Is the Minister for Industry and Commerce aware of the new budgetary strategy of the Carter Administration in the United States of America which is to increase public expenditure to create employment? Is he aware also of a United States Congressional committee report by Professor Brennan which states that unemployment is a key factor in creating inflation through a fall in consumer spending leading to higher prices? In view of this reoriented thinking overseas on the fundamental problem of unemployment, and the release by the Australian Industries Development Association survey which found that employment will not meet the figure of 2 per cent increase predicted in the Budget, is the Government considering measures to stimulate the economy in order to provide the conditions for greater employment? 
-I present 2 petitions similar in wording from 83 and 30 citizens of Australia: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate in Parliament assembled. The humble petition of the undersigned concerned citizens respectfully showeth: 
Australia's extensive road system is a national asset wasting because of inadequate funding. 
Commonwealth Government funding of roads has fallen over the last six years from 2.9 per cent of all Commonwealth outlay to 2.3 per cent 
Your petitioners therefore humbly pray that the Senate in Parliament assembled, should ensure: 
That the Commonwealth Government should totally finance national highways and half the cost of constructing and maintaining all other public roads. 
That since current road funding arrangements have seen a deterioration in road assets, this backlog in construction and maintenance needs to be reduced by the Commonwealth Government undertaking to make a larger financial contribution. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petitions received and first petition read. 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Defence. In view of reports of American army witnesses before an American Senate subcommittee that some 19 civilian targets in America had been attacked with live bacteria during germ warfare tests, can the Minister give the Parliament an assurance that no such tests have been carried out in Australia by the military or other authorities? 
I direct a question to the Leader of the Government in the Senate in his capacity as Minister representing the Minister for Foreign Affairs. Is the Government prepared to affirm the democratic rights of  Mr Jim  Dunn to give evidence before a congressional hearing in America? In view of the statement made yesterday by General Yoga Suguma, the head of Indonesian Intelligence, that  Mr Dunn  should be prevented from so doing, will the Government undertake to provide protection for  Mr Dunn?  Further, will the Minister undertake to ascertain whether Australian military aid equipment has been used or is being used in East Timor? 

 -Mr President, I wish to speak shortly on the adjournment debate tonight about a matter on which I spoke during an adjournment debate last week. I refer to East Timor and certain threats that have been made by some people in the Indonesian Government against an Australian individual and perhaps the Australian people at large. In common with many Australians this morning I commenced my day with some sense of dismay and anger. Most, if not all, honourable senators will have seen the numerous Press articles which appeared this day on East Timor. Those of us who read those articles were acquainted with the spectacle of an Indonesian General and the Indonesian Minister for Foreign Affairs making provocative threats against Australia. I realise that 'threats' is a strong word, but I believe that there is no escaping the reality of the situation. The statements amount to nothing less than threats to this Government and to one Australian citizen. 
Reports this morning and again in the afternoon and evening Press have confirmed certain basic facts. It has already been confirmed that the Australian Ambassador,  Mr Woolcott,  was summoned by the Indonesian Government to meet General Sujono Darusman, the DirectorGeneral of Political Affairs of the Indonesian Foreign Ministry. This meeting has been described as taking the form of a reprimand of Australia by the Indonesian Government. The Australian Ambassador was told that there was grave concern in Jakarta over the involvement of  Mr Jim  Dunn in activities hostile to Indonesia. General Darusman is reported to have inquired why an Australian public servant could obtain so much time to raise allegations about East Timor. I believe that this is blatant interference in the activities of an Australian citizen. 
If that was not enough, General Yoga Sugama, the head of the infamous intelligence service, added fuel to the fire- that is, if he is reported correctly- by saying that Indonesia was taking steps to prevent  Mr Dunn's  appearance before a United States congressional committee. This statement can be interpreted only, I believe, in a most sinister and disturbing light. It was this veiled threat against  Mr Dunn  that prompted  Mr Tom  Uren in the other place and  Senator Georges  to call for protection for this courageous Australian citizen.  Mr Dunn's  principled stand must be endorsed by the Australian Government. It certainly is by all fair-minded Australians.  Mr Dunn  must be provided with protection, I believe. Further, the Australian Government has a duty and a responsibility to investigate this matter and to take every possible measure to ensure the safety of this man of high moral principles. 
Finally, and probably even worse than the 2 previous statements, is the hysterical outburst of the Indonesian Foreign Minister,  Mr Adam  Malik.  Mr Malik  turned back the clock more than 15 years when yesterday he made the most blatant threats against Australia since the days of  President  Sukarno.  Mr Malik  is reported widely to have said that the Indonesian Government would allow demonstrations and other mass actions against the Australian embassy in Jakarta if activities critical of Indonesian action in East Timor continued. This hysterical statement must be replied to strongly by the Australian Government. Not to do so is only to compound the strain of appeasement that, I believe, runs throughout Australia's foreign policy in relation to what has been going on in East Timor in the last 1 5 months to 1 8 months. I suppose one must ask oneself what prompted this furious and, I believe, foolish outburst from the Indonesian authorities. 
I believe  Senator O'Byrne  is right. The collection of basic source material from East Timorese refugees by  Mr Dunn  and  Mr Gordon  Bryant has, I believe, exposed the very brutal and bad treatment meted out to the East Timorese civilian population by the occupying Indonesian forces. This, in turn, led to a great amount of concern being expressed in Australia, both in the Press and by the population at large. It brought a response from the Minister for Foreign Affairs,  Mr Peacock.  He said that he was disturbed by certain allegations contained in  Mr Dunn's  report. Like  Mr Peacock,  I am disturbed by these reports of atrocities in East Timor. Like all honourable senators, I am sure, and the population at large, I am keen to see some investigation carried out at a top level into the truth or otherwise of these allegations. 
There are, I believe, international repercussions in relation to these atrocities. These have made the Indonesian military authorities act like a wounded tiger. They face scrutiny in the Netherlands and in the United States. A recent debate in the Dutch Parliament led to a decision by that Government to review its provision of 2 corvettes to the Government of Indonesia. This generally does not augur well for that Government, particularly at the meeting in April of the inter-governmental group on Indonesia. Perhaps it is in the United States that the Indonesians fear most the repercussions. The atrocities, as reported by  Mr Dunn,  prompted the international relations sub-committee of the United States House of Representatives to invite  Mr Dunn  to address it on 23 March. That is next Wednesday. That could lead to moves in the United States to bring pressure on the Indonesian Government to cease its military activities in East Timor. It is patently obvious, I believe, that the Indonesian Government is worried that this alleged evidence of atrocities will reinforce criticism in the United States on the human rights issue. 
It is obvious that the United States Government is concerned about this matter and that the Indonesian Government is concerned that this public scrutiny could lead to Congress cutting back on aid, particularly military aid to that country. This would be especially so, I believe, if it is proved that United States military equipment was in any way used in the initial attack on East Timor or in the continuing war there. All of us realise that to use American military equipment in a situation such as this contravenes the United States laws relating to the use of American military equipment. This is the stark reality that is now confronting the Indonesian Government. 
I believe it is the work of all humanitarians in Australia and elsewhere that has led to this situation. Senators and members of this Parliament and other concerned people in the community have, for the last 1 5 to 1 8 months, by their activities and their words, led to questioning and, to a large extent, to the exposure ofthe horror of the aggression in East Timor. It has been a matter that has received, daily, perhaps more and more prominence in the editorials of our leading newspapers. I would like to read part of one of those editorials to the Senate this evening. It is the editorial in today's Melbourne  Herald  and it states: 
The Foreign Minister's statement to the Australian Parliament again sets out the reasons why the Indonesian military occupation of East Timor cannot be taken as a closed matter in accordance with the repeated protestations of Jakarta generals. 

 Mr Peacock pointed to our continued 'opposition to the use of force to settle problems in the region'. This and much more in UN resolutions has been ignored by the Jakarta regime, whose 'fact-finding' mission which decided the East Timorese wanted integration into Indonesia has been in turn rebuffed by the General Assembly. 

 Mr Peacock also recalled that Australia has urged 'consistently and strongly, that the International Red Cross be allowed to resume activity in East Timor'. Jakarta's refusal of this and other kinds of outside access to East Timor has rebounded against its own interests. The American Congressional invitation to Timor specialist  Mr Jim  Dunn is part of that harvest. 
Now  Mr Dunn's  investigations, the preliminary ventilation in the US of his allegations about atrocities in East Timor, and the anxiety in Jakarta that all this may affect US military aid to Indonesia have produced what appears to be an unprecedented invitation for human rights activist Congressman Donald Fraser to visit Timor to see 'the real situation'. 
Even if, like nobody before him, Congressman Fraser (and accompanying experts?) is given complete freedom of movement, unlimited access to the local population, and reliable interpreters, that will still not cure the Timor sickness that afflicts Indonesia's relations with some of its closest associates- Australia, the US, and The Netherlands. Only Jakarta's compliance with UN resolutions, and courts martial proceedings against commanders identified with atrocity allegations can do that. 
The sickness can only be exacerbated by such unfortunate threats as those attributed yesterday to the Indonesian Foreign Minister,  Mr Malik;  a deeply disappointing reversion to the Soekarnoist tactic of permitting so-called spontaneous mob intimidation of embassies. 
That editorial sums up my feelings and, I believe, the feelings of a great number of other citizens in this community. The Australian Government must act to resist this pressure. I believe we also have a responsibility to seek the truth in these matters. We must be prepared to investigate the tragedy that has occurred to a people so close to our shores. I hope that the Senate will seek the truth, as is being done in the US, and that it will inquire into and, if possible, extend our assistance to the suffering yet heroic East Timorese. We will all have the opportunity of pursuing this course of action over the next few days. 
It does appear that our embassy in Jakarta did not know of the presence of Australian journalists in East Timor until one gentleman, Gerald Stone from Channel 9 in Melbourne, rang the embassy on 17 October 1975 for information about them. Presumably that happened after Channel 9 had received information from an anonymous telephone caller- I believe from a government listening post in north Australiawho said that the journalists would not be returning to Australia because they were dead. This is all despite the fact that I believe the embassy in Jakarta informed the Department of Foreign Affairs before 16 October that Indonesian forces would attack East Timor in the Balibo area at some future time. Why then did not the Department of Foreign Affairs notify our embassy in Jakarta ofthe presence of Australian journalists in East Timor. I now suggest that our embassy in Jakarta only learned of the presence of the journalists in East Timor some time after their deaths and this delay allowed the Indonesian authorities time in which to try to cover up their crime. Finally, I make a plea for each and every one of us to do what we can to support the initiatives already set in motion to inquire into this matter. I hope that never again will we as a nation allow such a travesty of justice to occur anywhere in our region. 
In the absence of a Minister for Sport and Recreation in the Fraser Ministry I am probably obliged to ask this question - 
I am sorry. My little bit of fun back-fired. I ask the Leader of the Government in the Senate: Will the Minister agree that any attempt by Australia to bowl out the English XI prior to Her Majesty's visit to the Melbourne Cricket Ground this afternoon could only be seen as a republican plot and that to allow them to stay in will indicate that the monarchial viewpoint still reigns strong among Australian sportsmen and their followers? 
I again direct a question to the Leader of the Government in the Senate in his capacity as Minister representing the Minister for Foreign Affairs. I state, firstly, that the Campaign Against Racial Exploitation- as part of the no ties with apartheid campaign- has sought the opportunity to meet the Minister for Foreign Affairs and the Joint Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence to put its point of view. Will this meeting be granted? In terms of the statement made by the Minister for Foreign Affairs in the House of Representatives on Tuesday in respect to South Africa, could the Minister indicate what concrete action he is proposing to take? Specifically, is the Minister proposing to withdraw the remaining Trade Commission in South Africa? Is the Minister prepared to review the question of South African Airways flying to Australia? Is the Minister proposing to take any action in respect of Australian companies operating in South Africa? Will the Minister be issuing a statement on 2 1 March, United Nations day, against racial discrimination? Lastly, is the Minister aware of what material is circulated by the South African Embassy to Australian schools? If not, will he take steps to find out? 
I was rather interested in what the previous  speaker, Senator Young,  had to say on certain matters. He did lay some stress on the reasons why Australian capital currently and in the recent past has left this country and has been used to set up operations to our north.  Senator Young  tended to blame high wages and good working conditions in Australia for that factor, when one of the real reasons is poor wages and working conditions in Asia, for example. I take as an illustration a female textile worker in Korea who starts work at 7 o'clock in the morning and works through to 7 o'clock in the evening, with no more than half an hour for lunch and 4 days a year as holidays if she is lucky, all for the petty sum of $7.50 a week. If those are the kinds of conditions that  Senator Young  wants to see introduced into Australian society, if he wants Australians to become nothing more than serfs and peasants, good luck to him. 
The whole problem with our society at present, as I see it, is that in the past, and in the last 20 years in particular, our whole progress has relied on the growth factor. If we could not have growth, there was no progress. Quite frankly, I perceive that the world in general and Australia in particular, or Australia in league with the rest of the world, has now arrived at a stage where our citizens in common with those of other countries no longer see growth as the most important factor in society. Quality of life has become a very big issue. People are not so much concerned with the gross national product and multinational companies making 'X' amount of dollars over and above what they made in the previous year. They want to see quality of life. This factor has thrown our economists who have grown up in that growth school of thought into a quandary. They do not know which way to turn. 
I am no economist and I cannot tell economists their business but I think I perceive the faults in the system as it currently exists. I can suggest to our economists and our government advisers only that they should get off the growth tram and have a look at the quality of life situation as currently understood by the average citizen in our society who wants something more out of life than to go to work for 12 hours or 8 hours a day, who seeks some security and also wants some quality in his or her life. 
Having finished that little outburst, I must say that I believe that the speech which was placed in the hands of  Her  Majesty on Tuesday last to read when opening the Parliament was one of the most insulting speeches that could ever have been handed to a monarch or to a woman of her intelligence. Apart from a few shibboleths, such as 'increasing the freedom, opportunity and equality of the Australian people' and acknowledging some of the Government's band-aid approaches to the problems of our society, the speech told us nothing and gave us only cliches. What commitment to increasing the freedom of citizens currently unemployed has this Government made? The answer is: No commitment whatsoever. Freedom to starve is the only freedom for these people, particularly those who, through regulations, are no longer eligible for unemployment benefits; and there are many of them. 
Single people under 18 years of age now in receipt of unemployment benefits will receive no increase in their payments in May. It is almost as though the Government seeks to allow young people to die of starvation in a war of attrition in order to improve the unemployment figures. What opportunity or equality is available to them at a most critical period in their lives? They have no work and little finance. Surely this experience will scar their lives for ever. As an example, what opportunity or equality is available to the young lass who came into my electoral office the week before last with a letter telling her that her Tertiary Education Assistance Scheme allowance had been discontinued. The Depanment of Education alleges that she is more than half a year behind the point which it believes she should have reached when, in the first place, she is obliged to travel SO miles to and from lectures and studies each day and, secondly, the faculty in which she receives those lectures and studies passes students on criteria other than those used by the Department of Education; that is to say, that Department in respect of students at colleges of advanced education at the moment is using criteria that apply to universities rather than to colleges of advanced education. Later last week when I consulted with my research officer on this matter I was informed that at the same rural college of advanced education in Victoria 160 students are in exactly the same position. I will be interviewing a number of those students tomorrow when I return to Victoria. 
This state of affairs does not auger well for the commitment in Her Majesty's Speech which, I repeat, was prepared by the Government and delivered by that good lady on Tuesday of last week. We must relate this talk about opportunity and equality to the actions of this Government and the Department of Education in denying assistance of the type I have mentioned to every person they conceivably can. When the Labor Government left office, expenditure on education had increased fourfold in an endeavour to bring some equality to the education system. Eighteen months after the Labor Government left office this country is rapidly moving back to a class system of education. The only people who will survive under Fraser and the LiberalNational Country Party Government will be the elite section of our community. In Her Speech Her Majesty said: 
The prosperity of the Australian people depends on the strength of its productive private sector, on its manufacturing, mining and rural industries. 
Let us look at what this Government is not doing for the rural sector. At a time when thousands of primary producers in Australia are hanging on for dear life and, unfortunately, being ripped off by experts, we find with respect to wool that the Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Sinclair)  has done nothing for the industry despite the clamour from woolgrower organisations right across the Commonwealth. I say to  Senator Messner  who is trying to interject that the woolgrowers simply ask that the Australian Wool Corporation be given powers of acquisition over all wool destined for export. The Minister has sat on his backside and done nothing. There was a time when the Liberal and National Country parties used divisiveness amongst woolgrowing organisations and rural organisations generally as an excuse for doing nothing. That excuse no longer exists. Every woolgrower organisation in Australia is clamouring for this reform. The Minister has done nothing. 
Let us look at meat. I suppose the meat industry faces the most diabolical situation in which any industry in Australia has ever been placed. This is a situation which allows beef producers to be ripped off daily. Any honourable senator who has been to a saleyard in the last 2 years anywhere in Australia has seen this going on. 1 suppose that some of us have been to some extent victims of it, so we know all about it. While on the one hand producers are being ripped off, exporters on the other hand are making record profits. Again, grower organisations right across Australia are calling for the establishment of a meat and livestock corporation to replace the existing Australian Meat Board. The Minister has twiddled his thumbs while some overseas markets are jeopardised by unscrupulous traders who are using all sorts of devices to make a fast buck at the expense of producers and clients. 
Having spoken about meat, I turn now to the matter of the export of live sheep from Australia. Twenty years ago the annual export of live sheep from Australia was below 100 000. Those exports were by and large to Malaysia and Singapore from the State of Western Australia. Basically they were to supply the Moslems in that region with meat from sheep known to have been slaughtered in accordance with Moslem customs. It was not until 1964 that the Middle East entered the market for live sheep. Trial shipments to Kuwait were instrumental in lifting live sheep exports for that year to a record 263 000 sheep. This market in the Middle East has been supplied traditionally from Turkey and Afghanistan but due to adverse seasons in those countries the supply has dropped off and the Middle East has had to turn to abroad for the quantity of meat required. During 1976 Middle East countries imported 2.5 million sheep from Australia. 
I believe that to a large extent the present demand is based on financial greed. There are too many people between the Australian sheep grower and his consumer in Middle East countries who are making rip-offs. At present a heavy wether, a 50 kilogram wether, is worth $60 to Middle East importers who receive payment from the government. The sheep are slaughtered and offered to butchers at a heavily subsidised figure. They are retailed at a price fixed below locally produced sheep meat although above the price of imported frozen meat. 
This is the point I want to stress: A great deal of political agitation and political capital has been made about problems surrounding the meat industry brought about by the ban by the Australian Meat Industry Employees Union related to the export of live sheep. I understand that that union stipulated that there should be 2 sheep killed in Australia for export to these countries for every one exported live. I am also given to understand, although I have nothing to verify it except verbal information, that the exporters have broken the agreement. Currently, to my knowledge, the union is asking that the ratio be lifted to 3 killed in Australia for every one exported live. The reasons for that request are included in what I am now going to say. The Middle East exporters, as I think I have already intimated, require heavy wethers. As you know,  Mr Deputy President,  the market for those heavy wethers was your State of Western Australia but the demand outstripped the supply and exporters moved across to South Australia. They have now moved into western Victoria. I suppose it is a sight to see when one of these massive ships pulls into the local harbour to load some 35 000 sheep for the Middle East. The whole district would become activated. People would be on the move and semitrailers would be carting sheep to the point of embarkation. But I believe, unfortunately, that the Australian sheep meat producer is being ripped off. 
I agree, he may be happy when he compares the price with the price he can get elsewhere but if he only knows the facts he will realise the rip-offs that are going on. 
-That is right, there is no better market but it could be much better than it is. The profit on a wether is shown in the breakdown that I will give. A wether, preferably of at least 50 kilograms live weight, is sold for $10. The costs are as follows: Feed preparation, innoculation and wharfage, $5; shipping costs from Western Australia, $20; fodder costs for the voyage, $7. The total cost to the importer in the Middle East country is $42 as against the $60 he receives at the other end. That is the overall cost per head from Western Australia. The price is $3 to $5 a head over and above that from ports in South Australia and Victoria but this again allows anybody importing into the Middle East a rather exorbitant profit. During 1976 Kuwait imported 672 000 sheep and Saudi Arabia imported about 280 000 sheep. The high profitability continued throughout that area. 
I believe that livestock shipping companies have a vested interest in maintaining this high volume of live sheep shipments between Australia and the Middle East for reasons which I shall disclose. In October last year the  Daily Commercial News,  a shipping trade newspaper, printed an analysis of sheep carriers plying the trade between Australia and the Middle East. It listed 43 vessels with an overall capacity of 600 000 live sheep and with an average ability of making nine round trips each year. The analysis disclosed that of the 43 vessels one vessel, the  Atlas Pioneer,  had a capacity of 52 000 sheep. 
Another had a capacity of 40 000, five had a capacity of between 30 000 and 40 000, ten were capable of lifting between 20 000 and 30 000 and the remainder had a lesser capacity. Since the time of the  Daily Commercial News  report a further 10 ships have entered or are about to enter the trade. I think it is in this area where the profit really is. They include the  Clara Clausen  with a capacity of 43 000 sheep, the  Dorrit Clausen  with a capacity of 3 1 000, the  Dansborg  with a capacity of 30 000 and the  Sunny Lady  which has a capacity of 54 000. The remaining 6 vessels have a capacity of between 20 000 and 30 000 sheep. There is not the slightest doubt that shipping companies with obsolete oil tankers- I think we all are aware of the situation around the world and know that there are oil tankers in mothballs everywhere one looks- are closely watching the attitude of the Australasian Meat Industry Employees Union with the intention of conversion to the lucrative livestock trade. 
The importance of Australia as a supplier is realised when, as I said before, other competing sources of sheep are examined. Examination shows that the traditional markets can no longer supply what is required. It is interesting to note that last year after the Western Australian branch of the AMIEU effectively halted the loading of the  Atlas Pioneer,  that vessel was sent to Uraguay and loaded 58 000 sheep, 6000 more than its permitted capacity from Australia. The trip was reported to have been something of a disaster for despite the claim that the  Atlas Pioneer  is considered to be amongst the safest vessels for in-transit mortality, the sheep, lighter and smaller than those normally required for export from Australia, did not stand up well to the long trip to the Middle East. It is reported that many failed to survive the journey whilst those that did survive arrived in poor condition. I am given to understand that the current rate of mortality in the export of live sheep from Australia runs from 4 per cent to 8 per cent but there have been instances where up to 20 per cent of the sheep which have left this country have died en route. If that sort of loss can be supported by the economics of the operation it indicates that somewhere along the line someone is being ripped off. I am afraid that I believe it is the Australian sheep meat producer. 
-They are in my head but I received that information from the Assistant Federal Secretary of the AMIEU,  Mr O  Toole, when he came here about 3 weeks ago to put a case to the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser), Mr Sinclair  and  Mr Street.  I am told that when the AMIEU people returned from the deputation they were very happy with the reception they received. They said that the Prime Minister,  Mr Sinclair  and  Mr Street  sat with their mouths open because they had never heard the facts about this situation. Furthermore, the AMIEU representatives were invited back to put to the Prime Minister and the other 2 gentlemen a further case containing more facts and figures. I am just hoping that something will eventuate from this to alleviate one of the problems that we have in our rural society. It is estimated that some $150m was expended by Middle East governments to purchase 2.5 million sheep last year. That is the equivalent to 50 000 tonnes of carcass mutton. It is estimated that of that $ 1 50m which was expended by the Middle East governments, Australian sheep meat producers received $25m. The balance went almost entirely to foreign shipping companies and Arab importers. I believe that here we have one of the problems in our rural political scene. Because of an inborn hatred or detestation by sheep meat producers and farmers generally of the trade union movement, the 2 bodies do not get down and talk about their problems. I believe there has been a lack of this co-operation in more recent years in particular. At some stage a rapport has to be built between primary producers and the trade union movement because each has a great deal to give to the other. I believe that until this happens the rural situation in Australia cannot be improved. In this specific instance the sheep meat growers and producers by opposing the bans imposed by the Australasian Meat Industry Employees Union on the export of mutton have placed themselves in the absurd situation of preserving the privileged position of the middlemen in the trade. 
We all realise that the Middle East is a very valuable market, particularly for sheep meat. The indigenous people have a preference for sheep meat and goat meat. Actions in recent times have proved that the governments in these countries have the necessary finance to supply the meat. Unfortunately, they are doing this by the most expensive method possible. An honourable senator interjected earlier and asked me where I got this information. I am able to tell him from the same source that one of the weaknesses in the trade between Australia and Middle East countries in sheep meats is the lack of acumen- I suppose one could best describe it that wayamongst Middle East governments in how to tender for meats. I think there is a job to be done here by a new organisation or a revamped Australian Meat Board in educating these people in the best way to tender for meat around the world. I am informed that one government in the Middle East in recent times called for a quantity of sheep carcasses with virtually no stipulation as to quality or anything else. Some smart operator in the Middle East picked up his telephone, rang around the exporters in Australia and obtained the necessary requirement of 2000 carcasses. When the carcasses arrived at their destination they were rotten. Such actions do not do much for the Australian meat industry. This is the problem we will always have while we allow free enterprise spivs to operate in that field. 
I think the time is long past when the Australian primary producer can allow these sorts of people to operate at that level. It is time for some corporation in Australia to set guide lines. Let us be perfectly frank. I think we all admit that our New Zealand counterparts have left us for dead. We cannot hold a candle to New Zealanders when it comes to exporting primary products. It is time we revamped our Meat Board and got out with a reliable and responsible corporation with a responsibility to the growers of this country to dispose of their products. We have a responsibility also to relate back to our growers so that they in turn know what they should be producing, so that they know the market requirements. This has been the great weakness in primary industry right across the broad spectrum for as many years as I have been capable of understanding anything about primary industry. A moment ago I described the situation where 2000 carcasses from Australia were rotten when they were dumped at the export end of the line. When that can happen it does very little for our primary products, for the economies of our society and for the future of our trade. I suppose that if one knew one could cite dozens and dozens of examples across the broad spectrum of the export of primary products. 
I am also informed from the same source that in some countries there is a dire lack of unloading facilities for live sheep. At one port, which was unnamed, the sheep are thrown overboard manually. Again, that does not do much for the Australian sheep meat grower. It is a shocking indictment. If those oil-rich sheikhdoms have money to expend, to pay $60 a head for live wethers from Australia, I think it is time that we had consultations with them and informed them that there are better ways of doing these things. A lot of that money would be better expended in providing facilities at the other end either to unload those sheep alive in a proper manner, or, preferably from Australia's point of view, to allow them to be slaughtered in Australia and exported frozen with facilities available at the other end to take them into cold storage. 
Another matter relates to the export of Australian primary products. My memory in this matter was jogged by a recent Press statement put out by the Minister for Primary Industry,  Mr Sinclair,  on 3 March. It is a rather long Press statement. It is an address by the Minister for Primary Industry given at a ceremony to mark the opening of new offices of P.T. Indomilk in Jakarta on Thursday, 3 March of this year. Reading one paragraph will allow me to lead into the matter which I want to explore. In this Press release  Mr Sinclair  stated: 
When my  colleage,  the Rt Hon. J. D. Anthony, Deputy Prime Minister, represented the Australian Government at the official opening here - 
I presume that is in Jakarta-  on 3 July, 1 969, in his then capacity as Minister for Primary Industry the plant produced sweetened condensed milk. 
For a number of years- I cannot recall how many- the Australian dairy industry has been working in co-operation with a number of companies and governments in Asia in the disposal of Australian dairy products. I suppose it involves milk in various forms to be re-combined, re-combined butter and the other multiplicity of products to which milk from the humble cow can be turned. This matter goes a little bit further. I was a dairy farmer until I came to the Senate. It is very gratifying to see an export market develop for our dairy products but when one hears what can happen at the other end I think one has to take a step back and reconsider some of the things which we might have been trying to do. I suppose that what we have done has been done with a great deal of goodwill. Those of us who have taken any interest in the matter appreciate that in recent years in our society there has been a tendency among mothers to switch from bottle feeding to breast feeding for all sorts of reasons but for different reasons from those which I think currently should apply in underdeveloped countries. At one time it was very fashionable for the mother after the birth of her child, to be told that she could not express milk for all sorts of reasons and that the baby should go onto cows milk. That became the in-thing to do. Latterly there has been better education and a better realisation of the cold hard facts. For instance, if the mother has the baby on the breast she does not have to get out of bed in the cold of the night. She just rolls over, reaches into the bassinet, and pulls the baby into the bed, and there is hot milk on tap. 
I was worried by what was said on a program on the ABC last Monday week concerning the importation of milk from developed countries into the Third World and the unfortunate effect that this is having on the mortality rate of infants. It would seem that, as a result of the sophisticated advertising techniques used by companies which have a vested interest in this matter, lactating mothers in underdeveloped countries are being induced to take their babies off the breast and put them on to condensed milk, skim milk powder or full cream powdered milk. Then, due to a lack of education and a lack of hygiene and facilities in those societies, all too often the baby dies because the mother has never been taught that sterilisation of the equipment is extremely important and that there is no point in her taking the baby's empty bottle to the stinking canal, giving it a rinse, putting the teat back on and giving it to the baby 4 hours later, because that is one way to a short life for her child. 
I also heard on this ABC program that often when the mother takes a can of condensed milk from the supermarket or wherever she gets it, she does not understand the technique for its correct preparation. I do not know whether the cans are labelled in the language spoken in the country concerned. They may well be labelled in English, French or German. However, even if they are printed in the vernacular of the country concerned, in these areas there is a large number of illiterate people who would not be able to read what was on the label anyway. We all know how condensed milk breaks down when water is added. It is very difficult to know whether one is making the correct strength. It does appear, from what I heard on the ABC program from a doctor or someone of some standing in this field, that in many instances the mother tends to break down the strenght of the milk too much, resulting in cases of gross malnutrition. 
This matter has gone a little further than that. It was raised, I think, somewhere in Europe perhaps 12 months ago. The matter received notoriety because of a criminal libel action taken by a world-wide food and milk company against a group of aid people in Switzerland who pointed an accusing finger at this company as being one of the organisations responsible for this problem. The case still has not been concluded and one wonders what could happen in the meantime. I think this is an unfortunate situation. While this case is being heard thousands of infants in the underdeveloped world could die from the same problem. Later in his speech the Minister for Primary Industry said: 
As countries we both recognise the great importance of encouraging enterprise and initiative and the benefits that can flow from enterprises such as P.T.  Indomilk  to all our people. 
As a dairy farmer, I praise the initiatives of the Australian Dairy Produce Board in the past and hopefully of the new organisation, the Australian Dairy Corporation. I am sure that there is not a dairy farmer in Australia who, when he realises what sometimes happens at the other end of the sales system, will want it to continue. I believe that it is up to the new Corporation to look at this matter and make sure that to the best of our ability we do something to overcome the problem. It would appear to me to be obvious that, instead of advertising in a grandiose way on television or in other media the virtues of condensed milk, the Australian Dairy Corporation and the proprietary company involved would spend this money much better on educating mothers in the underdeveloped world in the proper way to handle the product. 
The only other matter I want to mention is something which I heard another senator mention this afternoon. A matter that is causing me some problems at the moment is the Government's ceilings on the Public Service. I have had occasion over the last three or four months to ring a broad spectrum of officers in government departments, both in Canberra and in my own State, to follow up representations which I have made on behalf of constituents. I do not think that I have rung one government department with a complaint that it has been tardy in replying to me and sorting out the problem I have raised without the senior officer to whom I have spoken saying to me firstly: 'We are sorry,  Senator. We  apologise. We are so short of staff that we just cannot cope with the work load'. That is a terrible indictment of a government in a country as supposedly sophisticated as ours and in a country which has record unemployment. It illustrates conclusively the hollow shibboleths which were read to us from your chair,  Mr President,  by  Her  Majesty. They were not her words; they were put into her mouth by a government which is hypocritical. There is no point in  Her  Majesty reading the Government's speech and talking about equality of opportunity when the people in our society who most require help are precluded from getting it because this Government has such a hang-up about the public sector. 
The Government seems to want the private sector to do everything and does not seem to realise that in this day and age the public sector is playing and will continue to play a large part in the lives of thousands of citizens in this country. I know that my adversary,  Senator Cotton,  probably would agree with me because he is a man who seems to have a large heart and a great amount of feeling for the little people in this country. I hope that he will take my message to the Prime Minister and point out that it is no good talking about equality of opportunity while our Public Service is starved of recruits and while the people who have the least opportunity of any sort in our society are the very people who must appeal to the Public Service for some assistance. There is no point in talking about equality of opportunity while our Public Service is starved of recruits and sufficient people to carry out its proper role. 
-The Senate this evening, as was the case this afternoon, is debating the policy statement of the Minister for Foreign Affairs  (Mr Peacock).  Quite frankly, I wonder how much of it is really the Foreign Minister's policy statement and how much of it may be the policy statement of the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser).  I believe that since this Government came to office it has been the Prime Minister who has been running the foreign affairs of this country rather than the Minister for Foreign Affairs. The Senate has before it a 24-page document that in my opinion is long on generalities but miserably short on goals and objectivity. As an example, I quote the following from what the Minister stated: 
An Indian Ocean Zone of Peace is an objective with which Australia has sympathy and we recognise that those who sponsor it are concerned with the same end as we are, namely, a stable peace in the Indian Ocean. The degree of complementarity - 
That is a good word-  between the  2  approaches was evident in the communique that was issued at the end of the Indonesian visit last October, when it said, 'Pending the achievement of a Zone of Peace, the  President  and the Prime Minister recognised that a balance in the Indian Ocean at as low a level as possible should make it possible to avoid a competitive escalation of forces '. We believe this gets it right. 
Quite frankly, after reading a statement such as that, I am left to wonder why this LiberalNational Country Party Government leaves this matter to someone else to resolve. Surely to goodness in a statement such as this, this Government, this Prime Minister, this Minister for Foreign Affairs- someone- should have come down with a statement of some intent. Instead of saying that the Government intends to stand aside from those who sponsor an ideal of a zone of peace in the Indian Ocean we should be joining in with other littoral states in working for a zone of peace in the Indian Ocean. 
I suppose that when we look back with the advantage of hindsight we see it is somewhat over and above the expectations of the ordinary mortal to expect that a man who was a hawk on the Vietnam issue for years would take such an attitude. I suppose that those years were for me my formative years in Australian politics. This was when I opposed the Prime Minister in the electorate of Wannon in 1963 and 1966. I remember the attitude of the man to Vietnam, the slogan 'all the way with LBJ and the phrases about the downward thrust of Chinese communism and those big red arrows pointing towards Australia. I remember his sponsorship of conscription for Australian youth while he worked his damndest to help the sons of his friends get out of the draft. He made no bones about the fact that he was quite active in that area while allowing someone else's sons to carry the load of our wrong commitment to Vietnam. It is a little difficult to expect that a man of that calibre would now in any way whatsoever have his Government work with other littoral states towards a zone of peace in the Indian Ocean. 
This is a man and a government which, since they came to power in 1975, have granted increased military aid to Indonesia whilst that country has been conducting a war of genocide. It was the third military escapade or commitment in recent times by Indonesia in areas adjacent to its territory. Perhaps this is all a little too much to expect. If action such as this is to be taken as an example of the Fraser Government's intent, one supposes that one will wait in vain for it to act in a manner conducive to peace in the Indian Ocean or in any other area of the world. 
I believe that this Government will continue to try to influence the American Government to expand and upgrade the base at Diego Garcia.  Mr Fraser  has made no bones about that line of argument since he came to power. It is being done to try to outpace the Soviet naval presence in the Indian Ocean. It will be rather interesting to see the contest of personalities and policies between  Mr Fraser  and the new  President  in America,  President  Carter. It would appear now that  President  Carter has set his goals, his. guidelines, his sail or his flag towards achieving a decrease in military activity around the world and a rapport with the previous enemies of the United States, in particular the Soviet Union. I believe that the hearings and report of the Senate Standing Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence which looked at this question of the Indian Ocean have created an increasing awareness on the part of some Government supporters who previously were so much anti-Soviet it did not matter. This was so particularly when we discussed this question of the relative strength of navies and the super powers in the Indian Ocean. But now at least some of these people are coming round to the realisation that there is something better for the world and for Australia in particular than this question of balance. 
How do we measure this question of balance? Those of us who sat on the Committee were presented with a great deal of evidence. It was patently obvious to me that, depending on the criteria used, on could conjure up figures to support one's argument. A whole multiplicity of criteria which included ship-days and tonnages could be used. The answer that one obtained depended upon where one started. It came through fairly loud and clear to the Committee when the evidence was finally considered that the U.S. had an overwhelming superiority in the Indian Ocean. While the Soviet Union may have had more ships there over a longer period, it was clearly obvious that when the U.S. moved into the Indian Ocean with its massive forces, it could outgun, out-manoeuvre and out-everything the Soviet Union could put up. But still this Government at that time was clamouring, through the Prime Minister and the Minister for Defence (  Mr Killen),  for an upgrading of the American presence in the Indian Ocean. 
If that sort of thinking still prevails at the top eschelons of this nation it will be a long time before anyone is able to resolve this question and get down to the question of the Indian Ocean being a zone of peace. 
One of the problems that confronts the littoral states of the Indian Ocean is that of poverty and deprivation. There is hardly a state or country that impinges on the Indian Ocean that does not have dire problems of poverty, deprivation, a lack of gross national product and a lack of reasonable facilities for its citizens. It is obvious to me that whilst the thinking of this and previous Liberal-National Country Party governments prevails, it will be a long time before the citizens of those littoral states are able to set goals for a better lifestyle for themselves. While those countries are forced by circumstances brought about by conditions outside their territory to spend large amounts of money on armaments, there is no bread and butter for their citizens. Perhaps whilst we are talking of the Indian Ocean as a zone of peace and trying to achieve some goals to that end. it might now be pertinent that those progressive thinkers in Australia, visavis foreign policy, should be starting to open up the question of the same sorts of ideals for the Pacific Ocean. 
I note that recently the Government of Papua New Guinea has expressed some interest in a zone of peace in the Pacific Ocean. This evening, along with the  President  and a number of others, I was delighted to sit down at dinner with the Prime Minister of Western Samoa. I have paid at least one visit to the South Pacific and it would seem to me from my conservation with leaders and ordinary people in that area that they also have a great desire for that part of the world- the Pacific Ocean- to be encompassed in the ideal of a zone of peace. Perhaps that is the next goal on which people who are interested in peace and disarmament around this world should set their sights. 
Any opportunity to overcome the deprivation, the poverty, the disease and the squalor around this world that I mentioned a moment ago is beset by the great arms race which a large number of countries have joined post 1945. To me one of the greatest crimes being committed against the common people of the world is evident in a country such as Iran. Iran is an immensely wealthy country with a  tremendous  potential. It sells daily to the developed world, and I suppose to some extent the underdeveloped world, great quantities of black gold. I have had the opportunity, thanks to a parliamentary delegation, to visit the main export centre of Iran where black gold is poured into tankers. As far as one's eye can see large tankers are carrying this tremendously important commodity to countries around the world. As a consequence one knows millions of dollars are pouring back into the coffers of that country. What do we see? We see large orders for guns, tanks, Fills, rockets, and all the wherewithal of war. The people of that country are deprived, have little education and very little shelter while the country, with gay abandon, spends the money it is making on the instruments of war. I just take that as one example. I do not want to single out that country as being the only example or the worst example. There are dozens of other examples around the world. 
From my experience there I do not think it works. I believe that if Australia through its foreign policy could set goals towards the establishment of zones of peace around the world it must in the end have an effect on the amount of a country's budget which is spent on weapons of war. Following on from that must surely be a rise in the living standards of millions of people currently deprived. 
One other matter I mention is aid. Aid has become, I suppose, one of the foremost weapons of foreign policy used by the developed world towards the underdeveloped world. I am not quite sure whether our motives are correct in many instances but there is little doubt that it does our hearts good sometimes to say that we are spending so much in foreign aid in the underdeveloped world. The situation unfortunately arises where we pour aid into countries without a great deal of thought. One realises that any nation which gives aid to another should not have the right to dictate how that aid shall be spent. I believe that too often we just give aid without any consideration whatsoever. My friend  Senator Scott  while speaking before dinner made some mention about agricultural aid. He related it to China and believed that our agricultural techniques could be of some assistance to that country. It may well be that in the very down to earth aspects we may have some technique which may help the Chinese. But I think that if we look at the broader issue of aid we will find that Australia, like so many other developed countries, is pouring aid into agriculture in those countries without any thought whatsoever of the end result. I believe that in many respects the aid upsets the whole economics of farming in those countries. 
One of the great publicised activities of aid and development in agriculture in underdeveloped countries in recent years has been the socalled green revolution. Any person who studies what has happened in those countries as a result of the implementation of the green revolution will realise that the lifestyle and the agricultural economy of those countries have been upset. I do not say that this happens every time but I believe it happens in the overwhelming majority of cases. We pour aid in and the beneficiaries all too often are the landlords, the wealthy, the filthy rich. It is of no benefit whatsoever to the common peasant farmer who is in the situation of not being able to avail himself of the aid, due to the prices of increased inputs, of fertilisers and new types of seeds and within a year or two the ordinary peasant farmer goes to the wall. The landlord, the big man, buys him out, takes him over and goes on to make a very comfortable living. The peasant farmer finishes up as the urban unemployed poor who are currently pouring into the provincial towns and cities of the underdeveloped world. That pattern is world wide whether one looks at Asia, Africa or Latin America. 
Or Australia. The honourable senator is perfectly right. Fortunately there is some hope for those Australians who drift to the cities. I believe that the honourable senator would agree with me, if he has made any study, that the agricultural poor, the drifters from agriculture in the underdeveloped world, have to squat in hovels adjacent to the major towns and cities and become the unemployed poor of those nations. They have no hope whatsoever. They do not even have the opportunity to provide food for their own sustenance. 
In many underdeveloped countries multinational companies will benefit because of the activities of the Western world in pouring in agricultural aid. It will turn agriculture in a section of the country into a one-crop economy producing tomatoes, coffee or something else that will be exported to the well-fed developed world at a premium price which is very nice for those exporting it while, as I said before, thousands of people put off their farms have not even got the wherewithal to provide food for their own sustenance. The situation could arise where those countries pour out food to the developed world while thousands of their citizens die of hunger. That is a matter at which I think the Australian Government should have a cold hard look and which it should go into a little further than it has been prepared to do up to the present time. 
I am not knocking aid, but I believe that the question has not been thought through. In relation to  Senator Scott's  remarks about China, whilst I said that we may have some techniques which would be of assistance to China and a number of other countries, it is noticeable that in China and in Vietnam, which is a more current example, instead of putting people off the land the governments have put them on the land. They may have a very primitive type of agriculture by our standards, but at least those people are providing food for themselves and their families and are contributing towards national goals. The type of aid we have tended to give, because of the way it has been given and the way it has been accepted by many governments, only puts people off the land and sends them into already overcrowded cities. That may be good for progress at one level; it may be good for multinational companies; it may be good for the ruling elite in those countries; but it is not the answer for the underprivileged poor in the countries concerned. As I said before, I think we should look at this matter and, in conjunction with the governments of those countries, try to evolve a pattern of agriculture through aid whereby farmers are not deprived of their land nor of at least the opportunity to provide their own food. 
One other aspect of Australian aid, as I read it, is that we are in a situation at the moment where a large amount of capital is fleeing this country. I can recall during the years of the Labor Government from 1972 to 1975 trying to impress upon Ministers, and one Minister in particular, the need for development in regional areas of this country. Let us be frank. From 1972 to 1975 the Labor Government did make some bold endeavours in that area. But when I talked to the responsible Minister about the possibility of establishing secondary industries in places in my State which have been clamouring for it for years, the answer from the Minister and his advisers, and I think perfectly correctly, was that by and large secondary industry capital was fleeing this country. Late last year a report appeared in the Melbourne  Herald  to the effect that some 40 Australian companies had set up in Malaysia in conjunction with partners. There has been a great amount of capital outflow to establish secondary industries in the north. I suppose that if one had no humanitarian instincts, if one was out purely to make a fast buck and had a million dollars to expend, one would go to those countries where, because of the lack of trade unions, because of the lack of some sort of organisation to protect workers, one can hire and fire for $3, $4, $5, $6 or $7 a week. There is a great deal of money to be made by any entrepreneur who likes to invest his money in, say, South East Asia. I fear that a great amount of the aid money currently being expended by Australia, and it is no small amount in relation to our gross yearly budget, is to a very large extent helping Australian capital and the multinational organisations in areas such as South East Asia and that the great beneficiaries of it are the shareholders of those companies back in Australia. I hold the opinion that unless we look very closely and much more intimately at the question of foreign aid we could go on pouring aid into those countries until kingdom come, until Armageddon, but it will not lift the living standard of the great mass of the people. In effect, it is a subsidy to Australian and other capital invested in those areas. 
The other matter with which I wish to deal is that of foreign bases in Australia. In post-war years we have seen the spawning of a great number of foreign bases, military and otherwise, in this country. As far as I can recall, all of them have originated in the Pentagon in America. We have the North West Cape, Nurrungar, Pine Gap, and a great deal more, perhaps some we do not even know about, such is the secrecy of the militarists in the world. The common people are the last to know what goes on. But this Government, this Liberal-National Country Party Government, since it came to power has pledged itself to go ahead with the building of another foreign base in this country. I suppose that there are people opposite, and regretfully there may even be some in my own party, who think that Omega is not a foreign base, that it is not a military establishment but is for civilian purposes only. No one will ever convince me of that. I sat through the inquiry which was held and I still hold firmly to the convictions I held before the inquiry began. 
The Government's proposal was announced in Sydney last week by the Minister for Transport  (Mr Nixon),  I suppose not strangely at a function of the Australian-American Society. We seem to have Ministers who fall over backwards to present themselves in a very favourable light whenever that organisation meets. We seem to have a great hang-up about a requirement to fawn on the Pentagon in the United States, and over the years we have fawned on the U.S.A. I will never know why, but that is the way things have been. It would seem that we are now going to have an Omega base established in East Gippsland. The Minister seems to have fallen in love with the idea. I do not know whether he has read the evidence given to the Joint Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence, lt is quite likely that in his position as a Minister, and we all know and appreciate the work load with which Ministers are confronted, he read the majority report which the Committee brought down two or three years ago but has never bothered to look at the minority report. One of the interesting aspects of the evidence given to the Committee was when early in the piece the Australian Department of Transport presented its submission. At page 12 of the transcript of evidence the Department had this to say: 
Omega is the first worldwide standardised radio navaid. 
What the submission went on to say from that point was rather interesting: 
The only foreseeable alternative is u satellite system, and many years of technical development and international negotiations will be required before such a system becomes standardised, commercially viable, and competitive with Omega.  1 think that indicates the lack of observation and the lack of inquiry at that time by the Department of Transport. Even then the American Department of Defense was contemplating a defence navigation satellite system. Some of those satellites are already in operation and it is anticipated that they will all be in operation in the early 1980s. The shallowness of the thinking of the Department of Transport, the main government department to put forward a case for Omega, is proved by the fact that at the very time that Department was putting forward its case the American Department of Defence was preparing to launch satellites for a defence navigation satellite system around the world. Some of those satellites are in operation already. To prove the paucity of research by the Department of Transport and to indicate that it did not know what it was talking about, we recently received information about a satellite system for shipping by way of a Press article on 1 8 August last year. I shall quote one short paragraph from this article, which relates to a system that some 40 nations, including Australia, have decided to instal around the globe for the benefit of maritime shipping. It states: 
The satellites would provide fast and secure communications between ships and shore establishments, especially concerning distress signals and safety procedures. 
It is rather a strange paragraph because it relates to facilities which the Department of Transport said it wanted Omega to provide. Even with Omega's failings, the Department of Transport knew very well at the time the Committee was investigating the matter that Omega was not the be-all and end-all as a navigational aid. The adviser to the Committee,  Mr Crouchley,  from the University of Queensland, who had done a lot of work in relation to Omega signals from the base at Hawaii admitted in his evidence- it is all there for anyone to read- that the Omega signal faded and was unreliable. He gave all the reasons for its not being a very good signal. Those people who, like myself, opposed Omega claimed that Omega had only one basic use and that was for its waves to penetrate sea water to the advantage of submarines, particularly 
American hunter-killer submarines. The advocates for Omega, in their defence, argued that Omega was not sufficiently accurate for that purpose. They said that we were wrong and that it would never serve that purpose. 
We now have Australia joining with about 40 other nations in a proposed satellite system. We have gone even further than that. At a recent meeting in London of the 40-odd nations involved it was agreed that this satellite system for maritime civilian purposes should go ahead. It is to be known as INMARSAT. The whole purport of Press releases, in my opinion, is to the effect that this system will supersede Omega and will make Omega so obsolete that it will not be worth a crumpet, that we might as well be out on the yard arm with a lantern. After reading the Press release of 18 August 1976 I asked 3 questions in this place of the Minister for Education  (Senator Carrick),  the Minister representing the Minister for Transport, concerning the INMARSAT system. It is rather interesting to note the Minister's response. The third question I asked was as follows: 
Will the proposed system in any way intrude on the role of the Omega base the Government proposes to establish in Australia? 
The answer which came back was: 
The proposed system will not intrude into the role of the Omega navigation transmitter that is planned for Australia. 
To follow that up, it is very interesting to note that on a very recent date  Mr Crouchley.  the adviser to the Committee, advised the Joint Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence that some of his earlier evidence was astray and that he now believed that the Omega system was quite capable of relaying a signal to a submarine at a depth of 1000 feet. 
This had been hotly denied during the inquiry by  Mr Crouchley,  the people from the Department of Transport, the Department of Foreign Affairs and the Department of Defence and every other advocate of Omega. They said that at the utmost the very low frequency signals from Omega would penetrate to only 30 feet. I have come to the conclusion that the only worthwhile role left for an Omega station in Australia would be for it to send out a signal which would be capable of being picked up by hunter killer submarines, ballistic missile submarines, of the American Navy. For that reason I believe it to be a military aid. I believe its whole purpose will be a military one. But, as I said before, it is to be superseded by a much better satellite navigation system. 
Finally, I say this: While Australia conducts itself in this manner and while it is prepared to establish such bases all around this country it will be extremely difficult for any government in this country to get the type of support that I believe is required in our region of the world to establish peace and goodwill. It is all very well for the Minister for Transport to say, as he did at a dinner on Friday, that we can switch off such a system. It is perfectly true that it could be switched off, but the important message that we have to get through to the people of this country is that a signal can have gone through the system before we know we want to head it off and before the system can be switched off. The submarines which would receive such a message are on a red alert at all times as they move around the ocean beds of this world. The very signal they need to trigger off a holocaust could well go through Omega and we could do what we liked- we could throw the switch after the message had been transmitted- but it would not prevent a holocaust. 
We must ask ourselves what other governments of the littoral states around the Indian Ocean will think of Australia if we advocate a zone of peace. Surely they must ask whether we really are serious when we have a North West Cape, an Omega, a Nurrungar and a Pine Gap on our continent. They must ask us how we can expect them to believe that we are fair dinkum when we talk about zones of peace and disarmament and the like. I believe that until we discard these instruments of war and the potentials for war we are perhaps shouting into the wind. I hope that governments in this country will set about disrobing those bases as soon as possible. 
I refer the Minister for Industry and Commerce to a statement on incentives made in the Liberal Party policy document released on 28 November 1975. Concerning incentives to industry the document stated that the incentives 'would be either direct grants or an offset of capital costs against income and would be at least equal to those operating prior to June 1974'. In view of this clear statement of policy I ask: Does the Minister still hold this view? Does he consider that other countries are doing more in this area and that an expansion is necessary? What type of incentives are intended to be implemented? When does the Minister expect to be able to announce an incentives program designed to assist the manufacturing industry? 
-The matter I wish to raise this evening- I shall not delay the Senate for very long- concerns the problem of East Timorese refugees in Portugal. The matter came to my mind during question time this afternoon when there appeared to be something of a discrepancy between the numbers and attitudes I perceived in questions and answers during that time. My concern is heightened by the activities of the Senate Standing Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence which, not very long ago, had a very close look at the question of refugees and in particular refugees from South Vietnam. It is something of a pity, but it appears to me that our collective departments and the Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs  (Mr MacKellar)  have not taken the time to study the Committee's report. I believe it is an excellant report. It lays down what the Committee believes should be the guidelinees for a country such as Australia to adopt if we are sincere in our claim that we will do something about refugees. 
From reports there appear to be in excess of 1500 East Timorese refugees in Portugal all of whom, as far as I can assess, are living in rather extreme conditions of poverty and deprivation in some 5 refugee camps. There appears to be little prospect of assistance for them from any other nation. In fact, a letter from the Portuguese Council of Churches to aid organisations in Australia has stated: 
All Timorese refugees wish to come to Australia. 
That could be a very natural circumstance because these are indigenous people who have lived all their lives very close to Australia's shores. There is little doubt that those old enough to recall the Second World War would have a knowledge of Australia and the younger ones I believe would have knowledge of Australia because of stories told on their parents' knees. The Minister for Social Security,  Senator Guilfoyle,  said today that many of the refugees had been refused visas on medical and occupational grounds. 
If we are talking about refugees as distinct from migrants, I think we have to have another look at the question of medical and occuptional grounds. Refugees who have been forced to flee from their countries in recent years are not the sort of people who have all the best educational and medical facilities available to them. One of the reasons why refugees leave their country is turmoil or wars where factions in the country seek to change the economic system. It has been largely because of the dire economic conditions in those countries that these people are without occupational qualifications and in need of medical care. I believe that any Government which demands of refugees medical and occupational grounds is not acting in a humanitarian way. We were told today that there would a review of 20 cases in which the applicant had a brother or a sister in Australia. Again this is talking about a migrant situation rather than about refugees. The Government obviously is pursuing a migrant attitude rather than a refugee attitude. In his review of foreign policy the Foreign Minister,  Mr Peacock,  said: 
The Government recognises that refugee-type situations will continue to arise and that Australia . . . will continue to be seen as a major refugee resettlement country. 
If the Minister is prepared to say that, surely he and the Government are obliged to follow it up. In reality the Government is pursuing a calculated heartless approach to refugees. It refuses to recognise the refugees. It treats refugees as normal migrants and, again proving the Government's attitude, it chooses the most highly qualified- the leaders- and leaves the rest, a type of brain drain situation, rather than taking refugees  en masse  as any other country with a refugee policy would do. In the case of East Timorese refugees the Government has chosen to delay and to frustrate the processing of applications. It places most emphasis on ordinary migrant criteria. 
Until quite recently the 1500 or so refugees in Portugal were serviced by one officer who went from Lisbon to Madrid once a month. This indicates a great lack of concern by the Government for those refugees. This is rather strange because the evidence seems to indicate that the great bulk of refugees from East Timor in Portugal are or were supporters of the moderate right wing UDT. The Government cannot use the excuse as i has done so often in the past that they may be left wing radicals or insurgents or people who have a political philosophy which is alien to the Government's philosophy. 
To compound this situation further I understaid that the East Timorese refugees have been circularised with one of the most thoughtless departnental forms I can recall. They have been asked to fill out a form listing relatives in East Timor. Ostensibly it is for the purpose of bringing out relatives from East Timor. However, they are requested to sign a statement allowing the Department of Immigration and Ethnic Affairs to provide the compiled list of names to the Indonesian Government. One can well imagine the situation that will prevail as a result. Once the Indonesian Government obtains that information and passes it on to its militarists, its generals, its intelligence officers in the field in East Timor, perhaps with the use of loud hailers or by some other method the Indonesian Army would call these people out on the pretext that it wants them to contact relatives in Portugal, Australia or wherever. As soon as the poor person shows his or her head above the horizon his or her goose is cooked. This is a shocking attitude to adopt in view of the situation that prevails in East Timor at present. With all the reports of atrocities it is no wonder that many of the refugees are extremely upset and very perturbed. 
I have had contact in the last few days with many people who feel that the reverse approach should be followed. The Australian Government should ask the Indonesians to supply a list of East Timorese who want to come to Australia. Surely that would be a much more humanitarian attitude to adopt to refugees. This list could then be circulated to refugees here and checked with them to ascertain who their relatives are. To me, however the situation is worse than this. I believe that all East Timorese refugees should be able to come to Australia without having the normal migrant criteria applied. Surely in this way we may be able to act responsibly for once, given the previous and current abdication of principle in Australia's policy towards East Timor. I make a plea for the Government to act to bring forward a full refugee policy. A great deal more has to be done to assist these people in the name of humanity, in the name of neighbourliness and in the name of everything for which human beings are supposed to stand. I believe that to act in this manner will in some small way redress our sins of omission in recent times and may well reprieve Australians in the eyes of those luckless and hapless individuals. 
I direct my question to the Minister representing the Minister for Foreign Affairs and refer to an answer which he gave yesterday on United States policy toward East Timor. I ask the Minister: Is he aware that  Mr Oakley,  the United States official whom he quoted yesterday, stated to the United States congressional hearing on East Timor this morning Australian time that the United States did not formally recognise the incorporation of East Timor into Indonesia. In view of this position, as stated by  Mr Oakley,  will the Minister ascertain the attitude of the United States from the United States authorities and inform the Senate accordingly? 
My question, which is directed to the Minister for Social Security, is further to a question which  Senator Grimes  asked the Minister on Thursday, 24 March 1977, regarding the strains engendered by staff shortages in the Melbourne office of her Department. Has she received representations from the South Australian branch of the Administrative and Clerical Officers' Association giving details of lengthening and unacceptable delays in the processing  of claims for  pensions and benefits? Have discussions been held with the Public Service Board on the possibility of obtaining additional staff in line with the Minister's assurance to the Estimates Committee last year that the Government had exempted the Department of Social Security from strict staff ceilings where they would result in a diminished service to the public? If so, what was the outcome of these discussions? 
-Does the Minister representing the Prime Minister agree that the proposed wage-price freeze discriminates against workers in this country due to the fact that wages have not been adjusted for price rises in the March quarter of this year? Does the Minister agree that a wage freeze instituted for 3 months would mean an effective wage pause of 7  months, whereas price increases would be frozen, in many instances, for only 3 months? Will the Minister agree that such a prolonged wage pause will lead to greatly diminished living standards of workers, especially in the context of decisions on less than full indexation taken over the past year? 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Prime Minister. In view of the Prime Minister's strong statement regarding bans on sporting links with South Africa, is the Minister aware of an Australian squash tour of South Africa commencing on 3 1 May? Is the Minister aware that the team consists of 4 players and a manager? Will the Minister undertake to investigate this matter and to see what steps can be taken by the Government to stop such a visit? Will the Government raise this matter with Australian squash officials? 
I refer the Minister representing the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs to statements concerning the Prices Justification Tribunal hearing on vehicle spare parts made yesterday by  Mr J.  Zahara counsel for the Automobile Association of Australia. He said that the threat by the car parts companies to withhold information relating to profit margins was tantamount to 'bullying tactics'.  Mr Zahara  said further: 
This is nothing more than blackmail and a contempt of this tribunal and the Minister for Consumer Affairs, who directly caused this inquiry. 
Does the Government support the Tribunal 's decision not to accept confidential information from the companies on an informal basis? Will the Government urge the companies to make available to the Tribunal itself all information relevant to the inquiry in order for a proper decision to be ascertained? 
-My motivation for speaking in the adjournment debate this evening comes from an article in the  Sydney Morning Herald  yesterday in which it was reported that  Mr John  Dowd, a lawyer and member of the New South Wales Legislative Assembly, had called for an inquiry into the events of East Timor.  Mr Dowd  recently returned from Portugal. He went there in his capacity as  President  of the Australian section of the International Commission of Jurists. He claims that whilst there he received evidence which more than confirms that found by  Mr Jim  Dunn who went there earlier this year. Because of that,  Mr Dowd  has called for an independent international public inquiry into the alleged atrocities in East Timor in 1975 and since. I understand that  Mr Dowd  applied for permission from the Indonesian Government to visit East Timor prior to going to Portugal but that permission was refused by the Indonesian Government. Latterly the Australian Government sent two of its embassy officials to East Timor, but so far I am not aware of any public report that has been made to the Australian people on their investigations there. I think that the Australian populace is entitled to ask: Did these officials find something in East Timor that was contrary to the official line? Is something being kept from the Australian public. 
My colleague,  Senator Coleman,  earlier this evening mentioned the collusion which latterly has been disclosed between the Australian Government and the Western Australian Government in the granting of leases to American, British and Australian oil companies to explore for oil within 100 miles of the coast of East Timor. I simply ask the Government: Does this imply back-handed recognition of the Indonesian claim to East Timor? What has the Government to say in reply to  Mr Dowd's  call for an inquiry and in reply to  Mr Jim  Dunn's evidence of alleged atrocities? Why has there been no report from the 2 government officials? Why is there secrecy at government and departmental level? Why is the truth being withheld from the Australian public? Is this the way that we as a nation can expect our foreign policy to be conducted for ever and a day? Why cannot the Australian people be informed by way of an inquiry about the truth of the events in East Timor so that they will be better informed and able to play their part in the future determination of our foreign policy and the future role of this nation in relation particularly to countries close at hand? Why are these matters left to the bureaucrats hiding behind their secret veils? Is the future of our relationships with our neighbours in the near north to be left to the grey figures behind the Australian Security Intelligence Organisation, the Australian Secret Intelligence Service, the Joint Intelligence Organisation, the Central Intelligence Agency and other cloak and dagger bodies, as well as the Department of Defence and the Department of Foreign Affairs? 
Surely, after 200 years as a white settlement in an Asian outpost, the people of Australia are mature enough to be given a view behind much of the secrecy that has prevailed about such events as East Timor and, prior to that, such events as occurred early in the terrible tragedy of Australia's involvement in Vietnam so that they can have, as I said before, some say in where we go from here in the area of foreign affairs policy. lt is only if the government of the day will come clean on what has happened in East Timor that the nation as a whole will in turn be able to assess better where we should go. I think that unless the call by  Mr Dunn,  the call by  Mr Dowd  and the call by senators on both sides of this chamber is heeded, Australia will go forward with bigger and better blunders in its foreign policy. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Transport, upon notice, on 26 April 1 977: 
1 ) What function, if any, will Inmarsat perform that cannot be obtained from Omega and vice versa. 
Has any United Nations agency been consulted on the use of Inmarsat. If so, what was its reaction. 
Is Inmarsat more accurate for surface shipping and aircraft than Omega. If so, to what degree. 
What guarantees are there to insure that the new system will be used for peaceful purposes only. 
Will Inmarsat be superseded by Navstar a navigation system reviewed in  Electronics  magazine of 16 October 1975. 
asked the Minister for Education, upon notice, on 27 April 1977: 
How much Federal funds were spent on disadvantaged schools and innovation grants in the years 1972-73 to 1977 in the Shires of Kowree, Arapiles, Wimmera, Stawell, Ararat, Mortlake, Warrnambool, Minhamite, Portland, Glenelg, Wannon, Dundas, Mount Rouse and Belfast, the Town of Portland, the Boroughs of Port Fairy and Koroit, and the Cities of Hamilton, Warrnambool, Horsham and Ararat. 
How much Federal funds were spent on child-care and kindergartens in the years 1972-73 to 1976-77 in each of the above Local Government areas. 
What moneys were spent on the National Employment and Training Scheme and the National Apprenticeship Assistance Scheme over the years 1972-73 to 1976-77 in the areas listed. 
-My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs. It refers to the application for permanent residence by the East Timorese leader,  Mr Chris  Santos, and his family. Is the Minister aware that  Mr Santos  's visa expired on 30 April? What stage has consideration of  Mr Santos's  application reached? When will a decision be made? Is it the Government's intention to allow  Mr Santos  to reside in Australia? 
During the hearing by Estimates Committee B the question of rural adjustment schemes was raised. I think a question was asked by my colleague  Senator Gietzelt,  from memory, in relation to the household support scheme. This Government made a good deal of noise about what it would do for the farming community which was faced with difficulties. One of the proposals was the household support scheme. It does seem to me to be rather tardy in getting under way properly or it may be a scheme that is not going to work. We have been informed by the Department of Primary Industry that on the most up-to-date figures, which are for the period up to the end of March this year, the grand total right across the nation for household support for the rural community so far has been $18,941. I think, again from memory, that we did have some breakdown on how many farmers that encompasses but one can appreciate in these times of inflation that $18,941 spread across the Commonwealth will not keep many people in the farming community and their families alive for very long. 
It is interesting to see that in New South Wales the grand total of money provided under this scheme up until 31 March was $2,975. One would presume that two or three farmers are getting a handout. In Victoria, which is the State which has received most of the money paid out so far, the expenditure has been $1 1,358. In Queensland an amount of $4,608 has been paid. No money has been paid out in South Australia, Western Australia and Tasmania. As I said earlier, this can perhaps indicate one of two things- that the scheme is only just starting and has not got under way properly, or alternatively, the criteria which are being applied by the 
Government are so restrictive that very few people in the farming community who are faced with problems are eligible for this type of support. That leads me on to something a little broader. I was somewhat critical even when the Labor Party was in office of the criteria which are applied to all rural adjustment schemes. It does seem to me from the discussions that I have had in my electoral office and the discussions that I have had with the farming community in my own State and elsewhere that there is a tendency for this type of rural adjustment grant to go only to the better-off farmer. One young man with a smallish farm said to me: 'My neighbour who just built a new 3-bedroom brick veneer home was able to get money. I can't. Why?' I even received two or three weeks ago adverse criticism of rural adjustment schemes in Western Queensland. It is said that in some areas one has to be a member of the Liberal Party to get support. That is a little bit hard perhaps to accept but to put it in the vernacular, the dogs are barking and allegations are being made in rural areas that prominent members of the Liberal Party are able to get quite substantial amounts of funds from these types of schemes, while other people who do not belong to any party or who are just the rank and files are unable to get anything. 
I am not saying whether it is true or not. This is the way the birds are whistling. It may well be that where there is smoke there is fire. We do know that in Victoria under another scheme prominent members of the Liberal Party have received benefits from it. I am not in a position to say that that is the position with this scheme. However, people are saying that this is so. It may be as well for some checks to be made throughout the community to see whether these stories are true. Reverting to the household support scheme, it does seem to me that at this stage a rather minimal amount has been expended so far and unless something is done by the Government and the Department to take off some of the restrictions which currently apply the household support scheme is hardly worth the paper it is written on. 
I direct my question to the Minister representing the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations. It refers to the work force statistics released yesterday by the Australian Bureau of Statistics. I ask: Is the Minister aware that, according to the ABS survey, 33.9 per cent of young people aged 15 to 19 had been unemployed for some period during 1976? Is the Minister also aware that approximately 40 per cent of all unemployed are young people? In view of the fact that current Government schemes established to redress this problem are inadequate compared with the magnitude of the number of young unemployed, will the Government consider job creating schemes for limiting youth unemployment which have been adopted m nearly all member countries of the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development? 
I ask the Minister for Social Security: Is it a fact that, due to staff shortages, the Department of Social Security is on the verge of collapse, as is reported in today's Press? 
My question is directed to the Minister for Social Security and relates to her answer to a question which she gave me yesterday concerning staff ceilings in the Department of Social Security. I ask: When will the extra staff commence working in the Department? In view of widespread reports of overloading in the Department, does the Minister consider that the staff ceilings set by the Committee on Staff Ceilings are unreasonably low? Further, is the committee assessing the staff ceilings for 1 977-78? What assurance can the Minister provide that such a problem of overloading and delay will not occur in the future? 
I rise very briefly to lay some stress on and just to be clear in my own mind about the question raised by the Victorian Minister of Agriculture in relation to clause 14 of the Dairy Industry Assistance Bill. Clause 14 reads: 
1 ) The Minister may, from time to time, approve the payment to a State, out of moneys standing to the credit of the Account, by way of financial assistance, of such amount or amounts as he determines after taking into account any recommendations made to him by the Agricultural Council. 
I presume that clause 14 is the one to which the Victorian Minister referred. I hope that the Minister for Veterans' Affairs  (Senator Durack)  can give me some assurance that  Mr Smith  has misinterpreted that clause, that under that clause any money raised by the levy will be paid back to the State in which the product was produced. 
I address my question to the Minister representing the Treasurer. Is the Minister aware of a 4 per cent decline in new capital expenditure for the March quarter? Does the Minister not agree that these figures continue to show a lack of confidence in business circles in the Government's economic policies? Do these figures not show the failure of the Government's investment allowance and suggest that the problem is lack of consumer confidence in the community? 
-The Senate is debating a total of 5 Bills dealing with the dairy industry. These Bills are the result of recommendations contained in the Industries Assistance Commission report of September 1976 on dairying. That report called for the implementation of a 3-stage mandatory marketing scheme for the manufacturing sector of the Australian dairy industry. The current Bills introduce stage 1 of the 3 stages and deal essentially with the compulsory equalisation scheme which will supersede the previous voluntary equalisation scheme which left, quite frankly, much to be desired. Under the previous equalisation scheme which was totally voluntary, a number of firms declined to join the scheme and the fear was always present in the industry that one or more of the larger milk companies in the equalisation scheme might withdraw and, as a result of that withdrawal, destroy the orderly marketing system that prevailed at that time. 
That situation has been compounded in recent years by the dramatic downturn in dairy production in some States. Possibly the most notable of those States is Queensland. Because of this factor the industry in those States believed that the equalisation scheme worked against them- I think justifiably so. They were not putting dairy products on the export market. They utilised their total production within the State and, in some cases, were in fact importing from the other States. Equalisation which had equalised the price received both on the domestic and the export market resulted in a loss factor to the producers in those States. As a result of the modified equalisation scheme a couple of years ago the situation was reached where producers in the non-exporting States were able to receive a marginally higher price for their commodities than the traditional exporting States. 
The method by which equalisation will be implemented in stage 1 of the current proposals will be by the imposition of a levy on prescribed products. The products which are to be prescribed are butter, butter oil, skim milk powder, buttermilk powder, whole milk powder, casein, cheddar and Gouda cheese with provision, of course, that other products may be brought into the scheme on the recommendation of the Australian Dairy Corporation, after consultation with the Australian Dairy Industry Advisory Committee which will be a body set up by the carriage of the Dairy Produce Amendment Bill. The rate of each product levy will be that which will amount to the difference between the domestic price and the average price for that product as assessed on the export market. Of course, as all honourable senators know, the difference between the domestic price received and the export price can be, and has been in many cases, a large amount. Overseas markets which have been good for the production side of the industry have, to a large extent, been a disaster for the financial side of the industry. 
Unfortunately, the export markets for Australian dairy produce are influenced by political rather than commercial factors. The political decisions made in the European Economic Community, Japan, America and Canada influence those markets more than any commercial propositions. For that reason- I have said this before and I think that what I said still holds good; I certainly believe it- the production of dairy produce in Australia will have to contract further if those who remain in the industry are to remain viable, if viability is based on market return. I notice from the second reading speech of the Minister for Veterans' Affairs  (Senator Durack)  that the Government hopes to introduce stage 2 of the 3-stage plan prior to July 1978. The second stage is intended to encourage production in line with marketing possibilities. As such, I believe it will lead to further rationalisation in the Australian dairy industry. 
Stage 3 which is the final stage will, when implemented fully expose producers and processors to the actual return for production sold overseas. As such, unless overseas prices somehow improve, it must lead to a realisation that our overseas sales have been, as I have already said, somewhat disastrous for the Australian producer. Unfortunately, the producer has never been able to ascertain the prices actually received on those markets and, for that reason, has gone on producing  ad infinitum  in the belief that the more he produces the more he will receive whereas, in actual fact, the opposite has often been the case. I mentioned a few moments ago the problem the farmer has had in trying to find out what his product has obtained for him on the export market. It has been very difficult. The previous Dairy Board would not- even to those in the higher echelons of the industrydisclose what was received for produce on export markets. It refused to disclose this information even though at times there were furphies and rumors around the industry that a particular product, say butter oil, was being sold at giveaway prices on the overseas market. I can remember prices being quoted in those furphies as low as 8c and 10c a pound. There was no way by which a farmer could find out what was the actual price received for his product. I noticed an article m the same vein, in the  Canberra Times oi  1 June 1977. It referred to a proprietary company which is involved in the dairy industry in a very large way- Kraft Holdings Limited. The headline states: 'Kraft earns $6.43m over the year'. Unfortunately, for the primary producer, the supplier to Kraft- there are many hundreds and probably thousands of them throughout Australia- there is no way by which he can find out what percentage of that profit of $6.43m that Kraft made came from the dairy industry. He cannot find it from the company's annual reports. It may well be that the Kraft company made a loss on its dairy products but there is nothing to indicate that. While that sort of situation prevails the farmer- who goes on working 365 days a year and perhaps buys an extra cow or two- does not know in actual fact whether he will receive more or less for his toil. 
I certainly do acknowledge that. The Kraft company and one or two other proprietary companies, as the honourable senator well knows, did a great deal to lift the dairy industry out of the mud and mire in the 1920s and the 1930s. If the farmer could see an actual breakdown of the annual reports of those proprietary companies he would be in a better position to assess what he should do for the future. 
Any policy or any talk at the primary producer level which puts forward a theme that production should be curtailed in order that prices might be improved does not go down well with the farming community, and that is fairly understandable. Farmers, like everybody else in the community, are very much aware of the proteinrich food which they produce. They also are aware of the millions of people in the world today who are undernourished. Consequently the farmers feel that they should have the right to supply those people with this protein-rich food. However, I think it is regrettable that we live in a world dominated by commercial and monetary factors, a world which seems to be motivated only by the profit motive. It seems that the countries which suffer most from undernourishment are the countries which are unable to purchase our protein-rich food. 
In some countries the people traditionally do not eat dairy produce. Our experience with the Japanese some years ago shows that, in those countries in which people traditionally do not eat dairy produce, this problem can be overcome by a gift. We gave the Japanese cheese in trial lots for school children so that they could acquire a taste for cheese. But I believe that this can be done only in those countries which have rising expectations and an increasing gross national product. We cannot do this unless those rising expectations, perhaps dramatically rising expectations, are running side by side with a very astute promotion campaign. Currently the price received for cheese on the Japanese market is subject to the influence of other dairy produce exporting nations and as such- this is a guesstimate of mine- probably is deflating the return to the Australian producer. There is probably a similar position- this is another guesstimate- in respect of the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics with its recent purchases of butter. 
Undoubtedly the dairy industry is fortunate that at the moment it is exporting only around 26 per cent of the total production, as against SO per cent in times past. However, despite this good fortune, the producer is receiving only some 38 per cent of the consumer dollar, as against 64 per cent some 10 years ago. Roughly the same situation applies currently in the Australian meat industry. It is little wonder, of course, that in circumstances such as that the dairy farmers of this nation are either up against the wall or leaving the industry daily. The financial and social stresses on those who are still in the industry are enormous. What was once considered to be something of a way of life for many men, women and children has become something of a trauma. 
-The honourable senator is probably right. Throughout the whole of the second reading speech of the Minister for Veterans' Affairs  (Senator Durack)  it seems that there is one State that is offside, and that happens to be the State which I represent. That State has around 50 per cent of the dairy industry producers in this country and produces roughly 60 per cent of the milk produced in Australia. I think it is a shame that a situation prevails in which one State is offside and that State is the largest dairy producing State in the Commonwealth. Throughout the Minister's second reading speech the words 'with the exception of Victoria' crop up. The Minister was talking about discussions that went on recently at the Australian Agricultural Council level. 
Yesterday I received a rather lengthy telegram from the Minister of Agriculture in Victoria,  Mr Smith,  who is a member of the same political party as the Government. It is patent that he is very disturbed about this legislation. For the record, I would like to read the telegram. 
I seek leave to have the telegram incorporated in  Hansard.  It is rather lengthy. 
I do not intend to keep the Senate for very long at this rather late hour. Some two, three or four weeks ago I asked a question in relation to an application by  Mr Chris  Santos for permanent residence in Australia.  Mr Santos'  visa expired on 30 April. I have not received a reply to that question from the Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs  (Mr MacKellar).  I know for a fact that  Mr Santos  is somewhat apprehensive about the fact that it is one month since his visa expired. As far as I know, there is still no answer as to his future. Surely the Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs has a duty to make some decision on this application as soon as possible and relieve  Mr Santos  of the worry that is currently in his mind. 
Further to the question of  Mr Santos  and the work he has done for Timor and the refusal by this House to vote for an inquiry into the events in East Timor before and after the Indonesian invasion, it is interesting to note that American Congressional hearings on this matter are to be held later this month. It seems rather strange that the Americans, who are many miles away- much further away from Timor than we are- should be concerning themselves with an investigation to try to find out the truth of the matter when we in Australia thus far have been prepared to turn a blind eye. In fact we have virtually closed the door on our near neighbours. It is also of interest to note that American military aid to Indonesia will be cut off after this financial year. As far as I am aware, that also is a decision that Australia has yet to reach, if we ever are prepared to do so. It seems to me that Australia is prepared to go on supplying military aid in all its various forms, including the training of Indonesian troops in this country, and to say nothing when those troops are used against a very near neighbour of ours. At this stage,  Mr President,  I seek to have incorporated in  Hansard 2  documents. One is a Congressional report on East Timor by Congresswoman Meyner and the other is a background report on the events before the Indonesian invasion of East Timor and events up until quite recent date. 
It has often been said that farmers as a group are conservative. I believe that to be a truism. It has been said of farmers in the industry in which I was engaged for years that one could push them face down in the mud and they would not kick but once one put one 's foot on the back of their necks they might start to do something. I think that is a truism also. The great debate relative to the beef industry that has been carried on around the Commonwealth in recent times has shown that when conditions are bad, given the right leadership and the right circumstances, Australian farmers can become very militant. That is the situation as I have perceived it in recent months. In all the rural areas to which one has been able to go groups of farmers are talking politics, being prepared to put their jobs on the line, to shoot stock and to take actions that they have never taken in years past to bring to the attention of this Parliament and the people of Australia the dire circumstances in which they and their industry find themselves at this point of time. 
Make no mistake, there is a need for a vigorous, dynamic meat and livestock corporation to take some control and to play some role in the marketing and exporting of Australian meat. Whether the Corporation that will be established under this Australian Meat and Live-stock Corporation Bill will be dynamic enough perhaps only time will tell. For myself, I am somewhat sceptical. I am particularly perturbed by the amount of control the Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Sinclair)  is contemplating exercising over the Corporation. Surely to goodness any Minister should act as we saw the previous Minister for Agriculture,  Senator Wriedt,  act when he established corporations. He had confidence in the men he appointed to those corporations and from then on played a hands off policy. That is the way it should be. If there are not sufficient people in Australia to control and run a corporation of this size and type then all Australians should be thoroughly ashamed of themselves. I believe the men are there and the Minister should get out of the field and leave it to the people who know something about it. 
One of the things that has concerned me for a number of years has been the control of our meat industry by exporters. The supplement that has been presented with the Australian Meat Board report each year lists some 248 companies with licences to export meat. 1 think that that is a luxury that the livestock industry could well do without. There are 248 companies which have export licences. I have explained to the Senate on other occasions the situation that prevails when an overseas company wishes to buy meat in Australia and the role that such companies play. They play one of these 248 exporting companies off against another and knock down the prices- in the same way as the Japanese knocked down prices for our minerals prior to Rex Connor becoming a Minister in the Labor Government. The end result is a depleted price which is reflected in the saleyards in the following week, month or 12 months. The farmers of Australia are the losers. As far as I am concerned, there is no requirement for 248 companies to have licences to export meat. I hope that the Bill will give to the Corporation sufficient teeth to allow it to go alone if required. 1 hope that it will not be subject to pressures from overseas buyers but will act in the interests of the Australian beef producer. 
I should like briefly to deal with one other matter. If one message is coming through very loud and very clear in the rural areas of Australia at the present time, it is the feelings of the livestock producers vis-a-vis the auction system. It is easy as a member of Parliament to become somewhat alienated from one's traditional environment. I have to admit that about 3 months ago I visited my local sale yards for the first time in about 3 years. All of a sudden, I realised what a lucky dip, what a raffle, the auction system is. I sat there for a couple of hours and watched cattle of the same style, the same type and the same conformation go through the selling yards and saw the price vary from $40 to $50 a head. I was made painfully aware of the loss the producers are suffering because of the way in which the saleyards are run. It is something at which everybody, I think, should look. If they realised the way that cattle are handled under the current auction system in Australia, they would realise that there is a great loss to this community. Cattle are prodded, poked, belted, chased, dogged, flogged and knocked down. I am sure that if the same treatment was given to pet dogs or to pet cats the Royal Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals would come down with a very heavy hand on the people involved. 
-It is not the minority. It is the majority. It is a shocking system. I believe that the next lead that should be taken by the cattle producers of Australia is to get away from the auction system and to establish some form of classification for meat. They should take action similar to action taken by their counterparts in New Zealand which has been successful for years. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Health, upon notice, on 26 April 1977: 
1 ) How much Federal funds were spent on the capital and staffing needs of hospitals in the years 1972-73 to 1976-77 in the Shires of Kowree, Arapiles, Wimmera, Stawell, Ararat, Mortlake, Warrnambool, Minhamite, Portland, Glenelg, Wannon, Dundas, Mt Rouse and Belfast, the Town of Portland and the Boroughs of Port Fairy and Koroit, and the Cities of Hamilton, Warrnambool, Horsham and Ararat. 
How much Federal funds were spent on community health centres between the years 1972-73 to 1976-77 in the same local government areas. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Transport, upon notice, on 26 April 1977: 
1 ) How much Federal funds were provided for the roads over the years 1972-73 to 1976-77 in each of the Shires of Kowree, Arapiles, Wimmera, Stawell, Ararat, Mortlake, Warrnambool, Minhamite, Portland, Glenelg, Wannon, Dundas, Mt Rouse, Belfast, the Town of Portland, the Boroughs of Port Fairy and Koroit, the Cities of Hamilton, Warrnambool, Horsham, and Ararat. 
What proportion of the funds were designated for rural roads. 
What additional grants can the Minister provide to the Victorian Government to ensure that road surfaces will remain of a high standard after railway lines in the western district of Victoria are closed. 
asked the Minister for Social Security, upon notice, on 27 April 1977: 
1 ) How many pensioners of each category are there in the Shires of Kowree, Arapiles, Wimmera, Stawell, Ararat, Mortlake, Warrnambool, Minhamite, Portland, Glenelg, Wannon, Dundas, Mt Rouse, Belfast, the Town of Portland, the Boroughs of Port Fairy and Koroit, and the Cities of Hamilton, Warrnambool, Horsham and Ararat. 
What assistance to aged people's accommodation has been given in the years between 1972-73 to 1976-77 in each of the same local government areas. 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry. Has the Minister seen the statement by  Mr Barry  Cassell, the national director of the militant Cattlemen's Union, calling for positive policy initiatives rather than union or British bashing by the Minister for Primary Industry,  Mr Sinclair?  Can the Minister assure the Senate that  Mr Sinclair  will be made aware of  Mr Cassell  's statement in view of the fact that the statement represents the outlook of all rational thinking meat producers? 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations, upon notice, on 26 April 1977: 
1 ) How much Federal funds were spent on regional development employment schemes in the years 1 972-73 to 1 976-77 in each of the Shires of Kowree, Arapiles, Wimmera, Stawell, Ararat, Mortlake, Warrnambool, Minhamite, Portland, Glenelg, Wannon, Dundas, Mt Rouse, Belfast, the Town of Portland, the Boroughs of Port Fairy and Koroit, and the Cities of Hamilton, Warrnambool, Horsham and Ararat. 
How many unemployed people are there in each of the same local government areas listed as above, relative to six and twelve months ago. 
What are the age, sex, skill and education breakdown of the unemployed people in the same local government areas. 
Will the Minister list the specific causes of the high levels of unemployment within the region covered by the Local Government authorities listed. 
I direct a question to the Minister representing the Minister for Defence. Firstly, did the Australian  Iriquois  helicopter which came to grief in the Wamera area of West Irian on 29 July accidentaly crash or was it shot down? Secondly, is not this area of West Irian one where indigenous people are in armed conflict with Indonesian troops? Thirdly, if so, why was an Australian helicopter in the area? Fourthly, if the answer to the third question is that it was there for mapping purposes, should Australia be involved in such an exercise in an area under dispute and would not the results of the mapping survey be available to the Indonesian Army? Fifthly, if so, does this not mean that Australian defence forces are taking part on one side of an armed conflict at a time when no state of war exists between this nation and any other, as happened in Vietnam? 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Treasurer. Is it a fact that because of the inclusion of primary producers' taxation returns under the stock valuation concession scheme hundreds of tax accountants in rural areas have run into insoluble problems in assessing primary producers' incomes under the market selling value criteria where flocks or herds comprise animals born on the property, that is, natural increase, and others bought in? If so, will the Minister ask the Treasurer to have this matter investigated with some urgency and bring in amending legislation should such prove necessary? 
I direct a question to the Minister representing the Minister for Defence. I remind the Minister of a question I asked of him on 1 8 August relative to the crash of an Australian Iroquois helicopter in West Irian and his reply in which he promised to have the matter checked, despite the fact that in his answer he spoke of Papua New Guinea rather than West Irian. I now ask the Minister whether he will also check with his colleague the reasons for the more recent reported holing of a Royal Australian Air Force Pilatus Porter aircraft by what appears to have been anti-aircraft fire some 50 kilometres north of the previous incident. Will the Minister table a report in the Senate on both these incidents? 
-My question is directed to the Leader of the Government in the Senate. I refer to comments made by  Mr Fraser  in his resignation speech on 9 March 1971 in which he referred to  Mr Gorton,  as he then was, in the following terms: 
Since his election to office, the Prime Minister has seriously damaged the Liberal Party and cast aside the stability and sense of direction of earlier times. He has a dangerous reluctance to consult Cabinet, and an obstinate determination to get his own way. 
Does the Minister not agree that the private briefing by the Prime Minister's staff of a journalist on matters relating to a Minister indicates that  Mr Fraser  's comments in 197 1 have an unerring resemblance to the events relating to  Mr Ellicott  's resignation? 
I direct my question to the Minister representing the Prime Minister. I remind him of a question I asked four weeks ago relating to the crash of an Australian Army helicopter in Irian Jaya. Is the Minister aware of reports both in Papua New Guinea and Australia claiming that this Australian Army helicopter which crashed in Irian Jaya was shot down by independent forces? Will the Minister investigate this matter urgently and provide the 
Senate with all known facts relating to this most serious claim? 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Defence, upon notice, on 7 September 1977: 
What were the causes of the recent holing of a Royal Australian Air Force Pilatus Porter aircraft in West Irian. 
Will the Minister table a report concerning this incident, together with a report of an earlier incident involving the crash of an Australian Iroquois helicopter in West Irian  (Senate Hansard,  18August 1977, page 251). 
I direct my question to the Minister representing the Minister for Defence. I refer to the rather comprehensive answer he gave me yesterday to my question of 18 August concerning the crash of an Australian Army helicopter in West Irian. The fourth section of my question of 1 8 August was, in part: 
. would not the results of the mapping survey be available to the Indonesian army? 
The Minister replied in part: 
The results of the survey will undoubtedly be made available to any Indonesian or Australian government organisation having an interest. 
I therefore infer that that would include the Indonesian Army should it so desire the results of that survey. I then asked the Minister: 
. does this not mean that Australian defence forces are taking part on one side of an armed conflict at a time  when no state of war exists between this nation and any other . . . 
The Minister replied: 
The answer to that is: No. 
I do not know whether the Minister for Defence or the Department of Defence thinks honourable senators are fairly naive or dumb. I can assure them that I served part of my time in the Army in a survey unit. My colleague  Senator Brown,  who was generally known as one of those drop-shorts, would also know the use to which Army maps are put. I ask the Minister whether as was implied in the answer he gave me yesterday, the maps are available to the Indonesian Army? If they are, does this not mean that the Australian defence forces are supplying some of the wherewithal on one side of an armed conflict? 
I ask the Minister representing the Minister for Transport: Is he aware that the Norwegian Parliament set up a Commission of Investigation in April 1975 to inquire into the establishment of Loran C and an Omega station in that country? Did this Commission find that Norwegian public servants had misled the Norwegian Cabinet and Parliament by understating the importance of Omega for American military plans? Is it a fact that the Norwegian Government set up a further commission to investigate these allegations? Did this later commission, namely the SCHEI Commission, find the allegations proved and did it show active collaboration between American and Norwegian officials to misrepresent the purpose of the navigation system? In view of the Government's intent to build an Omega station in Victoria, will the Minister seek through his colleague the Minister for Transport a full text of both the SCHEI and original reports  for  tabling in this Parliament before the building of the proposed base begins? 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Treasurer. What evidence, if any, is available to the Government to show that the announcement last week of further Government borrowings  overseas  has reversed the recent business and public speculation about a dollar devaluation? In particular, what change has occurred in the Reserve Bank's holdings of gold and foreign exchange in the last week and also to the premium being charged by trading banks on forward purchases of United States dollars? If the Minister has such evidence that the balance of payments situation has improved, does the Government now plan to lower interest rates, as foreshadowed earlier this year and again last week by  Mr Fraser? 
-Is the Minister representing the Minister for Veterans' Affairs aware that due to staff ceilings at the Repatriation and Artificial Limb and Appliance Centre in South Melbourne people requiring artificial limb fittings are being forced to wait up to two months for appointments? Will the Minister ask his colleague to take the steps necessary to overcome this delay. 
-The Senate is debating the Budget appropriations for the current financial year. I do not wish to dwell at any great length on what the previous  speaker  said, but I was somewhat taken aback by his remarks in relation to an ambit claim which he said had been lodged by  Mr Carr,  the Secretary of the Federated Furnishing Trades Society of Australasia.  Senator Missen  seemed to express some abhorrence at the fact that a trade union secretary would have the cheek to do that sort of thing, and some thoughts went through my mind as I heard him express his views. I am sure that they were expressed in a political way and that  Senator Missen  is far too experienced and far too honest to have me accept what he said in anything other than a political way. I sat here and watched  Senator Missen  speaking and I heard a lawyer saying those things, with a doctor sitting alongside him. For a glass cutter even to suggest a salary of $65 a day would be fairly extreme to a lawyer espousing  Senator Missen  's cause. Goodness me, one would not get through a lawyer's door for $65 or even talk to his secretary to get an appointment. As for doctors, the great Australian Medical Association roared and bellowed the whole time that  Mr Hayden  was seeking to introduce Medibank. It claimed that Medibank would turn us into a nation of hypochondriacs, with all the little old ladies, the pensioners and the workers of this country going to see the doctor five or six times a day and asking for pills and prescriptions to keep them alive. The AMA said that the end result would be that they would break the scheme. Who are the people who have been tickling the peter? They are the doctors. 
-The doctors have had their hands in the till ever since Medibank was set up. Perhaps I should say that it is some of the doctors. A lot of them have dishonoured their profession. I suppose in a capitalist society, where competition is the keynote, it is not unexpected. Of course, it is in the same light that  Mr Carr,  that famous leftist from Victoria, knowing how the capitalist system works, decided to use it to the best advantage he can for the workers he represents. But it is a crime if he does it. Doctors and lawyers can rip off. Everybody else can get in on the act. They can jack up prices and do what they like. That is conceded in the capitalist system but not for the workers. 
I return to the Budget itself. It is a document which received no great accolades from the Press. We have seen the spectacle of the Treasurer  (Mr Lynch)  going on television and admitting that the figures were somewhat rubbery. That statement will be interesting in view of the report of the Auditor-General for last year's Budget which showed that the Fraser Government underspent more than $539m. If there is an admission by the Treasurer that this year's figures are rubbery, one can expect to see a vast increase in the amount underspent by the time 12 months have passed. An amount of $5 3 9m was underspent in the last Budget, a not insignificant amount. One other Budget document which is of interest is Budget Paper No. 1. 1 refer particularly to page 164 of that document. 
It is on that page that one gets a picture for the past decade of total Budget outlays to the various functions of government. For example, the pro- portion of the total Budget allocated for defence as declined from 17.1 per cent in 1967-68 to 8.8 per cent, which is the estimated expenditure in the current year. This is a decline of almost SO per cent as a proportion of the total Budget allocation. Education expenditure, as all honourable senators know, has risen- largely due to the efforts of the Labor Government between 1973 and 1975- from 2.8 per cent of total government outlays in 1967-68 to 8.9 per cent, which is the estimated expenditure in the current Budget. 
Expenditure on health, as one previous  speaker  mentioned, has doubled from 5.8 per cent to 10.6 per cent of total Budget outlays. Social security and welfare expenditure- I note that the Minister for Social Security  (Senator Guilfoyle)  is present in the chamber- has risen from 16.7 per cent of the total Budget outlay in 1967-68 to 27.2 per cent in the current year. I refer to expenditure on housing. As  Senator McLaren  mentioned, this area is rather difficult to understand, in view of the dire shortage of homes, particularly for low income earners in this country. Expenditure on housing as a proportion of the total Budget outlay in 1967-68 was 2.6 per cent. It went through a rising phase during the years of the Whitlam Labor Government and this year has gone into a decline to 1.9 per cent of the total Budget allocation. This is a rather shocking state of affairs in view, as I said earlier, of the shortage of homes for citizens of Australia. One other rather interesting area is the expenditure on culture and recreation. This appropriation represented 1.1 per cent of the total Budget allocation in 1967-68. Again, like expenditure on housing, it went through a rising phase during the Labor years and has declined in the current Budget estimates to one per cent. Less is being spent on culture and recreation in Australia today than was spent 10 years ago. In my opinion that is a rather strange position, in view of the fact that the average Australian today has more time to spend at leisure. He is seeking to do more things. This is perceived by the fact that a very large industry has built up around recreation and leisure in this country. One has only to go to any sports meeting or surf lifesaving club carnival to see the expenditure of hundreds of thousands of dollars on leisure. At one time, in my youth which is not all that long ago, people's recreation in my area consisted largely of a bag of rabbit nets and a box of ferrets. That is about all we had to spend on culture and recreation in those days. 

 Mr President, I am sure that you would agree that what I have said is true. Today, a giant industry is built up around the areas of culture and recreation in this country. It seems strange to me that this Government should be cutting expenditure at this time. One could continue through that page of the document and point up these factors but finally I point to the area of primary industry. In 1967-68 primary industry received 2.6 per cent of total Budget expenditure. In the current Budget expenditure on primary industry has declined to 0.5 per cent. That is a rather strange attitude from a government which pretends to be the farmers' friend. The facts are there for all to see. They are very strange facts. 
Primary industry receives only 0.5 per cent of the total allocation. At the conclusion of my remarks I shall be seeking permission to have that document from which I have quoted incorporated in  Hansard.  In the same document at page 114 there is a rather strange paragraph, under the heading 'Assistance Additional to Aid Payments ', which states: 
Although Australia's Defence Co-operation program ($25.9 million in 1977-78) represents an extension of our own defence effort, it also supplements the Government's overseas economic aid programs to the extent that it releases for development purposes resources that recipient Governments would otherwise have set aside for defence purposes. 
In my opinion that is a rather strange way to excuse military aid to another country. Surely, if the purpose of that military aid is to allow the countries to which we donate to release funds for development, would it not be better to keep our hands free of blood and give the money as aid in other forms, rather than going through the form that we do? I am particularly concerned that of that $25.9m allocated in this year's Budget, $7.2m is allocated to the Government of Indonesia. That country is currently engaged in repressive wars in East Timor and West Irian. The people of East Timor are continuing to hold out. Despite all the efforts of the Government of Indonesia and despite a Press blackout by the Government of Indonesia, we are still able to get word from East Timor about the state of the war in that country. This is the case even though the Indonesian Government has gone to the point of not even allowing the International Red Cross on the island to make a report upon or give succour to those people who may be harmed in any way by that war. The same position does not apply in the continuing war in West Irian. The Government of Indonesia has fairly successfully put a clamp or form of blanket censorship on the war in West Irian and the Australian Press, with one exception, is not giving Press coverage to the continuing war in that country. 
On 18 August this year I was treated with some scorn by the Leader of the Government in the Senate  (Senator Withers),  when I asked a question relating to the crash of an Australian Army helicopter in West Irian. The Leader of the Government suggested that I was shifting my and-Indonesian campaign from East Timor to West Irian. I want to assure him that I am not in any way opposed to the people of Indonesia in their past or current political situation. In fact, I hold a great amount of sympathy for them. However, I do not hold any respect for their leaders and armed forces which periodically carry out purges and naked aggression such as the aggression currently being displayed. Their tactics, first in 1963 in West Irian and a couple of years ago in East Timor, remind me of Adolf Hitler's tactics of the late 1930s of picking them off one at a time. I ask myself: Where will Indonesia strike next? Will it be in Papua New Guinea? Will it become east Irian? At what stage does this Government cut off defence aid to an aggressor? At least the Australian Labor Party has made clear its attitude to Indonesian aggression in East Timor. At the Perth conference of the Party, the following resolution was carried: 
Conference condemns the Indonesian invasion of East Timor which was in direct violation of the assurances given to the Labor Government that force would not be used and 
calls on Indonesia to withdraw from East Timor immediately in conformity with United Nations resolutions; 
notes the establishment of the Democratic Republic of East Timor on 28 November 197S; 
calls for an international endeavour to resume humanitarian aid to all parts of East Timor through the international Committee of the Red Cross, 
calls for free and unimpeded communications with the national independence forces of East Timor 
A future Labor Government will- 
suspend Australian military aid to Indonesia until all troops are withdrawn from East Timor 
recognise the Government of East Timor if independence is shown to be the choice of the East Timorese people after a genuine act of self-determination. 
Re-open Australian communication facilities to the Representatives of the Democratic Republic of East Timor. 
This Government is not prepared to do that. In fact, it compounds its felony. I note a recent Press report about co-operation with the Indonesian navy in the holding of joint exercises off the coast of Queensland later this month. Let me come back to deal with West Irian. Frankly, I believe that our acquiscence in the Indonesian takeover of West Irian in 1963 was a mistake. Undoubtedly, it was taken, I believe, as a result of influence fron big brother America. It was obvious that there was no such thing as a free choice for the indigenous people of West Irian. Anyone who opposed was gaoled or exciled and the gun was the power used to complete the job. So we had an island people who had been split on colonial boundaries for years still split. The continuing fight for liberation by the people of West Irian to a large extent has gone unnoticed due, I believe, to a couple of factors: Firstly, the attempted Indonesian blackout of the area; and secondly, because of our ignorance of the aspirations of our neighbours whom we still see to some extent as fuzzy wuzzys or primitive tribesmen. 
I want to quote now from a letter that I received two weeks ago apparently as a result of my questions on the use of Australian Army survey troops in West Irian. The letter is headed: Republic of West Papua New Guinea- Department of Information and Political Affairs' and is dated 14 September 1977. It reads: 
Dear  Sir, 
We are writing to thank you for your concern about the presence of Australian troops in our country. Without friends like yourself it is very difficult to bring these things to the attention of the public because of the news ban which the Indonesian government has imposed upon us. 
We will send you our press releases so that you can be informed of the progress of our struggle, and we will be appreciative if you can help let people know our news. One of the great difficulties we have to confront is the distortions which are printed in the capitalist press- for example descriptions of our struggle as 'tribal fighting'. Once again, I thank you on behalf of the Provisional Revolutionary Government of West Papua New Guinea. 
The letter is signed by Agnes Tan; news officer, South Pacific news service information section. So someone else in this wide world is also concerned about the presence of Australian Army troops in another country who may or may not be participating in a war that is going on there at the present time. From material which I have been able to read recently, there is no doubt that a great deal of grassroots support exists in Papua New Guinea for their cultural brothers, as they are referred to, across the border in West Irian. We know from recent events in Papua New Guinea that Brigadier-General Diro is reported to have been reprimanded by the Papua New Guinea Cabinet for having engaged in talks with West Irianese leaders. We have seen also Press reports of the same indignation expressed at a local level by citizens of Papua New Guinea over Indonesian action which has forced refugees across the border into Papua New Guinea. 
As I have said, there is an extreme amount of support in Papua New Guinea for their 
Melanesian brothers across the border. Such support in Papua New Guinea is making it extremely difficult for the government of  Mr Somare,  the Prime Minister of Papua New Guinea. It places him in a terrible situation in that while he is trying to put himself in a standback position with his Indonesian neighbours, the Indonesians are murdering his blood brothers across the border and chasing them into Papua New Guinea thereby causing him embarrassment which makes life for him extremely difficult. It is not a problem that will go away tomorrow. It is a problem about which more Australians should be aware. I hope that this Government will do its utmost to overcome the problem, particularly by way of having some quite extensive talks with the Government of Indonesia and, in the final result, telling that country to back off and leave things alone in that part of the world. 
As I said earlier, we now have the left-overs of European colonialism. They are remaining there to haunt us. That has been the case and will continue to be the case because our once great mentors and protectors have retreated and are continuing to retreat from the area. We are left with the legacies of colonialism which Australia must, I believe, play a large part in resolving. I want to quote now an extract from the book  "The Last Domino'  by Malcolm Booker. He wrote: 
If it is wise for the countries of South East Asia to avoid dependence on any great power it is doubly so for Australia. In order to ensure our own political and economic freedom we will need the greatest possible flexibility and skill. Since our essential interest is the maintenance of an equilibrium between the major powers in the region we will have to be sure of our own weight- which although not large could in some situations be important- is not used to endanger the equilibrium. We should therefore move towards the fullest possible disengagement from our present strategic ties and towards a position of neutrality in relation to the competition between the great powers. 
As I perceive the areas to the north of this country in an arc from New Caledonia to East Timor, people are questioning their past and their present positions and relationship thereto. The area will be, I believe, one of turmoil for decades to come as indigenous people strive for independence. It has been our wont in the past unfortunately to write down the chances for independence of some of the smaller communities in our neighbourhood largely because I think we have seen them as not being economically viable. Economic viability seems to be the number one criterion that we have laid down for independence. If a community or a country was not perceived to be economically viable then we held that it could never be independent. It is interesting to note that some people are starting to question this criterion. I would like to quote from a recent publication  The Rule of the Sword  by Nonie Sharp. She had this to say: 
Yet changed circumstances have arisen which provide a new context for movements of liberation and which made actions like that of the East Timorese possible. It is these circumstances which also give rise to support campaigns in the capitalist states and to the firm belief that such movements can be victorious. Central here is a quite fundamental process which goes back into the movements of opposition of the sixties and which involves the loss of belief in Western civilisation itself by substantial sections of the population and the partly spontaneous and half-defined search for a critical, conscious revolutionary culture. The centrality of this impulse and the incapacity of US technological and material superiority to determine the outcome of the Vietnam war stimulated a deep probing of the theory and practice of  democracy ' in the imperialist heartlands. 
Within the 'new states' frequently born 'from the meagre remains of an exhausted colonial regime', that same crisis of confidence is expressed in the collapse of the old ' nationalist ' appeal-of modernisation, high-level, capital-intensive technology, of Gross National Product and the ' take-off mentality of the sixties. A central manifestation of this process has been the emergence within the new states of forms of cultural consciousness and practice which rejects not only the specifically capitalist forms of social relationships and values but technocratic developmentalism as well. In so doing they extend the politics of class struggle towards a cultural mode of politics. 
I think the next part is perhaps the most pertinent. It reads: 
Socially based on kinship relationship, projects relating to cultural identity spontaneously seek a form of social change which retains some continuity with the communitarian values associated with pre-colonial traditions. Such movements immediately bring in question the assumption of nationalism- of cultural homogeneity of nationalism's claim to represent the entire populace in its demand for independence', of the supremacy of the centralised state and the non-viability of states based on small populations of villagers or peasants. 
I believe that East Timor and West Irian represent two of those movements that Nonie Sharp refers to in that book. Ever since East Timor has come into focus it has been said that it was a country that was not economically viable and therefore it could never aspire to independence. As far as I am aware, I have not read of any person who has been prepared to say that West Irian was an economically viable state. Sure, it has some wealth and possibly more that is untapped but again to me it fits the bill as expressed by the author whom I have just quoted that independence movements are strong and viable and will, given a reasonable chance at all, attain for its people independence. For that reason, of course, we in Australia are going to have problems on our doorstep for a long time. 
One could go on but I may have spoken for long enough. I can hear someone making noises on the other side. One could go on to talk about the mismanagement of Government expenditure in the State of Victoria, my own State, in relation to the land deals which is becoming a more sorry spectacle for the Liberal Party as each day of the inquiry unfolds the story. One could go on to talk about the increasing unemployment in the community and I suppose that is something which has been done fairly well by many people. Undoubtedly unemployment will rise before the next two months are out and will continue to rise through into the new year. One could go on to talk about the strike in Victoria, but 1 think that has been overdone too except that I would confirm what my colleague,  Senator McLaren,  had to say about the matter and that is that it is London to a brick that the Hamer Government has instructed the State Electricity Commission in Victoria not to negotiate. It serves two purposes. It gets the land deals off the front pages of the Melbourne papers, and it has done that very successfully, and it is a medium to try to carry the Hamer Government through the by-election for Greensborough which I think is on in a fortnight's time. It also gives the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  at the federal level another stick with which to beat the unions. Exactly the same situation prevails in Queensland where again it is London to a brick that the Utah Mining Company has been instructed by the Premier of Queensland not to come to an agreement in order to give him his law and order issue for the forthcoming elections in Queensland. In conclusion, I seek the leave of the Senate to have incorporated in  Hansard the  table which appears on page 164 of Budget Paper No. 1. 
-Is the Minister for Social Security aware of reports circulating in Victoria of the serious financial plight of sheltered workshops for the handicapped? Is it a fact that due to the economic downturn these workshops are having difficulty in attracting paying contracts and that some are in danger of having to close down? 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Foreign Affairs. Has the Minister seen reports that Australian cattle are being shipped from Darwin to East Timor to feed Indonesian troops stationed in that country? Is the Minister able to confirm or deny such reports? 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Foreign Affairs. Has the Australian Government any indication that Indonesian forces in East Timor and/or in West Irian are using napalm against indigenous people or villages? If so, will the Government ask Indonesia to desist from such a practice? 
-I seek leave to move a motion to amend the terms of reference of a matter currently before the Senate Standing Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Environment, Housing and Community Development, upon notice, on 26 April 1 977: 
What are the total Federal payments to or for local government authorities for 1972-73 to 1976-77 in the shires of Kowree, Arapiles, Wimmera, Stawell, Ararat, Mortlake, Warrnambool, Minhamite, Portland, Glenelg, Wannon, Dundas, Mt Rouse and Belfast, the town of Portland, the boroughs of Port Fairy and Koroit, and the cities of Hamilton, Warrnambool, Hotham and Ararat. 
I direct my question to the Minister representing the Minister for Post and Telecommunications. Can the Minister give the reasons for the demise of  Mr Terry  Lane's talkback program on 3LO? In view of the many protests coming from listeners to the program, will the Minister consult the Australian Broadcasting Commission with a view to reviving this extremely popular program? 
-by leave-I believe that the Sub-committee of the Joint Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence is treading on rather dangerous ground in this area. I am well aware of allegations that have been made about civil rights and civil liberties in the Soviet Union. We all are very much aware of that. But it seems to me that the drive for this inquiry has come from the right wing of politics in Australia. For this Committee to conduct such an inquiry without going further and conducting an inquiry into many countries around the world will bring no credit to the Committee or the Parliament. This Committee could well look at human rights and civil liberties in Iran, South Africa, Pakistan, India, Zimbabwe or Rhodesia, Indonesia, the Philippines, East Timor, West Irian, countries in South America such as Brazil, Argentina and Columbia, Thailand, Queensland as it is at present, and Cambodia. Where do we stop? 
-By the interjections, I think the Senate agrees that one does not know where to stop when we get into the field of civil liberties and human rights. It is an extremely damaging exercise when we try to poke our noses into the internal affairs of one of our best trading clients. One might disagreethat that should be the criteria, that because a country is one of our best customers we should not do this sort of thing. I wonder what the reaction of this Parliament and this nation would be if the Soviet Union were to conduct an inquiry into the rights of Aborigines in Australia or Queenslanders at the present time in absentia. 
I seek to utilise the time that is accorded to me under the Standing Orders concerning the motion for the first reading of a money Bill to raise a matter that I believe is of great importance to this country. Quite frankly, I believe that the nation by and large has been sold a pup in this regard. I refer to the proposal to build an Omega station in this country. As far as I can ascertain at the moment it is to be built in the South Gippsland area. Honourable senators may know that the previous Liberal-Country Party Government- that is, the one in office before 1 972- received overtures from the United States of America about the building in this country of an Omega station. In 1972, if I remember correctly, the Labor Government decided, as a result of a decision taken by the Federal Conference of the Australian Labor Party in the previous year, to set up an inquiry. That was done through the Parliamentary Joint Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence, which brought down. a majority decision in favour of the building of such a station. There was also a minority report at that time. 
The Australian Labor Party's conference in Perth early in July of this year agreed by a majority of one- a very narrow majority- to go along with the building of this Omega station. That is a very brief rundown of what has happened in the last five, six or seven years. 
On 2 1 September of this year I asked a question on this matter of the Minister representing the Minister for Transport, In part, I asked: ls he aware that the Norwegian Parliament set up a Commission of Investigation in April 1975 to inquire into the establishment of Loran C and an Omega station in that country? Did this Commission find that Norwegian public servants had misled the Norwegian Cabinet and Parliament by understating the importance of Omega for American military plans? 
On 19 October- this month- I received the following answer to my question from the  Hon.  P. J. Nixon, Minister for Transport: 
Dear  Senator Primmer, 
I refer to the question which you directed to my colleague,  Senator Carrick,  in the Senate of 21 September 1977. You asked a question about Omega and referred to an inquiry that was held in Norway during 1975. 
I am advised that the Norwegian Parliament set up a Commission of Investigation (the Schei Commission) in April 1 975 to inquire into the establishment of Loran C and Omega. The commission concluded its work on 23 December 1975 and an official summary of the findings was released. In brief, the Commission found that the information which was given to the authorities on the matters under consideration was accurate. It also found that no official had acted in any way to justify criticism. The conclusions of the Committee were reached on a unanimous basis. 
The Schei Commission was the only Norwegian official inquiry into the establishment of Loran C and Omega. The official findings show that no attempt was made to misrepresent the role of these navigation systems by Norwegian officials. 
Part 5 of the report of the Commission contains documents which are confidential to the Norwegian Parliament, but I am endeavouring to obtain a copy of the official summary and to have it translated. 
That is a problem that I had about a month ago when I tried to get hold of the official summary and a translation thereof. The pertinent part of this reply from the Minister, I think, is contained in the second last paragraph, wherein he states and I reiterate: 
The official findings show that no attempt was made to misrepresent the role of these navigation systems by Norwegian officials. 
I suggest that the letter should read that the officially released findings show no attempt was made to misrepresent the role of these navigation systems by Norwegian officials because information that has come to me recently suggests that a very different role has been played by the Norwegian officials, the Norwegian Defence 
Department and the American Defense Department and, I believe, go on to show that the Norwegian Parliament, politicians and Cabinet were gravely misled at the time of the inquiries into the establishment of an Omega base in Norway. 
In 1975, Captain Anders Hellebust Norwegian Army intelligence officer, compiled a political science dissertation on the decisionmaking processes responsible for Omega and Loran C stations being built in Norway. He showed that civil servants had deliberately misled the Norwegian Cabinet and Parliament by understating the importance of Omega to American military plans, in particular missile submarines. That was done to assist the construction of navigation stations. The Norwegian Omega station, as we know, has been in operation since 1972. The Hellebust study was to have been an unpublished thesis. However, it was leaked to a daily newspaper, which led to a report in the Soviet Army newspaper  Red Star  and an immediate political row swept through Norway about the Omega and Loran C stations in that country. As a result of that the Norwegian Government appointed the investigating committee. I understand that an investigating committee in Norway is similar to a royal commission in our parliamentary language. That investigating committee was set up on 4 April 1975 and was known as the Schei Commission. It was set up to investigate Captain Hellebust 's allegation. 
The Commission reported in December 1975, but its deliberations and conclusions were classified secret. At the same time there was published a censored version about half the length of the original. This report was discussed in the Norwegian Parliament on 7 June of this year. Little information about this meeting was given. The Parliament decided not to make the issues in the case publicly known. Shortly after, however, the newspaper of the Left Socialist Party-  New Times-  published leaks of the proceedings of the secret parliamentary meeting, together with the ultimatum of the Party's President on the publishing of the secret report. Then it all happened. The contents of the secret report were revealed by Berg Furre, the Left Socialist Party's President and a member of the Norwegian Parliament. The next day the entire report was published illegally by Pax Publishing House. The first print ran to 3,500 copies and sold out on the first day. I understand that the title of the Schei Commission report is 'Loran C and Omega. Investigations and Conclusions from the Commission for Investigation in the matter of the Establishment of Loran C and 
Omega Stations in Norway. Commission Established by Royal Resolution April 4, 1 975 '. 
I go on to say what I understand the Schei report to have revealed. It revealed, amongst other things, that the Norwegian military intelligence service and officials of the Foreign Affairs Department believed in 1964-65 that Omega was intended for missile submarines. I intrude into the matter that I have raised to say that that was something that was vehemently denied by officials from the Department of Transport, the Department of Defence and all the other people in this country who came before the Parliamentary Joint Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence during its inquiry. I was a member of that Committee and I recall very vividly that official after official from  varous  departments came before us and denied that Omega had any relevance at all to missile submarines. Yet we have here, in what is unfortunately a leaked document but one which purports to be the report of a royal commission or its equivalent in Norway, the statement that Omega is intended for missile submarines. The material continues: 
For example, on page 67 of the Schei report, as published by Pax, it says: 
In a note of October 14th, 1964 Secretary Ostende ofthe Foreign Department stated amongst other things that-  . . There is no specific military interest for Norway in having an Omega Station located in this country  as I understand it, it is a foregone conclusion that Omega will cover purely American needs, and NATO consequently will not enter into the picture. 
Another important aspect is that the Omega system will probably be used by Polaris Submarines'. 
Also, in a note of 14 October,  Bureauchief  Graver refers to a telephone conversation he had with acting  Bureauchief Bergesen  in the Defence Department, and stated amongst other things- 
It is very important that the matter is decided upon immediately as construction of the trial station has to be started now if it is to be ready by the winter. It is of great importance for the future NATO communication station that this be done as it will give important experience in antenna icing problems. Bureauchief Bergesen informed me at my request- that the Omega station would be operated by Norwegian personnel and that it was part of a global navigation system which could, but was not intended exclusively to serve submarines . . .' 
In a later note of 17 October, Secretary  Ostende  further stated:   . . . Omega is believed to be a general navigation system for planes, surface vessels and submarines. Omega can cover enormous areas on all oceans. Loran C which is more precise only covers a limited part of the oceans. A polaris submarine consequently can use Omega on all oceans of the entire globe, and an Omega receiver is supposed to be less expensive than a Loran C receiver . . .' 
The matter goes on: 
In the brochure 'How Omega Operates' published by the US Navy's Omega Project Office, it is stated- 
Omega is the only navigation method that is as wellsuited for submarines as for aircraft or surface vessels. Its low frequencies penetrate sea water to appreciable depths. They also travel through sea ice. Thus a completely submerged submarine can be guided by Omega through any seas, including those that lie beneath the frozen polar regions. Only reception is required, so the submarine user does not reveal his position'. 
That quotation is from pages 87 and 88 of the Schei report. The matter continues: 
On the committee's meeting on 22 October, a representative of the Defence Staff gave a testimony on the military uses, and concluded that the Omega system was of great importance to the Polaris submarines. 
Under those circumstances I found it worthwhile to order investigations on the sources, and I have been through what is to be found in the archives of the Foreign Department. It was found that the political office (under then bureau leader Graver) had been aware of these special aspects. In a top secret note of October 16th, 1974, it is however stated that: According to  Colonel Rorholt  the Omega system cannot be said to nave any specific importance to the Polaris submarines.' 
Further on, the material which I have available to me states: 
Thereafter, it is stated that later reports show that signals from the Omega stations can be received by submerged submarines, and that a single manipulation in Washington is enough to change wavelength so that none but special vessels (the submarines) can receive the signals. 
That question was raised during the inquiry of the Joint Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence into the uses of Omega. Again, officials of the various departments in this country denied vehemently that Omega signals could be utilised  in  that way, that they could be turned on or off or set in such a way that, in the event of an emergency, only certain vessels could pick them up. To quote again from the information I have: 
It is stated: '. . . Thus, at any moment, as a crisis unfolds, Omega can go secret and thereon frequent random variations of band can maintain that secrecy; American Polaris-type submarines alone can pick up signals for more accurate targeting fixes. Not only is this notion of Project Omega technically feasible but also strategically plausible. 
To quote further from the same material, the officer states: 
. We need to know: 
1 ) What is the actual significance of the Omega-stations with respect to the navigation of the Polaris submarines? Is there already established aids to navigation on Norwegian territory that are more suited for this end than Omega? (The Loran C-system?) so that the Omega station in (Norway) does not represent any additional convenience for Polaris and an equal inconvenience for Norway with regard to her relations -"&lt;th the Soviet Union. 
What is it actually that the Russians have said concerning the Norwegian navigational aids to the submarines, and what have we answered? 
Japan, Australia and New Zealand have also been approached with proposals of construction of Omegastations. What has been their attitudes? 
I stress that without regard to the answers that we receive to the above questions, it is possible that we should enter into an agreement with the Americans on making the (Norway) station permanent. After all, we are living under the American nuclear umbrella, and have to take the consequences of this. But we have to know what we are doing, and my investigations of the documents to be found in the Foreign Department does not convince me that so is the case.' 
End of secret quote . . . The Schei report also reveals that a senior Defence Department official recognised that Omega would 'place a considerable stress on our relations- that is the Norwegians ' relations- with the Soviet Union'. This is revealed in the previously mentioned note of October 14th 1964 by Bureau Chief Graver, referring to a telephone conversation he had with Acting Bureau Chief Bergesen in the Defence Department. The note says-' . . . Regarding the realities of this case I would point out that any agreement to operate (Omega) for the US Navy, will place a considerable stress on our relations with the Soviet Union. . .' 
Also, in a note of December 1st 1969 to the Deputy Director Vibe, in the Foreign Department, Lieutenant Colonel Torp of the Defence Staff Intelligence Service said- 
. Omega makes the following possible: 
Continuous determination of position in all weather and on all oceans- a position correlator for the larger warships, submarines and long distance planes; 
Underwater reception- navigation for submarines deployed in peacetime or mobilisation periodsincluding Polaris- to operational areas in the North Atlantic. 
 If one takes this into account and then considers the sort of military uses that will be served by Omega then one cannot avoid the conclusion that the Soviet Union will find ample grounds for objecting to a permanent station being established . . .' 
The material goes on to state: 
The Schei report therefore reveals something which until now has been totally unknown- that between 1 964 and 1969 there was an internal debate within the administration concerning the military importance of Omega. 
While representatives of the Defence staff clearly stated that Omega would be used by Polaris submarines, there was also at that time an official denial from the US on the grounds that it was not accurate enough. 
I intrude here to remind the Senate, the Parliament and the people of Australia that in 1973 we had a similar denial by the American Ambassador to Australia, one Marshall Green, when he stated that Omega had no military function. The existence of this internal debate was not made known to the Parliament, that is the Norwegian Parliament, and the Schei report does not say whether the Cabinet came to know of it. But the Defence Minister's memorandum to the Cabinet on 14 April 1970 mentioned only the American denial and this decided the issue for the Foreign Department and the Cabinet. This was despite the fact that even immediately after the United States denial the representative of the intelligence service of the military general staff repeated the conclusion that Omega was linked to missile-carrying submarines. 
The report, in my opinion, documents active collaboration between American defence officials and Norwegian civil servants to misrepresent the purpose of the navigation systems, that is Omega and Loran C. On several occasions there were tactical discussions going on between American and Norwegian officials to decide how these military matters could best be presented so that they would be approved by the Parliament. However, if the Norwegian Parliament had deficient and partly misleading information from the Cabinet, the matter I have before me believes that Parliament and Cabinet cannot be freed from some of the responsibility for the decisions about Loran C and Omega being made on such an insecure foundation. 
When the Omega case was being considered in Norway in 1971 there was not a single representative in the Norwegian Parliament who asked any question or made any criticism, even though it was evident to them surely that the installation was to be financed by the United States Defence Department. The Schei report shows clearly that neither of these military systems were being proposed through NATO but were the subject of purely bilateral arrangements between the United States and Norway. Both Loran C and Omega had as their sole end the satisfying of American military needs, although in the case of Omega civilian use was also offered as public justification for the base. I believe that the leaking of this report fills a large gap in the to-ings and fro-ings of the whole debate on Omega. To my mind it certainly fills in a very large gap in the questions which were asked and the answers which were given in the advice which was offered by civil servants from all departments in this country. When I think back over what was a rather lenghty exercise they seemed to duck for cover or hide behind all sorts of excuses when one started to ask pertinent questions about the role of an Omega base. I hope that the Minister for Transport,  Mr Nixon,  who will be responsible for any proposal to build that base in Australia will have another look at this matter in the light of the material which has latterly come out of Norway. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Veterans' Affairs, upon notice, on 16 August 1977: 
1 ) Were personnel who served in the Australian Navy off Vietnam required to do 29 consecutive days' war service to be entitled to repatriation benefits. 
Did the vessels H.M.A.S.  Hobart  and H.M.A.S.  Perth  serve for periods of 28 days, withdraw for one day, and return to war service for a further period not exceeding 28 days, thus depriving the serving personnel of any opportunity to qualify for repatriation benefits. 
To what benefits, if any, are personnel who served on H.M.A.S.  Melbourne  and who suffered ill effects as the result of the collision between that vessel and the U.S.S.  Frank E. Evans  entitled. 
Is it a fact that Australian Navy personnel who served on land for short periods in Vietnam are not entitled to any repatriation benefits, because they were not attached to any unit while there. 
-Is the Minister representing the Minister for Defence in a position to confirm or deny reports that Australian military aircraft and personnel from the Special Air Service stationed at Butterworth are being used by the Malaysian Government in support of Gurkha mercenaries on the Thai-Malaysian border? 
I ask the Minister representing the Minister for Post and Telecommunications: Is it a fact that two experts of Telecom Australia conducted an investigation into Omega and found that either the side band or the harmonic frequencies of Omega transmissions are used for the control of killer satellites? Was their report the subject of a D-notice by the Government? Could this be one reason that the Minister for Transport,  Mr Nixon,  refuses to allow spokesmen for the Stop Omega 
Committee in South Gippsland to debate the question with him on the public platform? 
I want to relate my remarks particularly to Division 494 of the Estimates for the Department of Primary Industry, which relates to the Bureau of Animal Health, including the export inspection services for meat. The inspection of meat has been a matter of some concern to me for a long time. In the first instance, I have been very concerned that in Australia we retain meat inspection at both the State and Federal levels. This is an imposition on the producing community &lt;n particular, the people who ultimately pay for meat inspection. I know that for a long time discussions in relation to this matter have been going on between the Commonwealth and the 
State governments and that it is hoped that one day we might get around to having a single inspection service. 
It seems that because of inbuilt problems, because of the intractability of state governments I might be wrong in saying that, but certainly because of the intractability of some people in the system somewhere- we are not reaching quickly enough the stage where a single meat inspection suffices in this country. It seems to me to be totally wrong that this country requires State inspection of meat for domestic consumption and Federal inspection of meat for overseas sales. Surely to goodness, an animal is an animal is an animal. Either the animal has problems or it does not have problems when it is slaughtered and a qualified meat inspector, be he employed by a State government or by a Federal government, should be able to put his finger on the problem. Why this anomaly continues I will never know because, as I have said, it ultimately places a great burden on the producer of meat. At present salaries and payments in the nature of salaries, administrative expenses and other services in this field cost the taxpayer in the Commonwealth Budget some $3 1 m. 
Over 12 months. I might have broadened that to include a little more than meat inspection, but if honourable senators look at page 100 of Appropriation Bill (No. 1) 1977-78 they will see that the total appropriation under Division 494 is $31m. Certainly some other matters come into that, but meat inspection is very expensive. As I have said twice before, it is ultimately paid for by the consumer or by the producer of beef or sheep meats in this country. Another great problem which is besetting the meat industry at present is the argument between the Australian Meat Industry Employees Union, and primary producers on the matter of live sheep exports, in particular to the Middle East. I suppose hope springs eternal in the human breast. I have with me the minutes of a meeting held in Melbourne on 2 August this year between the Australian Council of Trade Unions and rural organisations. The meeting was sponsored by the  President  of the ACTU,  Mr R.  J. Hawke. Present were representatives of nine unions concerned with meat processing or meat exports and 9 producer organisations. 
For the record, as I see it, there is on the horizon at least some hope that the unions and the rural organisations are likely- albeit belatedly- to get together. We have had a situation in this country in which primary producers and the trade union movement have stood aloof from each other. The primary producers have been saying of the trade union movement that all of its members are communist led, that they are a pack of commos and that they would not work in an iron lung. The trade union movement has been saying of the primary producers that they all drive around in Rolls Royce or Mercedes Benz cars, that they belong to the squattocracy and that the trade union movement therefore should remain aloof. As I have said, thank goodness that belatedly these groups have got together. I should like to read into the record a few excerpts from the meeting which, as I have said, was held on 2 August in the ACTU boardroom in Melbourne. 
Consideration interrupted. 
That the  Chairman  do now leave the chair and report to the Senate. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 

 The Chairman  having reported accordingly- 
I refer the Minister representing the Treasurer to the article in today's  Australian Financial Review  in which the Treasurer is reported as saying that there seems to be little possibility of a reduction in unemployment rates overseas in the period ahead. Will the Minister explain how the Government expects to achieve a steady and sustained fall in the level of unemployment in Australia from next February, as promised by the Prime Minister in a speech made last weekend to the South Australian Young Liberals, when at the same time the Treasurer claims that there is little possibility of such a reduction in overseas countries, most of whom have lower inflation rates than Australia? 
-Is the Minister representing the Treasurer aware that on 1 April 1976 the Treasurer, when establishing the Foreign Investment Review Board, announced that the Board would advise the Government on the need for and scope of a foreign investment review Act, and consider the desirability of maintaining a register of foreign investment proposals? Is the Minister further aware that the Board in its first annual report tabled on 2 October failed to indicate that any progress had been made on those two matters, despite the fact that it is now 20 months since the Treasurer promised such action? Can we take it that after 20 months the Board is unable to advise on the need for and scope of a foreign investment review Act, or has the Board recommended against the need for such legislation? 
I rise at this stage to speak on the first reading of these Bills to raise matters that are of some concern to the electors in Victoria in particular. I refer to matters which have come out of the inquiry into land deals in Victoria and, in particular, to what might appear to be the role of the Treasurer,  Mr Lynch,  in some of these land deals in or near his electorate of Flinders. Inquiries have been based on evidence which has been given before the inquiry into the Victorian Housing Commission about land purchases by one  Mr Peter  Leake. In a letter to the Leader of the Opposition,  Mr E.  G. Whitlam, dated 25 October, the Treasurer confirmed that  Mr Leake  was  Chairman  of the Liberal Flinders Electorate Committee from 6 October 1972 to 12 September 1974. Previously  Mr Leake  was  Chairman  of the Westernport Regional Planning Authority. At that time he had been employed by the speculative Colortone company group controlled by a  Mr Rene  Lipton, who engaged in manipulative land dealings and developments. After surrendering chairmanship of the Westernport Regional Planning Authority,  Mr Leake  set up Nandina Investments Pty Ltd, a land development company.  Mr Leake  gave evidence before the inquiry on 26 October about his involvement with Stumpy Gully Estates- rather a cute name. He said: 
We purchased allotments, I think this is Nandina, we purchased about 60 allotments and I am very vague on it, but I think it was around 1973 or late 1972. 
When he was asked whether any other person was involved  Mr Leake  answered: 
We sought a financier in that venture. I am trying to think of the company's name. I believe it was Grosvenor Nominees, which was a company associated with a firm of accountants. 
When asked what persons were involved with that finance company he answered: 
It was my understanding it was the family of one, I think, perhaps the wife or a trust organisation of  Mr Phillip  Lynch. 
According to a report in the  Australian Financial Review  of 3 November, the directors of Grosvenor Nominees are the partners of the accounting firm Irish, Young and Outhwaite. One of them,  Mr Gary  Andrews, was quoted as saying that Grosvenor acted merely as a nominee company and that if people were uncomfortable about their names appearing in a share register they could use Grosvenor to register their holdings. Thus the Treasurer appears to have been involved in a speculative land deal with his political associate  Mr Leake.  The Treasurer appears to have used the legal devices of nominee companies and family trusts to screen his involvement. Treasurers of Australia should not be operating on the fringe of the market place using legal devices to disguise their real identity. As the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  has said, it is not only what is done but also the way that it is done that is important. The Australian people can only wonder at the motives of the Treasurer in failing to reveal his real interests. Treasurers should not be involved in putting up fronts to disguise their interests in land gambles. 
The Treasurer, who was absent from Question Time in another place on 3 November, must frankly and promptly reveal the full nature and extent of his dealings in land on the Mornington Peninsula and, in particular, his financial relationships, personal and political, with  Mr Leake,  whose relations with Ministers in the Hamer Government in securing development permits and raising election funds have been exposed before the inquiry in recent weeks. I emphasise the need for the Treasurer to give a frank and prompt explanation. It was he who, with the present  Deputy  Prime Minister  (Mr Anthony),  recommended  Mr Fancher  to the Premier of Queensland on the eve of the last Federal elections. We know now that  Mr Fancher  was then already financially unsound. He has now been made bankrupt on the petition of the Australian Telecommunications Commission, which he bilked of $17,063.06 for overseas telephone calls made at the Government's instigation in November and December 1975 and January 1976. We know too that the Treasurer has taken four to seven weeks to answer questions on that scandal. He can no longer cover up this scandal and the Prime Minister should not abet him -in covering it up. 
It is already seven weeks since  Mr Whitlam  put a question on notice to the Treasurer about his relations with  Mr John  Bracey, the sinister character mentioned by  Mr Richard  Todd in his notarised statement incorporated in the House of Representatives  Hansard  on 19 May 1976.  Mr Bracey  stated that, in the run-up to the last election, the honourable member for Flinders fronted up with his secretary, Andrew Hay, to  Mr Bracey  's Sydney office and spent three hours with him. It is noted also that early in the campaign in 1975, one  Mr Cooke  held a cocktail party for Phillip Lynch at the Manyung Gallery, Frankston. It raised about $2,000. These funds were made available to  Mr Lynch  for campaign purposes. The function was never approved by the Flinders Area Finance Committee and was thus an instance of direct fund raising for  Mr Lynch  by  Mr Cooke.  No one seems to be quite sure what happened to the money. 
Finally, I ask these questions: Is it a fact that Stumpy Gully Estates, the land in which the Treasurer or his family company had a financial interest, was zoned for conservation or as an area of special significance by the Westernport Regional Planning Authority prior to  Mr Peter  Leake taking up his position as  chairman  of  Mr Lynch  's electorate committee on 6 October 1972? Was the zoning of the land in question altered in any way after 6 October 1 972? Was the original zoning of the land altered in the 12 months prior to 6 October 1972? Is it a fact that the use of the land in question was at all times a matter for the discretion of the Westernport Regional Planning Authority of which  Mr Peter  Leake was  Chairman  prior to his association with the Treasurer? 
asked the Minister for Social Security, upon notice, on 5 October 1977: 
Do administrative procedures within the Department of Social Security sometimes cause delays in payment to beneficiaries and pensioners. 
Can inquiries from country areas to the Department be made only by mail or through use of subscriber trunk dialling facilities, sometimes causing severe hardship. 
3 ) Is the Minister aware that the New South Wales offices of her Department accept reverse charge calls but in Victoria some offices do not. 
Will the Minister extend this facility to all clients of her Department. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Defence, upon notice, on 2 November 1977: 
Are Australian military aircraft and personnel from the Special Air Service stationed at Butterworth being used by the Malaysian Government in support of Gurkha mercenaries on the Thai-Malaysia border. 
I rise at this somewhat late hour to speak again about a matter on which I have spent a great deal of time during the last two or three years. I refer to the situation in East Timor. The situation has concerned quite a sizable body of members of this House and another place during that period of time. Many of us have striven to prevent and to allay the outrageous actions of the military clique, the right wing generals of Indonesia, and also the pliant attitudes of certain Australian Government leaders, advisers, et cetera. We were all, I suppose, somewhat shocked to wake on the morning of 2 1 January of this year and to read and to hear the headline that Australia had agreed to Indonesia's incorporation of East Timor. In plain language the Minister's statement attempts to mask a thousand lies, distortions and complicity. The Minister for Foreign Affairs  (Mr Peacock)  swept aside the rights of the East Timorese to self-determination when he said: 
The Government has decided that although it remains critical of the means by which integration was brought about it would be unrealistic to continue to refuse to recognise de facto that Timor is part of Indonesia. 
In my opinion that was a black day for all Australians. One wonders what the manipulators who hide behind the grey walls of the Department of Foreign Affairs and other places in this nation think about it all, and how they must ultimately feel about the tragedy of East Timor as it has developed over the 3 years and the bloodshed that will continue, I am convinced, until the last Timorese who is old enough to carry a gun lays down his life. Through devious means and means of any sort at all the Indonesian Government, and to a large extent the Australian Government, has tried to hide the truth from the people of Australia. We all know very well the situation that developed a couple of times in Timor when a certain radio was confiscated. We know that people have been chased because they tried to maintain some form of contact with the people of East Timor. It is hard not to feel anger about this whole matter, particularly in view of some of the pious statements made in this Parliament and in parliaments of the world by Australian leaders and others, including public servants, on issues such as human rights. I will deal with that matter in a moment. 
We were, I suppose, somewhat mystified as to why the Government or the Minister for Foreign Affairs should have made this statement at that time. We perceived something cynical afoot; we presumed that there was some reason for it. It came at a time when Australia was ducking for cover under an alleged expediency. The Jakarta regime was rounding up students and closing newspapers. If one was to be cynical about it one could describe the Prime Minister and the Minister for Foreign Affairs as campaign managers for General Suharto in his quest for another bout of the Presidency. 
Whilst the fixer is enforcing his political control over an increasing internal dissent movement in Indonesia Messrs Peacock and Fraser hand him an incalculable boost to his tarnished image. He now has Australian recognition for the brutal takeover of East Timor. Really, instead of continuing to call for self-determination for the East Timorese, Australia caved in. What was the reasoning behind it? In the world community continual opposition towards Indonesia's actions is being expressed. As recently as 28 November 1977 the General Assembly of the United Nations carried a resolution on the rights of the peoples of East Timor. I seek leave to have that resolution incorporated in  Hansard. 
Leave granted. 

 The document read as follows- 

Question of East Timor 
The General Assembly, 
Recognizing the inalienable right of all peoples to selfdetermination and independence in accordance with the principles of the Charter of the United Nations and of the Declaration on the Granting of Independence to Colonial Countries and Peoples, contained in its resolution 1 5 14 (XV) of 14 December 1960, 
Having examined the chapter of the report of the Special Committee on the Situation with regard to the Implementation of the Declaration on the Granting of Independence to Colonial Countries and Peoples relating to the Territory, 1 / 
Having heard the statements by the representatives of Portugal 2/ and Indonesia, 3/ 
Having also heard the statements by the representatives of the Frente Revolucionaria de Timor Leste Independente, 4/ 
Mindful that all States should, in conformity with Article 2, paragraph 4, of the Charter, refrain in their international relations from the threat or use of force against the territorial integrity or national independence of any State, or in any other manner inconsistent with the purposes of the United Nations, 
Deeply concerned at the continuing critical situation in the Territory, resulting from the persistent refusal on the part of the Government of Indonesia to comply with the provisions of the resolutions of the General Assembly and the Security Council, 1 / A/32/23/Add.3, chap. X. 
2/A/C.4/32/SR.12. 
3/A/C.4/32/SR.19. 
4/ A/C.4/32/SR.11 and 20. 
Recalling its resolutions 3485 (XXX) of 12 December 1965 and 31/53 of 1 December 1976 and Security Council resolutions 384 (1975) of 22 December 1975 and 389 (1976) of 22 April 1976. 
Reaffirms the inalienable right of the people of East Timor to self-determination and independence and the legitimacy of their struggle to achieve that right; 
Reaffirms its resolutions 3485 (XXX) and 31/53 and Security Council resolutions 384 ( 1 975) and 389 ( 1 976); 
Rejects the claim that East Timor has been integrated into Indonesia, inasmuch as the people of the Territory have not been able to exercise freely their right to selfdetermination and independence; 
Requests the Special Committee on the Situation with regard to the Implementation of the Declaration on the Granting of Independence to Colonial Countries and 
Peoples to keep the situation in the Territory under active consideration, to follow the implementation of the present resolution, to dispatch to the Territory as soon as possible a visiting mission with a view to the full and speedy implementation of the Declaration on the Granting of Independence to Colonial Countries and Peoples, contained in General Assembly resolution 1514 (XV), and to report back to the Assembly at its thirty-third session; 
Requests the Secretary-General, in consultation with the  Chairman  of the Special Committee, in the meantime, to send urgently, a special representative to East Timor for the purpose of making a thorough, on-the-spot assessment of the existing situation in the Territory and of establishing contact with the representatives of the Frente Revolucionaria de Timor Leste Independente and the Government of Indonesia, as well as the Governments of other States concerned, in order to prepare the ground for a visiting mission of the Special Committee, and to report back to the Special Committee; 
Draws the attention of the Security Council, in conformity with Article 1 1, paragraph 3, of the Charter of the United Nations, to the critical situation in the Territory of East Timor and recommends that it should take all effective steps for the implementation of its resolutions 384 (1975) and 389 (1976) with a view to securing the full exercise by the people of East Timor of their right to self-determination and independence; 
Calls upon the Government of Indonesia and the leadership of the Frente Revolucionaria de Timor Leste Independente to facilitate the entry into East Timor of the International Committee of the Red Cross and other relief organizations in order to assist the people of the Territory. 
Decides to include in the provisional agenda of its thirty-third session the item entitled 'Question of East Timor'. 
-The resolution in essence reaffirms the inalienable right of the people of East Timor to self-determination and independence. It is critical of Indonesia for refusing to comply with previous resolutions and it specifically rejects the claim that East Timor has been integrated into Indonesia. The Australian Government did not vote against the resolution, but instead showed a degree of support by abstaining. Yet less than two months later the Government changed its mind. As it was so close to the date of the election, one wonders why  Mr Peacock  could not have informed the Australian people of the Government's intention before 10 December so as to allow the citizens of Australia to vote on this issue, to make up their minds whether they believed that Indonesia had the right to move in and take over East Timor. But the Government would not be in that. I believe that it realised the depth of public support within Australia for the people of East Timor and consequently it would not inform them of the impending sellout in a situation in which they, the people, could exercise a vote on the matter. Perhaps the Government has become so enmeshed in resources diplomacy that the questions of self-determination and human rights have been reduced dramatically in importance. 
Could it be that the timing of this decision to recognise incorporation is linked with the disputes in the Timor Sea concerning the seabed and oil exploration rights? Of course I was certainly surprised when I read an article in the Australian on 21 February 1978. The evidence contained in the article supports documents emanating from the United States and Australia concerning the role that oil politics may have had in determining  Mr Peacock's  sudden announcement.  Mr President,  I seek the leave of the Senate to have that item of news incorporated in Hansard. 
Leave granted. 

 The document read as follows- 

Way opens for Timor oil hunt 
By Peter Terry 
The Federal Government's recognition of East Timor as Indonesian territory has paved the way for Australian participation in a multi-million dollar oil exploration program. 
Drilling is to centre on an area of the seabed the ownership of which was long disputed by Australia and East Timor s former colonial rulers, Portugal. 
Now that Indonesia's takeover has been recognised, oil companies are expecting early negotiations between Canberra and Jakarta to finalise the mid-ocean border line. 
Had the Portuguese had their way, the border would have been drawn straight across the potential oil field. But oil company officials said yesterday they were now expecting an agreement far more favourable to Australia. 
The area of seabed in question extends roughly from what was East Timor south across the Timor Sea and Joseph Bonaparte Gulf to the coast of north-west Australia. 
Portugal always argued its territorial rights should extend well down into what is essentially the Australian continental shelf. It is at the extremities of the shelf that oil companies are most hopeful of finding if not oil, at least commercial quantities of natural gas. 
The area is rated by one oil company geologist as being among the top six offshore areas around Australia in oil potentiality. 
There are two main companies planning to explore the region, Woodside and the French Government-owned Aquitaine-Elf. 
Woodside is the multi-national with which BHP is planning to develop the huge natural gas fields on Australia's North West Shelf. Aquitaine-Elf is one of France's largest petroleum companies. 
Aquitaine's Australian exploration manager,  Mr G.  Dailly, said yesterday the Federal Government had long been aware that no company would explore the area until the border dispute was settled. "No one would want to find oil there without knowing who owns it", he said. "But we are not expecting any major problems over the border now because of the border lines already agreed to by Indonesia on either side of the disputed area. "If these two lines are just joined together, there will be no trouble at all". 
COURT BATTLE 
Aquitaine is committed to exploring exploration leases in the area by July next year. If the border is settled soon, drilling will probably start earlier. 
The company will initially sink one wildcat well at a cost of around $3m. If it strikes oil or gas, it will immediately increase the investment to confirm the extent of the oil basin. 
Before the border dispute with the Portuguese developed, some exploration drilling did take place, but although gas condensates were discovered, they were not of commercial quantities. 
But the whole Timor Sea- area, both disputed and undisputed, is attracting increased interest from oil companies, just outside the disputed area, Arco Australia Ltd is now sinking a wildcat well off Cartier Island, about midway between southern Timor and the Australian mainland. 
Some people in the oil industry see the well as a critical one in deciding the prospects of the area. 
Arco's chief geologist,  Mr Frank  Ingram, takes a more conservative attitude but admits the well will go a long way in helping define future prospects. 
Whether the Portuguese would have ever won their demands for the rights to a larger slice of the Australian continental shelf is open to question. 
Before they pulled out of East Timor the dispute was to have gone to the World Court for settlement. Oil company officials generally believe Australia would have won the case. 
Now it appears Australia is certain to win without the court's help. 
If even part of that news item is true, it means clearly that the decision to recognise integration was taken in order to settle the dispute about the seabed border between Australia and East Timor. Once settled, a multi-million dollar oil exploration program involving some Australian participation could get under way. The scramble for oil has meant a further erosion of support for human rights in our region. It is indeed a most tragic irony that after listening to the conservatives attack resources diplomacy by the OPEC countries, we now see the crudest forms of resources diplomacy being courted by the Australian Government with the monkey-dance generals of Jakarta. I say to  Mr Peacock  that it is indeed a deadly monkey dance that he continues to play, especially for the East Timorese people. While this cynical game of diplomacy is being played out in Canberra and Jakarta, the plight of the East Timorese people continues to worsen. On several other occasions members of the Senate have referred to the atrocities and murders being committed daily in East Timor. We can all recall previous church reports stating that up to 100,000 persons have died in the fighting. Despite the Indonesian  cordon sanitaire  around East Timor, information continues to flow, suggesting immense brutality, privation and despair on an enormous scale. One such piece of information, which was written by an East Timorese priest in November of last year and smuggled out of East Timor by two Dominican missionary sisters who were formerly in East Timor, is especially disturbing. In order to save time, it is not my wish to read this letter. I seek the leave of the Senate to incorporate it in  Hansard. 
Leave granted. 

 The document read as follows- 

Dear Friends, 
I was so happy to receive news of you. So much yearning, so many memories . . . Now if you like I'll tell you something about me . . . My spirit is too confused for me to present a ridiculous description of me and of the reality of Timor today. But I shall try. I am as thin as a toothpick, without shoes (and not a Carmelite): I am in rags (without the vow of poverty), and I am sick (without being in hospital) and I could go on . . . 
But do you think I am joking? After the war I will tell you the rest if I am still alive then. Let us now turn to more serious and important things. 
Firstly- the War 
It continues with the same fury as it had started. Fretilin continues the struggle, in spite of famine, lack of clothing, death, and a crisis in understanding and objectives which has surfaced lately. The invaders have intensified their attacks in the three classic ways- from land, sea and air. 
Between 7 and 3 1 December 1 975 and up to February 1976, were at anchor in Dili harbour up to 23 warships which vomited intense fire towards Dili 24 hours a day. Daily from 8 to 12 helicopters and 4 bombers flew reconnaissance and bombing runs near Dili. Numerous tanks and armoured vehicles roamed about the territory. The Indonesian armed forced in Timor must have surpassed 50,000 (I don't know for certain). In December last year there was heavy movement of ships in Dili, discharging war materials and disembarking troops. From last September (1977) the war was again intensified. The bombers did not stop all day. Hundreds of human beings died every day. The bodies of the victims became food for carnivorous birds (If we don't die of the war, we die of the plague), villages were completely destroyed, some tribes (sucos) decimated . . . and the war enters its third year with no promise of an early end in sight. The barbarities (understandable in the Middle Ages, and justifiable in the Stone Age), the cruelties, the pillaging, the unqualified destruction of Timor, the executions without reason, in a word all the 'organised' evil, has spread deep roots in Timor. There is complete insecurity and the terror of arbitrary imprisonment is our daily bread, (I am on the 'personna non grata' list and any day I could disappear). Fretilin soldiers who give themselves up are disposed of- for them there is no prison. Genocide will come soon, perhaps by next December. Taking advantage of the courage of the Timorese, they are being recruited to fight their brothers in the jungle (or interior). It is they who march in front of the (Indonesian) battalions (to intimidate the game?). 
Second- the Church. (The silence, the individualism, the exchange of insults) . . . 
Many missions are without priests; schools have been closed for more than two years, there are not joint activities; but there is greater awareness of events and there is an attempt to establish a line of action according to the directives of the Second Vatican Council. The Bishop has resigned, and in his place is an apostolic administrator- Fr Lopes . . . The Canossian sisters- some have returned (7) and some new Spanish Carmelites have arrived (in all 5). 
We have only three Jesuits and the Salesians have not abandoned us. The Timorese priests are: Lopes (now Monseignor) Demetrio, Maia Aureo Jose Antonio, Mario, Cunha, Rafael, Agrostinho, Ricardo, Leao who are not in the Indonesian part; with Fretilin are Timorese priests Luis da Costa, Mariano Soares and Francisco Tavares dos Reis. Also with Fretilin are Frs. Lioneto Vieira Fagundo Martins and Carlos da Rocha Pereira. With the Indonesians are, apart from the Jesuits and Salesians, the  Goans,  Santana, Monteiro, Brito and the Metropolitans Julio Aco and Barbosa The seminarians have gone to Flores. The Carmelites have opened a new house in Dili. 
Third- the Political Situation 
Indescribable. Sabotage and lies dominate the information sector. Integration is not the expression of the will of the people. The people are controlled by the Indonesians and given the character of the oppressor and the level of the Indonesian presence, it is a lamb being led to the slaughter. In the presence of such force there is no resistance; liberty is a word without meaning. The proclaimed liberation is synonomous with slavery. Timor is returning to the years 194S-S0 and anti-communism is an Islamic slogan meaning iconoclasm'- The reform of our customs means the setting up of cabarets and houses of prostitution ... In commerce the search for basic needs dominates, and black market is the rule. The Chinese are easily corrupted and they themselves are instruments of commercial exploitation. To travel outside of Indonesia is a dream. Mail is opened. 
Fourth- Conclusion 
Oecussi is now part of the diocese of Atambua. Everything is changed. Our residence, Bishop Madeiras, has been totally destroyed by the fire of the barbarians, the Seminary of Dare destroyed, and colleges of Maliana and Soibada destroyed. Timor is not integrated, but annexed, it has not been liberated from 'Communism', but handed over to barbarians and sold to Indonesian Moslems. Freedom in any aspect does not exist. 
Please do something positive for the liberty of the Timorese people. The world ignores us and our grief . . . we are on the road to complete genocide. By the end of December the war could exterminate us. All the youth of Timor ( 30 per cent of the population) are in the forests: the Indonesians control only 1 or 2 kilometres beyond the villages. We ask all justice-loving people to save Timor, and we ask God to forgive the sins of the Timorese people. 
I am very tired and I do not have the equanimity to give you a more detailed picture of the reality of Timor in these last two years. We here are all exhausted. 
A yearning embrace for all of you. (Sender's name withheld) 
Timor, November 1977. (Sent via Sister Natalia Granada Moreira and Sister Maria Auxiliadora Hernandez (Dominican Missionaries, formerly in Timor) 
-That letter points out some of the facts that the Australian Government has chosen to ignore in seeking to sanction Indonesian barbarity. These are: Only a small part of East Timor is in Indonesian hands; Fretilin is still strong and inflicting heavy casualties upon the Indonesians; in Indonesian-held areas the people are held in virtual slavery; churches, buildings and villages have been destroyed; executions and murder of the East Timorese are going on in the occupied areas. Surely de facto recognition is completely immoral in these circumstances. Indonesia does not control East Timor, as nearly all of the limited numbers of independent observers have pointed out. Further, there is no guarantee that such an action on Australia 's part will have any benefit in alleviating the suffering of the East Timorese. Where are the united families which were used by several honourable senators last year as an excuse for voting against the proposal to hold an inquiry into East Timor? 
No, the decision to recognise de facto integration was adopted by the Government for cynical reasons, borne of the thirst of multi-nations to explore for oil and delivered by the Foreign Minister as the penultimate of Australian foreign policy weakness. It must be remembered that the Indonesian generals will limit their excesses, both internally and externally, only through pressure and not through compliance. Witness the recent release of 10,000 political prisoners which was brought about only by international pressure. Finally, one area of the Government's program as stated by the Governor-General yesterday strikes me as contradictory when we consider Australia's record on East Timor. His Excellency said: 
In consultation with the States, legislation will be reintroduced to establish a Human Rights Commission. My Government welcomes Australia 's membership on the UN Human Rights Commission as an opportunity to contribute to the discussion and further development of internationally accepted principles of human rights. 
What a way for the Government to commence its term as a member of the United Nations Human Rights Commission, by providing Indonesia with de facto recognition of its takeover in East Timor. How hypocritical can one get? This decision successfully underlines Australia's essential lack of commitment to human rights. How in the future can the Government claim to be concerned with human rights when the basic human rights of more than 600,000 people fewer than 400 miles from Darwin are so conveniently denied and now ignored? This will remain the eternal shame of Australia's foreign policy in the 1970s and without doubt will not be forgotten either in Australia or in the South Pacific or, indeed, by the suffering East Timorese themselves. I only hope that the Government will see fit to stop this disastrous course on which it is heading. I conclude with the remarks of United States Congressman Fraser at the hearings of the Congress Sub-committee investigating East Timor on 1 9 July 1 977. He stated: 
The United States was apprised, at least in general, perhaps specifically because . . . Secretary Kissinger was  in Jakarta the day before the invasion . . . of the intention of the Indonesian Government, but we made no serious objection to what they proposed to do; what I would regard as a facade of self-determination was expressed, the United States immediately indicated it was satisfied with what had transpired and resumed shipments of military assistance it never told Indonesia it was suspending . . . There is a degree of complicity here by the United States that I really find to be quite disturbing. Even if one sets that aside, to write off 600,000 people, because we are friends with the country which forcibly annexed them, does real violence to any profession of adherence to the principle of human rights. 
In essence these remarks remain an accurate reflection of Australia's foreign policy on this issue. I must say that I fear the same appeasement might be applied to other situations in our area in the future. Quite frankly,  Mr Peacock  could offer some redress to the Australian people by resigning his ministerial portfolio. 
-I preface my question to the Minister for Social Security by pointing out that for a large number of the unemployed their period of unemployment is not a temporary problem between jobs and that, because the average waiting time between jobs is now five months, the unemployment benefit can no longer be considered as a short term bridging payment. I therefore ask the Minister whether she will grant automatic retention of unemployment benefit to those unemployed who are asking for their cases to be reconsidered, particularly in view of the fact that  60  per cent of them have less than  $50  saved. If the Minister will not do that, how can she justify treating unemployment benefit recipients differently from other pensioners and beneficiaries whose benefits continue while their cases are under examination or appeal? 
My question is directed to the Minister for Social Security. Do field officers investigating the unemployed who are receiving benefits tell them personally that their benefits will stop? Do they also tell the recipients that they are entitled to reapply immediately and to appeal immediately if they feel the termination is unjustified? Will the Minister ensure that field officers tell the unemployed of these rights so that people who are wrongly taken off benefits are not left for many weeks without other income? 

 Senator GUILFOYLE The field officers who make visits to pensioners and beneficiaries do so to determine the eligibility of people who are making claims under the social security system. The field officers themselves do not terminate benefits. They provide information to the relevant office of the Department of Social Security and a determination is then made as to whether the eligibility has been maintained. As far as requesting the field officers to advise claimants of their right of appeal or entitlement to benefits is concerned, I agree that this is one of the matters that should be handled by field officers in that way. The advising of claimants that they are entitled to reapply immediately their benefit is terminated as a result of information that is received by the Department is a matter that could be handled by a field officer or the person handling the appeal or the claim itself. Those are some of the ways in which people are able to be advised of the social security system in this country. We ally with that the resources of the Department itself and the many sources of information available within it in regard to entitlements for pensions and benefits and also the right of appeal that exists. 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs. I refer to several questions I asked last year concerning the application for permanent residence by Timorese leader,  Mr Chris  Santos, and his family? I ask: Is the Minister aware of the considerable hardship caused to  Mr Santos  and his family by this inordinate delay? Will the Minister give the Senate an assurance that the application by  Mr Santos  will be treated with more urgency? Will  Mr Santos  and his family be granted permanent residence? 
I direct a question to the Minister representing the Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs. Is it a fact that entry to Australia has been refused to a  Mr Fred  Mazelis, a United States citizen? On what date did  Mr Mazelis  apply for admission to Australia? On what basis did he make his application to visit Australia? If the answer to the first part of the question is in the affirmative, what were the reasons for the exclusion of  Mr Mazelis?  Lastly, is the Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs contemplating reviewing his decision in this case? 
-I rise tonight to speak on a matter of grave concern to meat producers and, indeed, all Australians. I have thought for a long time about what I am going to say now. At times I have felt that the matters I intend to raise should not be brought before the Parliament. Indeed, in the short term a certain amount of damage to our meat export industries may be the result of a public discussion of the matters I wish to canvass at this point of time. However, if the situation as it now exists continues, I firmly believe that long term damage will be done to a major rural export industry. Therefore, the short term disadvantages have to be weighed against the long term advantages of cleaning up a gross mess in the industry. The matters to which I am referring concern what I believe to be widespread malpractices in the meat export industry. Further, it is my contention that the present Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Sinclair)  has been less than studious in attempting to eradicate illegal practices in the meat export industries. Refusal to take action jeopardises long term market prospects, undermines legitimate efforts of local producers and undercuts registered meat exporters. Basically, it is an open secret that massive backyard processing of meat for export has been organised by a number of processors with the purpose of avoiding meat inspections. 
Before I deal with specifics, I wish to outline how and why this backyard operation has been established. Over a period of time a number of meatworks, some of which have Commonwealth registration to slaughter for export and others of which do not have this registration, have been processing meat for export which has not been inspected by Commonwealth meat inspectors. Some of this illegally processed meat destined for export can be of inferior quality. What has been occurring is that this meat which is not inspected for export has been brought into registered export works, the packaging has been changed, the meat has been stamped illegally with a Commonwealth stamp made without the knowledge of the meat inspector, and then it has been sent overseas. The most obvious reason for such an operation is to maximise profits for the processors. For example, as there is only a small local market for forequarters, the processor using this backyard operation sells them on the export market. In essence, through repackaging meat, Commonwealth inspections have been avoided and a considerable amount of uninspected meat is sent overseas. 
I turn now to some specifics relating to this illegal meat export operation. As I understand it, in June- July 1977 the Romanian Government issued a diplomatic complaint to the Australian Government alleging that meat it had received did not meet required specifications. Further, I believe that two other eastern European governments complained to the then Australian Meat Board concerning meat which failed to reach required standards. The Romanian contract, I understand, was carried out by the meat brokers, C. R. Lawrence Pty Ltd of Sydney. The order was filled by obtaining meat from a number of operators in Victoria, and possibly other States. At the same time as complaints were received by the Government, a prominent member of the 
Meat Export Association complained to the Australian Meat Board about the inability of legitimate companies to compete for veal orders against a number of small operators who had no killing facilities. 
As I understand the situation, the complaints were referred to the Minister for Primary Industry in about the middle of last year. The Minister referred the complaints to the Commonwealth Police for investigation. As a result of these investigations a number of illegal operations were closed down. The Commonwealth Police report on this matter named a number of companies which had been involved in illegal processing of meat which was destined for export. None of the companies named were registered export slaughtering establishments. The Minister for Primary Industry was made aware of this situation just prior to the 1977 elections. 
I ask the Minister to disclose whether the following six companies were among those named in the Commonwealth Police report. According to my information, the companies named were: Steigers of Northcote, Victoria; M. Seigal &amp; Son of Fairfield; Lance Creek near Wonthaggi; Ryans at Morwell; Mount Skehan; and Bambra Export Pty Ltd. Further, I ask the Minister: Does the Government intend to initiate further investigations into this matter? Does the Minister intend to start prosecutions on this matter? Is it a fact that the Minister made an arrangement with the producers of a television program to give an exclusive interview on this and related matters, provided that the matter would not be exposed prior to the last Federal election? 
I now turn to several other points related to malpractices by certain operators in avoiding inspections of meat exports. As I understand it, Commonwealth Police investigations have been made into the disappearance of 30,000 trunks of mutton which were processed by the Donga meatworks for local consumption. These trunks were transported to Melbourne. However, it has been alleged that they have in fact disappeared. Could it be that they were exported illegally? Is is the case that Commonwealth Police investigated this matter? What are the results of these investigations? Further, is it the case that the Victorian Attorney-General is investigating the operations of an illegal export meat racket involving many millions of dollars? Could it be the case that some of the illegally exported meat is contaminated with salmonella or other diseases? 
I now turn to another matter relating to the meat industry. Allegations have been made in the Hamilton  Spectator  that the Victorian Department of Agriculture removed  Mr Doug  Mackie, the Regional Meat Inspector, from Hamilton to Melbourne, following Department of Agriculture inspections of illegal meat slaughtering establishments. Newspaper reports of these illegal meat slaughtering operations allege that prominent Western District Liberals are involved. Two Liberal MLAs were named amongst those allegedly involved. They were  Mr C.  Burgin, the member for Polwarth, and  Mr J.  McCabe, the member for Lowan. The removal of  Mr Mackie  from Hamilton followed a meat inspectors raid upon a farm owned by  Mr Hanson  at Timboon in December 1977. The reason, as far as I can ascertain, for  Mr Mackie  's removal was that he instigated the investigations into illegal slaughtering in his area of responsibility. So, outraged by the Department of Agriculture 's removal of  Mr Mackie,  the full staff of the Hamilton Pastoral Research Station and Regional Veterinary Laboratory signed a petition describing his removal without notice as 'an extraordinary decision'. 
Is this another attempt to cover up illegal activities in the meat industry? I ask: Who made this extraordinary decision- the Director of Agriculture,  Dr Wishart;  or the Minister for Agriculture,  Mr Smith,  in an attempt to cover up for his Liberal Party colleagues? Is it a fact that State Government meat inspectors have been precluded from some areas of operations by the Victorian Minister for Agriculture as the result of pressure from exporters and others over recent weeks? These cases of illegal slaughtering, either for export or for domestic consumption, are not the end to this most serious situation in the meat industry. Export licences for the profitable United States market are granted on the basis of credits earned from exporting to other markets. I believe that a considerable amount of favouritism is being exercised by the Minister for Primary Industry in the granting of United States export licences and export orders to companies which have not earned sufficient credits. For example, I cite the granting of an United States export contract to a  Mr Whitaker  of Wales Meats, to operate out of an Alice Springs abattoir, just recently. 
Is it a fact that most of the best meat from this area is transported to Adelaide for killing and that the bulk of the meat left to be killed at the Alice Springs abattoirs consists of scrubbers? Is it the case that the Wales Meat company is being investigated by the Australian Taxation Office? Is it the case that  Mr Whitaker  is a personal friend of  Mr Sinclair?  Further, was  Mr Sinclair  in any way responsible for the granting to Norwest an extra quota worth $1.5m, for export to the United States of America? It is a fact that Norwest had not earned the credits necessary to obtain the extra quota? 
I believe these matters I have raised to be of sufficient importance for a royal commission into the Australian meat industry in the interests of producers, consumers and legitimate operators. The matter to which I have drawn the Senate's attention is nowhere near the complete picture. Malpractices which place the meat export industry in jeopardy must be eliminated forthwith. Hiding these malpractices may serve short-term purposes but ultimately threaten the basic stability of our overseas markets. 
On 1 March 1978  Mr Sinclair  outlined the Government's policy to the Rural Press Club. He said that the Government was attempting to expand current markets and to develop newer markets in the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics and eastern Europe. However, the existence of illegal operations is eroding this market extension. Only a royal commission will be able to get to the facts on these illegal operations and clean up the industry. This is a task demanding urgent attention, free from cover-ups and favouritism, and demanding full public disclosure. 
Yes, certainly. 
I ask the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry: In view of the reply of the Minister for Primary Industry to a question asked yesterday in the other place, can the Minister say whether the six companies named by me on Tuesday evening are among the 10 companies being investigated by the Commonwealth Police for breaches of the Exports (Meat) Regulations? Will the Minister provide me with the information about which he spoke on the adjournment last night? I must ask him why he is prepared to provide- and I use his words- only some of the information? 
asked the Minister representing the Treasurer, upon notice, on 1 March 1978: 
Will the Treasurer consider lowering the present 1 5 per cent rate of sales tax on compost bins which convert waste into useful garden material without any environmental pollution, in view of the fact that plastic garbage cans and incinerators attract only21/2 per cent sales tax and tend to create pollution. 
My question which is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry is basically similar to a question which I asked him on Thursday last. I now ask the Minister whether he has been able to obtain from the Minister for Primary Industry facts as to whether the six meat companies I named were among the 10 companies being investigated by the Commonwealth Police. When can I expect to receive from the Minister the information which he promised to me in his adjournment debate speech on the night of Wednesday, 8 March? 
-I rise to speak briefly in support of the remarks of my  deputy  leader,  Senator Button,  and my colleague  Senator Cavanagh.  It does seem to me that the reaction of the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  and those responsible for security in this place has resulted very largely from the tragedy at the Hilton Hotel. Frankly, in my view the Hilton Hotel incident can only be put alongside the letter bombs of 1975- a method used by agent provocateurs- and I see no reason why we should try to padlock this place because of the actions of such people. 
Those of us who were here on the day that Parliament was opened could only have been staggered by the amount of security placed around this building, which was probably more closely guarded than Fort Knox- with snipers on the roof and security everywhere. It was rather strange the next morning to find the complete opposite being practised. On the Wednesday morning I walked down towards the members' bar and saw lying in the corridor a cardboard box about three feet or three feet six long by eight inches by six inches, tied with a very pretty green ribbon. It appeared to me that someone in that area had that morning received a sheaf of flowers and that the box had been left outside in the corridor. On the previous day that box would undoubtedly have called for the use of the Army's wheeled robot, and someone would have stood off at 50 yards and blasted it to pieces; but on the Wednesday morning it stayed in the same position for three hours. No one seemed to worry two hoots about it. 
On the same day, a constituent of mine came into this Parliament carrying, as ladies are prone to do, a rather large bag. She walked straight up the front steps and came in and asked for me. There was no search- just the complete opposite to what had gone on during the previous day, an activity that had represented a total overreaction to what had happened in the Hilton Hotel. What happened on Wednesday certainly made Tuesday look a complete farce. 
I want to refer now to the kinds of ludicrous things that can happen when one begins to clamp down with security. On the evening of the Tuesday on which Parliament was opened,  Senator Brown,  his wife, his electorate secretary and 1 went to dinner. We returned to Parliament House for the social occasion at around 9. 1 5 or 9.30 p.m. We were unloaded from our cars at the front steps. Upon approaching the bottom of the steps, to walk up into King's Hall, we were confronted with the gentleman about whom  Senator Mulvihill  asked a question. I refer to the bemedalled officer in the swallow-tail coat, who came flying down like a bird in full flight and said: 'Who are you?'. I said: 'My name is  Senator Primmer.  This is.Senator Brown,  Mrs Brown  and Miss Mclvor,  Senator Brown's  electorate secretary.' He said: 'Where are your entree cards?' As it happened, our entree cards had been left in the Whip's office. We told him this and he said: You will not enter this place without an entree card.' I looked up. There were two Senate attendants whom I have known during the time that I have been in this Parliament, something like seven years. I said: 'There are two Senate attendants up there who can identify all of us'. I beckoned one of those attendants down. The officer in the swallow-tail coat said: 'It does not matter; you will not enter here without your entree card'. 
Rather than get into a fight with the gentleman we turned on our heels and walked out. As we were walking out the attendant came down because he realised what was going on. We walked to another door of the building. There we were recognised by attendants. We told them what had happened. One attendant said to me: ' I recognise you, you are  Senator Primmer.'  He said to  Senator Brown:  'You are  Senator Brown,  that is your wife. I believe the other lady is your electorate secretary'. At that time, the attendant who had walked down to the front of the House had moved through the building, picked up our entree cards, and we were allowed in at the other door. We came into King's Hall, much to the horror, I believe, of the swallow-tail coated gentleman who immediately set his beady eyes on us. I understand he set up an investigation as to how we got into the building. 
The point I make is that that gentleman, who appeared to be a security officer of some nature, was looking for entree cards. He was not con.cerned whether I was  Senator Primmer,  Billy the b1'kfellow or Joe from Timbucktoo. He wanted  i  entree card. If I had had my entree card on me when I left the building at 6 o'clock to go to dinner and lost it somewhere, a person who picked it up could have got into this building that night as  Senator Primmer,  despite all the security regulations, while I was precluded. That is the ludicrous situation we get into when we start to clamp down on security and give some authority to petty bureaucrats. All they know to look for is a card. Despite the fact that we were recognised by two attendants who had known us for seven years and could have identified us anywhere, that gentleman intended to keep us out of the building. 
-Senator Coleman reminds me that the rules of entry into this place on that evening were changed at 9 o'clock. At 9 o'clock the bemedalled gentleman found himself on the outer. He was locked out. I do not know whether that is correct. That is what I am told. The situation was ludicrous. That could happen in any building where petty bureaucrats try to exercise petty authority. As I have said, despite the fact that  Senator Brown,  myself and other members of the party were fully and totally spoken for and recognised by attendants we found it difficult it enter. 
What  Senator Sir Magnus  Cormack had to say summed up the situation. I was here at the time of many of the incidents to which he referred. He is to be congratulated for the way he handled those incidents. He said basically that although the security measures which have been taken in the Parliament have stopped the intruder that we do not want in the building, they will never stop all intruders. I was confronted by a gentleman in a corridor in Parliament House late last year. When the sitting of the Senate was suspended at 1 p.m. for the luncheon break I walked into the corridor, along with several other honourable senators. For some reason this gentleman approached me. He did not speak Australian as well as most of us speak it. He was obviously from a foreign country. I found it very hard to pick up the gist of his conversation. The other senators moved off and I found myself confronted by him. He started to become slightly agitated. As it happened one of the Senate whips walked out, assessed the situation and the gentleman was shown out to King's Hall. 
Despite all that has happened in the years about which  Senator Sir Magnus  Cormack spoke, it is still possible for someone to get into Parliament House. I do not say that man was dangerous, but he appeared to be agitated and could well have been dangerous. It goes to show that no matter what stringent security measures are implemented in this place a person who wants or who has been trained to get in will still get in. It reminds me of commandos during the war years. People are trained to get through security screens. They will get in. That is a risk we have to take. As members of parliament we should be prepared to take that risk in the interests of freedom of access into this place for ourselves, our families and our constituents. 
I ask the Minister representing the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations whether the Department of Employment and Industrial Relations is still using the 1971 census figures when expressing the percentage of unemployed in the work force. 
If so, why are not the 1976 census figures being used? 
I direct a question to the Minister for Science. I refer him to the adjournment debate which took place in this chamber on 1 5 March last during which the Minister referred to a successful Australian trading company- Commercial Bureau Australia Pty Ltd- as being 'a company which might do little credit to Australia'. I ask the Minister: Is the company to which he referred the same company as has recently been instrumental in concluding negotiations for the sale to the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics of highly modern isotope onstream analysis equipment for the Australian Mineral Development Laboratory? To the Minister's knowledge, is it the same company as negotiated the export to the USSR of concrete pipemaking technical equipment for the Rocla group of companies? Is the Minister aware that further sales to the USSR in both these areas are pending under the auspices of Commercial Development Australia Pty Ltd? Is the company to which he referred so disparagingly the group which, between October 1976 and September 1977, negotiated contracts worth more than $ 1 m for the sale to the USSR of 90,000 tons of Australian beef? Is it the same company as in June last year sold to the USSR more than 6,000 tons of Australian butter, which was the first sale of butter ever in this new market area? I ask the Minister in his capacity as Minister for Science whether he should not be aware of this rather unusual export of Australian technical and scientific equipment to a new market area. I ask also whether as a member of the National Country Party he might consider ceasing to disparage by innuendo a company which is clearly doing so much to help Australia's struggling primary industries. 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Defence. Are Australian Army mapping operations about to restart in West Irian? What was the reason for their discontinuation? What area of West Irian has still to be mapped by the Army team? Is some of the area a matter of dispute between the Indonesian army and indigenous forces? 
-Does the Minister for Social Security recall that in her answer to me seven weeks ago she undertook to give consideration to granting unemployment beneficiaries the automatic right to have their benefit paid while they were appealing against departmental decisions to cut off their benefit? As she has now foreshadowed further delays while appeals can go to the Administrative Appeals Tribunal during which time, unlike other pensioners, the unemployed person will have no income at all, can she announce that subject to the usual worktesting arrangements the unemployed person can continue to receive his or her unemployment benefit until the case is decided? 
-by leave- I will be rather brief. I think the  Chairman  of the Senate Standing Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence,  Senator Sim,  has said all that needs to be said, but I should like to confirm some of the points which he made. Firstly, I must say as a member of the Committee that I think the Committee members generally agree that we felt we were severely inhibited by our inability to travel throughout the South Pacific region during the time of the inquiry. This seems to me to be a continuing problem faced by Committees of this Parliament when they wish to look into matters outside the jurisdiction of the Commonwealth. We were able in the past to travel in the Indian Ocean because the Cocos (Keeling) Islands come under the umbrella of Australia. I believe that we have an equally important task to perform in the South Pacific but, because anywhere east of Norfolk Island is beyond the pale as far as Commonwealth expenditure is concerned in relation to committees, there is no provision for committees to travel in this area. Admittedly some members of the Committee have been in this area. I was in the area but not for the specific task of looking at the relationships between Australia and the nations of the South Pacific. I believe that had we been able to go there the report of the Committee would have been much fuller and it would have been a much better report than it is. 
It was unfortunate that the Committee received very little evidence from the indigenous people of the South Pacific. We did talk with the people and it was apparent that the South Pacific islanders are great talkers, but they find it very hard to put pen to paper. In that circumstance it would seem ideal for committee members to go there and talk to the people rather than expect them to put pen to paper and give their feelings on what is going on in their communities, particularly in relation to the question of Australian trade and aid. A reading of the report will show that the Committee sought to cover all aspects of our relationships with these islands and these people. But in relation to aid and trade I certainly felt that the Committee was not able to get the sort of gut response that the Committee should have got from the indigenous people on those tiny islands. 
One or two matters which did crop up I think are fairly basic and down to earth matters that governments of this country should look into further. Firstly, because a large number of the peoples in the South Pacific still live in a subsistence agricultural situation it appears that there are times in the year when there are exotic tropical fruits and vegetables lying on the ground or rotting on the trees for the want of markets. At the same time, those fruits and vegetables are at such a high price on the Sydney and Melbourne markets that the average Australian is prohibited from buying them. In the opinion of the Committee there is a need to have a look at our trade and our quarantine laws in this regard. The evidence given to the Committee would suggest that in many cases our quarantine regulations are unnecessary, and they are an inhibiting factor to trade between the South Pacific islands and Australia in relation to those items. 
One other matter that I should like to mention is that every day, every week in every year we see thousands of Australians trip off to the South Pacific as tourists. One can pick up any paper at the weekend and see all sorts of package deals and package tours arranged for those Australians who can afford to travel- in recent days, more so than retired people. Possibly people get the impression that money spent by tourists who visit Fiji, Nauru or some other exotic tropical island goes into the coffers of the people there. It seems to me from inquiries and evidence given to the Committee that all too often indigenous people receive very little of the tourist dollar that leaves this or for that matter any other country. It seems to me- and this may be beyond the ability of this Government or this Parliament to correct- that by and large the indigenous people on those islands get only the tail end jobs, the dirty jobs. One would hope that the entrepreneurs of tourism in those areas and the governments in those areas soon will make sure that the indigenous people get a better deal from tourism by ensuring that the locals are able to move up the scale in relation to the type of job opportunities that tourism can provide. I seek leave to continue my remarks. 
Leave granted. 
I ask the Minister representing the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations whether on March 23 the Minister issued a Press release announcing that the Community Youth Support Scheme would be funded for a twelve-month period. Have committees fostering CYSS now been informed that funding will be available for only a six-month period? 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations. By way of preface I say that on 5 April I asked whether the Department of Employment and Industrial Relations was still using the 1971 census figures when expressing the percentage of unemployed people in the work force and, if so, why the 1976 census figures were not used, and that later in Question Time that day the Attorney-General replied stating that the Commonwealth Employment Service was not using census figures but rather Australian Bureau of Statistics work force figures. If that is the case, can the Minister explain why a constituent should receive a letter dated 22 May from the regional manager of a CES office stating: 'The percentage unemployed expressed per work force are based on the 1 97 1 census figures '? What is the truth? 
I ask the Minister representing the Minister for Trade and Resources: What discussions, if any, have been held between Commonwealth and Victorian government officials regarding possible proposals by the latter Government to install a nuclear power station at Portland in Victoria? As the proposed site is within the Prime Minister's electorate, has he had any discussions with any group about such a station being built? 
-Can the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry confirm or deny the truth of reports current in the dairying districts of Victoria that from 1 July of this year the Victorian Minister of Agriculture,  Mr Smith,  intends to issue dairying licences allowing people currently outside the dairy industry to enter it? 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations, upon notice, on 6 April 1978: 
1 ) How many people were in the work force in each municipality of the Wannon electorate at the time ofthe 1971 Census. 
What percentage of the work force in each of the municipalities was unemployed at that time. 
What are the comparable figures from 1972 to 1976. 
asked the Minister representing the Prime Minister, upon notice, on 28 February 1978: 
Was Stumpy Gully Estates, the land in which the Right Honourable P. R. Lynch or his family company had a financial interest, zoned by the Westernport Regional Planning Authority for conservation purposes or as an area of special interest, prior to  Mr Peter  Leake's taking up his position as  Chairman  of My Lynch 's electorate committee on 6 October 1972. 
Was the zoning of the land in question altered in any way after 6 October 1972. 
Was the original zoning of the land altered in the 12 months prior to 6 October 1972. 
Was use of the land in question at all times a matter for the discretion of the Westernport Regional Planning Authority of which  Mr Peter  Leake was  Chairman  prior to his association with  Mr Lynch. 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Defence. Has the Government received a considerable number of submissions and representations during the last few months concerning the decision to wind up the Australian Services Canteen Organisation? In the light of these representations and the views expressed by many staff members of ASCO that the Government's action will mean greatly reduced services to defence personnel and a substantially increased cost to the Federal Government, will the Minister seek a review of the decision? 
I thank the Government for the opportunity to speak in this debate. I gave notice that I intended to speak only a few moments ago and for that reason I shall be rather brief. I have always held the opinion that the Australian fishing fleet can be described as nothing more than a cockleshell fleet. In saying that I do not wish it to be seen as a derogatory remark. The fact that we have only a cockleshell fleet largely has been brought about because no one has been prepared to put the money that has been required into vessels of larger capacity than anything we have at the moment. The fishing industry has been traditionally a family type of operation with sons following fathers down the line. Because of the nature of the marketing the product particularly in Australia there has never been the ability to accrue capital to the families involved. 
I concur with all the remarks made by the previous speakers about the situation developing now, particularly those of  Senator Archer.  There is a need for some caution on how far we go. I wonder at times what research may have been done by other nations. It has been a well-known fact around the coast of Australia that the Russians, the Japanese, the Koreans, the Taiwanese and goodness knows who else have been out there for a number of years not only catching fish but also doing research. I would be surprised if their research archives were not much fuller than ours in relation to the fishing potential around this coast. 
A moment ago I mentioned the lack of capital in the local industry. In Victoria there is hardly a fisherman who brings in a load of fish who can tell his crew on the way back what the value of that fish is landed on the wharf or sold on the wet fish market in Melbourne. Every fisherman who goes out hopes to hell that he catches the only fish available, that he comes back with a full boat and all of his mates come back with empty boats. If he lives in the western part of Victoria he hopes that there is a gale blowing in Orbost and in Gippsland and western Victorians are the only ones who will get a load of fish because if the market is short the price will go up. That has been the situation ever since the fishing industry has been established. As a nation, of course, we are not large fish eaters. If my memory serves me correctly, we export roughly the equivalent in dollar value of what we import. 
In the past the situation with foreign fishing vessels has left a great deal to be desired because as a nation we have gained nothing from their activities. I hope that, if any of these joint ventures with foreign countries are established, one of the rules that will be laid down will be that all fish caught will be processed on shore. I see that as the only way that Australia as a nation or the Australian people will ever get a share out of such operations. If that could be brought about- as I hope it will- a great many job opportunities will be provided in many of the depressed coastal rural areas in Australia. I hope the Government will press on with the matter. I have had the privilege of seeing some of the foreign proposals which have been put to the Australian Government. I believe that some of them are very good. I think that by and large they comply with the Act as it is set out here in relation to the regulations. One only hopes so. Of course, once the Act is implemented the proposals will have to comply. Whatever vessels are brought in to assist our industry and our people in catching whatever may be out there, on-shore processing is a must. That is the only answer for Australia. 
-One of the problems that we seem to have in this place when debating reports such as this is the time lag between when the Committee starts and finishes its reference, and the documents are tabled and when we actually get around to debating them. The Senate Foreign Affairs and Defence Committee has now finished taking evidence on a further reference, and here we are just debating the report that was put down some months ago. Over that period one 's memory slips a little and at times it is hard to recall where one heard certain evidence, and to which committee it was given. So if some of my remarks tonight are a little confusing it is because I am confused and cannot remember exactly where evidence was given and who gave the evidence before the Committee. 
Back in April when the report was put down I mentioned the inability of the Committee to travel. I think it is a matter that must be reiterated until such time as some action is taken. That point was brought up this evening by my colleague,  Senator Sibraa,  who said that on a previous reference members of the Committee travelled from eastern Australia to Perth and back again and no one raised any queries about it. I suppose the man in the street on the average wage would consider it to be a rather costly exercise. But when it comes to travelling beyond the boundaries of the Commonwealth the Committee is stuck with this restriction. Quite frankly, I believe that it is not beyond possibilitypresupposing that the report will be read by the indigenous people in the South Pacific- that the Committee could be accused of being pretenders, great white fathers or colonisers because we were unable to go out there and talk to the people. If my memory serves me correctly, on this reference the Committee spoke to only two indigenous people. I stand corrected. Some other members of the Committee may have a better memory, but to the best of my knowledge we spoke to only two indigenous people from the South Pacific. 
This is entirely true. Just by chance, both of those people were resident in Australia at that time. I do not believe that a committee can be totally sure it is bringing down an unbiased report when it speaks to only two people of the thousands of people who belong in that area of the world. 
Earlier I mentioned the question of trade and quarantine regulations. I hope that our Department of Trade and Resources and our quarantine people will look very closely at this reference because it appeared to the Committee on evidence submitted to it that there is the possibility of importing into our large capital cities what might be termed exotic fruits and vegetables at times when those particular exotic fruits are not available from Australian sources. Also it may well be that the quarantine regulations which currently apply are totally unnecessary. So I hope that that is one matter that will be investigated. 
The Committee also raised the question of the inability of the peoples of the South Pacific to sit in the forums of the world where trade discussions are going on. The Committee made certain recommendations in that regard and said: 
To help overcome the relatively short term experience and lack of representation of many South Pacific countries in international trade meetings and marketing promotion, it is recommended that Australia, if the Island Governments request consider 
presenting Island views at international trade meetings and/or inviting Island representatives to accompany Australian missions and delegations as observers. 
attaching Island trainees or officers to Australian Trade Commissioner Offices overseas for training and promoting their countries' products in countries where they are not represented. 
assisting where appropriate with the marketing of Island goods but taking into account the interests of Australian producers. 
That is another recommendation to which one hopes the Government will give serious consideration. The question of the environment in the South Pacific was raised also. On page 5 of the Committee 's report it states: 
The South Pacific region is fortunate in relation to environmental matters, as comparatively little damage has occurred, with the exception of Nauru and Ocean Island . . . 
The Committee then went on to make some observations about French nuclear testing in the Pacific. From the evidence we could gather, certainly there was little evidence of environmental damage, but I think we should take the time to have a further look at what has happened on Ocean Island over the last decade. Those of us in Australia who have an agricultural background are very much aware of the great benefit that superphosphate has had on agriculture in this country. In fact, in my lifetime agriculture in Australia has been lifted by all sorts of means from a peasant type existence to what it is today. Surely one of the most basic tools that Australian primary producers have had over the last 40 or 50 years has been superphosphate. 
With the help of other nations we have stripped Ocean Island bare. A comment which appeared somewhere in the Press recently was attributed to one of the personnel on the British Phosphate Commission who was reported to have said that it would be impractical to do what the Banabans are now asking, and that is to resoil their island. We desoiled it. We are not prepared- no one seems to be prepared- to resoil the island and allow those people to go back to their homeland. To me that reeks of blatant colonialism. While this nation climbed the ladder through agriculture to secondary industry and to tertiary industry, largely with the help of superphosphate, we denuded a complete island and deprived the people of their home. Despite court hearings in England it now appears that these people will be forever deprived of their homeland. If Australia's name, along with the names of some other countries, smells somewhat in the South Pacific, we have only ourselves to blame. I believe that largely we would still be peasant farmers except for the advent of superphosphate. I say that as a person who has a farming background. 
I wish to mention another matter involving the environment. Some information came to me in recent weeks from a friend who travelled recently to' Bougainville. Late in 1945 I was fortunate enough or unfortunate enough to be at what was then the pre-war capital of Bougainville, Keita. The only memory I have of it is a largely unspoiled area of land except for some war damage caused at that time in isolated areas. This friend of mine who has returned in recent weeks from a visit to the mining operation informs me that the tailings from the present mine have polluted and are continuing to pollute at a very high rate the river that takes them away from that mine. He expressed the opinion' that that will change the landscape in the immediate area. So now it seems that Bougainville is to be fraught with an area which is environmentally damaged. That situation will continue while the operation continues there. 
One other matter I would like to mention concerns the Committee's recommendation in the report in relation to youth and sporting exchanges. I suppose there are no more easygoing, friendly, hospitable, homely people anywhere in the world than the people of the Pacific Islands. Any of us who have ever been there, any of us who have ever read any stories at all about the South Pacific, have been made very much aware of the lifestyle, the friendliness, the homeliness and the hospitality of these people. We do not really see very many of them in Australia. By and large we do not see any groups of Pacific Island people in Australia, except on relatively rare occasions. I believe that as a nation we should be looking towards promoting more contact between our own young people and the younger people of the South Pacific. They are extremely good sportsmen; they are extremely good dancers. The music they play would lull one to sleep, or to love, or to doing something else. It is extremely charming music. After a couple of beers I could dance all night to it. 
I believe that this is a matter at which governments and perhaps private enterprise, as the Committee recommends, may well look with a view to sponsoring cultural or sporting groups from some of these islands in order to bring about that shoulder-rubbing with the youth of Australia. I believe that we as a nation are still a very racist people. I had hoped that with the advent of the younger generation some of that racism would have died out. Quite frankly, when I hear some of the remarks of some of the younger people in our society today I am horrified. Perhaps one of the better ways of trying to overcome that situation would be to let them rub shoulders with the people of the South Pacific. They are a people with a different culture, but because of their friendliness and the way in which they operate, such an exchange may well be a way of starting to break down the racism in our society. 
I wish to thank those members of the Committee who took part in this examination. I refer to the matter of the inability of the Committee to travel. I think it was  Senator Davidson  who made some remarks along the lines that he hoped that the Committee would look at this matter again some time in the future. I certainly hope that if that time ever comes the members of the committee, whoever they may be, will be able to travel there and have a grass roots look at what is going on. 
I was about to conclude my remarks but I just remembered another point I wish to raise. I think this matter may have been mentioned in evidence given in relation to another reference made to the Committee. I refer to the matter of the inability of the officers of the Australian Development Assistance Bureau to travel and to look at projects. I think that is a tragedy. I believe that in the aid area of the Department of Foreign Affairs we have some exceedingly fine young men. I say 'young men' because they are younger than me. 
And women, yes; I am sorry. We have some very young people working in that area. As those people presented themselves before the Committee it was obvious they were certainly much younger than the average age of officers in the Department of Foreign Affairs. They were extremely Ween, capable young people. They feel very frustrated at the fact that they are unable, because' of the limitations imposed by the vote for any given project, to have a look at what is happening. That again is of great disadvantage to this country. How are we to know and how are they to know what is the gut feeling of the ordinary, common people out in those countries about our aid projects unless they can go and see? That is just the position in which this Committee was placed. 

 - Mr President, my question is directed to you. Reports circulating in Parliament House yesterday indicated that a certain area had been placed out of bounds. Were these reports correct? If so, what was the reason? Was there any danger to the people in the area at the time? You may perhaps care to make a statement if you do not wish to answer the question now. 
-My question to the Minister representing the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations follows a question asked by my colleague,  Senator Mulvihill.  Were any of the facts concerning the issuing of two passports to Miss Barbara Biggs and her expulsion from Japan known either to the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations or to the Director of the Industrial Relations Bureau,  Mr Linehan?  If so, when? 
-One is always glad of the opportunity to speak on a variety of matters on the first reading of a money Bill because on many occasions one is not given the opportunity to raise matters that one deems to be of some importance and worthy of raising in this place. The matter which I wish to raise has been on my desk for the last fortnight because the Parliament has not been sitting. It concerns human rights. In recent months the world Press has been full of the question of human rights. It seems to have been largely concentrated on the problem in the Soviet Union. I think we must all admit that there does appear to be a problem there, but no one seems to raise this matter which affects many other countries. 
In fact, I have two matters on my plate on the same subject of human rights. The matter to which I wish to allude tonight is in the form of a letter from Singapore. I am reluctant at this stage to bring on the other matter which deals with human rights in South Africa because I want to do some further checking on the information. I will read a copy of a letter written in Singapore and dated 5 August 1978. It is addressed 'Dear Friend ' and it reads: 
We are the families and relatives of political detainees in Singapore, many of whom have been detained without trial for 10 to IS years. They include Said Zahari (a journalist). Drs Poh Soo Kai and Lim Hock Siew (both medical practitioners), Ho Piao (a trade union leader), Lee Tse Tong (a trade union leader and former assemblyman), Chia Thye Po (a former assemblyman). Chue Seh Jui (a student) and many others. 
We write to bring to the attention of your organisation the fact that the Lee Kuan Yew government in Singapore has lately intensified its oppression and ill-treatment of political detainees, and to appeal for moral support for the struggle for justice and human rights of political detainees in Singapore. 
The Internal Security Act permits the Singapore government to imprison any political dissident without charge or trial for indefinite periods. Under Singapore 's laws, a person sentenced to life imprisonment by a court of law after trial and conviction is required to serve only 13 years and 4 months. But political detainees imprisoned without trail continue to be imprisoned even after  1514  years. The Singapore government's policy is to imprison a political dissident indefinitely to coerce him to renounce his political convictions and to publicly help the government to justify his own imprisonment. Various oppressive and persecutionary measures are meted out to political detainees to wear down their resistance. The Prime Minister of Singapore, Lee Kuan Yew, has virtually admitted in public that political detainees in Singapore are being subjected to torture. It was reported in the Straits Times on 20 February 1978 that, to a query by a reporter from the Far Eastern Economic Review on whether security authorities in Singapore use techniques like questioning naked or lightly clothed suspects in very cold airconditioned room for long periods, keeping them in solitary confinement, denying them adequate sleep, and dousing them with cold water, Lee Kuan Yew's reply was: 'all interrogations must wear down the resistance of these persons by sustained psychological pressure, including physical fatigue'. 
In recent years, the Singapore government has gradually imposed further repressive measures on the living conditions of political detainees. In 1977, the ventilators in the cells in Moon Crescent Centre were closed, thus further aggravating the already poor ventilation of the cells and causing further physical and psychological stress to the detainees and their families. In recent months, severe curtailment has even been imposed on food stuff supplied by families of political detainees. The prison diet for political detainees is inadequate and political detainees are compelled to supplement their diet with foodstuff from their families to ensure their health. Thus the government has not only refused to improve detainees' prison rations (which are in some respects worse that that for convicted prisoners), it has also seen fit to prevent detainees' families from adequately supplementing the prison diet. This is an obvious punitive measure to render conditions under detention more oppressive. 
Since April this year, the political detainees have been protesting against these persecutionary measures, staging sitdown protests after each visit because prison authorities have refused to discuss the issue of foodstuff brought in by the families. Two one-day hunger strikes were staged in June (6th) and July ( 1 7th) when some detainees were sent to solitary confinement. We have petitioned to the prison authorities, once in early July and once two weeks later. On the second occasion a letter was also handed to the superintendent of Moon Crescent Centre requesting them to stop all punitive measures and to improve prison conditions. The Singapore government has not only ignored our petition, but has now resorted to even more severe measures to suppress this just protest. Almost all detainees have been locked up for 24 hours a day in solitary confinement in special mental torture cells in Changi Maximum Security Prison, which is normally used for convicted criminals. They are also deprived of all reading materials and human contacts. We have been refused the right to see our husband and children for at least two consecutive weeks, presumably the period they are in solitary confinement. In Singapore political detainees are allowed to be visited only by their immediate family (parents, wife/husband, children, brothers and sisters), and for half an hour each week. We can see the detainees through a sound-proof glass window with two wardens sitting behind the detainees in one room and one or two behind us in the other. We converse through telephones closely monitored by the secret police who can arbitrarily terminate the visit should they find the conversation, such as mentioning of prison conditions 'objectionable'. Furthermore, as a punishment, we are denied the right to see our beloved ones even under such oppressive conditions. 
On December 13th 1977, Singapore's envoy to the United Nations, together with the envoys of New Zealand and Fiji, have jointly written to the UN Secretary General,  Dr Kurt  Waldheim, to ask that a petition by Amnesty International calling for the release of all prisoners of conscience become an official document of the UN General Assembly. It is incredible that the Lee Kuan Yew government in Singapore has sought to pose as an advocate of human rights before the world body when it has blatantly trampled upon the most elementary concept of human rights in its own country. While on the one hand the Singapore government urges the United 
Nations' support for Amnesty International's call for the immediate release of all prisoners of conscience such as our beloved ones, on the other hand it not only continues to imprison political detainees in Singapore but has also subjected them to torture and ill-treatment. 
We, the families and relatives of all political detainees in Singapore appeal to you and your organisation to take rapid and concrete steps to ensure that the Universal Declaration of Human Rights will have meaning and substance in Singapore. World moral pressure is urgently needed to ensure that the Lee Kuan Yew government practises in Singapore what it preaches in the United Nations. We call on all those who genuinely believe in justice and human rights to lend their support to the campaign for the immediate and unconditional release of all political detainees in Singapore. 
Thank you 
Families and relatives of Political Detainees in Singapore 
Debate interrupted. 
I present the following petition from 553 citizens of Australia: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate in Parliament assembled. The petition of the undersigned respectfully showeth: 
That Omega is the only worldwide navigation system, whose continuous Very Low Frequency signals can be used by submarines to determine their position, while remaining completely submerged. 
That in particular the missile-firing submarines of the USA can improve their destructive potential by using Omega signals. 
That it represents a major escalation of the arms race, and directly involves Australia even further in nuclear war strategies. 
That therefore an Omega station built in Australia would be a prime nuclear target. 
That such a station would therefore represent a further deterioration of Australia's independence and initiatives towards a non-aligned and peaceful foreign policy. 
Your petitioners most humbly pray that the Australian Government will reject any proposal to build an Omega station on Australian soil. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
-In rising to speak on this Budget I feel that I can say only that the dead hand of Liberalism, the dead hand of Fraser, the Prime Minister, lies o'er the land. The August edition of the Victorian journal  Taxpayer  described this Budget as the harshest 
Budget in over 30 years. That is a comment with which I totally agree. The  Taxpayer  contains an article headed: 'Killing the goose that lays the tax-egg. ' The article states: 
It's the harshest budget since the 1940's-with taxpayers hit: left, right &amp; centre 
This year's Budget was a shrewdly prepared document because it paved the way to take away spending power, to lift prices, to remove some benefits and raise a lot more revenue. 
Many taxpayers were not only hit: 'left, right and centre' but they were hit both coming and going. Not only were income tax rates summarily increased but many people will find their taxable incomes will go up. A double-take. 
A whole series of extra pensions and benefits are to become taxable. The rules for taxing some part of retirement lump sums involve retrospectivity, and future additions to long service leave (if taken in cash when you are retrenched or simply get old ) will be mostly fully taxable. 
There is a reversal on many policies. Now for the over-70's, increases in social security pensions are to be means-tested. Now there's no claim to be made for homeloan interest. Now migrants genuinely maintaining parents back home are to be denied the claim for them. 
Lower taxes WERE good for us: Why not NOW? 
Back when votes were being wooed, back in 1975 and again in 1977, there were promises of tax reductions which came, and then went. Under the revised personal tax scales, most taxpayers are back to 'square one.' 
If during an election, the best economic advice is to restore incentive and give businesses and people the wherewithall to get the economy moving, is the position so different now? Reminds me of the economics student who went to his tutor, surprised that the exam questions were the same as last year- only to be told: 'Ah yes! but this year the ANSWERS are different! '. 
The Budget Speech says we'll pay a whole year's extra instalments over eight months. But the fine print at the back (page 158, if you're interested) tells the bald truth that between 1st November and 30 June the arrangement is to take an EXTRA month's increase and it will be refunded in 1979-80. That means about a S77m interest-free loan you and I are forced to make. 
This Budget truly takes away from those who have not and gives to those who already have, showing in effect the complete elitism of this Fraser Government.  Mr Fraser  claimed in 1975 that he wanted three years to get the economy back into gear. Those three years are almost up and today the Australian economy is in a worse mess than ever with unemployment up and increasing. When this Government took office in 1975 registered unemployment stood at 280,000 people. Today the figure is around 400,000 with tens of thousands, or perhaps hundreds of thousands, more people who have dropped out of the work force altogether and consequently are not included in any official figures. So it is not unlikely that there are some 600,000 people in Australia today who would take employment if such were available to them. 
I want to deal particularly with the situation in country Victoria. At the end of July last there were 95,149 people registered as unemployed in Victoria. Of those, 30,700 or 32.3 per cent were registered in non-metropolitan offices of the Commonwealth Employment Service. That figure compares with 28.8 per cent of Victoria's population living outside Melbourne. On current trends, and boosted by this Budget, it is not impossible that registered unemployed in country Victoria will reach 55,000 next year, or an increase of 45 per cent between July 1978 and February 1979. I have a table based on CES figures which shows the distribution of unemployment in country Victoria as at 3 1 July last. I shall seek leave later to have this table incorporated in  Hansard.  I shall instance unemployment in three of the worst areas of unemployment in rural Victoria. The ratio of unemployed to vacancies for youths in the Shepparton area is 75.25 registrants for each job. In Mildura the figure is 175.2 young people registered for work for every job that is available at the CES. But worst by far is the area around Gippsland in the electorate of the Minister for Transport,  Mr Nixon,  where there are 258 youths unemployed for every job that is registered with the Commonwealth Employment Service. That is surely a tragic situation for young Victorians. 
In my opinion worst hit are young women residing outside the metropolitan area. I cite an example of a case that I have on my plate at the moment. A 16-year old girl left school at the end of last year in a provincial country area. Because there was no employment she applied for and received unemployment benefits. After a month or six weeks, and following the guidelines laid down by this Government that people should not sit at home and expect work to come to their door but rather go out to search for it, she, with a carload of her mates who had also left school, travelled some 550 kilometres to north eastern Victoria to search for work. They had an indication that some work of a seasonal nature was available. They were fortunate enough to get work in that area when they arrived. However, in the case of the young woman the work cut out after a few short weeks, and she again reapplied for the unemployment benefit. She was visited by a field officer of the Department of Social Security who alleged that the young woman was living in a de facto relationship and therefore was not entitled to the unemployment benefit. The allegation is that the field officer used the words: 'You live in a house with males; they must support you'. As a consequence, as I said, she was denied the unemployment benefit. 
The question I raise is this: Here is a young girl 16 years of age, 550 kilometres from home, with no means of transport and out of money. What type of immorality are we breeding in our society? If those young men and I suppose the young women with whom she was living in the house were to turn her out onto the street because she was not bringing in any income, what would happen to her? What type of immorality is this Government forcing on to the people? Was this young woman supposed to go out on to the streets and prostitute herself to find a bed for the night? That is the sort of situation into which this Government is pushing women particularly young women. There are reports in Victoria that young women are transporting themselves from country areas to the metropolitan area to work in the massage parlours to get money. They work in these places for a short period and then move back to their home towns. I do not know whether the reports are correct, but this situation is indicative of the sort of thing that is happening particularly in relation to young women in country areas. 
I was astounded at a relatively recent outburst by the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations  (Mr Street).  The Minister was reported in the Press about two to three months ago as saying that he could not understand why young people lived in a communal type situation in this day and age. It is patently obvious that  Mr Street  is so far out of touch with what is going on in his own community in particular that he does not realise the sort of rents and bonds that landlords are asking even in the country areas of Victoria from persons requiring rented premises. It is not uncommon even in the remote areas of Victoria for landlords to ask for $35 or $40 a week rent on a flat or if one is lucky an old two or three-bedroom house. The landlords also require a bond of $ 1 00 or $ 1 50. There is just no way that young unemployed people can by themselves get together that type of finance. The only way they can survive is to get together in twos and threes, rent accommodation in common and live together. 
The situation is that many young people have reached a crisis point in their lives. Unfortunately some have done away with their lives because of the unemployment problem hanging over their head. These young people have lost all selfrespect. They wonder what is wrong with them. Highly intelligent young men and women who call at my office and to whom I speak cannot quite understand why they are in this situation. As 1 said, they have lost all self-respect. Unfortunately some of them have been out of work for so long that it is extremely doubtful that they will ever work again. I do not say that in a disparaging way. It seems to be a syndrome- a psychological effect that this non-work process imposes on the youth of this country. How on earth these young people are ever expected to get work experience to fit them for some form of secure employment I will never know, and I am sure that they do not know. 
I again refer to the table which I cited earlier. There are 17.2 registered unemployed persons for every vacancy in Victoria, and 26.6 for every vacancy in rural Victoria. In view of those sorts of figures it is little wonder that young people have lost all self-respect and respect for our society. In this regard I think I can best illustrate the attitude of the Liberal Government, the Prime Minister, the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations and the Department of Social Security by reading the best thing that I have read for a long time, and that is Malthus on the Effects of the Knowledge of the Principal Causes of Poverty'. 
I understand it was written in the late eighteenth century or the early nineteenth century. 
I think this statement epitomises the sort of thinking that is inculcated in this Government. Malthus said: 
Nothing would so effectually counteract the mischiefs occasioned by  Mr Paine  's Rights of Man, as a general knowledge of the real rights of man. What these rights are it is not my business at present to explain; but there is one right which man has generally been thought to posses, which I am confident he neither does nor can possess- 
This is the crunch line-  a right to subsistence when his labour will not fairly purchase it. 
Cannot honourable senators hear the Prime Minister, the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations and field officers of the Department of Social Security running around the countryside labelling every young person who happens to live in a communal situation as living in a de facto relationship, inferring that young women are living in sin, that they are going to bed with every Tom, Dick and Harry? My information is that that is the situation in which these young women are being placed. It is of little use for them to come into my office and to be indignant, to cry their eyes out and be upset because of the moralistic attitudes of this Government. That is the situation in which the Government which  Senator Messner  supports has placed these young people. 
One other little item that I dug out of some archives recently is this. It would do  Mr Fraser  well in relation to unemployment to go back to his party's predecessor, the United Australia Party, which in the run-up to the election in 1943 was putting forward a plan for a national insurance scheme on a contributory basis beginning with insurance against unemployment. That is to be done immediately victory was achieved and peace returned. I seek leave to continue my remarks. 
Leave granted; debate adjourned. 
I ask the Minister for Science: What methods of biological control have been developed by the Commonwealth Scientific and Industrial Research Organisation for the weed, Paterson 's Curse? When is it proposed to implement these controls? 
-Just prior to the adjournment of this debate on Tuesday evening I was speaking on the matter of human rights and had completed reading into  Hansard  a letter from friends and relatives of political detainees in Singapore. I had mentioned earlier that I had some information relative to what I believed to be a lack of human rights in South Africa, but that I was conducting inquiries to try to establish the truth or otherwise thereof; also, that because of changing events, the information I had was some two or three months old and I wanted to bring it up to date. 
I am now informed that throughout May and June of this year, at least 18 young Catholic workers were arrested in South Africa. The latest information I was able to receive by checking around, as of yesterday afternoon, indicates that many, perhaps all, of these young Catholic workers have been released. However, the people from whom I sought the information expressed the opinion that it was extremely hard to get authentic information of this nature out of a country such as South Africa. Whilst they are prepared to concede that all may have been released, they somehow feel that a number of them are still in prison. I am advised that those who have been released have not at any time been given reasons as to why they were detained and incarcerated in gaol. Furthermore, the latest information available indicates that it is suspected that persons belonging to the Young Catholic Student Movement in South Africa have also been arrested. There has been, and there continues to be, harrassment of young Catholic workers in that country. 
For the information of honourable senators, I will outline briefly what detention under section 6 of the Terrorism Act of South Africa means to people such as these who are picked up by the police. It means unlimited detention without trial. No information as to one's whereabouts is given to friends or relatives. There is no contact with family or friends. There is total control by police. There is no legal assistance. There is total isolation. There is torture to obtain information about friends and organisations. No information is given, as I have said, concerning why one is in prison. In short, the Terrorism Act is a means for the police to impose terror on the people. To be in such a situation means being in solitary confinement, which is a form of psychological torture, with frequent visits from an interrogator, who is the only link with the human race. 
Those who have already been in prison in South Africa have given the following details: For three days one is prevented from sleeping. The electricity is on day and night. Then one is locked in a room with no lights. There are beatings and other forms of punishment. Meals consist of the following: Breakfast, soft porridge; lunch, boiled corn; supper, a light soup. I do not want to say much more about the matter, but I relate those facts because I believe, as I said on Tuesday, when I began to discuss this matter, a one-sided approach has been taken by this Parliament, and perhaps by many people in this nation who seem to believe that there is a lack of human rights in only one country of the world. Recent reports- as late as yesterday in the  Canberra Times- refer  to trials in South Africa in which it has been alleged that prisoners have been chained and beaten. There are further reports that 10 associates of Steve Biko have been picked up; that others have fled the country as, I am given to understand, is the case with a number of young Catholic workers. Young people have been forced into hiding, or into fleeing the country. 
It does seem a pity that the sub-committee of the Joint Parliamentary Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence was not given a wider reference in relation to human rights than the single reference of human rights in the Soviet Union. It is a world-wide problem. It seems to me that, as a nation and as a Parliament, we tend to be very moralistic about it when it happens thousands and thousands of miles away from home; but when it happens on our doorstep, as it has been happening over the last three years in Timor, we act, as I have said already in this Parliament, like a nation of dingoes and do nothing about it. It is happening right around the world. It is happening in Indonesia, Timor, West Irian or Irian Jaya, right on our border. We say nothing; we acquiesce. It is alright to protest when it happens 12,000 or 15,000 miles from home. 
-I want to raise a matter in relation to a question I asked of the Minister representing the Minister for Foreign Affairs this afternoon.  Senator Carrick  may remember that it was in relation to an Australian citizen of Palestinian origin who is allegedly under arrest in a gaol in Israel. In the latter part of my question I asked: 
Why was  Mr Khalid  's brother interviewed by Commonwealth Police in Adelaide on 14 September? 
There would appear to be some problem in relation to the names that were used. In his reply the Minister used the name Atatra. I understand that that is a family name; so there is no question of the wrong person being talked about. I rang  Mr Ali  Khalid, or  Mr Ali  Atatra, this evening and he assured me that he was interviewed by persons whom he believed to be from the Commonwealth Police. It may well be that some persons interviewed him and told him that they were from the Commonwealth Police Force, but he certainly assured me that he was interviewed by people who he believed to be from the Commonwealth Police. I ask the Minister to check this out to see whether some mistake has been made or whether some persons are interviewing people under the guise of Commonwealth Police. 
I address a question to the Minister representing the Minister for Foreign Affairs. Is it a fact that an Australian citizen- namely,  Mr Fawzi  Khalid Atatra- has been arrested by Israeli authorities in the occupied West Bank area of Jordan and is currently held in prison without charge? Can the Minister indicate any reasons for  Mr Atatra  's detention? Was there any collaboration between any Australian security agency and the Israeli organisation Mossad which may have made Mossad aware of alleged activities on the part of  Mr Atatra,  a Palestinian? Why was  Mr Atatra  's brother interviewed by Commonwealth Police in 
Adelaide on 14 September? For what purpose will the record of that interview be used? 
-I find it rather difficult to understand why the Minister for Science  (Senator Webster)  and the Government generally should contradict the substance of the matter of public importance put forward by the shadow Minister for Primary Industry,  Senator Walsh.  In the other place on Thursday last  Mr Hayden  asked the Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Sinclair)  a question about what  Mr Sinclair  is alleged to have said on the radio program  AM  that morning. The allegation was that  Mr Sinclair  had said: 
Genetically the Australian merino is way ahead of merinos anywhere else in the world. 
In reply to a question about that statement,  Mr Sinclair  said in part: 
Fortunately, in just about every country in the world there are sheep breeders who look at the Australian merino as having that genetic superiority to which I have referred. So in no way do I retract from that assertion. 
As I said, in the light of that assertion by the Minister I find it extremely difficult to understand why Government members should debate this matter of public importance with such vehemence. 
The merino ram held pride of place on our coinage prior to decimal coinage being introduced. If I remember correctly, the wrinklyneck merino with the car tyres around its neck, about which  Senator McLaren  has complained frequently over the years, held pride of place on the Australian shilling. On the current $2 bill the merino ram again holds pride of place. I return to what was said in the other place when this matter was debated previously. The then honourable member for Macquarie,  Mr Luchetti,  put the argument very well. He said: 
In this matter, as in all other major matters, the Government betrays the national interests of Australia. Whether it is in the plunder of resources in some other field or in any other respect, we can always be sure that the Government will come down on the side of foreign interests rather than protect Australian interests. With this Government, national interests are always subordinated. We can always come second or in some other place. Our special position in regard to stud merino rams and our ability to produce fine wool is being disregarded by a Government which is concerned to sell our heritage for a mess of pottage. 
The  DEPUTY PRESIDENT-  There is no point of order. It is a matter of interruption. I ask  Senator Primmer  to continue. 
I would certainly hope that there was no point of order,  Mr Deputy President.  Thank you for your ruling. One wonders just what level debate is reaching in this place when a Minister gets up on such a foolish point as that which was raised by  Senator Webster.  But when the Minister for Science is involved I suppose such action is not incomprehensible. The action of the Government in regard to the export of merino rams reminds me of something that I have not seen for a while because I have been fairly busy in this place. As an ordinary farmer in years gone by, I think that one of the delights of farmers is to visit other properties on the day of the clearing out sale. One of the very sad things about clearing sales, particularly if the sale is held at a time when the property is being disposed of, is to see all sorts of things that have been built up around a farm and a farmer's lifetime being disposed of. The saddest thing of all is to see the faithful dog, old Rover, put under the hammer at the end of the sale. That is about what this Government is prepared to do with Australia's heritage and Australia's merino rams- flog them off to the highest bidder without any thought whatsoever for what they have done for this country and for what they can do in the future. This Government will just flog them off because there is a buck to be made somewhere within the system. 
-Senator Webster blathers on like a motherless bull calf at one of those clearing out sales I was talking about. For 10 or 15 minutes at the start of his speech he spoke about anything but bans on the export of merino rams. He talked about what the Australian Labor Party had done and what it failed to do while it was in office. It is rather interesting that he missed one point and that was what the Labor Government did for the wool industry of this country between 1973 and 1975. That is a matter that is very closely associated with the matter under debate at present. For 10 years the previous Government had done nothing other than procrastinate on the question of a reserve price plan for wool. Farmers throughout this country threw eggs, marched the streets, catcalled speakers, generally made a lot of noise and tried whatever they could to get a reserve price plan for wool from the previous Liberal and Country Party Government. They got nothing until the Labor Government came in and did just what they wanted. Quite frankly, the Labor Government did not get all that much credit for what it did. Nevertheless, had that not been done the wool industry in Australia today would not be on the relatively stable basis on which it is. So it is a pity that the Minister in his tirade against the Labor Party did not mention that one salient point which I believe did more for the wool industry in Australia than whatever the Labor Government may have taken away from primary producers. 
In announcing the partial relaxation of the merino ram ban, the Minister lays stress on the fact that there have been strong representations from the Australian Wool Industry Conference. That Conference is alleged to be the parliament of the wool industry. It is rather interesting to note that on at least two occasions the Australian Wool Industry Conference and its constituent organisations have given Ministers for Primary Industry wrong advice. An article in the  Bulletin  dated 25 July 1 978 states: 
In 1 965 the Liberal-Country Party Government held a referendum of woolgrowers to determine the wool industry's attitude to the wool reserve prices scheme proposed by the then Australian Wool Board. The AWIC supported the proposals, the woolgrowers rejected them. 
Primary Industry Minister Ian Sinclair supported the holding of the 1 965 referendum and was prepared to accept the decision. 
The ALP also found difficulties in resolving woolgrowers ' opinions and in 1 973 held another referendum to determine if the common ban should be lifted on the export of merino rams. The AWIC supported lifting the ban- the woolgrowers did not. 
Surely that is the current situation, in the light of the most recent referendum that has been held on this matter. There is little doubt that neither the Minister for Primary Industry nor the stud sheep breeders wants the matter to go to a referendum because they fear that once again the wool growers will vote against their organisations and in particular against the Australian Wool Industry Conference. The  Bulletin  of 8 August this year carried an article on this very matter by one Malcolm Mackerras, in which he raised the specious arguments that had been used by the Minister for Primary Industry,  Mr Sinclair,  in what  Mr Mackerras  claimed misinterpreted the 1973 referendum result. In the article  Mr Mackerras  states: 
A referendum was held in November 1973 to determine the attitude of woolgrowers to the export of merino rams and about 123,000 woolgrowers were eligible to vote. 
I believe that  Senator Webster  made some reference to the figures for this referendum, but I believe also that he placed a totally different interpretation on them from the interpretation that has been placed on them by  Mr Mackerras  and thousands of other people in the country.  Mr Mackerras  went on to point out: 
The first question voters were asked was: 'Should the Australian Government permit the unrestricted export of merino rams and merino semen from Australia to countries other than New Zealand?' 
A total of 55,493 formal votes were cast of which 9,477 (or 17 per cent) were 'Yes' and 46,016 (or 82.5 per cent) were No'. 
Woolgrowers who voted 'No' to this question were then asked: 'Should the Australian Government permit the export of no more than 300 merino rams in each 12-month period from Australia to countries other than New Zealand? ' 
A total of 45,656 formal votes were cast of which 13,016 (29 per cent) were 'Yes' and 32,640 (7 1 per cent) were 'No'. 
If we add the 'Yes' votes to the two questions we get 22,493 which is still 10, 1 47 less than the ' No ' vote on the second question. 
It has been claimed, and it was claimed by the Minister for Science who spoke before me, that a minority of growers voted. 
That is a fact. But if  Senator Webster  or any other honourable senator cares to look at the history of voting in municipal elections in Victoria, for example, he will see that for 20, 30 or 40 years councillors and people in the local government area have been elected to office by a minority of citizens voting at municipal elections. Certainly one does not believe that that is the way it should be, but it is another fact of life. If we accept this fact for municipal elections in Victoria, I do not see why we should knock it when it comes to wool growers right across Australia. 
That is about all I want to say, except to say that whilst an alleged ban remains on the export of merino semen and merino ewes, it is commonly reported around export outlets in Australia at the present time that it is not improbable that merino ewes are being shipped out under the guise of live sheep or live wethers for the export market. One wonders whether some of those merino ewes might not finish up being segregated during the voyage or at the other end of the voyage and disposed of for breeding in some other countries rather than being slaughtered for meat. 
-Prior to the motion for the adjournment of the Senate being put last Wednesday night I was speaking about the soul-destroying conditions being experienced by young unemployed persons in Victoria, particularly in rural Victoria. I had outlined what I believed to be the failures by this Government not only to do anything about unemployment as such but also to do anything about or come to any realisation of the sort of souldestroying situation in which thousands of young persons in rural areas of the State that I represent are placed. I was pointing out that in fact the Government could well have taken a page from the election platform of the United Australia Party in 1943 when it was proclaiming what it would do once war ended, to wit, introduce a national insurance scheme, on a contributory basis, beginning with insurance against unemployment, immediately victory is achieved and peace returns. That statement indicates how far the UAP, the predecessor of this Government, was out of touch with the situation which would prevail at the end of the war because the country went into a situation under a Labor government of employment for all. Men brought out of the Services were immediately put to work. There was no worry about unemployment or shortage of work. It was obvious then that the UAP was completely out of touch with what was happening and what would happen in the community, just as the present Government is out of touch with the situation in Australia today. 
One of the most illogical masterpieces in this whole Budget is surely to be found in the area of training programs. The Treasurer  (Mr Howard)  has said that experience indicates that special youth employment training programs are unduly advantaging younger age groups to the detriment of older age groups. That may well be so in some areas. Many middle-aged men and women now find it impossible to get work. Of course, they are not eligible for training programs, as are the youths of the community. But for the Government to turn round and reduce the maximum training period from six months to four months and reduce the allowance paid from $67 a week to $45 a week surely does nothing for the youths of the community. If the Government wished to do something it should have extended that type of scheme and allowed older people into retraining areas. 
One of the beauties to the Government of this whole training program is the fact that it was able to keep down the registered unemployment figures by at least 1 1 1 ,000 at June last. One of the most worrisome features of this youth training program is and always has been the skulduggery that has gone on and the way in which the scheme has been used by dishonest employers. In fact, all it is in many respects is a direct subsidy to some employers. There has been a tendency in many instances for businessmen and business organisations to have the people employed under this scheme do what might be described as the low class of work. The end result for these young people is that they are sacked at the end of their six months term and the employer then puts on another young person to do exactly the same work and the young person who has been put off is in no better position to play a role in any work force in our society. These young people certainly are not trained for any type of occupation for which vacancies are available. 
One of the terrible tragedies of the way in which the scheme has been utilised by the employers is the position in which thousands of young people are placed. This is applicable more to country areas where jobs are scarcer. These young people, because they are afraid of losing their jobs and because 50, 60 or perhaps 250 other young people in the district are waiting for their jobs, will work for rates of pay and conditions which, quite frankly, went out with the blades. They are fearful of approaching trade union organisers, their member of parliament and the people involved in the industry itself who are able to act as umpires on their behalf or to raise a word with their employer and bring to his notice that he is not paying the correct wages or that the young people are being employed under rather terrible conditions which remind one of the Depression of the 1 930s. 
Let me quote three of the many examples that have been brought to my attention in recent weeks. The first relates to a young girl of 1 6 or 17 years who was employed by the proprietor of a restaurant as a waitress. She had to work late at night and even through to the early hours of the morning and was not being paid penalty rates. When the young woman's father approached her employer in a civil manner for some recompense for his daughter he was abused and thrown out and his daughter likewise was abused and her employment terminated. Another case involved a young man who was placed in the motor trade. His employer adopted the attitude that the young man was lucky as he had been given a job. He was eventually sacked prior to the completion of the six months period. Yet another case involved a young man on a dairy farm who worked long hours with no payment for overtime. He worked under below award working conditions. The lad was used as a means of enabling the farmer to sleep in in the morning- the lad did the milking. 
They are just three examples of the way some unscrupulous employers are using the system to get at young people. Many employers are reluctant to pay the required holiday pay at the end of six months or sick pay during the time of employment. The young people, because of their situation, do not want to appear as troublemakers and cop it sweet rather than demand their rights. As I have said, there is no incentive for the employer to keep the young person on as a permanent employee while the employer can receive a subsidy from the Government to employ a new applicant. In those circumstances what hope is there for the 200,000-odd young people who are destined to leave school at the end of this year? Wherein lies their salvation? Under this Government they can look forward only to frustration and the blight of labels being placed on them which do nothing for their hopes and aspirations. How many of them will finish up in the courts of the land charged with misdemeanours and crimes which have their cause in the situation in which young people will find themselves. It is little wonder that this Government has increased the funds for police, security and detention from $56.3m last year to $77.3m currently, an increase of $20. 7m or around 34 per cent. So to the young unemployed of Australia we can say this: 'Beware. If the Social Security field officer does not get you there is a strong chance that the law will, and if you become politicised and show your disapproval of the way this Government is handling your life by protesting and marching there is a strong chance ASIO will have you on file. ' 
On page 56 of Budget Paper No. 1 under the heading 'Defence Co-operation' the Government lists expenditure of $6. 9m for assistance to Indonesia allegedly to strengthen its own and the region's defence capabilities at a time when that country, in my opinion, is engaged in bloody warfare against indigenous people in lands acquired by dubious means in West Irian and by blatant military invasion in East Timor. Support for such a country by a government which joins in the hysteria about human rights in the Soviet Union can only be described as hypocritical in the extreme. 
In agriculture the Government has taken rather than given. Now at last the farming community is seeing the falseness of  Mr Fraser's  promise of three years ago about a rural bank. If primary producers are deemed eligible for a loan they will be getting back their own income equalisation deposits at over twice the interest that they are being paid for them. This is a real thimble and pea trick. The nitrogenous fertiliser bounty is down and additional levies of primary producers are being considered. Of course, increased petrol prices will hit the farming and rural community hardest of all. 
Housing approvals during July last were the lowest for over 1 5 years, which is an indication of the continuing slump in this activity and a contradiction of the Liberal Party's mouthings at election time on how it stands for the right of people to own their own homes, but of course talk is cheap. The housing vote in this year's Budget is down by $143m on last year. Within the total allocation the advance for home savings grants is cut by almost $lm, with a consequent delay in payment to applicants so that the bulk of the expenditure will come out of the 1979-80 Budget. 
To sum up, what have we got? We have increased taxes; home loan interest is no longer a tax deduction; invalid and tuberculosis pensions for persons under retiring age are to become taxable; pension increases for people over 70 are to be taxable; there is a reversion to the bad old days for the pensioners with only annual increases in their benefits; increases in unemployment benefit are not to be applicable to single persons; and the maternity allowance is to be abolished. The Budget contains a whole host of penalties for the people of Australia, and mostly for people who need government assistance most. To top it all, for anyone who may come to believe that Australia is no longer the land of milk and honey or the lucky country and who might want to leave the country to try his luck somewhere there is to be a departure tax. 

 Mr President, I seek leave to have incorporated in  Hansard  the table to which I referred in my speech last week. 
Leave granted. 

 The table read as follows- 


<graphic href="078232197809205_37_0.jpg"></graphic>


<graphic href="078232197809205_38_2.jpg"></graphic>

Sitting suspended from 5.59 to 8 p.m. 
I ask the Minister representing the Minister for Foreign Affairs: Given the amount of corruption among the military and others in Indonesia, what guarantee can the Government give the Australian people that the $250,000 donated to Indonesia for the relief of the Timorese people actually will reach those people, many of whom are reported to be in concentration camps? 
My question, which is addressed to the Minister representing the Minister for Foreign Affairs, relates to the reported arrest, rapid trial and imprisonment of  Mr Jacob  Prai in Papua New Guinea this morning and, further, the reported request to the Papua New Guinea Government from Indonesia to have  Mr Prai  extradited to Indonesia. I ask: Should  Mr Prai  apply for political asylum in this country would the Australian Government give consideration to any application for residence here? What would be the Australian Government's attitude should Indonesia apply pressure to Papua New Guinea for  Mr Prai's  extradition? Would Australia oppose any such move in the light of Indonesia 's poor record on human rights or would  Mr Prai  be fed to the lions as were the people of East Timor? 
I  present the following petition from 1 3 citizens of Australia: 
The Honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate in Parliament assembled. 
The petition of the Victorian Federation of State School Parents ' Clubs respectfully showeth: 
That as citizens of Victoria and parents of State school children, we are most concerned that the quality of education available in our school be of the highest possible standard. 
We believe that this can only be achieved if adequate Federal funds are provided. The recently announced policy of direct cuts to Government schools for 1979 must have an adverse effect on them. 
Your petitioners most humbly pray that the Senate, in Parliament assmebled, should arrange for: 
. Withdrawal of the Guidelines to the Schools Commission for 1979 and acceptance of its recommendations for Government schools. 
An increase of a minimum of S per cent in real terms on base level programs for 1 979. 
Restoration of the $8m cut from the Capital Grants for Government Schools. 
Increased recurrent and capital funding to Government schools. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
I present the following petition from 50 citizens of Australia: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate assembled the petition of the undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully showeth: 
That the people of Australia having taken pan in the government of Australia through universal suffrage in December 1975 and again in December 1977 and that on the basis of their expressed choice at the ballot box the people of Australia gave authority to the LiberalNational Country Party Coalition to form a federal government to bring into effect specific policies promulgated throughout the length and breadth of Australia by the said Coalition and that, whereas by virtue of being elected through universal suffrage, the Government Members now sitting in the House of Representatives were authorised to implement their stated objectives by legislation and that such authority did not extend to acting otherwise or to enact legislation not previously submitted to the will of the people, namely- ° Revoking the legislation for twice-yearly pension payments. ° Imposing a freeze on the free-of-means-test pension. ° Unemployed divided into those with dependents and those without. ° Imposing income tax on pensions under age pension age- invalid and repatriation service pensions; rehabilitation allowances and incentives; sheltered employment and allowances for tuberculosis sufferers (civilian and service) and any other impositions. 
Your petitioners submit that all or any of the foregoing proposed legislation of the Lower House, if implemented, will greatly disadvantage many thousands of citizens as either against their expressed will or not submitted to universal vote as the democratic right of the Australian people, therefore, 
Your petitioners call on the Senate as the House of Review to take appropriate action to release these persons from burdens unfairly placed in order to finance a deficit not of their making. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
-Has the Minister for Social Security received an approach from her Victorian colleague,  Mr Brian  Dixon, to lower the age of eligibility for unemployment benefits to 1 5 years? Does the Minister disagree with the logic of  Mr Dixon  who said that, as 1 5 is the legal age to leave school in Victoria, the refusal to pay unemployment benefits immediately causes serious social problems? 
Following on the point raised by my colleague,  Senator Button,  the action which has been taken in respect of a body such as this raises some questions in my mind. Quite frankly, there are other areas to which priority for tax deductibility could have been given rather than to this area. That is not to say that we are not all concerned about the conservation of wildlife around the world. I wonder whether the Minister for Administrative Services  (Senator Chaney)  would be able to give the Senate some figures which show the type and amount of donations made by Australians in the past to this cause. 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Treasurer. Will the Primary Industry Bank of Australia Ltd be funded by $30m at 5 per cent from income equalisation deposits and $50m borrowed from the public at 10 per cent or less- that is, at an average of less than 8 per cent? Will the money be lent out at a minimum of 101/2 per cent interest? Finally, how will the Bank's profits be distributed or will the potential profit be grabbed up by the superfluous administrators and bureaucracy associated with the Bank? 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Foreign Affairs, upon notice, on 27 September 1978: 
1 ) Did  Mr Peter  Rodgers recently resign from the Australian Foreign Affairs Department to take a position as correspondent for the Fairfax newspaper chain. 
What was  Mr Rodgers  position in the Australian Embassy in Jakarta. 
What salary did he receive and what salary does he now receive. 
Was  Mr Rodgers  an employee of ASIS (Australian Secret Intelligence Service) for a number of years while in Jakarta. 
Was his appointment as a correspondent for the Fairfax newspaper in Jakarta made at the will of the Australian Secret Intelligence Service, and does he still remain in the employ of the Australian Secret Intelligence Service or report regularly to the Australian Secret Intelligence Service. 
Is it Government practice to permit intelligence service such as the Australian Secret Intelligence Service, the Joint Intelligence Organisation and the Central Intelligence Agency to use journalists, to recruit journalists or place their agents in journalistic positions, in order to carry out intelligence work, or to provide misinformation to the Australian and world media. 
7) Was  Mr Rodgers  appointed as a correspondent of the Fairfax media chain in Jakarta to provide favourable publicity for the Suharto government and to mislead Australian public opinion concerning the true situation in East Timor. 
My question which I direct to the Minister representing the Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs concerns the reported granting of visas to six white South African cricketers in what I believe is a contradiction of the United Nations policy on South Africa and the Gleneagles agreement which this Government supported. Is the Government pretending that these cricketers are not South African and will not be billed as South African players in the World Cricket Series? Does not the granting of these visas amount to a change of Government policy and contradict the line taken of late on apartheid by  Mr Peacock?  Will the Government review its decision to grant such visas? 
I  present the following petition from 1 1 citizens of Australia: 
The Honourable the  President  and members of the Senate in Parliament assembled. 
The petition of the Victorian Federation of State School Parents 'Clubs respectfully showeth: 
That as citizens of Victoria and parents of State school children, we are most concerned that the quality of education available in our school be of the highest possible standard. 
We believe that this can only be achieved if adequate Federal funds are provided. The recently announced policy of direct cuts to Government schools for 1979 must have an adverse effect on them. 
Your Petitioners most humbly pray that the Senate, in Parliament assembled should arrange for: 
.  Withdrawal of the Guidelines to the Schools Commission for 1979 and acceptance of its recommendations for Government schools. 
An increase of a minimum of 5 percent in real terms on base level programmes for 1979. 
Restoration of the $8 million cut from the Capital Grants for Government Schools. 
Increased recurrent and capital funding to Government schools. and your Petitioners, as is duty bound, will ever pray. 
Here follow the signatures: 
Petition received and read. 
I ask the Minister representing the Minister for Environment, Housing and Community Development: Is it a fact that staff ceilings have placed in jeopardy a wide range of safety checks at the Australian Atomic Energy Commission research establishment at Lucas Heights? If so, what action does the Government contemplate taking to ensure that full and proper safety standards are maintained? 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry. I want to assure the Minister that the subject matter of my question has nothing to do with the 'also-rans' in an event not long concluded. In fact, it is a rather serious question. Is the Minister aware of reports that feral goats are being introduced into western Victoria on a commercial basis and that farmers in the Prime Minister's electorate of Wannon are concerned because of the fact that these animals are not subject to footrot regulations? Will the Minister request his colleague to liaise with his Victorian counterpart to ensure that legislation is introduced to cover these animals in that respect? 
I rise to support the matter of public importance raised by my colleague  Senator Walsh.  Let me say at the outset that as a person who went on to the land fairly young- I was in my early 20s- and as a person who sought to get into agriculture, I came to the conclusion within a very short time that the banks are about the last thing that primary producers want. My own experience has indicated that a young person who seeks to get into agriculture by applying to his bank for capital either to purchase a property or to build up a property is the last person the bank manager wants to know. The bank managers use the excuse that such a person has no equity or very little equity in his property. 
In normal circumstances, by dint of hard work, perhaps with some luck from mother nature in the way of good seasons and with reasonable prices, one eventually gains reasonable equity in one's property. It is at that stage that the opinion of the bank manager changes. He regards the now 30 to 35-year-old farmer as being one of the best bets he has. He is ready to lend him almost any sum of money he wants. As time moves on and the farmer reaches the age of 50 to 55 it may well be that, as I said, given favourable circumstances he will have total equity in his property. At that stage the farmer has time to play golf with the bank manager or to meet him on equal terms at the gentlemen's club or somewhere similar. He is then regarded by the bank manager as being his best customer and, should he so wish, can obtain virtually the maximum credit that the bank extends to a customer. 
It has often been said, particularly in rural areas, that the banking institutions are like a person who lends one an umbrella on a fine day and takes it away immediately the rain sets in. One of the unfortunate quirks of agricultural life in Australia is that by this device thousands of young farmers in particular are forced into the hands of the fringe banking institutions. In my opinion, that is one of the great problems besetting agriculture in this country. I shall refer now to the Green Paper on rural industry that was brought out in 1974 under the sponsorship of the Australian Labor Party which was then in Government. It contains some rather interesting comments. In paragraph 2.24 it is stated: 
Almost half of all agricultural business units (including sub-commercial farms) were estimated to have no debts and a further 24 percent had debts of less than $10,000. 
The most interesting comment of all is the following: 
Indebtedness is lower and less frequent on the smaller farms. 
That would seem to indicate that smaller farms may be more economically viable than some of the larger enterprises into which this country is currently moving or has moved. The report goes on to say: 
A significant proportion of farms however, do have relatively high debt levels. The level of outstanding debt became an important social problem during the rural depression, but the recent high levels of income have permitted a substantial repayment in major industries. 
In paragraph 5. 108 of the report it is stated: 
The generally declining levels of farm incomes in the 1960s were associated with increasing debt levels and a running down of farm savings. Despite this, as we saw in Chapter II, many farmers do not use credit and between a third and One half of farm producers have no outstanding debt. Nevertheless, in the longer term the demand for financial capital is likely to rise, and so too is the dependence on credit to finance capital expenditures. 
Paragraph 5. 1 14 of the report states: 
Without government intervention, farmers would no doubt have had more difficulty in obtaining credit on terms reasonably related to the long productive life of their assets. The BAE concluded that there has been a gap in the long term credit facilities available to rural producers. 
I think any person who has been on the land would understand that last remark very well. In paragraph 5. 1 16 the document states: 
One of the difficulties of devising suitable credit arrangements is in the instability in rural incomes discussed in Chapter IV. 
Paragraph 5. 1 16 goes on to say: 
There is a need for flexibility in repayment terms to harmonise the flow of income and credit commitments and therefore stabilise consumption and investment expenditures by farmers. The provision of such flexibility does however, place strains on the financial institutions in devising such arrangements. In the light of the terms on which resources are made available for lending from the Term and Farm Development Loan Funds, it would be reasonable to see some flexibility in such lending and in practice Development Bank lending is operated with a degree of flexibility. 
I think those few words about the Development Bank deal with one of the most important aspects of this whole debate which revolves around the establishment which is now called the Primary Industry Bank. 
As has already been said, the present Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  in 1975 first floated the idea of establishing a rural bank. That was at a time when the present Government was in Opposition and was seeking to make all sorts of promises to primary producers in order to get them back on side. In 1 977, during the election campaign, the matter was floated again. In fact, the matter had been floated around the countryside for over two years. The present Government was in power during those two years but nothing was done. Of course, the original move by the Government established the Rural Bank. Its establishment was immediately followed by the realisation that the name conflicted with that of the Rural Bank of New South Wales. A consequent amendment was required to the Act to change the name, to as we currently know it, the Primary Industry Bank. As we well know the Bank has become operational of recent date- three years after the idea was originally floated. 
I wonder how many farmers who heard the Prime Minister make his statement in 1975, or who have read his statement, and who saw a glimmer of hope in it have in those intervening years gone to the wall. We have had three years of promises and talk but no action. As we well know, thousands of farmers have fallen by the wayside in the meantime. I sometimes ask myself, as do many primary industries leaders and many of the farmers to whom I have spoken of recent date: What is in the current legislation for those people still in the game? I suggest that nothing more than a bureaucratic device has been thrust between them and the funds which they may well need. Quite frankly, I believe that every farmer in Australia who listened to the words of the Prime Minister over those couple of years believed that he was to see the establishment of a totally new bank which would deal solely with the problems of people in primary industry. The farmers have not got a shop front bank. 
Any farmer requiring credit will still have to go to the manager of his traditional private enterprise bank. It is my guess that if the farmer is deemed by his manager to be viable the manager will extend that primary producer's overdraft. If the farmer is deemed to be unviable or somewhat of a financial risk the bank manager will don his other mantle and become the manager of the Primary Industry Bank and forward the farmer's application to the PIB. I suggest that because the farmer has already been told that he is unviable the PIB will accept that as fact and say: 'No money for you sport. We are sorry'. I suggest that that tactic will be adopted. 
I have been all around Victoria in the last month. Primary producers there realise that a real thimble and pea trick was being played by the Prime Minister when he originally floated the idea of a rural bank and was posing as the friend of farmers and of their organisations. As I said, farmers now realise that they have been conned. I believe that the option that should have been taken up was that which was supported by the Labor Party in discussions prior to the implementation of legislation to establish this bank. I refer to the proposition put forward by the people's own bank, the Commonwealth Bank. That organisation has been involved with primary industry for many years. It has shopfront facilities in every major town of the Commonwealth. Its bank managers and loan officers have expertise in the field and know primary industry intimately in the various regional areas. That option was given away by this Government, I suggest, under pressure from the Australian Bankers Association. Members of the Association have been renowned for years as being the friends of the Liberal Party and this is known by primary producers in Australia. The Australian Bankers Association interposed itself between the primary producers of this country and an opportunity for them to obtain finance at reasonable rates of interest. I have said already that the same group of people will now push the primary producers of Australia back into the hands of the fringe banking organisations. These people, as managers in our regional towns and cities, will not see thousands of primary producers as being viable economic operators of their properties. 

 Senator Carrick suggested that it may be wise for some people to wait for a couple of years and then to look at the record of the PIB. I forecast that if we do that we will see, purely and simply, more bureaucracy, less farmers getting access to capital and, worst of all, no finance available for young people trying to get into agriculture, which is exactly the same situation which has prevailed in this country over the last 40 or 50 years. 
Is the Minister representing the Minister for Transport aware of reports circulating in rural areas of Victoria that there is a severe shortage of railway trucks in that State? Is it a fact that the Victorian Government is currently engaged in buying back from Simsmetal Pty Ltd railway trucks previously sold for scrap in order to cope with the wheat harvest? Will the Minister consult with his Victorian counterpart to assure wheat growers that their harvest will be carried into storage without undue delay? 
I ask the Minister for Administrative Services: How many Ford Fairmont vehicles in the fleet of the Department of Administrative Services have suffered driver seat collapses? Are the motors of these vehicles prone to vaporisation and consequent cut-out even in mild weather? Have there been instances of brake lock-ups with these same vehicles? Has the Ford Motor Company of Australia been notified of these faults? If so what, if any, action has that company taken to remedy the situation? 
-I take this opportunity to raise the matter of an application for migration to Australia that has been going on for over three years. I refer to the application of a  Mr Van  Gameren of Portland in Western Australia to bring his brother-in-law,  Mr Mujeeb  Chowdary and family, to Australia from India. I note from my file that I first became involved in this case in July of last year. I do not want to go right back through everything, but on 6 October last year I received a letter from the Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs,  Mr MacKellar,  thanking me for my letter of 16 September on behalf of  Mr Van  Gameren concerning his brother-in-law,  Mr Mujeeb  Chowdary The Minister said that in order to give full consideration to the matter, it might be necessary for further inquiries to be made and that upon those inquiries being made, he would be in contact with me. On 23 January this year, the Minister again wrote to me and his letter said in part: 
In these circumstances  Mr Chowdary  does not come within the restricted categories of people eligible for entry to Australia as migrants and I have decided that he should not be granted authority to remain in Australia for residence. Accordingly he should make arrangements to leave without delay. 
I should explain that at that time  Mr Chowdary  was in this country as a visitor. However, as a result of my further representations I received a reply from the Minister dated 24 April of this year. In part his letter states: 
Following additional information received on this case, I recently carefully reconsidered  Mr Chowdary  's application and I decided to approve the grant of resident status to him and his family provided they meet normal health and character requirements and  Mr Chowdary  is able to obtain a firm offer of employment as a tradesman tanner or clicker. 
The Regional Director of Migration, Melbourne has been informed of my decision. 
-That was on 24 April. I then wrote to  Mr Chowdary  's brother-in-law in Portland and informed him of that decision. On 9 May,  Mr Donald  Edward Charles of 100 Percy Street, Portland, who is in the saddlery and leather business, wrote to the Regional Director of Immigration in Melbourne, informing him that he had met  Mr Chowdary  while he was in Australia, that he was very pleased with the type of man  Mr Chowdary  was, and that he had an opening for  Mr Chowdary  should he be fortunate enough to be able to migrate to Australia. As I said, that letter was sent to the Department in Melbourne on 9 May. In the meantime, of course,  Mr Chowdary  had returned to India. On having the information passed on to him that provided he was of good health and good character, et cetera, and had a firm offer of employment, he would be eligible to come to Australia he was advised by his brother-in-law to contact the Australian Embassy in Delhi.  Mr Chowdary  did just that. He sent two letters and one telegram to the Australian High Commission in Delhi but received no reply whatsoever. In a rather frustrated mood, as one could well imagine,  Mr Chowdary  travelled over a thousand miles by train from Madras to Delhi with his wife and family to get to the Australian High Commission to see what could be done. I do not want to read in this place the letter I received from  Mr Chowdary  's brother-in-law because it tips a large bucket on officers of the Department of Immigration and Ethnic Affairs in Delhi. Admittedly  Mr Chowdary  was in a rather frustrated frame of mind when he wrote to his brotherinlaw. Some of the things he says in his letter may not be true, therefore I prefer not to read out the letter. But it is very condemnatory of our officers in our High Commission in Delhi. 
As a follow up to that, I received a rather lengthy letter dated 17 October from  Mr Chowdary  's brother-in-law in Portland,  Mr Van  Gameren, which set out the problems that beset  Mr Chowdary  when both he and his wife tried to contact High Commission people in Delhi to discuss this matter and to find out what was causing the delays. I am informed that as a result of all these frustrations and problems,  Mr Chowdary  has suffered a nervous breakdown. 
On 4 October I telephoned the Minister's office for some information as to what was happening in this case. I was informed that the Minister was considering the matter. I waited for another week or 10 days and again I telephoned the Minister's office. Again I was informed that the Minister was still considering the matter. According to the Minister's office, the question that is holding up this case is whether the offer of employment that  Mr Chowdary  received from the gentleman in Portland was of a nature laid down by the Minister when he granted permission to apply for resident status to  Mr Chowdary.  As late as last Friday my secretary rang the Minister's Department and again was informed that the Minister had not got around to making a decision on the matter and that it was still under consideration. Quite frankly, I have become somewhat like  Mr Chowdary-  very frustrated. I just wonder when  Mr MacKellar  is going to give a decision in this case. I hope that  Senator Guilfoyle,  as Minister representing the Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs, will refer this matter to  Mr MacKellar  and point out that I, like  Mr Chowdary,  am just about fed up with the delay. 
-Has the Minister representing the Prime Minister seen the report from the Australian Taxpayers Association which sets out the income of the average taxpayer under the Hayden Budget in 1975 and the comparable figures for this year? Do not the Taxpayers Association figures show that contrary to the Prime Minister's claim that taxpayers are now better off than in 1975, spending power for that group- that is, the average taxpayer- is down by more than $7.50 week? 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Transport. In the light of the support given by the Minister for Transport and the Government for the establishment of an Omega base in South Gippsland as an aid for Australian commercial shipping and aircraft, I ask: Has the Minister seen a statement made last August that was attributed to the senior avionics engineer for Ansett Airlines of Australia,  Mr Ireson,  wherein, after testing Omega, he said that we would be wasting our money and that insufficient data existed about the 'bugs' in this part of the world to enable them to be programmed out of the system? I further ask: Is it a fact that Omega beams, as tested by Ansett, were affected by the earth's magnetic fields and the dry soil conditions that are encountered in Australia? 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry. Is it a fact that, due to procrastination on the part of the Minister for Primary Industry, Victorian dairy farmers are being forced to wait until next year for State underwriting payments which could have been made before Christmas had the Minister acted earlier to amend legislation and allow the Australian Dairy Corporation to make such payments against a State guarantee? 
-by leave-I should like to take a few moments to touch on one or two items on which the  Chairman  of the Senate Standing Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence,  Senator Sim,  has not touched. 
Firstly, I congratulate  Senator Sim  on his chairmanship of the Committee throughout its consideration of the matter of Australian representation overseas and also congratulate the staff of the Committee on the excellent job they have done, although it always seemed to me that they required too many meetings when the Senate was in recess and imposed a work load on honourable senators that they wished they did not have. Be that as it may. 
I turn to the Committee's report. I believe it is obvious that the morale in the Department of Foreign Affairs has slumped rather dramatically over the last three years. If anything came through to me during the Committee's hearings, it was the effect that the present Government has had on the Department of Foreign Affairs. As has been mentioned, the imposition of arbitrary staff ceilings had a great deal to do with the drop in morale. In my estimation, from evidence given it would appear that the Department will take a long time to overcome the position that has prevailed over the three years with staff ceilings and drops in recruitment. It seems to me that there will be large gaps in areas of the Department for perhaps even a decade, given that the Government reverses the trend and goes ahead with normal recruitment over the next few years. I can quite envisage and quite believe what I suppose I would describe as the despair that has been suffered by people in the Department because of this lack of younger people coming up through the Service in a continuous stream. I believe that, while this system prevails and while this Government adopts that sort of attitude in relation to a department as important as this one, Australia's image, particularly abroad, could well be jeopardised. 
The only other comment I wish to make is in relation to the Australian Development Assistance Bureau, or ADAB as it is known. I think the Department could well come in for some criticism as being at times a department which shows a form of elitism. I have said previously- I have struck this situation now and again in foreign posts- that the Department, having recruited a certain class or type of person, then thrusts that recruit on to people of a culture different from our own where there is a requirement for perhaps greater sensitivity than is the norm. I am referring to the recruit who all too often comes from the Geelong Grammar School or one of the other, in my opinion, upstart schools. Some of these people never quite adapt to living in an environment which to them would perhaps appear to be hostile, an environment where people do not cross all their t's and dot all their i's. They are loath to mix with working class people. I believe that such people would be better left out of the Department, and particularly overseas postings. 
This problem has arisen, I believe, where there has been a refusal or a disinclination by the Department to give proper status to ADAB personnel, located both in Canberra and abroad. The Committee received quite an amount of evidence on this matter. It is referred to in several paragraphs in the recommendations section of the Committee's report. One of the matters that is of some concern to me is reported by the Committee thus: 
The Committee is not satisfied with the imposition of the inflexible policy that a foreign affairs position overseas may not be reclassified to an ADAB position unless 100 per cent of the duties are development assistance matters. The Committee recommends that urgent attention be given to changing the rules to allow specialist ADAB officers to fill positions overseas where development assistance duties predominate. Due recognition must be given to the importance of the function and not the application of a rule. 
That is one area in which I believe the Committee is 100 per cent correct, and the inflexibility in the Department thus far should be altered so that ADAB personnel are in a position to oversee what is going on. Furthermore all too often they are not in a position to travel to those areas to oversee the duties required of them. Perhaps this applies particularly in the Pacific area at the present time where millions of dollars of Australian aid is sought to be spent. After having listened to ADAB personnel give evidence to the Committee, I sometimes wonder whether they or anybody else are confident that the money is being spent wisely. 
In paragraph 13 of the Committee's report it makes a specific recommendation in regard to overseas travel by ADAB personnel. In paragraph 14, in relation to the same matter, the very unnecessary problem is raised that in Canberra we have the unsatisfactory situation where some 310 ADAB staff are located in five separate buildings. To me it seems stupid for that situation to remain. If this country is to spend its foreign aid wisely I believe at least those personnel should all be brought together under the one roof. 
Has the attention of the Minister representing the Minister for Health been drawn to the fact that, due to financial cuts, the services provided by the National Acoustics Laboratory have been curtailed in many provincial areas of Victoria- to name three, Geelong, Bendigo and Warrnambool? If so, what action can we expect to be taken to overcome this situation, which is denying thousands of people ready access to these services? 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry. It follows from a question asked yesterday in this chamber by my south-western Victorian colleague,  Senator Lewis.  It would appear that both  Senator Lewis  and I are somewhat apprehensive about what appears to be a dire lack of any form of Australian equity in squid fishing operations out of that area. Have any Australian observers been placed on the Japanese squid fishing fleet operating off the south-west coast of Victoria? If so, what are their qualifications? If not, why not? 
-Is the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry aware that last year's amendment to the Dairying Industry Research and Promotion Levy Collection Act has led to a serious injustice in the administration of the Act. The Dairying Industry Research and Promotion Levy Collection Bill, the purpose of which was to close a loophole and remove legal doubts about the liability of certain co-operatives to pay the levy, has had the effect of penalising honesty. Those who chose not to pay while the legality of the Act was in doubt are now not obliged to pay. Those who paid now have their payments legitimised. Not only are they not entitled to any refund but also, in some cases, they are being fined for the late payment of the levy. Does the Minister not agree that this type of legislation sets a dangerous precedent? Will he undertake to ensure that all cooperatives are treated equally and are equally liable for levy? In particular, will he undertake to ensure that no fines for late payment are proceeded with? 
-I support the Opposition in its condemnation of the statement which was made this afternoon. I suppose the best that one can say for the Government in this instance is that the statement has been produced as a result of the conflict which has recently broken out in Asia. I think that this evening we are all somewhat like the Government in that we surely realise that the first casualty of war is truth. I think that was a very profound statement made perhaps 10 or 12 years ago by the late Arthur Calwell, the then Leader of the Opposition, in relation to the conflict in Vietnam. I suspect that all of us, when we try to get a fairly close analyses of what might be happening in South East Asia are faced with the problem that truth is the first casualty of war. I also believe that the statement the Minister for Foreign Affairs  (Mr Peacock)  made this afternoon is, to a large extent, full of double standards. It is pitted throughout with double standards, full of platitudes and little else. 
What the Minister and Government are doing in reality is posturing a holier than thou attitude while wars such as this are being fought thousands of miles away from home. I ask honourable senators on the Government side to recall the attitude of this Government when Indonesia marched into East Timor and what has been the continuing attitude of this Government in that regard. I said that I believed the statement was full of double standards. It is my intention to go through the statement in part and to pick out areas where I believe the Government is promoting double standards. In the Minister's statement we read: 
Both in the Horn and in southern Africa, indigenous conflicts and instabilities which were already serious enough have been rendered progressively more so during the last four or five years by the pouring in of vast quantities of sophisticated arms- and the advisers deemed necessary to deploy them. I emphasise this deliberate and substantial militarisation of African conflict by outside states- particularly the Soviet Union and their . . . surrogates . . . 
What a statement of double standards when we refer to what I said earlier about the Indonesian invasion of East Timor. What did the Government do then? It totally acquiesced. It continued to supply arms and all forms of aid to the Indonesian Government. Nice soft, gentle noises were being made by certain militarists in Indonesia that those arms would not be used in the battle going on in East Timor. I frankly suggest that any militarist, any general, any battalion commander, any corporal in action who would make a statement such as that would be laughing up his sleeve at the time he was making it. Wars are fought with all the weapons that are available. Any military commander who goes into battle with one hand tied behind his back, as such statements would indicate, would be a fool and he would be a fool to the men. under him. We are not aware whether weapons that were provided by Australia were used. If they were not, even if the best situation prevailed, it is patently obvious to me that other weapons which the Indonesian Government had at that time were released for use in that campaign. I believe that is an example of the type of double standards that the Government is applying on this occasion. The Government applies one standard when someone else is involved and a totally different standard is applied when it is one of our friends and we perceive some self-interest as happened in East Timor at that time. The Minister's statement continued: 
No one sought to isolate Vietnam or to make it difficult for her to enter fully into the life of the region. 
What a load of hogwash. I am not prepared to stand in this place and defend what Vietnam has done in Kampuchea. I am not prepared to stand here and defend China's invasion of Vietnam. That part of the statement is a load of hogwash. Every person who has followed politics since the end of the Vietnam war knows of the promise made prior to the end of hostilities by the then  President  Nixon of the United States, that America would supply large sums of aid to Vietnam to rehabilitate it. As far as I am aware Vietnam did not receive one red cent. Our own 
Government, less than one month ago, suspended aid that had been promised to Vietnam. As my colleague  Senator Sibraa  who spoke just a few minutes ago stated, that sort of action is the trigger mechanism that must surely drive Vietnam more and more into the arms of the Soviet Union. 
The next question relates to not fully explaining the truth of the situation and of using one argument and not being prepared to talk about the other. The statement goes on; 
The ASEAN countries, even in the face of the Vietnamese Government's sponsoring of the flood of refugees with which they had to cope, were positive and forthcoming in their dealings with Vietnam. 
Why does the statement not go on and mention the fact that Vietnam is currently playing host to 150,000 refugees from Kampuchea and that Vietnam, in consultation with the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees, has pledged to house some 5,000 of those refugees as soon as possible and in the long term has pledged to the same Commissioner to house some 50,000 over the next few years? It is obvious that the Government is using the arguments that suit it and that it is not prepared in a statement such as this to place all the cards on the table and to give to the Australian population the full facts on what is happening in South East Asia. The Minister then said: 
The Vietnamese attack on Kampuchea was an attack by a client of the Soviet Union on a client of China. Whatever its motivation the attack bore directly on the rivalry and competition between the Soviet Union and China for long term influence in the region . . . 
I said earlier that the statement was full of double standards. Why did the statement not go on and condemn the Australian Government for exactly the same thing which, in my opinion, happened in East Timor on 7 or 8 December 1975? As far as I am concerned, Indonesia was a client of the American vested interests and, as latter day news reports and meetings are tending to prove, a client also of Australian oil interests in the Timor Sea area. Let us be honest today and not tip the bucket on a nation when we ourselves have been guilty of exactly the same type of approach to a problem. The statement goes on further:  . . because it created the conditions for an escalation of great power rivalry in the region. It was a mark of the gravity with which the Government viewed this action that Australian aid to Vietnam was suspended. 
Again I suggest that we did not adopt the same sort of attitude when the Indonesians marched into Timor. Perhaps it is only because of the term great power rivalry* that all of a sudden we are becoming holier than thou and very indignant about countries that carried out exactly the same type of operation as we supported in East Timor. The statement continues: 
We have called on Vietnam to withdraw its forces from Kampuchea, on China to withdraw its forces from Vietnam and on the Soviet Union to exercise restraint to prevent the last turn of the screw, which could be disastrous not merely for the region but for the peace of the world. 
I suggest that this is one of the great problems of the current crisis in South East Asia. If the Russians move I suggest that America is obliged to do likewise, or vice versa; if America moves the Russians must surely respond. That would surely place this country in a very dangerous situation. Thankfully, as far as I can assess, the Soviet Union has so far played quite a statesmanshiplike role in that it has called for calm. I note in today's Sydney  Sun  that the Soviet Foreign Minister,  Mr Gromyko,  is reported as having said: Stop before it's too late'. I think that is about the way that we in Australia would hope that the situation is played. If the scenario comes to fruition this country will be placed in a very dangerous situation. I think that the type of situation was very well portrayed on the program  Four Corners,  which first appeared on Saturday night and which was replayed on Sunday afternoon. I would like to refer to some excerpts from that program, a transcript of which I received this morning from the Parliamentary Library. The interviewer,  Mr Woolley  from the Australian Broadcasting Commission, was speaking with  Dr Robert  O'Neill from the Australian National University. Any senators who have been on committees inquiring into defence and foreign affairs matters over the years I suggest would have met  Dr Robert  O'Neill. Certainly he has been a recurring witness- for want of a better term- and has presented a large number of submissions to the Senate Standing Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence in the years I have been in this Parliament.  Mr Woolley  said, according to the transcript: 
They say that for the men in the missile silos nuclear war is never more than 20 minutes away. How close did they come this week to pressing the button? As close presumably as their counterparts in Russia. In Russia, all military leave was cancelled. The Soviet forces went on to combat readiness number one. Beneath the oceans of the world the submarine fleets of the two super powers maintained their sentinal patrols. A silent implacable killer, the nuclear submarine can remain undetected until the very moment it strikes. Like the Americans, the Soviet submarines, armed with ballistic missiles, are cruising everywhere. Did they lie silently off Australian shores this week? As attention rose where they ready to take action? 
The transcript goes on: 

 Dr Robert O'Neill (ANU): These days, with the reach of weaponry out to several thousand miles, no one on this globe is safe from a major conflict if it occurs. 
Woolley: What son of involvement, and how would it come about, in terms of Australia? 

 Dr O'Neill: Well if Australia was to be involved in some sort of global nuclear exchange the main ways in which we would be drawn in is through the American installations that are on Australian soil. lt seemed fairly obvious to many members of the Labor Party back in the early sixties- I cannot recall the date- that when a low frequency radio station was being installed at North West Cape in Western Australia we were selling out our rights, our heritage and our freedom to move in any global conflict. I suggest that if the scenario that I have just tried to outline here ever comes to fruition Australia could become a hostage. What we thought back in 1964 or 1954 or whenever it was about Australia becoming a hostage could well come to fruition. It may well come to that within the next week, the next month or the next three months; we do not know. It all depends on how people in the Pentagon, in the Kremlin, in Peking or somewhere else play their cards. This nation could become a hostage because of the fact that we are stuck with a number of foreign military bases on our soil. 

 Mr Woolley and  Dr O'Neill  discussed the matter for quite some time. I do not want to hold up the Senate by quoting verbatim the whole of the interview but it is patently obvious from what  Dr O'Neill  states that what we in the Labor Party have been saying about these foreign bases over the years could well become a reality. I was rather surprised to hear  Dr O'Neill's  comments on this matter. I was going to say that  Dr O'Neill  was being forthright. I am not suggesting that  Dr O'Neill  is not forthright on every occasion but I was surprised to hear him espousing the type of situation that had been espoused so often by the Labor Party. I had not expected him to be as close to the Labor Party attitude on this matter as he was. He painted a very dismal picture should the scenario that I painted, and which was in fact painted on that program on Saturday night, come about. Later in the interview,  Mr Woolley  said: 
We do know that during the 1973 Middle East crisis this base - that is, the North West Cape base- went on to full alert. We also know that the Australian Governmentt wasn't informed. 

 Mr Woolley then asked the question: 
Will we know what happened at North West Cape this week? 

 Dr O'Neill replied: 
We almost certainly will know about it but it will take some time. 
That is very handy, of course, if the nation is about to be wiped out by two or three nuclear bombs!  Dr O'Neill  continued: 
My feeling is that these bases have not yet been put on alert but that could happen at some stage, but if they are placed on alert then I think the people on the base will know about it a darn sight more quickly than the Australian Government. 
I suggest that what  Dr O'Neill  said there is the truth and I suggest that it is a terrible thing for any Australian to have to admit to such a situation. As I said earlier, we have sold our heritage, our birthright, and our right to move in an armed conflict of world proportion by virtue of the fact that we have foreign bases on our soil. It would not matter whether they were Soviet bases, Chinese bases, American bases, Greenland bases, Denmark bases or any other bases. It is alienation of our sovereignty. I suggest that one of the first things that should be done by any government concerned about foreign policy and the ability of an Australian government to move in times of crisis is to get rid of those bases.  Mr Woolley  went on to ask  Dr O  'Neill: 
Do you think the Australian Government should be directly informed the moment anything happens? 

 Dr O'Neill replied: 
Yes and I think the Americans would try and do that but of course the bases are hooked into an American Defence Command System directly so they would know almost instantaneously from Washington. That system then has to inform our diplomatic mission in Washington before messages come on to Australia, or else do it through the American Embassy in Canberra. There is not a direct hot line between Canberra and Washington for those sorts of things. 
So in the event of a crisis blowing up and this country being endangered, we would be placed in exactly the same situation as the American Air Force or, if I remember correctly, the Army commander who at the time of the Pearl Harbour crisis was obliged to get in touch with Washington by telegram through Western Pacific via San Francisco. In the meantime lots of things happened at Pearl Harbour that may not necessarily have happened had there been a direct line to Washington at that stage. I will not quote any further from that interview, but I suggest that anybody who has any concern about foreign bases in Australia would be well advised to read that transcript from the  Four Corners  program of last Saturday night. 
I turn now to the Minister's statement. In the second half of the second paragraph on page 13 of the statement he said: 
Until very recently- although its regime was repressiveIran was an important force for order and stability in an extremely volatile area. 
That probably is a true statement. I do not doubt that Iran was an important force for order and stability in an area that was extremely volatile. But I think we have to wake up to ourselves and realise that the sort of stability that was dominant in Iran until recent weeks was a stability built on the backs of thousands of political prisioners and God alone knows how many political deaths. It was built on a system that allowed only two classes of people- the extremely wealthy and the extremely poor. If we as a nation are going to build a rampart of that sort in the world and rely on it for stability, for any form of defence or protection, then I think we are truly fooling ourselves. No regime that exists on that form of 'stability', as it is termed, can last. The whole history of" mankind shows that if people are oppressed, no matter their nationality, their colour or their religion, no matter where or when, eventually they will rise up and throw off their chains. Our own political history is proof of that. It is happening now in other parts of the world. In fact as someone said to me quite recently: 'When we look at the problem spots around the world, we realise that perhaps they are only now going through their Battle of the Roses as England did some centuries ago'. That is a rather interesting thought. 
I wonder how our own intelligence services read the scene in Iran. I was there in 1973 or 1974 with a parliamentary delegation and despite the fact that we were only taken where the Iranese wanted us to go and despite the fact that we were guarded by armed police day and night- I suggest that that was not only for our own protection but also to make sure that we only saw what they wanted us to see- it was patently obvious to me that the regime in Iran would crumble and that it would not be all that long before it did so. Reports in the Press suggest that the American Government is concerned that the Central Intelligence Agency was not aware of the pressure that was building up in opposition to the Shah's regime. As I said, I just wonder what our own intelligence people read of the situation as it has developed over the years. If other intelligence organisations are not better equipped than the CIA is reported to have been equipped, I suggest it is time that governments got rid of them and sent a couple of ordinary politicians overseas every now and again to have a look at some of those countries. Anybody with any nous at all would gain a pretty fair impression of what was going on and would have some idea of whether anything was going to blow up in the face of the oppressive government in six months ' time, in six years ' time or never. 
On page 16 of the Minister's statement, he said: 
But in the case of Iran there is the added question of what effect the resurgence of a populous Islamic fundamentalism will have on the region- and, for that matter, beyond it in other Islamic countries. The indications are that the resurgence of Islam could cause significant and far-reaching changes in the world. It is a revived force of great dynamism which is being generated in the context of social and cultural changes. It is our earnest hope that this force will be harnessed effectively to the benefit of both Muslim countries and of the remainder of the world. 
That is a very fine statement. It is full of pious hopes. I suppose that one cannot blame the Minister for thinking in that way. I suggest that that paragraph is basically a truism; that as a result of this resurgence of the Moslem religion there will be a change in politics in the Middle East, near East and in any other area of the world where there is a reasonably strong group of countries, or even one country, in which the Moslem religion is dominant. 
I had the opportunity during the winter recess of visiting Libya. Irrespective of whether one agrees with what has happened there, there is no doubt that the Moslem religion has been the driving force behind not only the bloodless coup that occurred there some 9 or 10 years ago but also the way in which the government operates and thinks, and its general approach to countries outside its border. I must admit that none of us at this stage is blessed with a glass ball. We are not to know what will be the final outcome in Iran. But if the people who win out are supporters of the Moslem religion there is a great potential for very fundamental change in the whole balance of power in the Middle East. We would see, very rapidly, changes in the governments of other countries right across the Middle East. 
The Minister also used these words: 
. but because it is in Australia 's vital interest that we should live in peaceful and stable surroundings. 
That, again, is a very high ideal. I do not think that there is any person in the world who does not want to live in peaceful and stable surroundings, regardless of whether he lives in China, the Soviet Union, America, Australia or somewhere in the Middle East. I am convinced that the people of Iran, of Kampuchea or of Vietnam would give their eye teeth to live in peaceful and stable surroundings. But I would suggest that any Australian government that was worth its salt would make quite sure that it did its utmostagain, I am not suggesting gunboat diplomacy, as was proposed by a Government supporter when  Senator Wheeldon  was making basically the same point earlier- to work for those ideals. It is in the interests of Australia that it should do so. But I do not believe that we can expect to live behind that barricade, or whatever it might be termed, while human rights are suppressed by any regime in our area. 
This takes me back to what I have said on several occasions this evening. I do not believe that we have any right, particularly any moral right, to hide behind a barricade and expect to live in peaceful and stable surroundings while people in, for example, Timor- the example that I have used throughout tonight- are being oppressed, slaughtered, murdered, raped and deprived of everything they have owned by a more powerful and aggressive neighbour apparently just because it is in our interests, as seen by a lot of people high up in this country, not to ruffle Indonesia's hair. 
Basically, we can see the same situation prevailing- I have referred to this also in this place at various times- in West Papua where we are hiding behind the actions that an aggressive, militant and repressive Indonesia has taken, and is taking, to kill off indigenous political movements. People there have been suppressed, are being suppressed and will be suppressed, especially while we acquiesce in what has been done. As far as this Government is concerned, it would appear that it intends to do that forever and a day. 
I present the following petition from 78 citizens of Australia: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate in Parliament assembled. The petition of the undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully showeth: 
That restoration of provisions of the Social Security Act that applied prior to the 1 978-79 Budget is of vital concern to offset the rising cost of goods and services. 
The reason advanced by the Government for yearly payments 'that the lower level of inflation made twice-yearly payments inappropriate ' is not valid. 
Great injury will be caused to 920,000 aged, invalid, widows and supporting parents, who rely solely on the pension or whose income, other than the pension, is $6 or less per week. Once-a-year payments strike a cruel blow to their expectation and make a mockery of a solemn election pledge. 
Accordingly, your petitioners call upon their legislators to: 
Restore twice-yearly pension adjustments in the Autumn session. 
Raise pensions and unemployed benefits above the poverty level to 30 per cent of average weekly earnings. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Transport. On 22 November last year I asked the Minister a question relating to tests reportedly carried out by Ansett Airlines of Australia on the use of Omega in Australia. The Minister promised to seek a reply. Can I expect an answer? If so, when? 
I support the Bill because I think it is one that is needed and certainly one that we in the Australian Labor Party have no qualms about supporting. The purpose of the Bill is to widen the definition of dairy produce to enable the Dairy Corporation to undertake the domestic promotion of all dairy products, which includes market milk and other items. In the past there appear to have been some doubts- I say appears; in actual fact there have been some doubts- about the definition of dairy produce, including market milk, cream, fresh milk, yoghurt and milk products of that type. I do not think there is any doubt in the minds of laymen as to where yoghurt comes from and where market milk comes from. They are products of the dairy industry and are in fact dairy produce. 
The dairy industry in this country has gone through what can be described only as a very severe shake-up, particularly over the last decade. That, of course, has been caused by a loss of sales after Britain joined the European Economic Community. The fact of Britain joining the EEC was long known, but it was a fact that previous Liberal-Country Party governments refused to face. Leaders in the dairy industry were aware that problems were coming, but previous Liberal-Country Party governments did not seem to be all that concerned about those problems and appeared to be prepared to allow the dairy industry, like many other industries- the fruit industry is one that readily comes to mind- to muddle their way through. It was not until the advent of the Labor Government in 1972 that the industry was looked at carefully. 

 Senator Wriedt, as Minister for Agriculture, decided that some action was needed. The immediate action was to take away from the industry the old butter and cheese subsidy. That, of course, created some rather loud squeals in the dairy industry at the time. I remind honourable senators opposite- I have said it before- that dairy industry leaders of the day were playing a rather double sided game in relation to that dairy industry subsidy. Whilst in private discussion between themselves and other leaders of the industry they were generally prepared to concede that the greatest thing that could happen to the dairy industry in Australia would be for that subsidy to be removed, they did not espouse that cause out on the stump. They left the dairy farmer thinking that the dairy subsidy was the greatest thing since canned peaches. Consequently, as I have said, when the Labor Government removed the subsidy farmers were up in arms. 
But once the industry was presented with that fait accompli, with the knowledge that the subsidy would be phased out, I believe that it then faced up very responsibly to the problem which affected the nation as a whole. At that stage the industry set about re-organising itself. We saw bigger and better moves into the areas of diversified products. Whilst many small dairy farmers, some of whom have been described as inefficient- I am not too sure about the use of that term- were forced out of the industry, the industry today is a better industry and a more viable industry and those in the industry can, I believe, see much brighter hopes for the future than they could prior to the advent of the Labor Government. I believe that the fact that we are debating this amendment today is proof of the diversification of the industry and of the attempt that the industry has made and currently is making to step up growth consumption on the domestic market. 
Cheese, of course, has been one of the brighter sides of the industry, perhaps since the industry opened up markets in Japan. It continues to be a growth industry, particularly in regard to exports to Japan and perhaps more so on the domestic market. That growth has been created by a large advertising awareness campaign that the industry itself has largely fostered. The campaign which was initially started by the Victorian Dairy Industry Authority with the slogan 'Big M ' must, I think, go down as one of the industry's greatest successes. Consumption of domestic milk or liquid milk in Victoria increased rather dramatically as a result of that promotion campaign. It is very interesting to see that other States are now intent on copying that pattern. The intent of the attempt to increase sales of domestic milk, liquid milk, is to take away the pressure to produce butter. Butter has been and is the ogre of the dairy industry and any moves, any trends, any type of campaign that can relieve the pressure on factories to produce butter will be of immense benefit to the industry. Prices being paid to the producer at the moment and over the last couple of years have improved, but not nearly to the extent that farm costs have increased. Nevertheless they have improved somewhat. It is rather interesting to read in the latest edition of the  National Farmer  that farm fuel bills leapt a massive 24 per cent in the last 12 months to December 1978. That is indicative of this Government's indifference to input costs for primary producers. 
The current situation of the dairy industry probably can be linked very closely to the current boom in the meat industry. Whilst dairy farmers rely very largely on the sale of milk for their income, at the end of every season they are presented with a situation where perhaps 15 per cent to 20 per cent of the herd has to be sold as culls on the' meat market. In that regard I shall mention the current prices that are realised in one provincial saleyard in Victoria. Whilst one must admit that in the dairy industry at the present time not many cows are calving and so bobby calves would be in short supply, the prices being received for bobby calves- calves a few days to a couple of weeks old- are good. The price for heavy bobby calves is quoted as being from $52 to $68 a head, for good bobby calves it is $42 to $50 a head and for light bobby calves $30 to $40 a head. Heavy cows are realising from $300 to $390 a head, heavy heifers from $300 to $370 a head and light heifers from $220 to $260 a head. Best choppers and the light to heavy cows, which are normally the type of animal turned off a dairy farm at the end of every season, realise from $200 to $240 a head, good choppers $160 to $190 and light choppers $120 to $150. 
-This is dairy beef. Light choppers are the type of cattle that about two years ago were being shot and buried in quarries or holes excavated by municipal bulldozers or by anybody who could dig a hole. I think that comparison highlights the market vagaries that primary producers are fraught with. Primary producers have gone from digging holes and burying cows two years ago to receiving $120 to $ 1 50 a head for similar beasts today. 
It is interesting to note that the other cull at the end of a season is the old farm bull. Whilst it might take a lot of bull to make $500, the fact is that cull bulls at the same saleyards are realising now from $450 to $585 a head. About three weeks ago one dairy bull was sold for more than $700, which perhaps was a record. Unfortunately dairy farmers have only one or at most two of those bulls per season. 
Whilst some people would say that dairy farmers generally must be on a pretty good wicket, against the prices received one must put the cost of replacements. At the same saleyards at present, spring Friesian heifers are priced at between $200 and $250 a head. So the farmer who does not rear his own replacements is faced with a situation in which he will pay out for a replacement beast just as much as or perhaps more than he receives for the one he sells. So, it is a quid pro quo. In the newspaper it looks good to a lot of people in the city who think dairy farmers are millionaires, but the balance sheet shows a different story. 
I mentioned earlier that initiatives by the Labor Government had led the dairy industry into a new era. 
It took the dairy industry out of the 1 950s and into the 1 970s. It is obvious that the honourable gentleman has never been on a dairy farm in his life. It is a fact that the Labor Government led the dairy industry into a new era. Any fair minded citizen in the dairy industry would agree with that. 
Yes, out of the 1950s and into the 1970s. 
-If it was total destruction there would not be any dairy farmers left in Australia today. As I have just said, they are in a better position now than they have been in for many years. I believe that situation has been brought about by the initiatives that the Labor Government took during its term in office. However, there is one matter of deep concern to the Australian dairy industry and that is what I see happening in New Zealand. It has always been accepted in the dairy industry that in most respects Australia has run second to the New Zealand dairy industry. I believe that in areas of production Australia may well have been second, but I now believe that because of circumstances the Australian industry in some respects is well in front of the New Zealand industry. One reason for that is the initiatives that the Labor 
Government took in cutting back the subsidy and urging the industry on to better paying markets, urging some curtailment of production and urging the industry to have a closer look at the domestic market. 
We are all very much aware that the New Zealand industry retained for itself for a much longer period its traditional rights in the United Kingdom. But it now seems that the New Zealand dairy industry's day of reckoning is just around the corner. I have before me an editorial from the  New Zealand Herald  headed Auckland, Friday, February 2, 1979'. I will later be seeking leave to have this document incorporated in  Hansard,  but I would first like to quote some passages from the editorial. In part it says: 
. it is obvious that in the dairying field this country faces the longest of long odds. 
The editorial resulted from a visit, which I think was just prior to Christmas, by the New Zealand Minister for Overseas Trade,  Mr Talboys,  to the United States, Canada and Brussels to seek a continuation of New Zealand's sales in the United States and to try to open up markets in Canada. If I recall correctly someone else had a shot at  Mr Talboys  while I was in New Zealand. That person virtually said the same as other countries have been saying to the Australian Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  for some time: 'It is no good coming to us and trying to sell us meat or dairy produce when already we have it running out of our ears'. I believe that it was someone from Canada who made that remark to the New Zealand Minister for Overseas Trade. The editorial later states: 
If, as seems highly likely, our British quota after 1980 is slashed drastically, we shall face an increasing problem in disposing of milk fat . . . 
That is why I said that in some respects the Australian dairy industry is now in front of its New Zealand counterpart. For too long New Zealand has relied on the United Kingdom as the traditional market for the sale of its butter. Once the United Kingdom market is cut back New Zealand will be faced with exactly the same situation as the Australian dairy industry faced up to five or six years ago. In that respect the Australian dairy industry is in front. 
The matter that concerns me about all this is that New Zealand will start hunting for markets. Until quite recently, the New Zealand Government was paying out $55m per annum by way of a subsidy on liquid milk. On coming to office the present New Zealand Government put up the price of liquid milk in New Zealand from 4c a pint to 8c a pint. That price hike caused a 4 per cent drop in consumption of liquid milk in that country. It seems from what I was able to read while in New Zealand that the Government is intent on phasing out that subsidy, just as the subsidy was phased out in Australia a few years ago. Once that subsidy goes, the dairy industry in New Zealand will have to look wherever it can for markets for butter and other dairy products unless it can generate the same types of promotional campaigns as those in Australia for the consumption of liquid milk. Because of New Zealand's very small population I doubt that it can do so to the same extent as Australia. That is what worries me about the future of the industry in Australia. In 1975-76, New Zealand exported to Australia 2,088 tonnes of cheese. In  1  976-77, it exported to Australia 2,800 tonnes of cheese. But in the period from July 1977 to April 1978 it exported 5,381 tonnes of cheese to Australia. That represents more than a doubling of exports in that very short period. I believe that is the great question mark that hangs over the industry in this country. 
I seem to recall that it was a Country Party Minister who, at the time of the signing of the Australia-New Zealand Free Trade Agreement, allowed New Zealand to export to Australia 1,000 tons of cheddar. Any reading of the statistics today will show that New Zealand is pushing cheese of all types into this country. Reports from some keen dairy farmers who go around the supermarkets show that variations of cheddar are entering Australia in an attempt to get in under the lap. I believe this poses a rather serious threat to the industry in Australia, an industry which five years ago was in a quandary but which today, I believe, knows where it is going and is doing its utmost to try to get there. Any threat of imports from a country which is so close, I believe, is not in the best interests of the dairy industry of this country. I hope that the Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Sinclair)  and this Government will watch very closely any further attempts by New Zealand to pour cheese or dairy products of any sort into Australia. I seek leave to have this editorial incorporated in Hansard. 
Leave granted. 

 The document read as follows - 

BACKS TO DAIRY WALL 
Although the Minister of Overseas Trade has succeeded in getting the highest authorities in Washington, Ottawa and Brussels to have another look at trade access for New Zealand, it is obvious that in the dairying field this country faces the longest of long odds. 
As he admits himself,  Mr Tallboys  has seen the face of rigid agricultural protectionism. The very fact that he tried to talk butter in countries where New Zealand has never been able to sell more than token amounts reflects the increasing anxiety the Government must feel about the future of butter sales in Britain, still our only market of any great consequence. 
For New Zealand, 1980 is the crucial year under the terms of the European Common Market agreement. Much as this small country might insist that it has been given a commitment for continued access to the British butter market after the end of next year, it is clear that we have the sternest of battles ahead to retain access for anything like the present quotas. 
Of an export butter output of about 160,000 tonnes, New Zealand will send 1 1 5,000 tonnes to Britain next year. That will leave about 45,000 tonnes to be spread around fairly thin markets in the Middle East, Africa, the Caribbean and South-east Asia, with perhaps some sales to the Soviet Union and China. If, as seems highly likely, our British quota after 1980 is slashed drastically, we shall face an increasing problem in disposing of milkfat because butter is more than 80 per cent fat. As a small nation providing only a limited market for manufactured imports we do not have much clout in multilateral trade negotiations where the emphasis is on giving as well as taking. 
The only alternative is to diversify products as well as markets. This the Dairy Board and the dairy companies have been doing. To provide an outlet for fat they nave moved into the manufacture of cheeses other than cheddar. They have quadrupled the output of wholemilk powder and could make less butter and more anhydrous mlikfat for milk recombining plants. 
These are all positive steps. But it is imperative now to carry the process a good deal further in an industry earning more than $550 million a year. And- in the face of mounting propaganda by other self-interested parties- we must enlist every ally we can. 
-In rising to speak very briefly on this Bill, I raise a matter about which the more I learn, the more concerned I become. I refer to the fishing feasibility study being conducted jointly by Japanese fishing companies and the South Australian based company, Safcol, off the southern coast of Victoria. On 22 February, I asked the Minister for Science and the Environment  (Senator Webster)  a question relating to this matter. The Minister, in his reply at a later date said in part:  lt - 
That is the project-   . . will examine the feasibility of commercial exploitation of these resources in both the catching and processing sectors. 
Later, in that same reply, the Minister said: 
Australian vessels are encouraged to participate in the project and suitable vessels will be equipped with squid jigging gear at no cost. Japanese skippers will provide instruction in squid-fishing techniques to Australian fishermen participating in the project. 
I now ask the Minister: By whom are Australian vessels encouraged to participate? With whom do the owners of such vessels discuss participation? Whom do they contact in order to assess the suitability of their vessels? To whom do they turn for the necessary gear which, according to the answer I received, is obtainable at no cost? Fishermen along the coast to whom I have spoken- traditional fishermen who have been there ever since the fishing industry was established in that area- do not seem to be aware of any of these offers, or to whom they should turn. 
According to a report in the Warrnambool  Standard  of some two weeks ago, the present Japanese fleet conducting the study- 11 vessels in all- after only four weeks in the area, had taken 1,000 tonnes of squid. According to that newspaper report, the fleet will return to Japan at the end of April and not return to the area until November or December. It is noted also, according to a statement from the Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Sinclair)  dated 6 March this year that the Japanese firms involved in this project are the same firms that were granted rights in another squid feasibility project. That feasibility study will run from Carnarvon in Western Australia right round to the South Australian-Western Australian border. If they are as successful in that area as they have been in the area adjacent to the coast of Victoria, I suggest that those firms are in a bonanza situation. If they get 1 ,000 tonnes of squid in four weeks from an area of perhaps 250 miles, one wonders what they might be capable of pulling out of the ocean in an area of over 2,000 miles. The Press release by the Minister for Primary Industry went on to say that the company expected that the entire bottom fish catch could be sold in Australia or exported. 
Sitting suspended from 6 to 8 p.m. 
Prior to the suspension of the sitting I was referring to a Press release that had been put out on 6 March by the Minister for Primary Industry in relation to joint feasibility squid fishing studies conducted in the area between Carnarvon and the South AustraliaWestern Australia border. I had remarked that, according to the Press release, the Japanese and Australian companies who were jointly involved expected that the entire bottom fish catch could be sold in Australia or exported. I then asked: If the catch were in any way large what effect would that have on the local wet fish market? In my humble opinion that market is about as full as it can ever be. New markets must be developed, something that the local fishing industry is endeavouring to do. I believe that if there were to be any large influx of wet fish on the Australian market, regardless of the State in which it was placed, it would depress prices throughout the industry. 
Another question which arises in relation to this exercise is that of price. Again, local fishermen who are interested in knowing what is going on are at a loss to find out what price processors are paying for the squid. I have been quoted prices ranging from $2.50 to $7.50 a kilo, and all sorts of prices in between. If we take the lowest price and multiply it by the 1,000 tonnes that the Japanese company has reputedly taken out of southern Victorian waters in four weeks we arrive at a value of $2.45m. That is a fairly sizable sum, in anybody's mind, and certainly in the minds of the local fishermen who have fished this area or adjacent waters ever since the fishing industry was established in this country. Another question is how long this feasibility project will last and whether any squid will be left by the time Australian fishermen are permitted to get into the act or are able to do so of their own volition. Local fishermen in my area are asking: Is this in reality another move by foreign enterprises to 'rip the guts out of another national resource"? I believe that answers to these questions would be very much appreciated by the traditional fishermen of whom I have spoken. 
A letter in the most recent edition of the  Professional Fishermen,  written by a man with 50 years' experience in the fishing industry in south-western Victoria, states in part: 
The whole natural movement of fish on our coastline will be ruined if this project is allowed to continue. 
I believe that is a very pertinent point. He concludes: 
However, to me and I feel to many other fishermen this squid project approval is the 'Death Knell' of a young and flourishing fishing industry. 
I do not know what studies our department has done in this area. It is well known amongst fishermen that Japan, the Soviet Union and goodness knows who else, but those two countries for sure, have been out in that area over the last decade or 15 years. It is quite fairly projected by those fishermen that foreign fishing enterprises know a lot more about the scene in relation to fish and their availability than do our fishermen and our department. It may well be that those enterprises have done their homework and are actually coming in on what one might describe as the grouter. Under the guise of experimentation and of assisting the Australian fishing industry, they will leave nothing for this country's fishermen or for anybody else. 
If a foreign enterprise, or any enterprise, takes 1,000 tonnes of squid in an area of up to 250 miles off the south coast of Victoria, questions should be asked as to what that will do to the total fish population of the area. At a depletion rate of 1,000 tonnes in four weeks, for how long can the industry, can the fish, in that area survive? Averaged out, that is a yield of 250 tonnes of squid a week. Just how long can the whole feed and ecological systems in the area withstand that sort of operation? I hope that our department would be very much aware of the position and would itself be asking that question. I believe that at the end of the study period, when these fleets go home, there will be nothing left for anybody. That is about where I would leave the matter at this stage. The final question I ask is: When does exploration become exploitation? 
I rise to oppose this Bill and to support the amendments proposed by the Opposition. I am very pleased to follow in this debate a person such as  Senator Missen.  Perchance if a person of his mind had been in charge of the Australian Security Intelligence Organisation over the last 10 years there would not have been a need for this legislation. One can only say that the amendments proposed by the Opposition seek to guard the civil liberties of the citizens of Australia in relation to this legislation. Under this legislation, any citizen, and perhaps all citizens, can come under the umbrella of what on past record can only be described as an insidious and dangerous organisation. According to evidence that is available from various quarters, it is an organisation that has been responsible for and may well have destroyed the lives and opportunities of many innocent people in our community. 
I hold the view that an organisation such as ASIO is not required in any democratic society. The fact that we have such an organisation indicates to me that we do not live in a democratic society. It is rather funny in many respects to be debating a Bill such as this. If one is old enough and has been sufficiently involved in politics over the last 20 to 30 years one will recall the scorn and propaganda that was churned out daily at the height of the Cold War by all sorts of people in Australia and in the so-called free world generally about the problems of the people of the Soviet Union with the terrible organisation known as the KGB. There may be some degrees of difference between the KGB and ASIO. No doubt a lawyer would point out to me that there are many differences. But I suggest that in the totality of the matter there is not a great deal of difference between the organisation under which the Soviet people have been oppressed over the years and an organisation such as ASIO which, during the period about which I have spoken, has been allowed free reign and which, as I said earlier, may well have destroyed the lives and opportunities of many decent, honest citizens in this country. I wish to quote briefly some excerpts from the report of  Mr Justice  Hope. I refer to paragraphs 14, 15, 18 and 19 of the report. In paragraph 14  Mr Justice  Hope said: 
As an organisation, ASIO needs management. Over a number of years, ASIO's management was not as good as it should have been. If Australia needs a security service- and I shall show that it does- it must be well run. Those working in it must have high personal qualities. 
Reading between the lines, I think  Mr Justice  Hope is suggesting that over a period many people working in ASIO and perhaps high up in the echelon have not had high personal qualities. That is the only inference I can draw from that paragraph. Paragraph 1 5 reads: 
I found that matters of management- definition of goals, financial affairs, staffing and recruitment, communication and records procedures- had not had the attention in ASIO that they needed. In Part E (which in my view should not be published), I examined these and related matters. 
I repeat that  Mr Justice  Hope said: 
In Part E (which in my view should not be published) . . . 
I think that the citizens of Australia must realise the inhibiting factors that we in this chamber have placed upon us at a time when we are debating a very vital Bill. We do not know and we shall never know what  Mr Justice  Hope is not prepared to publish. As the elected representatives of the people of Australia, I feel that we should know some more about such matters in order that we can make a proper judgment on the value of this legislation, or just what ASIO has been all about and on what it is likely to be about in the future- whether it is worth the provision which is made for it in the Budget. We are actually debating in the dark. In many respects, we are debating a pig in a poke.  Mr Justice  Hope went on in paragraph 1 8 to say: 
I received submissions and information papers in some number from ASIO. But I must say that those submitted in the early part of my inquiry, on examination, proved to be of neither the quality nor the reliability one might have wished. 
That is a fairly damaging charge for  Mr Justice  Hope to make about an organisation which has been in existence in this country for some 25 or 30 years. He went on in paragraph 1 9 to say: 
Accordingly, I took steps to make it clear to the management at the time that I had the right and the duty to inquire into any question, to speak with any witness, to examine any paper, no matter how secret or sensitive the subject was represented to be. I am satisfied that, in the latter part of my inquiry, the management has understood that point and has co-operated accordingly. 
The inference I draw from those paragraphs is not only that the organisation was incompetent but also that it was quite obvious that those in charge of it had to have their arms twisted up their backs before they would give  Mr Justice  Hope the information he sought under his charter- a charter from the democratically elected government of the day. Such was the power, the feeling and the attitude that was adopted by the hierarchy of ASIO during the early part of that inquiry that they presented themselves to be a law unto themselves, a body of men who were not only out of touch with someone who was given a charter to investigate them but also completely out of touch with what they were purported to be in the first instance and who set themselves above every institution in this country. 
I ask: What guarantees do we have that this will not happen again? I think the suggestion put forward by  Senator Missen  that some form of sunset legislation should apply to a body such as this is to be commended. I suggest that no more than five years should pass before this legislation and this institution, which in the past has set itself above the government of this country, should be reviewed, and reviewed very thoroughly. I go so far as to suggest that it would not matter what type of legislation was brought down by any government or any Attorney-General in this country because such is the nature of secret organisations anywhere in the world that they are not to be trusted. I think the history of any secret police organisation in any country shows that a stage is reached when that organisation is not to be trusted. At a time when the citizens and the Government of the United States of America are concerning themselves with an investigation into one of their own secret organisations- the Central Intelligence Agency- in relation to the pruning of some of its powers, we have the Government of this country being prepared to give a similar organisation greater powers. 
In the next few pages of his fourth report,  Mr Justice  Hope went on to say much about espionage, subversion, sabotage, et cetera. He has done no more than dredge up the old Petrov inquiry. I would have thought that a learned gentleman such as  Mr Justice  Hope would have looked for a brighter star on which to hang his argument. Quite frankly, I believe that anybody who brings down a report that is based on the Petrov inquiry is hanging his hat on a very tender and fragile peg. The whole of that part of  Mr Justice  Hope 's report reads something like an extreme right wing journal at the height of the Cold War. Talk in the report of the expulsion of diplomats from various countries on the grounds of their alleged illegal activities reminds me of nothing more than a group of petulant schoolboys saying, 'You expel one of mine and I will expel one of yours'- a kind of game that is played by the brotherhood of spies around the globe as, I suppose, a sort of public relations exercise to try to prove to the citizens of the country that the agents are worth the tax money that is spent on them. 

 Mr Justice Hope goes on to talk about the type of weapons that a security service such as ASIO needs to operate- telephone taps, bugs or listening devices, mail interception et cetera. Those areas are where I suggest on past record ASIO has again ruined many people's lives by stickybeaking into areas in which it had no responsibility to stickybeak. When we read what has come out of some of the special branch files, particularly in Adelaide, one wonders whether God or anybody else knows the personal lives and secrets of thousands of citizens around this country. 
Perhaps the greatest understatement in the whole report, in my view, comes on page 98 at paragraph 177 where  Mr Justice  Hope said: 
There is in Australia some feeling of antagonism to agents, based I think on the deception that is involved. An agent has to be accepted by the persons about whom he is reporting as one of their number, and as sympathetic to their objectives. In fact he is not one of their number, and may not be sympathetic to their objectives. 
So we have a situation where one of these people worms his or her way into an organisation, club, group or political party on the pretext that he or she wants to be part and parcel of that group and has similar views and ideals. Of course, no one ever finds out that he is not one of the group because he probably moves away from the district and slips out of sight. In my view, a person who adopts that life style, that type of action, is the lowest form of human being I can think of. Quite frankly, if such a person is ever discovered there is only one treatment for him- the good old Australian boot. That is the only treatment for such people; they are the lowest of the low. I suggest that because that attitude is held by many Australians, a very healthy and justified antagonism is held towards agents or, as I prefer to call them, spies. 
One other area where I believe an organisation such as ASIO presents danger to a nation is the opportunity that such organisations provide for infiltration by really dedicated double agents and operators for foreign powers. To use just one example why governments should be a little more sceptical about setting up such secret organisations, I refer to the three British agentsBurgess, McLean and Philby- who worked for years in British security and used that organisation to feed information about Great Britain back to their masters, allegedly in the Soviet Union. In fact, had the security organisation not been established in Great Britain it may well be that the masters of Philby, McLean and Burgess would have been able to find out less about Great Britain than they were able to find out by virtue of the fact that such a secret organisation had been established. 
I want to get on to another matter. If I sound very sceptical about ASIO and if I am critical of it, it is because of this matter. I ask myself: Of what worth is ASIO when the chips are really down? I suggest that in the past it has not been worth a crumpet. In July 1974 it was alleged that at the Watsonia Army Barracks in Victoria there was an assassination squad and that that squad has a short list of the Prime Minister of Australia and four of his Ministers-  Senator Murphy, Dr Cairns, Mr Uren  and  Mr Barnard.  It was also alleged that that assassination squad had conducted missions in Ireland and Indonesia. Strangely, I thought anyhow, around that period and Australian Army rifle or submachine gun- I cannot now recall which- was found in Ireland. The then Minister for Defence, in reply to a question, said that as far as the Department knew that weapon had been stolen from an Army barracks in South Australia. That may well have been so, but it seemed a little strange that that allegation was made about this group having conducted an operation in Ireland and that an Australian Army weapon should be found there. Subsequent investigations by the Commonwealth Police- honourable senators should note that they were conducted by the Commonwealth Police and not by ASIO- proved the allegations to be correct. Even more strangely, the allegations were made by two fairly ordinary citizens when one looks across the broad spectrum of society- a couple of people who were fairly strongly committed to their opposition to the Vietnam war. One would suggest, from reading what we know about ASIO's past, that they would have been the sort of people who would have been on an ASIO file because they would have been described as somewhat radical left wingers. So in effect ASIO in that period was watching the wrong people, and that is one of the reasons for my scepticism about ASIO. If one has ever been through such an experience one knows that it is fairly good ground for being sceptical about any organisation. The second reading speech of the Attorney-General  (Senator Durack)  on the Australian Security Intelligence Organization Bill states in part: 
Australia faces a number of serious threats to its internal security including persistent efforts on the part of hostile intelligence agencies to obtain intelligence from within Australia. 
Such a statement would not stand up in a court of law without some supporting evidence. But we as citizens of Australia and members of this Parliament are expected, I presume, to accept that statement without any supporting evidence and without any question. One presumes that it comes from this very organisation about which we are debating tonight, and the only thing that I know about that organisation is the name of its titular head. Search as we may in the proceedings of Estimates Committees we have been unable to find the budget of the organisation. We can ask questions but we never get an answer as to how that money is spent and generally what the organisation does with it or what the organisation does in general other than apparently spy on ordinary people; and when the chips are down it is not worth a crumpet. 
We give the Attorney-General and the organisation the benefit of the doubt with regard to that statement. Let us presume that it is a true statement. I then ask myself: What type of intelligence are we in Australia capable of providing to some enemy or foreign power which is hostile to us, particularly in a time of peace? I analyse the situation and I say: As far as I am aware, we have no sophisticated military equipment that is not available to any spy or foreign security agent in many other countries. I cannot concede that Australia's industrial machinery or practices are so advanced that any foreign agent would want to be nosing around Australia looking for them. Certainly Australia has large mineral deposits but there seem to be any number of satellites flying round the world that can photograph all our mining operations. They can photograph our wheat crop and can probably tell their own governments within a few hundred thousand bushels how much wheat Australia has. They can probably count every head of cattle in the country. So I ask myself what is left for any foreign agents- allegedly enemy or hostile- to search for in Australia. 
The only conclusion I can come to is that Australia, for its population, has on its soil a large number of foreign military bases and that this is the military intelligence for which a power, supposedly hostile to Australia, is searching. In reality, it is probably a power which is hostile to the country for whom Australia acts as host. If that is the case, and I believe that it may well be, I suggest that the simple answer is to ask that country to remove from our soil its military bases. It may be that then we could disband the foreign espionage and sabotage role of ASIO which, as far as I am concerned, in the final analysis would be used for one purpose only and that is to maintain the status quo. 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Post and Telecommunications. Is it a fact that government imposed staff ceilings are causing delays of up to one year in the extension of telephone cables and installation of telephone services to businesses and private users in the Prime Minister's electorate of Wannon? 
-I wish to raise a matter which is of concern to me as a senator from Victoria. It has come to my attention that a well known building society in Victoria recently had to suspend a senior employee for receiving secret commissions. I believe that this former employee was receiving a commission for making funds available to individuals who were not bona fide depositors of that society. I also believe that the Victorian fraud squad has carried out intensive investigations into the matter and that as a result of its work an indiviual operating outside the building society was arrested on 9 March 1979. On that date a man by the name of Geoffrey Leo Patterson, who operated a company called Patvin Pty Ltd with a registered office at 226 Bay Street, Port Melbourne, was arrested and charged with obtaining financial advantge by deception. It is alleged that the amount involved was at least $50,000. My information is that the charge did not mention the relevant building society. 
I believe that on 19 March 1979, before a closed court hearing of the Melbourne Magistrate's Court, one Geoffrey Leo Patterson applied to have his passport returned and that that request was denied. It does appear that the fraud squad prepared a report on the activities of a senior employee of the building society some three months ago and that that report was referred to the Attorney-General and recommended that charges be laid. The name of the building society concerned is the Statewide Building Society and I understand that the person concerned is called Niall. 
I understand so. It is of concern to me that the Victorian State Government has delayed laying charges against this person until after 5 May because of possible embarrassment to the Liberal Party. As I understand it, the auditors of Statewide Building Society are Day, Neilson, Jenkins and Johns, chartered accountants, and that the Jenkins concerned is  Mr Glynn  Jenkins, Liberal Member of the Legislative Council for Geelong. 
I understand that could well be so. I quote from the auditors report of the Society for the year ended 30 June 1 978: 
The regulations relating to the administration of the society have been observed. 
That is the Statewide Building Society. On my information this would not appear to be so and I believe a lot of people in Victoria have a vested interest in knowing why there has been a delay in bringing this matter to court. 
-Has the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry seen reports claiming that II of 14 Western Australian, Victorian and New South Wales meatworks exporting meat to the Middle East are not killing animals according to Moslem rights? Is this report correct? If so, what measures is the Government contemplating to overcome this problem, which poses serious threats to meat exports to Middle East countries? 
I present the following petition from 783 citizens of Australia: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate in Parliament assembled: 
The petition of the undersigned electors respectfully showeth: 
That compensation benefits payable to injured Australian Government employees and defence forces personnel under the Compensation (Commonwealth Government Employees) Act 1 97 1 should be increased as a matter of urgency in view of the financial plight of recipients, particularly those suffering long term incapactiy and because of the significant increase in the cost of living which has occurred since compensation payments were last adjusted; and 
That statutory provision should be made for the automatic - adjustment of compensation benefits. 
And your petitioners, as in duty bound, will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Transport. The Minister may recall that on 22 
November last year I asked him a question in relation to a report attributed to  Mr Ireson,  the senior avionics engineer for Ansett Airlines of Australia, relative to tests purportedly carried out by that company in relation to Omega in Australia. On 8 March of this year I reminded the Minister of my question and asked him when 1 would receive a reply. As it is now almost six months since I asked the original question, I now ask the Minister: Can I expect a reply? Alternatively, is the opinion I hold that the Government has something to hide correct? 
I ask the Minister representing the Minister for Foreign Affairs: Did the Israeli Minister for Energy recently visit Australia? If so, when; what was the purpose of his visit; and with what Ministers or organisations did he have discussions while he was here? 
I present the following petition from 40 1 citizens of Australia: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate in Parliament assembled: 
The petition of the undersigned electors respectfully showeth: 
That compensation benefits payable to injured Australian Government employees and Defence Forces personnel under the Compensation (Commonwealth Government Employees) Act 1971 should be increased as a matter of urgency in view of the financial plight of recipients, particularly those suffering long term incapacity and because of the significant increase in the cost of living which has occurred since compensation payments were last adjusted; and 
That statutory provision should be made for the automatic adjustment of compensation benefits. 
And your petitioners, as in duty bound, will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
I ask the Minister representing the Treasurer: Is it a fact that the Government is applying pressure on the Victorian Farmers and Graziers Meat Co-operative to repay in full loans guaranteed by the Government? 
On behalf of  Senator Douglas  McClelland, I present the following petition from 16 citizens of Australia: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate in Parliament assembled. 
The petition of the undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully showeth: 
The the plan to obliterate the traditional weights and measures of this country does not have the support of the people; 
That the change is causing and will continue to cause, widespread, serious and costly problems; That the compulsory tactics being used to force the change are a violation of all democratic principles. 
Your petitioners therefore pray: 
That the Metric Conversion Act be repealed to ensure that the people are free to utilize whichever system they prefer and so enable the return to imperial weights and measures wherever the people so desire; 
That weather reporting be as it was prior to the passing of the Metric Conversion Act; 
That the Australian Government take urgent steps to cause the traditional mile units to be restored to our highways; 
That the Australian Government request the State Governments to procure that the imperial and metric systems be taught together in schools. 
And your petitioners, as in duty bound, will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Employment and Youth Affairs. I preface it by referring him to the recently released report into unemployment, which was prepared for the Victorian Government by the Brotherhood of St. Laurence. The report urged the Federal Government to abandon its discredited employment policies and to initiate a proper program of manpower planning and retraining, the effectiveness of which would be monitored by an independent research and development organisation. I ask the Minister whether the Government has considered the report and, if so, whether it is considering making any changes to its employment and retraining programs along the lines recommended by the report. 
I present the following petition from 34 citizens of Australia: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate in Parliament assembled. The petition of the undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully showeth: 
That the plan to obliterate the traditional weights and measures of this country does not have the support of the people; 
That the change is causing and will continue to cause, widespread, serious and costly problems; 
That the compulsory tactics being used to force the change arc a violation of all democratic principles. 
Your petitioners therefore pray: 
That the Metric Conversion Act be repealed to ensure that the people are free to utilize whichever system they prefer and so enable the return to imperial weights and measures wherever the people so desire; 
That weather reporting be as it was prior to the passing of the Metric Conversion Act; 
That the Australian Government take urgent steps to cause the traditional mile units to be restored to our highways; 
That the Australian Government request the State Governments to procure that the imperial and metric systems be taught together in schools. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
I direct my question to the Minister representing the Prime Minister. Is it a fact that the Prime Minister failed to pay the $ 10 departure tax due prior to his leaving for the opening of the Papua New Guinea Parliament several months ago? Is the Department of Immigration and Ethnic Affairs still waiting for this payment? 
I present the following petition from 137 citizens of Australia: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate in Parliament assembled the petition of the undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully showeth: 
That restoration of provisions of the Social Security Act that applied prior to the 1978-79 Budget is of vital concern to offset the rising cost of goods and services. 
The reason advanced by the Government for yearly payments 'that the lower level of inflation made twice-yearly payments inappropriate 'is not valid. 
Great injury will be caused to 920,000 aged, invalid, widows and supporting parents, who rely solely on the pension or whose income, other than the pension, is $6 or less per week. Once-a-year payments strike a cruel blow to their expectation and make a mockery of a solemn election pledge. 
Accordingly, your petitioners call upon their legislators to: 
Restore twice-yearly pension adjustments in the Autumn session. 
Raise pensions and unemployed benefits above the poverty level to 30 per cent of average weekly earnings. 
And your petitioners in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Prime Minister. In the light of the reported disappointment being expressed by Third World countries at the lack of any substantial progress being made at the recent United Nations Conference on Trade and Development meetings in Manila, will the Government be putting down a statement spelling out the results of the UNCTAD gathering as seen from the Australian point of view? 
-I rise to speak rather briefly to a rather small section of the statement that the Minister for Education  (Senator Carrick)  put down this evening. I refer to the second paragraph on page 8 wherein the Minister said: 
The year 1980 will be the second year of the migrant and multicultural education program of the Galbally Committee. Under this program, the Government will provide through the Schools Commission, increases comprising $2. 1 m for the teaching of English language in schools and $0.9m for the support of activities specifically related to education for a multicultural society. These increases will permit some further restructuring to overcome disparities in the existing distribution among systems of the English language section of the program. 
I think that every Australian realises that there are problems in this area and that there is a need for funds. I suggest that the $0.9m is a rather Scrooge-like amount for any activity in this area. Despite the merits of that program, I believe that in the totality of Australia 's situation in the world of today it can be considered only as a rather introverted program. It would seem to me at present that if this Government wants to make job opportunities available in our society and to open up new areas and new vistas, there are areas within the educational system where this could be carried out. 
I am no expert on education. I left school too long ago, at the end of about a four foot length of leather strap, to be an expert on education. But I do know that at the present time, as an example, the Victorian Department of Education is relying on non-professional volunteers in the area of remedial reading. Despite the valiant and I think excellent efforts of those sorts of nonprofessional volunteers in that area, it seems to me that there is a requirement for trained and qualified staff. It seems to me that, if our society is to overcome the problems with literacy and numeracy governments have a golden opportunity in this day and age to provide funds for properly qualified professional staff to work in that area, rather than our relying, as I said, on non-professional volunteers, as is the case in Victoria at the present time. 
There is another area in which I feel that the Government has been remiss. It is another area which I believe could provide job opportunities. Rather than the Government winding down an education system because it believes that school populations are declining, it seems to me that now is the time for the Government to look at our education system to see in what areas it might be remiss. I suggest that one area into which the Government could move is that' of foreign languages. It seems to me that, rather than the Government cutting back on funding at the present time, that is an area in which funding could be expanded and, as a result, as I said before, new vistas for employment and learning in our society could be opened up. 
My experience in the Middle East at this time last year proved to me that Australians live in terrible isolation. I speak of Australians in the broad spectrum. To go to a developing country, as I did last year when I visited the Middle East, and to find out that pupils on finishing primary school were fluent not only in their own language, Arabic, but also in English; and to find that their parents were able to speak French, Italian, German and numerous other languages pertaining to the Mediterranean region, was an eye opener to me. It made me aware of the paucity of my education. Back in 1976, in a report on Australia and the refugee problem, the Senate Standing Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence had this to say at page 98, paragraph 7.40: 
In order to avoid the confusion, misinterpretation and lack of comprehension which results from word of mouth communication with refugees, the Committee recommends that their own language be used in individual communication with them as well as in the preparation of documents and information sheets which are of concern to them. In the Committee's view the use of the refugee's native language for both oral and written communication is of fundamental importance if practical application is to be given to the basic principle that refugees (and migrants) be assured of full access to statutory services and forms of support and assistance to which they arc entitled. 1 would expect that, as that report was presented in the hey-day of Vietnamese refugees coming to this country, at the moment we would have a full complement of Vietnamese interpreters in this country. Certainly it is not the fault of the Vietnamese refugees if that is not so.  Senator Sim,  who sits opposite, will remember very well our visit to Wacol camp back in 1975 or 1976-1 think it was early 1976- when we came across that very problem in relation to languages. We were obliged to take our own interpreter with us to be sure that we got the correct story. The same Senate Standing Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence, in its report on Australian representation overseas, had this to say at page 20, under the heading 'Language training', when referring to the Department of Foreign Affairs: 
In 1973 the Department established a Language Training Agency. The Agency is staffed by two clerical officers and one clerical assistant from the Department. In 1976 a language laboratory was installed and at the present time the Agency is able to cope with existing needs. 
The Department's needs. The report continued: 
However the Department is anxious to implement a longterm language training program which is aimed at increasing the level of officers' language proficiency and this will require further augmentation of equipment and staff. The Language Training Agency services not only Foreign Affairs, but also other departments, with advice on courses it is conducting, language tests and loans of cassettes. 
I was rather intrigued to read in the  Canberra Times  of 2 1 May this year an article in relation to the Australian problem of our being largely unable to speak a language other than our own. The article is entitled 'Australians: imprisoned within the four walls of our monolingualism', and starts off by stating: 
There can bc few countries in the Western world so unaware of language problems and so crippled by this lack of awareness as Australia. 
The article went on to point out several areas in which that lack of awareness was evident. As I read the article I realised that those areas were basically concerned only with making a quid. The article was not concerned with people's ability to speak another language for recreational purposes or to relate to people in circumstances other than those related to the cold hard facts of trade. I am sure that members of the Senate Standing Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence will agree with that section of the article which states: 
Australian diplomats, for example, often do not speak the language of the country where they are posted. This makes it virtually impossible for them to fully understand and accurately report on the country of their posting or to promote fruitful relations between that country and Australia. 
As I said, that has come out time and time again in hearings of the Senate Standing Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence, of which I have been a member for some six or seven years now. The article went on to state-- 
It is in the  Canberra Times of 2  1 May. The article continued: 
Australian businessmen and foreign trade officials often do not speak foreign languages either. At a time when it is universally accepted that for political, economic and social reasons of enlightened self-interest, Australia should be developing its trading links with the emerging growth area of the ASEAN nations, Asian language studies at our schools and universities are declining- less dramatically than studies of most European languages, but equally alarmingly. 
The Working Party on Languages and Linguistics in Australian Universities, which published its report in 1975. found that 'the period 1967-1974 had witnessed a dramaticdecline in the study of languages at matriculation level. In absolute terms total language sittings in all language subjects fell from 22, 144 in 1967 to 14,719in 1974. 
On a quick summing up, that represents a drop of some 33 per cent in that period. The article continued: 
As a proportion of total students sitting for matriculation examinations this represented a drop from 40 per cent in 1967 to 1 6 per cent in 1974. 
The article went on to state further: 
As a former Australian ambassador said recently. 'Decisions are now being taken in Tokyo and Peking, in Hanoi and in the capitals of ASEAN which will have both direct and indirect bearing on Australia and its future, but schools arc taking a "soft" approach and promoting "exposure to Asian culture" instead of teaching languages. This represents, he said, " a surrender to the great Australian commitment to laziness and mediocrity".' 
At a time when other countries are studying intensively the possibilities of expanding sales abroad by policies aimed at increased knowledge and use of foreign languages (cf, for example, the 'Does-Britain-need linguists' conference which took place in London in May 1978) Australia slumbers on in its lazy, lethargic monolingualism 
Reports of official government committees on relations with our most important trading partner, Japan, appear  without reference to a single Japanese language source. Business firms show little or no interest in graduates from Japanese departments. 
And yet. as the Australian Ambassador to Japan,  Mr John  Menadue, said recently, language is the most frustrating and the most limiting thing in our relations with Japan at a working level. 
You can't understand a society except through its own language', he urged. 'Australia has to face up in the long term to where it is going in language training, in both government and the private sector'. 
Among embassy officials the most effective by a mile are those who have got the language'. 
Among the businessmen, those who have got the language arc streets ahead of those who don't'. 

 Sir John Crawford, the chancellor of the Australian National University and a member of the Australia/Japan Foundation, has frequently stressed the imperative need for Australians to increase the emphasis on languages in all levels of education,  not excluding the primary schools. 
The article goes on to cover other areas of industry in Australia. It states: 
The potential tourist market in Australia is very largely wasted because of the lack of multilingual hostesses, guides and reception staff. As the  chairman  of the House of Representatives Select Committee on Tourism,  Mr Jull,  said recently, 'The lack of multilingualist  tourist staff in Australia is already an inhibiting factor in promoting Australia overseas '. 
The article refers to the Australian film industry. It states: 
The Australian film industry is alienated from the international film world. Australian critics, producers and directors- even when they go to film festivals overseas- are isolated from the international community of film-makers. 
As the well-known film critic Paddy McGuinness said recently, 'One of the problems of the Australian contingent at Cannes is that few of them arc equipped to speak or read French, and for the most part they talk to each other, or to the English critics. They do not talk to or know the thinking of the French and the Italians who exercise a much greater influence and have a better idea of what is going on'. 
I recall some years ago before I entered this place talking to a group of students. From memory, I spoke to them on one Anzac Day. In my endeavours to try to find some subjects about which to talk other than the carnage of war I thought I should look into the future and address them on where this country was going and the sorts of problems they might face which my generation did not face. I recall very clearly speaking to these students about this very problem in our society. I said to them that it seemed to me when I went to school that those students who went to the high school rather than the technical school, which I attended, were deemed to be somewhat ahead of us because they learned French. I said that I often wondered whether they learned French because England was 22 miles from France rather than for any other reason. 1 suggested to them that as Indonesia was only a couple of hundred miles from Australia, and if the same basis for learning a language applied, it was about time that Australian schools started to teach the Indonesian language or languages as well as the languages of Asia. I believe that such an undertaking has been attempted although I am not competent to say with what results. However, it seems to me, as I pointed out earlier in my address, that we are so far behind dozens of other nations in this respect that it is no longer funny. 
Australians can be considered only as Ockers when they travel overseas. I particularly put myself in that category. I know that I am one of thousands of Australians who have never had the opportunity to learn a second language. I firmly believe that if a second language is to be grasped it should be taught at a very tender age and that follow-up programs should be provided. Young Australians are able to travel overseas just as young people from overseas can come to this country. Because of tourism it is much easier to retain a foreign language in this modern day and age than it was 20, 30 or 40 years ago. It seems to me that this Government has missed a golden opportunity in this area by declining to open up what I termed that vista for Australian students in our education system today. 
-One can only say that with the carriage of these two Bills, the final nails have been driven into the coffin of Medibank. The coffin has been lowered; the mourners have left the scene. We on this side of the chamber believe that Medibank will be resurrected as it was on another memorable occasion. It may take a little more than three days, but it will be resurrected. That is our pledge to the people of Australia. 
It is not my intention to deal with all of the proposed changes in the two Bills but purely and simply to deal with a rather small section of one of the Bills, namely, the National Health Amendment Bill 1979, in relation to the Isolated Patients' Travel and Accommodation Assistance Scheme. I think that if we have ever seen a scheme that has been drawn up in haste it must surely have been this scheme. Despite the fact that people in rural areas have been clamouring for assistance of this type over many years, the introduction of the scheme was belated. Although, as I said, it was urgently needed it was badly drawn up. I do not quite know where to lay the blame. As I have said before, this is a recurring theme in country areas. I know that many public servants in this city will say that they live in a somewhat isolated area when compared with other areas throughout Australia. It appears to me that the architects of this scheme have lived in isolation from the rest of Australia. When they drew up the rules for this scheme they were not aware of what they were doing. It is human to err. I am not blaming anybody, but I think the Department of Health or whoever is responsible for these sorts of schemes should look deeper into these sorts of schemes before they start drawing boundaries on maps. 
The original legislation covering the Isolated Patients' Travel and Accommodation Assistance Scheme provided that people residing in a municipality in which 50 per cent of the population were more than 200 kilometres from a capital city or a city with a population of 100,000 would be eligible for assistance under this scheme. As I said earlier, it may well be that public servants in Canberra are isolated. They presume that because Canberra has all sorts of grandiose health services, which are very necessary, every other city with a population in excess of 100,000 would also have similar health facilities and personnel. Of course, that is not the case. I would like to quote from a letter that I wrote earlier this year to the Minster for Health  (Mr Hunt).  It states in part: 
In the explanatory notes pertaining to the scheme (page 3) - 
That is the scheme to which I have referred- 
. the guidelines are set out and on my reading of these, it does appear that the Shire of Warrnambool, City of Warrnambool and Borough of Koroit are excluded, due to the fact that less than 50 per cent of their population resides within 200 kilometres of a central post office of a city with over 100,000 population, presumably Geelong. Suffice for me to point out that the type of facilities required by many children who could be  elegible  under this scheme are not available in Geelong, but are in Melbourne. 
I refer to appliance and splint centres, neuro surgeons, amputee clinic, spinal bifida cases, cancer, leukemia and congenital complaints. It is also reported to myself that orthopaedic services are insufficient in Geelong in public hospitals. 
On the information provided it does seem that most children in the area, and I guess throughout Victoria, are referred to specialists in Melbourne operating out of the Children's and other hospitals. 
I therefore submit that most families in this area are precluded from benefit under this scheme because of the Geelong link or tieup and ask that consideration be given to an amendment to allow the physical and actual situation as it appears, to be the criteria, rather than non factual criteria. 
In the specific case of the Borough of Koroit, 1 believe they have a case even under the present guidelines, that is the 200 kilometres and SO per cent of population. The distance from the Koroit Post Office to Geelong, according to my knowledge, is 210 kilometres, and that being the case, the total population of the Borough would reside within the guidelines. 
I find it very hard to understand how any person drawing up guidelines or boundaries under such a scheme could leave outside the scheme an area that was actually within the parameters or the guidelines set out. Three weeks later I received a letter for the Minister in which he stated, in part: 
My Department has recently completed a review of the Scheme following its first few months of operation and one of the recommendations which are currently under consideration by the Government is that the prescribed 'nonisolated' areas should be reduced so as to encompass only the metropolitan areas of the mainland capital cities (excluding Darwin and Canberra) . . . The exclusion of Koroit Borough from the Scheme was done inadvertently and action will be taken to amend the Regulations. 
I find that somewhat hard to accept. One or two other matters in relation to the same scheme will be ironed out or amended by the Bill that is being debated at the moment. The scheme can be only improved by those means. 
Another minor anomaly in the scheme based on municipal boundaries existed because of the fact that municipal boundaries are rather like the proverbial dog's hind leg. In my part of the State, where I know the municipal boundaries rather intimately, patients living in areas further away from Melbourne could have been excluded from the scheme over and above those who are closer to Melbourne and/or Geelong. This was due to the fact that municipal boundaries dart hither and thither, follow roads, creeks and fences and go willy-nilly across paddocks because the old parish boundaries were drawn up 120, 130 or 140 years ago. It appears to me from my interpretation of this Bill that these problems will be overcome by the amendments it contains which will allow any patient residing more than 200 kilometres from the Melbourne General 
Post Office to come within the ambit of this scheme. 
As a result of reports coming to me I wish to refer to the previous requirement that departmental approval be given before a patient can undertake travel. This has created hardships, particularly for young mothers and fathers with small kiddies and particularly in the context of a rushed trip to Melbourne and/or Geelong in an emergency. As I understand it, to obtain departmental approval a patient had to go to his local general practitioner and receive the okay. As far as I know, the situation that prevailed in Victoria in relation to the Children's Hospital- which is where the large specialist centres are- was that once a patient was referred by his local general practitioner to the specialist, the line of communication precluded the general practitioner. It was on a person-to-person basis between the specialist and the patient or the parents of the patient so that in many cases there was no requirement for the patient ever to go back to the general practitioner. As I said, that requirement of having to go back to the general practitioner was somewhat onerous and hard to achieve in emergency cases. 
I present the following petition from 266 citizens of Australia: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate in Parliament assembled. The humble petition of the undersigned citizens of Australia residing in the Electorate of Wannon respectfully showeth: 
That the Government adhere to its commitment to take politics out of pension increases by giving automatic increases in line with price rises twice  a  year. 
That the Government immediately grant free medical, hospital and pharmaceutical benefits to any person receiving a portion of the aged pension. 
That the Government take steps to grant free medical, hospital and pharmaceutical benefits to all female citizens on reaching age sixty and all male citizens on reaching age sixty-five years. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Prime Minister. If the Prime Minister blames poor communications for the Government's current position, what is the function and use of the Government's media information unit, which employs at least six journalists on salaries of about $26,000 each? If that unit has not been effective, will the Government, in line with its views on inefficient civil servants, retire members of its media unit by management directive? 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for National Development and I ask: Is it a fact that, due to a shortage of Avgas at some airports in Victoria and Tasmania, commuter airlines are being forced to travel miles from their normal routes in order to obtain supplies of this fuel? 
My question is directed to the Minister for Science and the Environment. Is it a fact that the InterScan system developed in Australia is now being further developed jointly by West Germany and America and is being publicised abroad as an American rather than an Australian development? 
I ask the Minister representing the Prime Minister: What plans, if any, does the Government have to promote United Nations Disarmament Week commencing on 24 October? If it has none, will it consider setting up and funding a widely representative committee to sponsor activity in Australia during this important week? 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Post and Telecommunications, upon notice, on 22 March 1979: 
1 ) Has the Minister for Post and Telecommunications given any further consideration to an application by 3CR, Community Radio, Melbourne, for increased transmission power. 
When is a decision likely to be made concerning this application. 
Is any general policy review contemplated which could result in public and special broadcasting stations being allocated transmission power in the AM and FM bands more in line with power permitted to commercial broadcasters and the Australian Broadcasting Commission. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Post and Telecommunications, upon notice, on 2 1 February 1979: 
1 ) Do CCIR (International Consultative Committee on Broadcasting) regulations for radio broadcasting stipulate the need for higher protection ratios (higher fringe area field strengths) for low-power AM stations like 3CR. 
Are there areas within the licensed area of coverage for 3CR (10 mile radius) in which it is almost impossible to hear 3CR, let alone listen comfortably. 
Did the station, in its promise of performance, wish particularly to provide a service for working people, and migrant workers in particular. 
Are there any migrant workers in the western suburbs of Melbourne, within the station's 10-mile radius, who cannot be served by 3CR due to the low power allowed the station. 
5 ) Has station 3CR been allowed the lowest power of any AM station in Australia. 
Was the station accused by the Postal and Telecommunications Department in August 1 978 of illegally increasing its transmission power by a large amount; if so, did 3CR totally refute this allegation and point out that the evidence pointed to illegal interference by someone else on 3CR's frequency, possibly to discredit the station. 
Does the Postal and Telecommunications Department have a high-powered jamming transmitter located within a mile of 3CR's transmitter at Jolimont; if so, is this position close enough to have caused the interference in August. 
Has the station received a reply to its letter to the Minister or the Department since the station refuted the allegation: if not, why not. 
What action has the Minister taken to prevent any such interference occurring again. 
10) Did the State Branch of the Minister's Department recommend that 3CR should be allowed an increase in power because the Department was convinced that the allowed power was inadequate for the station 's licensed purpose and radius. 
Have other public broadcasting stations had numerous complaints against the Federal Section of the Postal and Telecommunications Department concerning lack of cooperation and inadequate allowance for power. 
Does the Federal Section (Technical Branch) of the Department of the Postal and Telecommunications Department refuse to allow public broadcasting stations to have I kilowatt into a non-directional aerial. 
Did the section recently license a commercial station on I kilowatt into a non-directional aerial at Port Hedland. 
I want to speak about the same issue and to relate a personal case which shows the haste with which the Government moved or involved itself in this issue. Approximately four weeks before the Budget was introduced I had a telephone call from a local citizen who sought my advice in relation to an overseas student who was trying to gain permanent residence in Australia. I gave that lady some information and the overseas student concerned, acting on that information, wrote to the Department of Immigration and Ethnic Affairs in Melbourne seeking the required forms with which to apply for permanent residence. A number of weeks went by and no information was received from the Department. On the Monday prior to the delivery of the Budget, purely by accident, because nothing had happened- no correspondence had been received from the Department- that student drove to Melbourne, placed himself before the Department of Immigration and Ethnic Affairs, told his story and asked for the requisite forms, which were supplied. He filled them out. Immediately the announcement was made by the Government on Budget night he became concerned about his position. He came to see me in my electorate office on the Friday following the Budget. I rang the office of the Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs  (Mr MacKellar)  and said to the Minister's secretary: 'What is the cut-off point? When is a private student eligible to stay in Australia? When does he become eligible for deportation or have to move off to his own country?' The Minister's secretary said: Can I come back to you, senator?' He did so a couple of hours later. 
It was obvious that the Government had made this decision without any forethought whatsoever. That officer had to read the Minister's statement on the matter and to consult with the Department of Immigration and Ethnic Affairs before he knew the cut-off point. Because that private student had accidentally filled out those forms on the Monday prior to the delivery of the Budget he is eligible to stay in Australia. Goodness knows how many students there are who may have had similar wishes to stay in this country but because they did not fill out the forms on the Monday they will be denied that opportunity. 
In all honesty there has got to be some sort of phase-in or phase-out period in relation to this legislation, otherwise hundreds of students in this country are going to be denied an opportunity to do all sorts of things that they desire to do with their lives. That happened with this student. I have met him and talked with him. He is a brilliant young man. He would have problems, because of his ethnic background, in obtaining employment once he returns to his own country. With this decision the Government may well have denied many Asian students an opportunity to develop and fulfil their lives. The Government cut them off by this very bland announcement without any real thought of the repercussions it obviously has. 
I ask the Minister representing the Minister for Foreign Affairs whether, in light of the Government's gift of $200,000 to the Red Cross for aid in East Timor and the statement that such aid is to be distributed by both the Indonesian and the International Red Cross, can he state how many personnel from the International Red Cross are available in East Timor to help in this task? 

 -Mr President, once again the Senate is debating a 
Fraser Budget, the second Fraser Budget within four months. Twice so far this year the people of Australia have been subjected to the stony heart of the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  and his Government, and one can only say that the two Budgets introduced by this Government in the current year have been regressive, Budgets which have sought to take from the poorer section of the community, the unemployed, the low income earners, and to give particularly to the large corporate sector. I do not know quite why treasurers, accountants and statisticians still continue to use the phrase 'average wage' in that supercilious way. It means so little when all know very well that there are many thousands of people below that mythical figure than there are above it. 
My colleague suggests that it is around 70 per cent. I think that politicians, economists, treasurers and all others would be taken a little more seriously by society generally if they could break away from the use of that expression 'average wage' which they use in such a supercilious way. These thousands of people on below average weekly wage, to use the term, along with family households and businessmen and women, are being penalised while the oil, coal and mineral exploiters of our country generally continue to be allowed a free hand as they slip their dividends from many areas to tax-free havens around the world. 
The Prime Minister, the man who in 1 975 and 1977 pledged to restore prosperity to Australia and its people, continues down the path of broken promises, so much so that his ratings are at an all-time low.  His  strongest supporters, even within his electorate of Wannon, now see him as a man with feet of clay. Men and women throughout Australia who almost four hears ago saw Malcolm Fraser as the great white hope for this country have had their expectations dashed to the ground, basically I believe for two reasons. Firstly, he and his Government have failed to deliver; secondly, the Prime Minister's performances on television, seen in the lounge-rooms of the nation, have destroyed him. People have seen him destroyed by his refusal to answer questions put to him by a diversity of interviewers. The whole nation has seen the Prime Minister duck, weave, and shuffle his feet rather than be honest on issues put to him by these interviewers. Television, the medium which exposed and as a result destroyed that American demagogue, Joseph McCarthy, has done likewise to Malcolm Fraser. He stands before the nation as an empty shell, issuing words not necessarily related to the subject matter under discussion. He is in essence not unlike a robot from the British Broadcasting Commission's production  Dr Who.  Perhaps the kindest thing the Liberal Party bosses could do for the present Prime Minister would be to take him out of the country again, perhaps to Lusaka or elsewhere in Africa where, according to his party and the Australian media, at the meeting of Heads of Government he played centre stage for the entire performance, to the detriment of all other actors in the cast. But I fear that ratings in Africa are far removed from the bread and butter issues at home, as the present Government will find when next the citizens of Australia go to the polls. 
The ink on the Budget documents was hardly dry before even some members of the Government back bench were vocal about its effects on some sections of the Australian community. The Treasurer  (Mr Howard)  has had to admit that the present tax system disadvantages single income families. The Treasurer knew that when he was drawing up the Budget but saw fit to do nothing about it. It is plums for big business and not even a crumb for the disadvantaged. According to my information even in the city of Canberra we are witnessing the destruction of dozens of small businesses. People are being forced to close down due to lack of spending power in the community. I understand that some people are even threatened with the loss of their homes as creditors seek their pound of flesh all because this Government has failed to restore confidence and to lower unemployment. 
A survey conducted by the Australian Bureau of Statistics in March this year shows the following situation with regard to unemployment. This survey was based on interviews of people in some 30,000 houses, flats, and non-private dwellings throughout the Commonwealth. The main features of this document are that in March of this year an estimated 2,847,200 persons aged between 15 and 64 years were not in the labour force, that is, they were not employed or taking active steps to find a job. Of these 2,847,200 persons, 2,167,550 did not want a full time or part time job and 70,000 persons stated that they had been looking for work in the four weeks prior to the interview week. But of these, 46,300 had taken no active steps to find employment and 23,700 would have been unable to start work in the survey week. However, we find that some 524,600 people would have, or might have, liked a job at the time of the survey. Of these, 402,800 were not looking for work because of personal or family considerations, and 63,400 were discouraged job seekers, that is, they wanted a job but were not looking for work. They believed that there were no suitable jobs in their locality, that employers considered them too young or too old, or they lacked the necessary schooling or experience. Some  1 1 , 200  were not looking for work because they believed there were no jobs with suitable hours. 
I think that those sorts of figures indicate the feelings which have been evident in our society for a very long time. Hundreds of thousands of people have dropped out of the work force. They are the hidden unemployed. Various people have quoted figures which claim that our society may well have up to one million unemployed people at present. When we consider that back in March this year, at the time that the survey to which I referred, was undertaken, only some  306,000  people throughout the country were receiving the unemployment benefit, we start to comprehend the great problem which is taking over the business sector of our community. 
Those figures surely point up that hundreds of thousands of people in Australia today have no income at all. Those people include families which rely on the breadwinner for their income, but the breadwinner is unemployed. Perhaps it includes even some young people who have been denied the unemployment benefit by this Government and have had to rely on some sort of primitive communism to survive. They have got together and formed types of communes in cities and towns right across the continent. All those people, by not being able to bring in an income every week of the year, in effect are denying the business community the opportunity to expand, to sell goods, to turn over goods and to thrive. 
Let us look at how this Budget will affect the housing situation. Since the ascension to power of the Liberal and National Country parties in  1975,  the percentage of total Budget outlays allocated to housing has declined. It has declined from  2.6  per cent of total Budget outlays in the Hayden Budget of  1975-76  to  2.3  per cent,  1.9  per cent,  1.3  per cent, and to an estimated  1.1  per cent in the current Budget. The allocation in the current Budget, which is  6. 1  per cent less than the allocation in  1 978-79,  has attracted the following comments from the Master Builders Association of Victoria in a document dated  3 1  August: 
The 1979 Federal Budget will do very little to stimulate the building and construction industry. The budget affects the industry directly, through the changes in total government outlays particularly public capital works funding, and indirectly through the effects of taxation and general fiscal and monetary policy. 
Further on in the document we read: 
Housing policy has always been a politically sensitive area. Despite the political rhetoric, the net effect of the Budget will not be to provide a direct stimulus to the housing sector. 
Further on, the document states: 
Direct payments to the States for housing are substantially down on last year. 
I turn now to consider the situation in Victoria. The document states: 
The reduction of housing funds to Victoria under the Commonwealth State Housing Agreement from $82.5m in 1978-79 to $63m will have two effects. First, the Housing Commission allocation will probably be cut and government dwelling construction will decline further from the level of 1880 commencements in 1978-79. Secondly, the Cooperative Building Societies allocation may also be reduced unless the Hamer Government can reallocate financial resources as it did in 1 978-79 to provide $55m for its Home Assistance Scheme and $ 1 0m for the Home Finance Trust. 
My final quotation from the document appears under the heading 'Housing Prospects are not Good' and reads as follows: 
Despite the Treasurer's optimism, the prospects for a sustained housing recovery in 1979-80 are not good. 
In Victoria the number of dwellings commenced in 1978-79 was 13 percent less than in the previous year. Government house commencements were one third less in 1978- 79 than previously and the Budget cuts in welfare housing will ensure a continuation of this downward trend in 1979- 80. 
I have had a reasonable amount of experience with welfare housing in the electorate of Wannon. Towards the end of the period of the Whitlam Labor Government, the waiting time for people in the electorate of Wannon whose names appeared on the waiting list for welfare housing had dropped from some  2½  to  3  years to around six to eight months. Since this Government came to power in  1975,  the lists have grown and the waiting time, whether it be for a two or three bedroom Housing Commission home, has gone back to where it was pre-Labor in  1972. 
My time in my electoral office is taken up largely with problems concerning welfare housing. That might be because the Prime Minister is in Canberra and because the local State member, the Victorian Minister for Agriculture,  Mr Smith,  is never in his electorate. I seem to cop the lot. I do not mind doing the work, but the human tragedies which underlie the housing situation in the electorate of Wannon, as I know it, bring no credit to the Prime Minister, the State Minister for Agriculture, in whose electorate I reside, the Federal Government and the Hamer Government. It is a crying shame that in a country such as Australia, in a rich rural area such as western Victoria, many hundreds of young people, old people- people across every stratum of our society- are being precluded from owning their own homes. That is the situation under a government which claims pride in a great belief in home ownership for every citizen of Australia. Repeatedly we have heard, particularly from the Leader of the Government in the Senate  (Senator Carrick),  the claim that Australia holds pride of place in the world in the percentage of people who own their own homes. I suggest that if that ever was the case we are fast slipping from the pyramid which this Government claims we have ascended. 
Let us look also at the situation with respect to education. I think that all of us in this place are aware of the statements which have been made over a long period by the Minister for Education, the Leader of the Government in this place, who uses as an excuse for cuts in government spending on education an alleged decline in school populations right around Australia. I just wonder what the Prime Minister might have to say to the Minister for Education about the following letter, which is addressed to the Prime Minister, from the Acting Secretary of the Warrnambool High School Council, dated 24 August 1979: 
Dear  Sir, 
The School Council of Warrnambool High School expresses concern at the Federal Government's decision to cut back funds for education by over $40 m. 
In particular the Council is concerned at the proposed 30 per cent reduction in capital funds for government schools. We believe this will seriously affect the standard of buildings available in schools such as our own. 
Already ten of our forty classrooms are of a portable nature, and the quality of this accommodation is far from ideal. Indications at present are that our school population will increase by about another forty students in 1980, and present indications are that at best we could expect more of this temporary type of accommodation. 
Naturally we are concerned at the effect this will have on the students who attend the school and their education, and therefore request that the Federal Government reconsider the reduction in capital funds for government schools. 
That is again some evidence of the way that the present Government and the right honourable member for Wannon, in particular, are allowing school buildings to decline in his electorate. Quite frequently- every Sunday night I think-  Mr Fraser  goes public in his electorate on one of the local radio stations and talks about all sorts of things. Now and again he gives a bit of a serve to even the South Australian Government across the border from his electorate. But he does not seem to worry too much about the lack of accommodation at public schools around his electorate and, as a result, has received that letter which I have just read. The fact is that Warrnambool High School is about average when compared with all high schools and technical schools throughout the Prime Minister's electorateacres of portables and nothing very concrete. This is the man who claims to care for people and who at one stage in his political career was a Minister for Education or a shadow minister for education. We hear a lot of talk from the Prime Minister. Of course, talk is cheap, but when we get down on the ground in Victoria, and even in the Prime Minister's own electorate, we find that there is still a lot to be done and that he does not seem to give two hoots about those sorts of people. 
I suppose that there is no policy area in which the Prime Minister's credibility has suffered more than in the field of health insurance. The man who in 1975 pledged to the nation that Medibank would be retained has been shown, as in so many other areas, to be untruthful. In the field of health insurance the people of Australia are now in a worse situation than they were in prior to the establishment by Medibank by the Labor Government. Today  Mr and Mrs Citizen  are faced with a bewildering array of insurance options- an array which resembles a tin of worms or a bag of eels- and all this in a climate of fear perpetuated by health insurance organisations in their advertising for clients. Thousands of people undoubtedly are paying their $10 a week, or whatever, for cover which many of them will never use and that payment is not even tax deductible as it was prior to the establishment of Medibank. Perhaps one of the best exposures of the system which this Government has created was published recently in a Melbourne daily newspaper. It was penned by a citizen of rural Victoria. It is a poem entitled Rhyme but no reason' and reads as follows: 
I've opted out of Medibank, HBA and Extras. I 've had enough of paying out, and I 'm not real dextrous At filling in blue forms, pink forms and whiteHave you had the Asian 'flu, or just the sandy blight?'  What is your status upon the social tree? ' Married or de facto, trapped or free?' Really, madam, can't you understand all this? Of course you 're getting on in life ', And I'm a smart young miss'.  I 'll explain it all again, in a patronizing voice ' There are four different standards from which to make your choice'. 
It really doesn't matter; it will change next week, when the Government manipulates the unprotesting meek into paying more and getting less for fear of getting sick: for fear of getting into debt, and landing in the nick. But me, my friends, I 've opted out. The meek has turned at last to bite the hand that pats it, yet leaves it chained, too fast. 
The doctors and the specialists that fatten on the sick are feeling somewhat anxious, and don't like my little trick of opting out of Medibank and using Public Wards. 
They might miss out on extras they get from specialist words  like 'Yes, indeed', and 'Come again'. 'My colleague will consult upon your tests and frequent pain', We might reveal results'. ('Our incomes might begin to fall, curtail our trips abroad,  the best of cars, of tailored suits. We really can 't afford to let those new-chum doctors who habitate the wards Of all the public hospitals, take over all the hordes Of suffering humanity, and cut our just rewards'.) Things look a trifle dicey for the Medi-gods on high, next year they might not make so much out of you and I. They've had to talk on Nationwide, and let us scummies know that we can 't have the best of care unless we weekly go to pay and pay and pay again. 
We'll never cease, it's clear, paying out for ever to the specialists in fear. 
That is what I believe it is all about at present. Thousands of citizens of Australia are overinsured because of the fear syndrome that this Government has created with its demolition of Medibank and the fear that is being created daily by the various health insurance organisations as they spend thousands and thousands of dollars in advertising. Of course, fear of the bills was the very thing, the very motivation, that led the Labor Party to create Medibank. It was created so that no one need fear the financial consequences of being ill. But all that has gone by the board. 
I wish to raise one other matter, the Government's fuel pricing policies. Due to actions taken by this Government over the last couple of years we have seen a doubling of the price of petrol, diesel fuel, et cetera. Despite the fact that we in Australia produce the overwhelming majority of our own petrol- home-grown petrol out of Bass Strait and Barrow Island- the people of Australia have been forced now to pay twice as much for petrol as they were paying even 12 months ago. The Government has used the argument that an increase in the price would have a conserving effect on the consumption of that commodity, but studies overseas and experience here have shown now that this is not the case. This year the Government, as a result of its moves, will collect an estimated $830m in excise over and above what it collected last year. I suppose that if one were in a good frame of mind and were a fairly generous sort of fellow, which I am sometimes, one could give some credit to the Government for what it has done in this regard. It has never been strong on decentralisation, but in one fell swoop it has decentralised the taxation offices and put them on the street corners of every country town and every major capital city. Thousands upon thousands of little taxation offices are spread right across the nation capturing every motorist when his or her petrol tank gets a little low. 
I suppose that at first glance one could say that it is a flat rate of taxation on every petrol consumer across the nation; that would be the first estimate that one would make of it. Whether the consumer be  Sir Reginald  Ansett, me or an unemployed worker in search of work who has a clapped out bomb in which to get around the countryside, under the Fraser Government's proposals we are all paying a flat rate of tax when we pull up to the petrol pump. However, when one analyses it a little further one finds out that it is not a flat rate of taxation. There are in the community thousands of people who, because they are businessmen or farmers, are able to claim as a tax deduction the cost of their petrol. On the other hand, thousands of working people and unemployed who must use a car to get to work or to look for work, if only because of the paucity of the public transport system in our society, can claim in their income tax return nothing that will in any way compensate them for their outlay on petrol. Therefore, we have what is in fact an inverse taxation measure whereby the poorer people, the low income earners, are in effect paying more for their petrol than are the business community, the farming community and certain other people. 
This steep hike in the price of fuel disadvantages in particular people who live in country areas, where public transport is either thin on the ground or non-existent. Doubling the price of diesel fuels, distillates and, of course, petrol pushes up cost inputs in our primary producing areas. I suppose that if it has a greater effect in one activity rather than another it must surely be in the area of transportation, right across this nation. In a country such as ours, in which the capital cities and the areas of production are so far removed one from the other, transportation represents a heavy charge at any time but the Fraser Government, by using this method of taxation, has added immeasurably to inflation levels. Despite all of the rhetoric that daily we hear from  Senator Carrick,  inflation is not one of the things that this Government has been able to control. Again, it is part and parcel of the long list of broken promises made by the present Government's leader, Malcolm Fraser, in 1975, and again in 1977, when he sought office. He has had a sorry history of broken promises. As I said earlier, this man stands destroyed in the lounge rooms of Australia. 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Housing and Construction. I refer the Minister to reports that the country's two largest private mortgage insurers, namely the Mortgage Guaranty Insurance Corporation of Australia and the Australian Mortgage Insurance Corporation Ltd, have lobbied the Government to have the Government-owned Housing Liabilities Insurance Co. compete in the market place on the same footing as these private insurers. If this were all that its competitors considered necessary, on what grounds has the Government decided to sell the Housing Liabilities Insurance Co. instead of following the course of action that its competitors would have recommended? 
My question is directed to the Attorney-General or whoever may like to field it. Is it a fact that at the Blackburn North Baptist Church on 1 1 August and again at the Robert Blackwood Hall at Monash University on 12 August this year, Australian citizens protesting against the Indonesian invasion and continuing presence in East Timor were kicked and punched by staff attached to the Indonesian Embassy, resulting in injuries to these citizens? Can the Minister state whether diplomatic immunity extends to this point or have these Australian citizens some recourse to law? 
My question is addressed to the Minister representing the Treasurer. I ask: Does he recall that on 12 April 1978, during the debate on the Co-operative Farmers and Graziers Direct Meat Supply Limited (Loan Guarantee) Bill the Leader of the Opposition,  Senator Wriedt,  asked for certain information to ensure that the Australian Government's guarantee of $5m to Barclays Bank was adequately secured and that the Government had obtained information which would ensure that the co-operative would be able to repay loans? Is it a fact that Co-operative Farmers and Graziers Direct Meat Supply Ltd is in serious financial difficulties and urgently requires the provision of an additional $4m in order to remain solvent? Does the Australian Government propose to subscribe additional funds or will it allow this company to go to the wall? 
I take the opportunity on the adjournment debate to raise two fairly minor matters in relation to the affairs of the nation, but two very substantial matters in relation to the city of Echuca in Victoria. Most honourable senators will recall that the city of Echuca suffered a rather severe economic downturn and a disastrous unemployment situation with the closure of the old ballbearing factory perhaps two years ago. One of the problems that have beset that community has been to devise a means by which employment could be recreated in the district. It does appear from the evidence before me that the city of Echuca itself, the local government body, did a lot of work in trying to bring manufacturing or other industry into the district. It appears that one of the firms that has been established there is a food processing company by the name of Plumrose (Australia). With the utilisation of Commonwealth Government funds some 25 or 30 people have been trained under the National Employment and Training Scheme to allow them to take up occupation at this food processing plant. 
The local government body provided certain facilities, financial and otherwise. The State Government provided funds to allow this development to take place. The Federal Government provided $500,000 to allow this company to go along its way and to employ people. One can well understand the disgust in that community some two or three weeks ago when the company announced that its employees would be stood down for four months and would not be reemployed until early next January. The reason why 1 raise this matter is that I wonder at the ethics of a firm such as this that would allow itself to be the beneficiary of local State and Commonwealth funds, possibly up to $lm, and then to stand down its employees for a four-month period. I leave the matter at that. I would hope that the Minister responsible would carry out some investigation into the matter and ask this firm why it would do such a thing. It is obviously nothing more than a golden handshake to a firm which has used every means in the book to cajole money out of three levels of government, one would presume, on the understanding that it was going to take up the unemployment slack in the city of Echuca; it then dumped those workers with virtually no notice whatsoever. 1 am pleased that  Senator Carrick  is in the chamber because the other matter which I wish to raise relates to education. It is possibly very largely a State issue but at Echuca, which, as 1 have said, is on the border between New South Wales and Victoria, children from New South Wales travel into Victoria to attend a certain school. I understand that that situation of children transferring largely from New South Wales, it would appear, into Victoria prevails right along the Murray River. As I understand it, this is because of a lack of junior technical education facilities in New South Wales. Because something like 200 children are being bussed across the Victorian border for technical education in the city of Echuca, the local school, the Victorian Department of Education, or whoever- I am not quite sure who- has had to issue an edict which virtually bans Victorian children from access to the technical school there. I think that is a tragedy. The Victorian parents are not prepared to call for black bans to stop free trade across the border, but they feel that they have a right and an entitlement, as citizens of Victoria, to have their children get access to the only technical school facility that is available. 
I do not know whether the Minister is in a position perhaps to act as the umpire in the decision. I understand that a new technical school in the city of Echuca is about to be tendered for. When that is built it could perhaps relieve the situation. I also understand that in Deniliquin the New South Wales Government, through private enterprise, has facilities for the production of temporary school buildings. One of the suggestions that have been put to me is that it may be feasible to have built in a hurry in Deniliquin a number of temporary school rooms which could be placed on site adjacent to the facility already in Echuca to allow all the children of that region to obtain their education. I ask  Senator Carrick  to look at the situation to see whether he, as the Federal Minister and the overriding authority, could break the deadlock which seems to have developed in relation to this facility. 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry. It being over three months since the Minister for Primary Industry received a submission from the Australian Dairy Farmers Federation on the proposed restructuring of Asia Dairy Industries Ltd, is the Minister in a position to say what, if any, parts of the ADFF submission have been accepted and when some announcement on the matter will be made? 
I direct my question to the Minister representing the Minister for National Development. The Minister may recall that on 29 August I asked him a question relating to alleged shortages of avgas at some Victorian and Tasmanian airports. I now ask: Is it a fact that one Victorian commuter airline has cancelled its services to the Tasmanian west coast due to the non-availability of avgas supplies in that region? 
I ask the Minister for Education: Is it a fact that the Government has cut Commonwealth post-graduate awards by 9 per cent in the current year? Is the single rate for post-graduate students now $4,200 per annum, only half the value that it had a few years ago? Is it a fact that a survey which was conducted this year showed that 45 per cent of post-graduate students had no supplementary income above their awards? How does the Government expect mature men and women to survive on an amount ofless than $ 12 a day? 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Foreign Affairs, upon notice, on 2 1 September 1 979: 
1 ) Were Australian citizens who were protesting against the Indonesia invasion of, and continuing presence in, East Timor, kicked and punched by staff attached to the Indonesian Embassy, resulting in injuries, at the Blackburn North Baptist Church on 1 1 August 1979 and at the Robert Blackwood Hall at Monash University on 12 August 1979. 
Are the Indonesian staff members concerned protected by diplomatic immunity to this point, or do these Australian citizens have some recourse under the law. 
I ask the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry whether the Australian Industry Fishing Council has referred to the recently signed AustraliaJapan fishing agreement as a sell-out? On what criteria was the $ 1 .4m paid by Japan for fishing rights based and what, if any, supervision does Australia retain under the agreement? 

 - Mr President, my question is directed to you. Has the ground floor security entrance to Parliament House been completed? If so, when will it be used? 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Post and Telecommunications, upon notice, on 30 August 1 979: 
When was the first inter-departmental application made by the Australian Broadcasting Commission (ABC) for a new transmitter for the station 2JJ in Sydney. 
What is the engineering assessment by ABC engineers of 2JJ's actual transmission power needs. 
Are any transmitters suitable for 2JJ's increased transmission power needs currently held in stock; if not, what is the estimated cost of a new, suitable transmitter for 2JJ. 
What is the explanation for the considerable delay in the provision of new transmitter facilities for  2JJ. 
-Has the Minister representing the Prime Minister noted the statement by the Victorian Minister of Agriculture,  Mr Smith,  that the Victorian Liberal Government's financial support for the Co-operative Farmers and Graziers Direct Meat Supply Ltd Brooklyn abattoirs was purely a matter of electoral expediency and that the Victorian Government had been pre-empted by the Federal Government's decision? Was the Federal Government's decision to support the abattoirs also motivated purely by electoral expediency? 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Housing and Construction, upon notice, on 19 September 1979: 
Have Australia's two private mortgage insurers, namely Mortgage Guarantee Insurance Company of Australia, and Australian Mortgage Insurance Company, lobbied the Government to have the Government-owned Housing Liabilities Insurance Company compete in the market-place on the same footing as do these private insurers; if so, why has the Government decided to sell the Housing Liabilities Insurance Company instead of following the course of action that was suggested by its competitors. 
-I did ask the Minister for Science and the Environment  (Senator Webster)  for some information on whether the toilets which were installed originally in the High Court building were removed and new toilets installed. Is the Minister prepared to have some inquiries made in order that an answer about the costs that may have been incurred due to that alteration will be available to me? 
I listened rather briefly to what  Senator Young  had to say. It seems to me that he has a funny feeling about uranium; that he feels that we have to go ahead and use it or the world will fall into disrepair or something like that. What my colleague  Senator Tate  had to say about the incident at Three-Mile Island was factual. Perhaps it is only latterly, as a result of what happened on Three-Mile Island, that the world is starting to become aware of the immense dangers of nuclear reactors once they start to go wrong. I would suggest to  Senator Young  that he should read a book entitled  We Almost Lost Chicago.  It contains a factual report about a previous nuclear reactor which went mad. The bodies of the three men in charge of the reactor were found stuck to the ceiling, having been penetrated by the nuclear rods that blew out of the reactor when the accident occurred. 
It is very interesting to note that one of the most reactionary governments in the world today, the Philippines, has declined to go ahead with nuclear development in Bataan province.  President  Marcos has refused or declined to go ahead with that development because he fears that Westinghouse has not built a nuclear reactor capable of withstanding all the various pressures that may be applied to it. I also say to  Senator Young,  and to anybody who seems to want to go ahead with nuclear development in this country today, that we in the Australian Labor Party have only one objection to nuclear development, and that is the problem of waste. As far as we are concerned, when science can- I am convinced that it will- overcome that problem of nuclear waste and no problems remain for future generations, the Labor Party will change its policy. 
I say to  Senator Rae  that it is very interesting to note that a few years ago, when I was a member of a committee relating to the Australian Capital Territory, that Committee was told that the Canberra Hospital was pouring nuclear waste down the sink. That is the way nuclear waste is being handled at the moment. It is like so many other wastes in our society. Scientists, technicians and other people who work in areas where nuclear power is used do not know what to do with the waste. Like others who dispose of all sorts of commodities that the garbage man will not pick up we utilise the cheapest and easiest means to dispose of our waste. For example, in country areas where there is no garbage collection people throw their waste onto the side of the road. That is a very cheap and easy way to get rid of it and to let future generations, the shire council or the borough council pick up the tab for the disposal of it. Right throughout society today I suggest that because this problem has not been solved hospitals and other people who want to get rid of nuclear waste just pour it down the sink and let future generations, the fish and God knows who cop the effects from that. 
I have several matters to raise in respect of this appropriation for primary industry. Firstly, I asked the Minister for Science and the Environment  (Senator Webster)  who represents the Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr 
Nixon) on 1 1 October this question relating to Asia Dairy Industries ( Hong Kong) Ltd: 
It being over three months since the Minister for Primary Industry received a submission from the Australian Dairy Farmers Federation on the proposed restructuring of Asia Dairy Industries Ltd, is the Minister in a position to say what, if any, parts of the ADFF submission have been accepted and when some announcement on the matter will be made? 

 Senator Webster replied that he had no information at that time but that he would seek some information from the Minister for Primary Industry. Since that date I have had further representations from dairy farmers and dairy farmer organisations in Victoria expressing deep concern about what is happening in this regard. Doubtless the Minister for Primary Industry knows the situation. Asia Dairy Industry Industries Ltd has been a long time child product of the Australian dairy industry. Millions of dollars have been fed back to the Australian dairy industry because of that enterprise which was established many years ago. Because of the silence of this government, dairy farmers right across Australia are deeply concerned about the future of this organisation. Has it gone broke? Is it going broke? What is going to happen to it? Has its money gone down the drain or can it expect some continuation of the return it has received in the past? Has the Minister any information at this stage that he can pass on to the dairy industry? 
A further matter that has given some concern relates to reports in the Victorian Press in the last day or two concerning a guarantee given by the Federal Government and the Victorian Government in relation to Co-operative Farmers and Graziers Direct Meat Supply Ltd in Melbourne. We all recall that some time ago in this place the Government made an announcement and passed legislation to guarantee a loan of $4.5m to that organisation in Melbourne on the consideration that the Victorian State Government did likewise. The legislation was passed and we heard no more about it until some few months ago when it was apparent that the Government was applying pressure on that organisation to pay its debts or else. 
It does appear that as a result of that pressure the Co-operative Farmers and Graziers Meat Supply was given a period in which there would be no claim on its funds from either the State Government or the Federal Government. The interesting development was at the Liberal Party Conference in Melbourne last week, when the Victorian State Minister for Agriculture,  Mr Smith,  announced that the decision by the Victorian Government to guarantee $4.5m to that organisation was made on a political basis- the political basis being that because there was a forthcoming election, it was deemed wise for the Victorian State Government to give that guarantee. 
When the honourable senator had been around the farming industry as long as I have and can recall what went on at the time this organisation was formed, he might well have a different opinion from the one he has now. For the benefit of  Senator Lewis  who has been only a solicitor all of his life, it is this organisation- 
-I raise some matters pertaining to the construction of the High Court building on the banks of Lake Burley Griffin. As a result of questions asked by  Senator Walsh  during the hearings of Senate Estimates Committee D, today I received- I presume other honourable senators did also- a letter dated 19 November 1979 from the Secretary and Manager of the National Capital Development Commission,  Mr K.  J. Curtis, addressed to  Mr Evans,  the Secretary of Senate Estimates Committee D. I think that for the record I should read certain extracts from the letter just to give some idea of the amount of money which has been spent on modifications which have been made to the building at the behest of whoever that person might be. The letter starts: 
I present the following petition from 42 citizens of Australia: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate in Parliament assembled. 
The petition of the undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully showeth: 
That the National Women's Advisory Council has not been democratically elected by the women of Australia; 
That the National Women's Advisory Council is not representative of the women of Australia; 
That the National Women's Advisory Council is a discriminatory and sexist imposition on Australian women as Australian men do not have a National Men's Advisory Council imposed on them. 
Your petitioners therefore pray: 
That the National Women's Advisory Council be abolished to ensure that Australian women have equal opportunity with Australian men of having issues of concern to them considered, debated and voted on by their Parliamentary representative without intervention and interference by an unrepresentative 'Advisory Council '. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
I ask the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry: Was a meat boning room at Glenroy in Victoria recently raided by Commonwealth police and some meat impounded? If so, who is the owner of the rooms which were raided and what, if any, action is contemplated? Was this action taken as a result of knowledge that some boning rooms in Victoria are working outside Department of Primary Industry export regulations? 
-The Loan (Farmers' Debt Adjustment) Repeal Bill 1979 is simply a Bill to finalise the administration of the predecessor of the present rural adjustment scheme. The Opposition has no argument with that Bill. The States and Northern Territory Grants (Rural Adjustment) Bill 1979 brings the Northern Territory into the rural adjustments scheme and makes various other alterations to the rural adjustment scheme. It formalises three procedures which are already in use in the Rural Adjustment Scheme. It authorises the Minister for Primary Industry to make supplementary determinations of the amount a State may approve under parts A and C of the Scheme during a year; it permits the transfer of approvals from one State to another; and it enables the Minister to authorise a State to a precommitment of funds in exceptional circumstances. It also further changes the Schedule by extending the Rural Adjustment Scheme to allow apiarists to participate in it; by extending the household support arrangement for up to three years; by extending the period in which the household support assistance can be converted into a grant from 6 to 1 2 months; and by increasing from $3,000 to $5,000 the lump sum payable to recipients of household support to adjust out of farming. Again there is nothing in that move by the Government with which the Opposition would disagree. It also amends the wording of the farm improvement criteria to ease restrictions. 
The only concern the Opposition has in relation to this matter is that in this year's Budget we find a cut of some $29m in funding for the Rural Adjustment Scheme. This has been done by a government which pretends in here and outside this place to be the farmers' friend. We also note that the same Government, through its inflationary policies, has raised farm costs in the last 1 2 months by almost $ 1 4m. We note too that this Government is in the process of phasing out the nitrogenous fertiliser bounty; that under its fuel pricing policy farm fuel bills have increased by 55 per cent, or approximately $2 40m between March 1976 and March 1979; and that farm tax payments have increased, due partly to the fact that farm incomes have gone up but also due to the fact that this Government has placed on primary producers further livestock slaughter levies to the extent of some $20 m. Despite the loud noises that members of the present Government made when in Opposition about Labor's rural road funding schemes, it has curtailed road funding allocations over the current period, with an 1 1 per cent drop overall. 
One gets a little tired at times of hearing in this place- perhaps more so than outside- continual allegations which suggest that the Labor Party is anti-farmer. We can read in  Hansard  repeated excerpts in which Liberal Party members and/or National Country Party members attempt in this place or the other place to denigrate the moves made by the Labor government to do something for the primary producers of this country. I suppose that there is a classical example to be found in the  Hansard  for the other place of 15 November.  Mr Short,  the honourable member for Ballarat, was delivering a scathing attack on alleged deficiencies by the previous Labor Government as they affected primary producers. I do not know whether  Mr Short  would know a sheep from a goat but, as he moved to Ballarat a few years ago, he may. In the time when he was here in Canberra as a public servant, living in an ivory tower, he would not know a mule from a donkey. 
Sometimes I wonder. What irks me is that a man such as  Mr Short  would attempt to denigrate what the Labor Party did for primary producers. There must be one person who is even more remiss in relation to rural industry; that is  Mr Baillieu.  He interrupted  Mr Short  while he was delivering his oration by suggesting that the floor price scheme for wool, which was introduced by the Labor Government in 1974, was something that hurt the primary producers and the wool growers of this country. It is fairly obvious that  Mr Short  and  Mr Baillieu  have not a clue about what went on in the rural countryside in Australia during the 1960s. Undoubtedly my colleague,  Senator McLaren,  would recall this period. As a shearer he would have had a great interest in it. The small farmers of Australia pressured the previous LiberalCountry Party Government for years to stabilise the Australian wool industry. Regardless of its attempts over the years, the previous LiberalCountry Party Government did nothing. Through its organisations, it tended to put farmers into different camps and to use that technique to divide and conquer. Anybody who lived in the country areas of Australia during that period well knows the sad and sorry history of the Liberal-Country Party. It was not until the Labor Government came to office that the wool growers of Australia were able to get their long hoped for dream, namely, a reserve price plan, a scheme which introduced a floor price for wool. From that day on the wool growers of Australia have not looked back. For  Mr Baillieu  and  Mr Short  to get up in another place and denigrate the Labor Party shows a dire lack of knowledge of what primary industry has been all about in this country. 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Foreign Affairs. Can the Minister say just how widespread the distribution of Australian aid is in East Timor? Is it being distributed outside the large number of security villages or concentration camps now established? Is it a fact that East Timorese citizens who remain outside these security villages or concentration camps are considered fair game by the Indonesian military authorities? 
-Once again we are seeing a session of the Parliament folding up in something of a hurry. It makes me wonder as I am sure it does all honourable senators on this side of the House why this parliamentary period could not have been extended for at least another week. It is still over a month to Christmas. It appears to have been a fairly rough year for the Government and therefore it wants to close down this session of Parliament as rapidly as it can. For that reason I am forced to speak to the first reading stage of these Bills and to curtail the length of my speech out of courtesy to everybody else. 
I want to raise a few matters for the record. Earlier this year the international Press and, as I recall it, the Press in Australia carried reports on allegations of the use of systematic torture in Israeli gaols. The  Sunday Times  of London was one paper that carried quite substantial reports.  Time  magazine was another. It would appear that those articles emanated from a report, a copy of which I have here. It is headed: Report on Human Rights Practices in Countries Receiving US Aid. Report Submitted to the Committee on Foreign Relations U.S. Senate and Committee on Foreign Affairs U.S. House of Representatives by the Department of State. The report is dated 8 February 1979. The report of the Department of State, under the heading 'Israel', states: 
Respect for the Integrity of the Person, including Freedom from: 
Torture. 
Torture is prohibited by law in Israel, and is virtually unheard of. 
Cruel, Inhuman or degrading Treatment or Punishment. 
Although there may have been rare exceptions in the past, the Department of State knows of no instances in the last year of cruel, inhuman and degrading treatment. 
The report runs to some number of pages, and at page 566 states: 
There have been reports of instances of degrading treatment of some suspects in connection with interrogations in the first hours following arrests. 
It continues on page 571: 
The ICRC - 
That is the International Committee of the Red Cross-  regularly inspects prison conditions in the occupied territories and has made recommendations for improvement. 
This implies, of course, that the prison conditions have not been the best. It goes on: 
In 1970, the Israeli Government authorised Amnesty International to conduct an investigation into reports of illtreatment of prisoners and detainees. Amnesty International issued a report which described accounts of several cases of mistreatment it had received. Its recommendation of a formal inquiry with international participation was rejected by Israel. 
In October 1976, Amnesty International renewed its request for an investigation. Since then, it has expressed its concern about the imprisonment or treatment of a number of individual prisoners, Israeli Jews as well as Arabs, in several letters to Israel's Attorney-General. 
For several years, the United Nations Human Rights Commission and other United Nations bodies have adopted resolutions condemning alleged Israeli human rights violations in the occupied territories. 
I refer now to a document which was given to me by a constituent recently. It is headed 'Palestinians in Israeli Gaols'. It states: 
This study is an attempt to probe the affairs of the Palestinians in the Israeli prisons of the occupied West Bank and Gaza, and to present a documented picture of the torture, persecution, torment and humiliation meted out to these prisoners. 
The document states: 
Prisons and detention camps housing the Palestinian prisoners are widely spread in the West Bank and Gaza and also inside occupied Palestine. The occupation authorities maintained a close watch for any form of national struggle and sent to prison and detention camps thousands of Palestinian citizens to subject them to the most savage methods of physical and psychological torture with the aim of crushing the resistance and silencing any voice raised against the occupation. The Israeli authorities aimed at terrorising those who think of resisting occupation and discovering any secret moves against occupation. Therefore the Shin Beit or the Israeli intelligence department is greatly interested in interrogation because this will give them information on the political and military activities of the Palestinian insistence and the Arab armies. Any slight suspicion that a prisoner might have information will prompt the interrogator to torture him. Their unchanging threat is: 'Either you give us the information you have or we will liquidate you here and nobody will know that you are here'. 
Interrogation begins with persuasion and threats. Persuasion includes tempting the prisoner to deal with the Israelis. If this fails they try their fiendish methods of torture. 
I want to refer to another document headed Special Committee on Israeli Practices Hears Sixteen Witnesses'. It states: 
The General Assembly's Special Committee to Investigate Israeli Practices Affecting the Human Rights of the Population in the Occupied Territories, Heard the Testimonies of Sixteen Witnesses. 
This Committee, sponsored by the United Nations, is headed by a Professor of Law at a University in Yugoslavia. The Committee was  given the mandate two years ago in General Assembly resolution 32/9 1C to report on the condition of detainees in the occupied territories. The document continues: 
During the current session, the Committee intends to hear altogether 18 witnesses selected from among 76 former detainees who were released from various prisons in the occupied territories and exchanged for an Israeli pilot at Cointrin Airport, Geneva on 1 4 March 1 979. But two of these 1 8 witnesses were unable to come to Geneva for health reasons. 
The witnesses limit themselves to facts known to them personally; the Committee does not accept statements based either on the experience of others or statements of a speculative nature. 
Three witnesses, Hafez Dalkamouni, Omaar Mohamed Abu Rashed and Imad Okal, who were detained in the same prisons told the Committee that they were arrested immediately after the 1967 war and were interrogated by Israeli military force before being brought to the court which sentenced them to life imprisonment plus 10 years. They said they were tortured during interrogation and during the years they spent in prison. They were tortured physically (beatings, deprivation of food, solitary confinement, dirtiness of cells, impossibility to sleep, etc.); they were also tortured morally. 
All three witnesses complained about the inadequacy of the interpretation during their trial. They were denied the possibility of being assisted by lawyers or of making statements. 
During the years they spent in prison, the three witnesses said they had to resort to hunger strikes on several occasions in order to obtain some improvement in prison conditions which they described as particularly hard. They were not allowed to study or read. The food was scanty and bad; one such strike was inspired by an Israeli attempt to impose on the Palestinian detainees the task of manufacturing camouflage nets for the army. 
The witnesses complained about deprivation of medical care; one of them had however been allowed after the intervention of the Red Cross to see a doctor of his own choice at his own expense. Several detainees would suffer for the rest of their lives, they said, from the results of the maltreatment they suffered in Israeli prisons. 
The document goes on with a precis of evidence given by 12 witnesses and, if time was available, I would like to read them into  Hansard.  However, some grizzly details of how prisoners have allegedly been handled do not make nice reading for anybody who may be a little bit weak in the stomach. I raise this matter to put a case for the human rights for those people who have been and who are still detained in gaol. Despite the fact, as I stated earlier and as mentioned in the State Department report, the state of Israel says that it is a state where torture is not allowed. I do not believe that I have read the constitution of any country which does not have written into it some passages about human rights in that country. As far as I know, every country proclaims that it is a country where human rights are held in the highest esteem and where torture is not used. Anybody who believes that some sorts of systems of torture are not used in our own gaols should talk to the prisoners who have been in them. Our Constitution also has certain rights built into it for citizens. But if honourable senators visit a gaol they will find 'a screw is a screw is a screw' regardless of nationality, wherever he or she may be. Anybody who served in the Army and anybody unfortunate enough to be on the wrong side of the authorities in the Army during World War II will tell honourable senators of the activities of screws and the methods and the inhuman treatment that those screws meted out to their fellow countrymen. I raise thise matter purely and simply to put it on the record and in the hope that our Minister for Foreign Affairs  (Mr Peacock)  may make some investigation to see whether these allegations are true. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bills read a first time. 
