Is the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry aware of a statement published in the official journal of the Associated Chambers of Commerce, 'Canberra Comments', concerning the effect of low rural incomes on the socio-economic structure of this country? Having regard to their expressed concern regarding increased subsidies as a palliative and the need for easing the cost burden, is it true that the Associated Chambers of Commerce have now directed the attention of their members to the part that high wholesale and retail margins play in maintaining the present huge discrepancies between the price obtained by the producers for their product compared with the price charged to consumers? 
This is the generally accepted idea, that the subsidies have led the wheat industry into a tragedy. It is true that in the last couple of seasons there has been an increase in the total acreage of wheat grown in Australia and that it has been caused largely by guaranteed prices and the stability that has existed in the wheat industry, providing a ready means by which graziers in New South Wales could offset their losses due to drought conditions. Surely the Government does not deplore the fact that there was a means whereby the grazing industry, particularly in New South Wales but also generally in the eastern States, could finance itself out of a desperately bad position. I think it is fortunate that this situation has obtained. 
But let us look at this position, which  is  being represented as being a new position, a disastrous position. In 1963-64 the carryover of world stocks of wheat was 50,160,000 metric tons. In that year the world trade in wheat was 45,367,000 metric tons. In the last year for which comparable figures are available the carry-over of world stocks was 36 million metric tons, as against 50 million, and the world trade was 47 million tons as against 45 million. So in 1968-69 the world position was much better than it was in 1963-64, a year which we survived without turning a hair, almost. 
We are indeed, but we need to look at the  whole  position with regard to what has happened in the Australian agricultural scene. We need to look at it realistically, having regard to the socalled tremendous increase in Australian wheat acreages. During the 10-year period from 1930-31 to 1939-40 Australia sowed an average of 14,175,000 acres of wheat each year, whereas in the last 10-year period Australia sowed an average of 17,857,000 acres of wheat. If we made a calculation over a period of 40 years we would find that Australia's wheat acreage had increased by 25.7% only. 
Seasons have been better and the bushels per acre have improved, but we are talking about the expansion of the wheat industry and the expansion of wheat acreages. A calculation reveals that the average increase of wheat acreages over a period of 40 years has been about V% per year. In 1930-31 Australia sowed over 18 million acres of wheat and we did not again reach that figure until the year 1966-67 when we grew 20 million acres of wheat. The whole upsurge of wheat acreage has been over the period 1967-68 to 1968-69 when we did plant 26 million acres of wheat. 
Yes, I have the figures. The bushel production is largely a factor of seasonal conditions. The period in the 1930s was the worst period ever in our history in relation to seasons. Seasonal conditions are the principal factor in bushel production, plus of course the increased use of fertilisers and better wheats. Various other factors also contribute. But the increase in yield over the period is not very considerable. The main point of contention has been that the wheat acreage has increased unduly. In view of the fact that 40 years ago we sowed 18 million acres of wheat with horse power and it took us nearly 40 years before we caught up again to that acreage, the argument that the Australian wheat industry has increased disproportionately either to the population or the general economy is complete and utter utter nonsense. 
The other fallacious point is that it has been contended that the advance of $1.10 that has been declared is unduly high. The advance of $1.10 means to the wheat grower a price on the farm of some 90c. This is in the year 1970 and the value of the money is in terms of 1970 purchasing power. If we look at this in relation to the 1930s when the wheat industry was in a desperate condition, that 90c needs to be divided by a factor of 6 to get somewhere near its relative purchasing power. Those who talk about 90c being a high price for wheat today should realise that its value in terms of 1933 values is somewhere in the nature of 15c. Those who argue that the solution to the present problem is a reduction in the first advance should look at the history of the wheat industry and the fact that the big upsurge in wheat production in 1930-31 was in response to lower wheat prices, and this would be the effect of lower prices today. Indeed, the upsurge in wheat acreage has been the product of the fall in wool prices and the relative fall in wheat prices. 
I think that there is in the world an overproduction of wheat. 
I think that we need to tailor the production of wheat to the needs of the market. Anybody who reads about what is happening in Asia and throughout the world with regard not only to the increased yields of wheat but also to increased yields of rice in Asian countries - these are to an extent complementary - will agree that there is undoubtedly at the moment an increased supply. I believe that we have unduly exaggerated the world position. We have on hand at the moment about 1 year's supply, but this was the position in 1963-64. We had a world stock of 50 million metric tons compared to a world trading figure of 45 million tons. 
China bought our wheat. The Australian sales of wheat have not fallen dramatically. In export and domestic sales in 1964 Australia sold 239 million bushels. In 1965 Australia sold 322 million bushels; in 1966, 287 million bushels; in 1967, 370 million bushels: in 1968, 262 million bushels; in 1969, 299 million bushels. The estimate for 1970 is 283 million bushels. There has been no dramatic fall in our sales of wheat. The situation is that we have had the coincidence of one particularly good season all over Australia. 
It depends on the way in which one looks at it. The Australian farmer is in many respects infinitely better off than farmers in, say, Canada. The whole of Australia's wheat production is being taken into storage where it will be adequately protected. 
The wheat growers will pay for it. The Government is lending money to the industry. The wheat industry is one without which the Australian industrial superstructure could never have been built and without which the progress that this country has made would never have been established. A miserable 3% of the value of the product is  a  very small price to pay for the contribution that the Australian wheat industry has made to the development of this country. 
( address a question to the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry. Regarding the question asked earlier in relation to the export of merino rams and the concern of the Victorian Ministers, is it not a fact that the Victorian farmers value the Australian merino so lightly that only approximately 45% of Victorian wool is described as merino. 
I desire to speak to the amendment which was moved by  Senator McClelland  who, I believe, is the author of it. A little while ago I was chided rather vigorously by  Senator Murphy  for saying that I did not think that he could give matters any thought. The evidence of this is in the amendment he has presented to the Senate. There is no vestige of constructive thinking in the amendment which is before the Senate. The Opposition has sought to gain political capital out of the plight of the wheat industry. We on this side of the chamber admit that the wheat industry is experiencing difficulty, but the amendment, which claims that the Government has not given positive leadership, is completely empty and void of any constructive thinking whatever. I wish to remind the Senate of something which happened in the 1930s. Perhaps because I was actively engaged in growing wheat at that time I remember the situation rather vividly. It is an example of what happened when the Australian Labor Party was in a position to give active leadership in a very similar situation. 
I refer to some tables which were published in a book by Copland and Janes entitled 'Australian Marketing Problems'. They record that in the year 1930-31 the world exportable surplus of wheat was 1,324 million bushels and the world import requirements were 825 million bushels. At that time the world exportable end of season stock was 499 million bushels. What magnificant leadership was given at that time? What was the contribution to the welfare of the industry at that time? The then Leader of the Australian Labor Party conducted a campaign aimed at the growing of more wheat - and he did so at a time when there was relatively a far greater surplus of wheat than there is today. On every letter which was posted was stamped Grow More Wheat'. This was the magnificent leadership of the Labor Party. The Labor Prime Minister,  Mr Scullin,  said: 'If you grow more wheat we will guarantee you 4s a bushel'. What happened? Because he could not blackmail  Sir Robert  Gibson into printing a fiduciary note issue he reneged on his promise and the wheat growers received not 4s but ls 8d. This is an example of the magnificent contribution which the Labor Party made at that time to the wellbeing of the industry. It is interesting to recall that incident, because the growers have still not forgotten the complete failure of the Labor Party to do anything constructive at that time. 
 Senator O'Byrne  and  Senator McM  anus have charged the Government with arrogance, contempt and a lot of other extravagant expressions because it disregarded a motion which slated that in the opinion of the Senate the embargo on the export of merino rams should not be removed. 1 do not know whether they are putting forward at this point of time the suggestion that the Government's administration of the laws of the country should be dependent upon a majority of  I  in a vole which was taken in the Senate. 
I am referring to a decision which was taken in the Senate.  Senator McManus  has equated the Senate with the Parliament. I am a great enthusiast about the Senate. I believe in the Senate. But 1 have never said that the Senate is the Parliament. There are 2 Houses of the Parliament. It is a ridiculous statement to make.  Senator McManus  knows full well that the proposition is completely insupporable in this instance and it would not be supported by the Opposition in other circumstances. 
I believe in a little bit of common sense in the administration of the functions of the Senate. Let us have a look at the history of the ban, which was imposed 40 years ago. lt was introduced under the Customs (Prohibited Exports) Regulations. I have a copy of the regulations, which set out the types of products upon which there is a ban on exportation without ministerial permission. I find in the document no mention whatever of rams, merinos or merino rams. It simply refers to sheep. It refers also to barley, grain, bone dust, bran, cattle and wheat. A ban is imposed on the export of virtually all of our main commodities without ministerial consent. The export of the merino breed was banned under this law. The question of the export of merino rams was introduced into the Parliament for discussion, but no vote was taken. The embargo was imposed by an administrative act and it has been removed in the same way. The Opposition argues that the Government should consult the growers. Did the political party which was in office at the time the embargo was imposed consult the growers? No, it did not consult the growers. Did it conduct a referendum? No, it did not conduct a referendum. Did it pass legislation? No, it did not pass legislation. 
It implemented ministerial judgment on the matter, as governments continually do with regard to other commodities. 
No. Nor are any of the other things I have enumerated. The Senate has had some wonderful opportunities to disallow the regulations, but the Opposition has never moved for their disallowance. The regulations are continuing to operate. The action which has been taken was taken within the framework of procedures which are well known to the Opposition and to the Australian Democratic Labor Party. It is another matter altogether to raise the question of the introduction of a parliamentary vote for every action under the Customs (Prohibited Exports) Regulations. No valid argument has been ever adduced in favour of the ban. lt was imposed at a time of hysteria and panic and it has been continued in ignorance and superstition. 
I am not excluding the present Government because it failed to act earlier. But the Government acted when the accepted representatives of the industry came to it and asked it to act. 
Yes, after 19 years. 
The ACTING  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Davidson)  - Order! There is far too much noise in the chamber. 
The ban was introduced in 1929 because the price of wool was falling. The price of wool did fall, too. It fell from 13.7d per lb to 8.57d per lb and then to 7d per lb. 
The price is lower today in terms of purchasing power than it was then. But the ban did not prevent the price of wool falling. It has not kept the price of wool up. Anybody who believes that the lifting of the ban at this stage will result in the price of wool falling lower than the present price will also believe that nothing will be received for wool in the near future. I cannot agree with that preposition at all. The export ban has to be considered in terms of morality. At present in Australia we are trying to do with our breeds of cattle what we did with our breeds of sheep. We are introducing into Australia exotic breeds of cattle, such as Brahman, Charolais, Santa Gertrudis and other breeds from around the world. We are introducing new blood into our own cattle breeds to try to develop a breed of cattle which is suitable for the Australian environment. Other countries are not adopting the miserable, mean, pettifogging attitude which Australians have shown over the years in regard to the merino breed of sheep. We would not have had the merino breed but for the free admission into this country of certain strains of sheep, such as the Saxon-German strains, the Spanish, the French Rambouillet strain, the American Vermont strain and the various other strains which were imported. As a result, we have a breed which is suitable to our environment. If we had been faced in the early days with other countries adopting the sort of attitude which Australia has adopted towards the merino breed we would have never had the merino breed. If other countries were as miserable in regard to their breeds of cattle as we are in regard to the merino breed of sheep we would not have any hope of improving the cattle breeds in Australia. The whole structure of Australia's breeding industry has been and is dependent upon the importation of various strains. Al present we are adopting the same attitude which the South Africans adopted in regard to ostrich farming at a time when feathers were in demand. The South Africans had a monopoly over the production of ostrich feathers and thought they would keep the industry to themselves. Where is the ostrich farming industry today? It has gone into the limbo of the lost. If we adopt this attitude we are in danger of destroying our wool industry in much the same was as the South Africans destroyed the ostrich farming industry. 
I am interested in the argument that if there is an increase in the amount of fine wool there must be a depression in the price, but if one looks al the publication of the Bureau of Agricultural Economics dated September 1969 titled 'Fibres other than Wool' and reads a table on world production of non-cellulosic fibres and the estimated capacity one sees that there is in total an increase in estimated capacity of 29% in the various ranges and there has been in fact over the last 5 years a tremendous increase. The non-cellulosic fibres have increased from 9% to 18.5% and the manufacturers are planning greatly increased production. Are they afraid of falling prices? In fact, they are increasing their prices. On 1st August 1969 Du Pont raised by 54% the price of Dacron. The Allied Chemical Corporation announced an increase of  5i%  to 7% in the prices of nylon carpet staple and the British Prices and Incomes Board has recommended a price increase of 5% for unprocessed viscose rayon filament, and so it goes on. The fundamental difference is that the synthetic fibre manufacturers sell their products and we give ours away. The Labor Party should be more concerned with marketing and we as a government should do away with the antiquated horse and buggy style of marketing from which we have suffered. The auction method is not selling; nobody could describe it as a method of selling. When the artificial fibre manufacturers put their product up for auction I will confess that there must be some merit in the auction system. When General Motors-Holden's Pty Ltd auction their motor cars I will believe there is some merit in an auction system. But today on a ground of urgency th Opposition is raising a pettifogging business that is an administrative function of this Government when  there are far belter things and more serious things in connection with the wool industry to which they should be devoting their attention. 
I direct my question to the Leader of the Government in the Senate. Is it not a fact that the Leader of the Australian Labor Party,  Mr Whitlam,  has stated that Labor Policy is not formulated by street demonstrations? Is it the purpose of the Vietnam Moratorium Campaign to influence government policy? If so, does this not indicate a considerable difference in thinking between the Leader of the Labor Party and his supporters as to the purpose and value of such demonstrations? 
My question is directed to the Minister for Civil Aviation. In view of the fact that Boeing 727 aircraft are now being flown into Canberra Airport is there any reason why, on certain days, aircraft on Adelaide-Sydney flights cannot land at Canberra thus obviating an unnecessarily long journey for passengers whose destination is Canberra? 
The State Housing Commission of Western Australia. At this stageI would ask leave to continue my remarks. 
Leave granted. 

 Senator POKE (Tasmania) [I0.59- I seek leave of the Senate to amend slightly the amendment which I put forward last night. 
The ACTING  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Davidson)  - Is leave granted? There being no objection leave is granted. 
It gives me no pleasure to take part in a debate of this kind today. Firstly, I direct my remarks to the first part of the preamble of the motion before the Senate that the objectives and tactics of the Vietnam Moratorium Campaign are to be deplored'. In the short time that I have available to me I shall pay some attention to the tactics and objectives of the Moratorium Campaign. In this campaign we see a new kind of propaganda. It is not Australian. It has been copied slavishly, of course, from an American example. The account of the origin of it appeared in the Sydney Morning Herald' of 5th March which reported that Professor Medlin of Flinders University, South Australia, announced after a meeting of peace groups in Canberra last November, that 'the Moratorium would be held in Australia in April or May and would duplicate the Moratorium held in the United States last year'. This is the origin of this present campaign. Professor Medlin, if honourable senators will forgive the pun, is meddling in things the consequence of which he is apparently not aware. We should look at the structure of the modern day protest that tries to create an appearance of being spontaneous. Look back into the structure of it. It is carefully and deliberately organised for a purpose, and if we have a look at the people who for various reasons are persuaded to become part of it we see a motley group. 
First of all we have the pacifists who perhaps are genuine. I respect their opinions. They are led into agreement with the movement because of their strongly held beliefs andI respect those beliefs. But the great body of people who are taking part are those who are seeking to take political advantage of the situation.I listened to the opening words of the speech delivered by the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam)  this very day to the group of people assembled on the lawns in front of this Parliament House. He commenced by saying: 'In 3 weeks time there is to be an election in Canberra'. This is the motivation of a great number of people who come in seeking to create the impression that they are ardent advocates of peace. They are there purely and simply to turn to political advantage the sincere belief of the great majority of Australians who want peace. But these people are not sincere in their beliefs. Then we have the group of hoppers on bandwagons and today in Australia we find them multiplying rapidly. Any bandwagon is good enough for a ride and this happens to be one. They are akin to the professional protesters, the people who seek publicity for its own sake and who want to be recorded in the newspapers and on television. They want to be seen to be great fellows and in their own smallness and insignificance they seek to direct attention to themselves like the woolly minded pseudo academic who matches and symbolises his woolliness with the length of his hair covering. 
 I concede the point. This is the mixed up crowd which follows the Pied Piper who plays the tune. Prominent among them, of course, are the Communists and their fellow travellers who ever have sought to fish in troubled waters. Closely allied with them, of course, are the anarchists who believe that all laws are obnoxious - all laws except the rafferty rules that they believe in. I believe in dissent. 1 am by nature a dissenter but I do not believe in violence. Traditionally in this country we have seen dissent right from the earliest days. Our country was populated very largely by people who exhibited various forms of dissent, some legal and some illegal. But we have through the years built up a tradition of free speech and free assembly within the structure of the laws. We believe that this is the best system of seeing that all people have a fair go. But this is a new thing. This is organisation of the crowd irrespective of the rights of others and irrespective of who gets hurt so long as the objectives are achieved. We see in this present campaign firstly the breaching of lawful obligations, the obligation that the lecturer has to conduct lectures to his class and the obligation that a man has to attend his place of employment. These things are disregarded. They matter not. We note the intention to block the streets of Melbourne. 
The farmers did not block the traffic in the streets of Melbourne. 
They conducted a lawful march and they did not do what is proposed to be done in this instance, to sit down at the cross streets so that there can be no flow of traffic. But I read to honourable senators the origin of this, the importation from the United States by Professor Medlin. Does he want to import into this country the history of violent protest that he is seeking to copy? Motivating this sort of protest is a new theory, or perhaps it is not altogether a new theory. But it is the theory that is propagated by  Dr Cairns  of the Labor Party, the theory that if one disagrees with any particular law it is legitimate to break the law. 

 - Dr Cairns has been quoted in the 'Herald' of 14th April as saying - and he has not repudiated the quote - that he believed a citizen has a right to break an objectionable law. Let us follow this to its logica] conclusion. Who is to decide what is an objectionable law? 
Yes,  Dr Cairns  will decide what is an objectionable law and  Senator Cavanagh  will decide what he considers to be an objectionable law and I. of course, will equally have the right to decide what is objectionable to me. If this is not chaos and if this is not anarchy, then what is it? This is the whole motivation behind the Moratorium protest movement, lt is a move towards anarchy. If honourable senators are honest in their thinking they can arrive at no other conclusion. The grave consequences that await us if we sail this perilous course are all too evident when we read today's newspapers and see the effect and the end result of the anti-war demonstrations in America, the death of 4 university students.  President  Nixon said that when dissent turns to violence it invites tragedy. I add that the greatest tragedy of all would bc the death and destruction of our democratic way of life. 
When the debate on this measure was adjourned last night 1 had been tempted into discussing the wider general aspects of housing. Now I should like lo return to the details of the Bill before us. Earlier I took the opportunity to commend the Minister for Housing  (Senator Dame Annabelle Rankin)  for her work in relation to this part of her responsibilities. When the legislation was introduced in 1964 it was understood by all of us that it was of an experimental nature and that inevitably, in trying to implement the purposes of the legislation, some administrative difficulties would be found. Indeed that was the experience of those who were trying to give effect to the Government's wishes in respect to 2 main objectives, firstly, to encourage young people to save, and secondly, to bring into the housing field increasing amounts of money. 

 Senator Devitt, I think it was, referred to the fact that the Minister was given little discretion in interpreting the measures that she was asked to administer. This is so. In attempting to do ihe right thing by the young people who made applications and found that for various reasons they had difficulty in conforming to all the requirements set out in the Act, she undoubtedly has done her best to overcome the difficulties. Last year we considered various amendments to improve the legislation. In this Bill we are discussing considerable improvements are suggested as amendments. These amendments have resulted from our experience in administering the legislation. I note with pleasure that the Opposition has paid tribute to the very good work that has been done in presenting the proposed amendments. 1 referred earlier to the increased limit on the value of a home to establish eligibility for the grant. This change undoubtedly has been brought about by a practical reconsideration of the increased cost structure evident in the housing industry. This is a commonsense movement to keep the legislation applying relatively to the housing situation. The provision for divorced persons is an eminently necessary and suitable amendment. The difficulties regarding home savings accounts will by the proposed amendment be overcome and a great deal of frustration that has been experienced will be eliminated. 1 am also pleased to note that the provision in respect of dates of application is being interpreted with some liberality. These changes have been made possible through the experience we have had in making this very liberal type of legislation work efficiently. I have referred previously to my discontent that the legislation has not fitted in wilh the objective stated by the Minister when introducing the legislation that it would apply equally to the farming sector. In theory of course it does apply, but in practice, because of other elements relating to the financial structure of primary industry it has been found very difficult to extend to young people engaged in agriculture the benefits of this legislation. The Minister is well aware of these difficulties and is sympathetic towards them. I trust that Cabinet in reviewing the situation will give very earnest consideration to a financial structure that will enable young people engaged in agricultural pursuits to receive the benefits to which they are entitled under the Homes Savings Grant Act. 
I would like now to discuss some of the wider implications of the housing industry as they bear upon the Homes Savings Grant Act and the general situation relating to housing, as has already been discussed by other honorable senators. I listened with interest to  Senator Devitt  when he complained that nobody in Tasmania could obtain a house on a deposit of $500. I do not know how much research he had done on the matter or whether he is correct, but I happened to be turning over the pages of yesterday's edition of the West Australian' and my attention was drawn to an advertisement in the real estate columns for a duplex house available on  a  deposit of $500. It is a new brick and tile 2-bedroom building. I suggest to  Senator Devitt  that he recommend to young people who are in difficulties in obtaining a house in Tasmania that they go to Western Australia, because it is apparent that houses can be bought there on a deposit of $500. I cannot assure him of the numbers available, but it is evident from a casual inspection of the advertisements that houses are available on that deposit in Western Australia. 
Perhaps we could set up a competition to attract Tasmanians to South Australia or Western Australia on that basis. I believe there is scope for an examination of our resources and their utilisation within the building industry in a situation where admittedly there is a backlog in the number of houses available, particularly for the lower income groups. I think we should examine our policies in relation to housing. There seems to be a need for advice to young people. Many young people expend too much of their resources, actual or potential, in entering into housing propositions beyond their means. They anticipate their needs. I think  Senator Little  referred indirectly to this matter, lt is a very real problem in the housing field when currently young people build in advance of their needs which may or may not be realised. In doing so they are tying up housing resources that are urgently needed in other directions. 
There is an aspect of our social service legislation that has a bearing on this question. In our pensions legislation married couples owning houses do not have regard to the value of those houses in estimating their assets for the purposes of the means test. In other words, an elderly couple living in quite a large house is deterred from selling that house because, if they sell it, the proceeds then become assessable for purposes of the means test. It would make no difference whatever financially to the Government - in fact it would be an advantage in many respects - if elderly people were able to sell their houses without having the proceeds added to their assets for means test purposes. 1 have in mind particularly an elderly farmer in Western Australia who decided that rather than invest his money in a home and live in comfort he would share a shack on a farm with his sons in order to assist to establish them in the farming industry. For the purposes of the social service legislation he is deemed to have a share in that farm. As that share exceeds the limitations imposed by the means test he is not eligible for a pension. If he divested himself of that interest and bought a house in the nearby town he would receive a pension. There is neither sense nor logic in that situation. I believe that a great deal  of  our housing resources is inadequately used because elderly people, influenced by the requirements of the means test, are reluctant to divest themselves  of  their homes. If they do they pay a penalty. They have then to find money for rent and this is not taken into account. I think there is  a  case for some examination of our utilisation of housing resources in order to achieve a maximum utilisation without adding to the pressures that are forcing up building costs. 
The Opposition has criticised the amendments which relate to credit unions, but I think the matters raised by  Senator Poke  prove conclusively the point  that the  Government has been making all along, that the credit unions  are  not established for the purpose of providing money for housing and, therefore, they do not in their present form come within the scope of the purpose of the legislation. On the other hand, what is being suggested in the amendments is to give an opportunity for the credit unions to restructure their organisations so that they will become a useful source of credit for housing and a useful source of funds for housing. 1 feel that the Government is doing the right thing with these amendments in respect of  Ihe  credit unions in suggesting  to  the credit unions that they alter their organisations  so  that they can comply with the legislation. This would mean some reorganisation of the credit union movement in order to carry out this function  of  financing housing.  I.  think that in the not very long term the credit union movement will be strengthened and enlarged if it seeks to conform to the proposals in the amendment with regard  to  housing. Tn the main, I repeat my commendation  of  the Minister and of the Government for bringing forward these very real improvements to the Homes Savings Grant Act. 
 The Senate has carried the second reading of a Bill dealing with estate duty, with an addendum that expressed an opinion. The motion now before the Senate on the third reading of the Bill is an indication that some senators are of the opinion that the opinion expressed in the addendum does not go far enough. As I clearly indicated when I previously spoke on this Bill I favour the complete abolition of death taxes and I therefore intend to support the proposed amendment to the motion for the third reading of the Bill. 
 I think it is very proper that the Senate should be engaged in examining this proposal which has been brought to its attention by  Senator McManus  on behalf of the Australian Democratic Labor Party. In its contribution to the debate the Australian Labor Party has put its point of view. Supporters of the Government have also contributed to the debate, which is an examination of what is surely one of the most urgent problems facing not only the Australian community today but virtually every country in the world. Almost every country is faced with the same problem of the future of the people who earn a living in the field of agriculture. The difference between the return obtained by any other person in the community and the return obtained by an agriculturalist for his labour and the capital he has devoted to his industry is causing serious concern. Many suggestions have been made about how to solve the problem, and I think they all have merits. Certainly I think that the proposal for a royal commission has merit. But I believe that the holding of a royal commission would take too long. It would not solve the immediate problems facing primary industry. 
In my own State of Western Australia we have a terrific problem in relation to the immediate future of those people who have gone out and developed new land in a particular part of the State. Carefully considered programmes were devised by farm consultants. These programmes were put to the Development Bank and in all good faith they were accepted as a viable proposition. But they were accepted in the light of the knowledge of the situation at that time. We find today that the proposals have fallen through because the farmers, who are dependent primarily on wheat growing and to a certain extent on wool growing, can no longer finance the development programme in which they have been engaged. I have seen budgets which were drawn up for the farmers in the Merredin district. They show that these men cannot possibly meet the capital and interest repayments which were budgeted and planned for by the skilled people who advised them. 
There are 2 particular aspects of the problem facing these people which I wish to discuss. There is the social problem of what is going to happen to them in the future and there is the economic problem of whether to allow the land on which they have expended their resources to go back to the bush. Can some of this expenditure be salvaged by bringing into operation credit arrangements which will enable the industry to carry on at a lower rate of production until at least the international marketing situation has improved? I say that we cannot possibly do away with the short term examination of the problem, the immediate problem which these people are required- 
Debate interrupted. 
I wish to say a few words with regard to the material submitted to the Senate in relation to the Appropriation and Supply Bills. My particular concern is with regard to the $5m repayable advance to the Administration of Papua and New Guinea for the construction of the township at Arawa in connection with the Bougainville copper project. It is, of course, contained also in the Appropriation Bill (No. 4). I take it that when the document presented to the Senate by the Minister for Supply  (Senator Anderson)  mentioned that the major requirement is $2m for a repayable advance that related to part of the supply of $5m. The principle involved in this amount of money being made available for the construction of a township at Arawa in relation to the mining project at Bougainville interests me greatly. I think it would also interest people throughout the Commonwealth because we have seen mining ventures of various sorts being required to provide capital for the whole of their infrastructure. The mining industry in Western Australia has been required to find the capital for the development of Kambalda and towns in the north west such as Tom Price and Dampier. These towns have had to be provided by the mining ventures which have gone into that area. lt seems to me that the Commonwealth Government, in finding this amount of money for the provision of a township on Bougainville, is acknowledging that there is some merit in the proposition that mining ventures and other undertakings that go into the far flung regions of Australia should not be required to find the whole of the capital for the housing needs of the people. This principle has too long hindered the development and the redistribution of Australian enterprises. We have seen, with regard to the farming industry, the same principle involved. Agriculture is required to find all the money for the housing needs of its people, not only those engaged on an ownership basis but also those employed in the industry. This is one of the factors, I believe, that have produced a tremendous degree of centralisation within our economy. If an industry proposes to set up some enterprise that can conveniently be situated in the big cities or near to them that enterprise is not asked or not expected to provide the capital needs of that industry in relation to housing, but if it be mining or agriculture or anything else outside the cities the industry is expected to finance the housing needs of the people employed in that industry. I am pleased that the Commonwealth, in providing this money - certainly as a repayable advance - to the Administration of Papua and New Guinea is recognising this principle. I only hope that it will carry the recognition of the principle a little further so that the development of the hinterland of Australia, whether it be through mining, secondary industry or agriculture, will be assisted. There should be recognition of the fact that the people engaged in those industries have housing needs equal to those of people who choose to live within the city areas. I hope sincerely that we will see this principle of granting moneys for the building of townships in association with industry extended to the other States of Australia. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. 
In Committee 
The Bill. 
Progress reported. 
 Nearly 3 years ago I took the opportunity during discussion of an Appropriation Bill to speak on the subject of estate duties or, as I would prefer to call them, death taxes.  Senator Young  indicated that he was in favour of the complete abolition of death taxes. I assure the .Senate that I share that opinion. Death duties are perhaps one of the most indefensible of all taxes. None of us likes paying taxes. We do not pay taxes after we die, but the people whom we leave behind have to pay them. To most of us this is of greater concern than if we ourselves paid them. I favour the abolition of death taxes not only on primary producers but also on all members of the community. I think a special case can be made out for primary producers. If one looks at the figures -and I will quote them later- 
I favour the complete abolition of death taxes imposed by both Federal and States authorities. The total amount raised in this way by both State and Federal authorities is less than 3% of the total amount of State and Federal taxes combined. In the Federal sphere the amount collected represents 1.4% of revenues raised by the Taxation Branch. In relation to the total Commonwealth revenue in the Budget, the amount collected in this way is less than 1% of the amount raised. The percentage is an insignificant one, but it could have a disastrous effect upon individuals. I believe that to take from capital assets in the community and to use that money for current expenditure is a bad taxation principle. In any business, to extract something from capital assets for current expenditure is an unsound proposition. In effect, that is what death taxes do. Above all, they discourage saving and investment. As a man accumulates assets, he becomes reluctant to involve himself in taking measures to protect his estate by way of insurance against death taxes. With increasing age, the rate of insurance increases. It is very difficult for him not to involve himself in a situation in which the insurance adds to the value of his estate. I can find no economic basis for the imposition of a tax of this nature. 
If we were to look at the net benefit of the tax by deducting from the gross return from death duties, allowances and losses of income tax through concessional insurance rates we would find that the figure was much smaller than it is now. On the other hand, if an insurance provision of this kind is not made, interest and repayments on capital results in a decreased return to the recipients. That should be a deduction from the net value of the tax. 
Their earnings are lessened. Above all, it destroys the enshrined principle of the pay-as-you-earn system of taxation. The Commonwealth has paid great attention to this system of taxation. Tax is paid on wages. The taxpayer has a form of painless extraction because his employer deducts the tax from his income. Self employed persons have a system of provisional taxation to ensure that tax is paid out of current revenue. In regard to probate or death duties, this principle is forgotten. An accumulation of income on which tax has been paid over the years is required, on the death of the earner, to be assessed at a figure completely out of relationship with the time in which the money was earned and attracts an escalated rate of taxation. This has had a disastrous effect on primary industry. 1 do not think the general public has any idea of the effect of probate tax on primary industry. 
If we look at the figures contained in the Taxation Statistics 1967-68' and if we look particularly at the assessments issued from 1st July 1967 to 30th June 1968, we find that in relation to the net duty assessed - for anybody who is interested, this is Estate Duty Schedule 9.6 (b) - the primary production assessment of duty is $21. 901m. The total for all estates assessed in Australia is $57.71 lm. Primary industry is paying 38% of the total probate tax. The reason why this legislation is before us today is that the Government realises that primary industry is paying the great bulk of probate taxation. I shall take only one class of primary producer, those with an estate of a net value of $200,000 or more. Many of our wheat farms today are in that category. The farms may be earning for the owner not much more than the basic wage, but the farms have a capital value of that nature. That one section of primary industry is paying $8.792m in assessed duty. No other single section of taxpayers pays that amount. That is the total for all States. The nearest to it is the wholesale and retail trade which pays $6.4 19m. Estates in the category of wholesale and retail trade do not pay as much probate tax as farm estates of $200,000 and over. This points to a gross inequality of taxation in the present structure of the death duties system. 
Death duty, apart from its inefficiency as a method of taxation, contains many repugnant anomalies. The Commissioner oil Taxation takes over the bones of an estate and queries every cheque of $200 or over. A widow is asked to delve into her late husband's estate and explain why a cheque for $200 or more was drawn. Perhaps the woman had never needed to be involved in the family affairs. I can see no justification for the imposition of any form of probate taxation on any Australian citizen. The Government certainly needs revenue to meet its current commitments, but the time to collect this revenue is when the income is earned. The Government should not allow a liability to accumulate, because that can have disastrous effects in the future. The imposition of an estate duty is, of course, tremendously damaging to the whole structure of primary industry. 
A man is very largely motivated into primary industry because it is a way of life which he likes. But his heirs and dependants find on his death that his property is subjected to a tremendous impost and they have a long grind to meet their death duty obligations. Death duty is a debt which they have to meet without having any more productive assets; it is simply a debt to be paid to the state. I can assure the Senate that there is a tremendous feeling of revulsion in Australia at present against death taxes. In this connection I need refer only to the fact that a  Mr Negus  in Western Australia is conducting a campaign against probate duty and so far he has collected some 57,000 signatures in protest against the duty. I believe he is getting letters at the rate of 1,000 a day in support of his campaign. I am only too happy to add my voice in this chamber to those who have spoken in opposition to the imposition of death taxes. 
Has the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry seen reports in yesterday's Press of a nationwide campaign to eradicate bovine brucellosis and tuberculosis? Can he say what part the Commonwealth Government is playing in this campaign and how much money, if any, it is contributing to the campaign? 
I have a question to resolve a doubt in my mind concerning the request lor an amendment moved by  Senator McClelland  which states: 
Other than an attendance at which an examination of the patient's eyes is made in consequence of which spectacle lenses are prescribed. 
I  can quite clearly see that a patient could be referred to an ophthalmologist and a variety of conditions could be treated and prescribed for. One of the conditions could require spectacles. If, at the end of that consultation, spectacles are prescribed is it a fact, as now obtains, that the patient receives no benefit at all under the health scheme simply because part of the consultation results in the prescription of spectacles? 1 can see one very ready way out of this situation. The specialist could say to the patient: '1 have treated you for a certain condition but in addition I think you need spectacles. Today I will render an account for the services I have given you, but come back tomorrow and  I  will prescribe spectacles.' 
I  would like the Minister for Housing  (Senator Dame Annabelle Rankin)  who in this chamber represents the Minister for Health  (Dr Forbes)  to explain the present situation. Does the prescription of spectacles under present conditions completely eliminate any claim which the patient may have in respect of other services which the ophthalmologist may have rendered? 
 If this were not such a serious subject it would be rather amusing to hear members of the Labor Party applying the word 'compulsion' to what is proposed in the Bill. The Labor Party is the greatest advocate of culpulsion of all time. Where is the freedom and liberty of the subject in union activities?  Senator Murphy  used the word 'coercion'. He equated coercion with compulsion whereas the most that could be said for this is that there is an inducement of an additional Commonwealth benefit applying to those who come voluntarily into a scheme. Inducement is the correct word to use. Surely it is sound government to induce people to insure for their own benefit in a health scheme. The Australian Labor Party gives no option whatever. It uses the ultimate of compulsion through the taxation machinery for a compulsory contribution whether the individual wants to be in the scheme or not. 
 1  am not quite clear of the destination of the S2 which is referred to in the amendment. The amendment states that where a person receives hospital treatment in an approved hospital there is payable a Commonwealth benefit of S2 for each day. The amendment does not say to whom the payment is to be made, lt would appear from what my friends from Queensland have said that they are assuming thai the $2 a day will be paid lo the hospitals in Queensland. Could the Minister for Housing  (Senator Dame Annabelle Rankin)  tell me whether the S2 a day will be paid io the patient or to the hospital? 
 I still cannot see how the proposed amendment will provide any benefit to Queensland hospitals. I do not know whether the Minister answered that question, but I did not receive an answer. 
I still am not satisfied with the argument that has been advanced in favour of the amendment - that it would have the effect of benefiting Queensland hospitals. From what the Minister has said, it will not achieve that purpose. The Commonwealth will pay $2 a day to the patient, but this will not necessarily contribute towards alleviating the situation in which Queensland hospitals are placed. So the amendment, by itself, would be ineffective in achieving the result which the Opposition intends. 
Question put: 
That the request be agreed to  (Senator McClelland's amendment). 
 I support the motion for the adjournment. We came here to deal with a programme for this week and the Australian Labor Party decided to take up the time that we had expected to spend on regular and orderly business by moving a motion to enable a discussion of a matter of urgency. I know that a matter of urgency can always be found. What is urgent becomes a matter of definition. I cannot help thinking that of the various matters of urgency that we have debated - I was going to say endured - during this session, the main urgency has been to secure political points. This might have been a great misjudgment in many cases, but while the Standing Orders permit this sort of evaluation of a matter of urgency we will have to endure them. I have commitments in Western Australia - I do not know whether  Senator Branson  has - but I am prepared to come back next week, the following week and the week after that if necessary. 1 believe that the business of the Senate should be conducted in an orderly fashion and in a manner which will enable honourable senators to arrange their business in a proper way. I support the motion for the adjournment. 
My question is directed to the Minister for Housing. Is it not a fact that in recent weeks there has been an increase in the number of building commencements in South Australia? 
My question, directed 10 the Leader of the Government in the Senate, follows upon a question asked earlier by  Senator Lawrie.  Does the Australian Government intend to make further representations to the British Government regarding the impact on Australian trade prospects in the event of Britain entering the European Economic Community? What consideration is being given to the possible effects on Australian trade, particularly on dairy and fruit exports? 
asked the Minister representing the Treasurer, upon notice: 
What is the estimated cost, for the years 1967-68 and 1968-69, of taxation concessions for primary producers relating to (a) special depreciation at 20 per cent per annum, (b) capital improvements, and (c) investment allowance. 
What proportion of these concessions are in relation to producers whose income is derived, by 60 per cent or more, from other than farm production. 
 Mr Deputy President,  I welcome the Bill before the Senate. 1 hope that honourable senators recognise the tremendous importance of this piece of legislation. The Bill, together with what has been done with regard to quotas on wheat deliveries, marks a new era in the development of farming in Australia. No longer can we look lo an unlimited expansion of primary products to carry the import requirements of this country. That situation has gone on, perhaps for too long. We have been dependent on the products of our farms to a tremendous extent. We have developed the idea that we must continue to export primary products and that the world must take our products. I am afraid that that sort of thinking has come to a sudden halt with a very uncomfortable jolt in the last year or so according to the hard facts of statistics, lt is extremely fortunate that, contemporaneously with this situation regarding our primary products, we in Australia have been fortunate enough to have had our mining wealth developed with a market for our mining products. 1 hope that in time to come we will not develop the same sort of outlook and dependence on mining that we have had with regard to agriculture, lt is a fortunate conjunction of events that the development of our iron ore and nickel has taken place while there is a ready market for those products. There is no certainty that that will continue indefinitely. We need to be warned that Australia's development needs to be a balanced development - balanced in accordance with sound economic principles with regard to the situation in the rest of the world. The Bill attempts to do this in a small way. 
We have not carried out nearly the amount of research into the solution of our agricultural problems as has been done in Canada, for instance, lt is interesting to note that the latest research publication from Canada a book entitled 'Canadian Agriculture in the 1970s' which I would recommend to anybody who is interested in the subject and which is a very high level research publication, gives 6 main recommendations. The first recommendation is that the surpluses must be controlled and reduced to manageable proportions by reducing production drastically if necessary. Where alternatives exist production resources must be shifted to more promising market opportunities. Where such alternatives cannot be found land and other resources must be retired. In the main the Bill docs follow the lines of that recommendation. 1 would regard the Bill more as a measure of social welfare than of economic amelioration of the present situation. 
 lt is a beginning. The suggestion contained in the Bill has been before the States since 1966. I am pleased that my own State of Western Australia has been the first to come into line iti agreement with the proposals. The fact that industry in Western Australia has welcomed the suggestion is some assurance that it has been studied and it is felt that there is merit in the proposal. I understand the reluctance in other States to agree to the proposal but I am sure that the benefits will eventually be found to be attractive to the other States when they get around to examining what the Bill really sets out to do. 
The obvious reason for the legislation stems from the tremendous world surplus of butter, a surplus which has been generated through policies of economic nationalism in Europe. On the one hand those policies have provided very high prices for butter and consequently have reduced the consumption per head in those countries. At the same lime the supply has been increased so much that the European Economic Community is embarrassed by the amount of butter produced and is proposing now to slaughter dairy cows in order to bring the problem into manageable limits. The upsurge in production of butter, butter fats and dairy products indicates the tremendous resources of agriculture that are available in the world today. Those who fear world starvation can be reassured by the fact that technological resources and developments in the world today as applied to modern agriculture are capable of meeting the world's food needs. The hard mathematics of the costs in Australia and the declining prices were set out in the Minister's speech. In the last 5 years the equalised return to producers declined from 47.1c per lb of butter fat to an estimated 41.3c per lb in the current year. Over that same period, according to the Bureau of Agricultural Economics index of prices paid, costs have risen by 161%. So that here is a classical example of what is happening in the dairying industry with the so called cost-price squeeze. I am glad that the Minister said: 
In attempting lo counteract this situation, farmers have made strenuous efforts to improve productivity. No matter how measured,  the  results are striking. I - real terms production per cow or per acre or ,j.-r man or per dollar have all gone up . . . lt is clear that the producer has accepted the productivity challenge  posed  by rising costs and advancing technology. 
Here 1 should like lo say something about the current concept of the economics of agricultural production in relation lo prices. lt is generally assumed that the way to reduce production in agriculture is to reduce the price of the commodity, but in his speech the Minister said that this is not so. The immediate response of the farmer in this situation is to increase production so that he lowers his unit costs. Inevitably in this situation the Australian fanner has increased production. This was demonstrated without doubt during the depression years when in response to a falling price for wheat the Australian wheat grower in 1931 planted, mostly with horse power, some 18 million acres of wheat - a figure that was equalled only in 1965, and then wilh tractor power. Victoria has never planted as much wheat since as she planted in 1931, nor has South Australia reached its total of that year, lt is nonsense to say that the only way to reduce production in this situation is  10  lower the offering prices. 
When I was a student years ago there was a saying current that the best way to train a good, sound classical economist was to get a parrot and teach it to say: 'Supply and demand, supply and demand", j am afraid that some of our economists have not got past that stage: certainly this seems so when we read some of the things they write about agriculture and agricultural production. 
The honourable senator would be more familiar with galahs. 
All right, I will let that pass. One of the doubts I have about the legislation concerns what is to be done with the land that is retired. I think  Senator Wilkinson  made this point and this reservation too. If we are going to join the retired land with other dairy farms - and that is envisaged in the Bill - and the combined area of the new farm is more productive and more competitive this will tend to increase the supply of butter rather than to reduce it. We have other alternatives, and I refer again to the alternative set out in the Canadian report - that of diverting to other forms of agriculture. There are not many alternatives for land that is suitable for dairying. Forestry has been mentioned, but I think it is highly dangerous to suggest that isolated areas of land should be devoted to forestry because fires would probably harvest most of it before the isolated forests matured. If we are going to make any considerable move towards beef production, which seems the obvious alternative to land that is suitable for dairying, we can produce the beef, but there are also other tendencies moving people into beef production and it will not be long before beef production in Australia is in the same position as other forms of production. We need to be careful before we direct any strong movement into beef cattle. 
I have grave doubts about this measure as one of economic importance, lt will be a help to those farmers who wish to retire from farming and whose units of production are too small, but I do not think it will touch the very small producers because most of them are part-time dairymen. From recently published statistics I have made a calculation of the number of farms with fewer than 20 cows. After excluding those properties that have 1 to 4 cows, which obviously are not economic producers, I found that those properties with 5 to 20 cows represent only 4.7% of the total number of holdings engaging in dairying. As a measure to control surplus production I am afraid that this Bill will have a minimal effect. I am interested also in the basis on which properties will be valued. I wonder how we are going to arrive at the capital value of a property which, in the hands of an owner, has no capital value - in other words a property which is tying him to a job which is producing somewhat less than the basic wage. What is the capital value of this sort of property? We can look at it only in relation to the assumed value it will have in the hands of the person who takes it over. This will be very much a rule of thumb measure. 
I am interested also in the new base line that is set. The standard set at present as a minimum is 12,000 lb of butter fat per annum per farm. This is a rough guide line as to the economic capability of a property to be a livable unit, but the new line drawn is up 25% to 15,000 lb of butter fat. I did a rough calculation, and I suppose a rough calculation is as valid as some of the more sophisticated ones, and if the present movements of prices and costs that have been demonstrated over the last 5 years - that is the fall from 47.1c to 41.3c per lb of butter fat and a rise of  I6i%  in costs - continues it will be only 5 years before the new line of 15,000 lb of butter fat is of no more use than the present line of 12,000 lb. The new line will be no better. On this basis, the new farm has only 5 years before economic movements will have caught up with it. We will have to start again to reconstruct a new level in the industry. There is, to my mind, a desperate urgency to do something that will check either the rise in costs or the fall in prices - or both. If we are to avoid a situation in which the Australian dairy industry fades away, not at a slow rate - the rate is too fast to be comfortable - primary producing countries have to get together on supply management. We cannot have a situation in which people in one form of production - that of basic necessities - are compelled to exist on a lower living standard than the rest of the community does and are compelled to accept conditions that the rest of the community does and are compelled to accept conditions that the rest of the community would not accept but are still expected to carry out an essential part of the economic life of the community, the production of our food requirements. 
While I welcome the Bill as a means of getting out of dairying those people who want to get o.tt and of temporarily at any rate putting more dairy farmers in a situation in which they can live on their properties, unless we do something to correct the present tendencies of increasing costs and falling prices in the primary industries, Australia and Australian agriculture are in for a very difficult time. I do not know that it is any consolation to us to know that agriculture in the rest of the world is in a similar position. I think there is some strength to be gained by knowing that fact, because there is a common interest among primary producing countries. I urge the Government to do everything possible to reach international agreements on production levels and on sharing world markets so that some rationalisation or some common sense can be introduced into world agricultural production. 
My question to the Leader of the Government in the Senate relates to that asked earlier about the attitude of the headmaster of Newington 
College to Australia's laws concerning national service. Is it true that the headmaster concerned is prepared to approve the actions of a student who defies any rule of the college that he may find distasteful? 

 Senator Sir KENNETH ANDERSONI would not want to make a judgment on the processes of reasoning which have emerged from the statement made by the principal of the school concerned.  His  conflicts seem to me to be a matter of conscience for him to resolve. In view of the fact that the Minister representing the AttorneyGeneral has taken the previous question on notice I think we should await a reply on that level before making any further comment. 
asked the Minister  representing the Minister for Primary Industry, upon notice: 
Are lamb exports to the United States of America and Canada banned. 
Are lamb carcasses processed in the same abattoirs as deal with mutton. 
Are the same standards of hygiene and inspection applied to both lamb and mutton. 
With regard to complaints of contamination by faeces and hair, are lambs not liable to this source of contamination. 
Is the sole difference the liability of mutton to certain harmless parasitic infection. 
My question, which is directed to the Minister representing the Prime Minister, relates to the 2 questions already asked this ' evening by  Senator Georges  and  Senator Buttfield.  Having regard to the present price of wool, what would be the use of the rams in question either in Australia or in China, or elsewhere? 

 Senator Sir KENNETH ANDERSONWithout wanting to be profound. I would say that the use of rams is well known universally. 
My question is addressee! to the Minister representing the Minister for Trade and Industry. In what countries does Australia maintain agricultural attaches to its- Trade Commissioner Service? If there is no agricultural attache in Tokyo, why nol? What apportioning of time is allocated to increasing agricultural product sales in various countries by our trade commissioners? 
 This afternoon one of the criticisms which have been directed at the Leader of the Opposition in the Senate  (Senator Murphy)  has arisen from the fact that in debating an urgency motion we are allowed only 15 minutes in which to develop our views. As I have some  8  minutes it can hardly be expected that I. shall delve very deeply into the subject matter of the motion before the Senate. I cannot say that I. agree with the ' criticism that a speech limited to 1.5 minutes is necessarily a bad thing. I think if we had more 15 minute . speeches in the Senate we would have a better debate on some subjects. I think the Senate debate on this subject -has been conducted on a high standard. 1 congratulate the speakers who have taken part in- it. They have attempted to deal factually and in an objective manner with the subject instead of making a series of purely political speeches. I think that  Senator Willesee  gave a good example by setting the tone. He was followed admirably by the Minister for Civil Aviation  (Senator Cotton).  I think this subject is too serious in its consequences to be used as a means of trying to gain political advantage. 
I heard all the speeches. We are excellent in degrees, perhaps. I would not criticise  Senator Sim.  We are not all activated in the same way. Of all honourable senators opposite I think  Senator Cavanagh  could understand  Senator Sim's  speech. I think that not only in thus Senate but as a nation we must examine this problem factually and dispassionately, trying to arrive at a solution which is for the benefit of all. We are not on our own. Other countries face this problem. Because I have a very short time in which to speak I propose to read an extract from an article which puts into much better language than T could, some aspects of the situation. Today 1 obtained from the Parliamentary Library an article culled from 'Economies'. The article is headed 'Bitter medicine for the West's inflation'. It deals with the report of the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development on this subject. I have time to read only the concluding paragraph which states: 
Appropriately for a document that proved too hot for the OECD to handle in its original form, the report contained a dire prediction of the social and political consequences of continued inflation: 'Because resentment against inflation is incoherent and diffused through the community, it provides favourable terrain for extremists at both ends of the political spectrum, lt gives ammunition to those who favour more authoritarian forms of government relying on extensive wage, price, and production controls, and to those who hark back to earlier times before governments had accepted their present responsibilities for growth, high employment, and social justice.' 
The report highlights the fact that if we are going to depend solely on economic measures to deal with this problem we will find ourselves faced with some very unpleasant consequences. This attitude is borne out by another excellent article which I commend to the Senate. It is headed "The Australian Economy' and is to be found in the publication 'Australia's Economic Review', the fourth quarter 1970, No. 12. I. shall read this because it is very much to the point. It states: 
It is not exaggerating to say that, here as in Western Europe and North America, the future of the economy and society we have been building over the last quarter century is at stake. Full employment and rising living standards, as the basis  for a  life of greater freedom and better quality, have been good  and  worthy aims and have been amply realised. They could  go  on bringing us  continuingly  better lives. 
But they cannot go on  if they  bring us also accelerating inflation. Hie economists, ns economists, can defeat inflation  only  by cutting the level of employment and the  pace  of growth. The inflationary pressures  now  facing the Western world would be defeated  only  by quite drastic, and socially most damaging  cuts. 
The problem has moved into the social and moral field. Its handling requires far-sighted leadership. The whole community is responsible for what now threatens, and the whole community will be affected by the disastrous effects both of accelerating inflation and of the policies needed to control it if it persists. 
The  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Lawrie)  - Order! The time allowed for this motion having expired the Senate will proceed to the business of the day. 
Sitting suspended from 5.45 to 8 p.m. 
General Business Taking Precedence of Government Business After 8 p.m. 
Motion (by  Senator Murphy)  agreed to: 
That intervening general business be postponed until after the consideration of notice of motion No. 2. 
 It is little wonder that members of the Opposition have difficulty in finding a  speaker  to pursue an argument which has no basis whatever. It must be very difficult to debate a subject when there is not a single point on which the Opposition can base an argument. We have heard members of the Labor Party trying to equate the Senate with the Parliament. This argument is palpably absurd and it was ably demolished by  Senator Greenwood.  Surely honourable senators opposite must be speaking with their tongues in their cheeks when they equate the Senate with the Parliament. When many of them argue that we should abolish the Senate, surely they must be arguing that we should abolish the Parliament. In effect that is their attitude. They want to substitute thetrade union movement for the Parliament of this country and they want to substitute the law, or lack of law, of the trade unions for the law of the Parliament. Their argument has been so palpably absurd that they must be ashamed of it. 
Honourable senators opposite have argued in favour of a referendum, a proceeding that they despise. But they have been forced into this argument because they have been straining to find some sort of case to support what in the first place was simply a political attempt to cash in on some confusion -I admit to this - in the minds of the wool producers of Australia regarding the merits of a case that they had not considered. 
Whether or not they were properly informed, they  had opportunities to be informed. I can speak from my own. fairly close knowledge of the Farmers Union of Western Australia. I know that that organisation circularised every branch of the Farmers Union and asked for its opinion on this issue. 
 Never mind whether I come back or you come back. I have come back. This sounds a bit like an advertisement for hair cream.  Senator Cant  might have more use for hair cream than I have, but he is very short of arguments if he has to raise the point whether I will be back or he will be back. This is a wonderful example of the complete lack of constructive argument on the part of the Opposition. When I was so rudely interrupted I was telling honourable senators, in case they did not know, that the Farmers Union circulated every branch of that organisation and asked whether it supported the lifting of the embargo on merino rams. The Farmers Union sought these opinions because the matter was being discussed by the Australian Wool Industry Conference which, despite efforts by the Opposition to rubbish it. is the recognised body. The Farmers Union of Western Australia- 
What you do is of no consequence.  The farmers of Western Australia are represented by 2 organisations, the Farmers Union and the Pastoralists and Graziers Association. The Farmers Union elected 5 members and a similar number was elected from the Pastoralists and Graziers Association. This is democratic. It is the sort of process that a trade union uses. Honourable senators might as well repudiate the Australian Council of Trade Unions as to repudiate the Australian Wool Industry Conference. This is the sort- of absolute rubbish that the Labor Party has been trying to put over in trying to disregard the fact that the AWIC represents the wool growers of Australia. The wool growers considered this question over a period of time- and sought all the evidence from any inquiry that had ever been instituted into the merits of the embargo. The fact is that no inquiry ever set up to examine this question has ever come out in support of the embargo. The reason is clear: The whole thing was imposed on a basis of ignorance. 
lt did not take that long to find out but we suffered the embargo for 40 years. 
Some of us, yes. The fact is that it has existed for that time. But why was it imposed? It was imposed at a time when wool prices were falling. It was assumed that it would help to keep up the price of wool. Now, of course, we have a disastrous situation. We have- had the ban and it has failed to keep wool prices up. lt has had absolutely no effect on the price of wool. In the intervening years the situation has been that the laws of Australia have been used to prevent sheep breeders exporting sheep which have done a magnificent job for the Australian economy. The rams do not belong to the industry as a whole: they, belong to the people who produce them. Surely these people who have contributed magnificently to the wool industry have some rights in this matter. It is completely fallacious to argue that if we were to export merino rams we would encourage the production of Australian wool in China, Russia, South Africa or somewhere else. The fact is that we did not prohibit the export of rams to New Zealand. Has New Zealand been able over the intervening years to produce Australian wool? Of course it has not. Before 1929 we exported merino rams to South Africa. We also exported some to Russia. Yet those countries have failed to produce wool of a quality equal to that of Australian wool. 
Now, how did we get the Australian merino? We got it by taking blood lines from here and there and blending them for Australian conditions. The wide world has had the genetic blood lines that we used and still has them. If anybody wants to produce the genetic equivalent of Australian rams they can do so and there has never been any hindrance to that objective. Are we assuming that the Australian stud breeder has some magical skill that the stud breeders who have produced the "numerous varieties of sheep and other animals throughout the world are incapable of learning? Are we assuming that they cannot achieve the same degree of skill. 
 Exactly. But you cannot export favourable climatic conditions. 
 My dear sir, I have lived in this country nearly as long as you have. 1 am asking the Senate to listen to somebody who knows something about sheep and sheep breading. I do not know how many rams you have produced in your career. 
-I have been responsible for a number. The point is - it was well taken by  Senator Gair  - that we cannot export the Australian climatic conditions. Recently I had the opportunity of inspecting some South African rams. I was on a property where there were some 200 rams. They were described as flock rams, but they were magnificent animals. 
They were all white anyway. The rams were splendid specimens of their breed. They would cut very heavy weights and they were up to Australian standard. I doubt whether I have seen in Western Australia a flock breeder with 200 rams of equivalent quality. Later in Bradford I was discussing South African wool and the processors told me that although it appears to be the equivalent of Australian wool it does not process and this factor is associated with climatic conditions. If Australian rams go to South Africa it is extremely doubtful whether under those conditions they will reproduce the best qualities of Australian wool. 
 Because hope springs eternal in the human breast and I have never yet seen a stud breeder who does not try to improve his sheep. 
If they go to Russia and the Russian ewes are as barren as the Labor Party is barren of ideas they will be completely useless. Despite the best efforts of the Australian rams on the Russian ewes it will be, I am afraid, a case of love's labour lost. The pity of the matter is that tonight we have spent so much time on a matter of so little consequence. As far as the wool industry is concerned I do not think it matters two hoots commercially whether these rams are exported. However there is an important principle involved and that is the right of the individual who produces an article to export it freely. If he is prohibited from exporting it he has a clear case for compensation. Unless we agree to the argument that the Australian sheep industry is to be socialised and that Australian rams do not belong to their owners the Opposition case is lost. 
The  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Bull)  - Order! In conformity with the sessional order relating to the adjournment of the Senate, I formally put the question: 
That the Senate do now adjourn. 
Question put: 
The Bill we are considering raises the question of parliamentary responsibility for the Australian National University. 1 take it that the necessity to present the legislation to the Parliament indicates that it is also a matter for debate and not merely an opportunity to rubber stamp it. We, as the Senate - indeed, we as individuals - have a responsibility to consider the Bill before us in the light of the circumstances of the day. Therefore 1 assume that the manner in which we deal with this Bill and the manner in which we debate it is a matter for the individual judgment of honourable senators. We must take into account the situation now existing that a student body has seen fit to publish a newspaper which is an offence to any conceivable standard of decency. In my opinion it is the ultimate in human degradation. If this is the product of our vaunted university education, then we should seriously re-examine our altitude, to so-called higher education. 
I indicate to the Government that although I will support the motion for the second reading of the Bill I will oppose in Committee paragraphs (ja), (k) and (I) of clause  3  which refer to student representation until such time as there is clarification of the present situation arising from the publication of one of the most objection able, filthy papers ever to disgrace an Australian university. I support the amendment moved by  Senator McManus  on behalf of the Australian Democratic Labor Party. I believe that it expresses what this Senate should express with regard to this matter. Holding that view which ! believe is completely in line with my intended attitude at the Committee stage, ! say no more now. 
As I indicated earlier, during the second reading debate, I am opposed to the appointment of any students to the Council in the existing situation. When the Bill was drafted it was drafted in the belief that the student body of the Australian National University consisted of responsible students. 1 believe that they have demonstrated that there is a grave doubt whether they are worthy to be accepted on a body controlling a university. They have demonstrated that they cannot control their own affairs in a responsible manner. 
I think that the question of censorship that has been raised is a legitimate matter for students to be interested in. They can demonstrate their opposition to censorship in various ways, but the matter they have chosen is an affront to public decency. I think they have done their cause a great disservice because they have clearly demonstrated the need for censorship by choosing Orientation Week, when a number of young students of 17 or 18 years of age come to the university for the first time, to circulate a paper which defies all the accepted standards of human conduct and which represents human beings in a way in which the lowest animals would not behave. 
I believe that they have done a gross disservice to their university. They have brought into disrepute the standard of their academic achievements. Until the students or the university authorities have given evidence that they are responsible by dealing with the latest issue of 'Woroni', until they have demonstrated that as a student body they disapprove of it, I believe we should suspend any further consideration of this Bill. My first thought was to move for the deletion of these clauses from the Bill but I do not now believe that that would meet the case, because I feel that the students must be represented on the Council. It is urgently necessary that they have that means of expressing their desires to the university authorities. I believe that the Senate should suspend further consideration of the Bill until it receives an assurance that the students of the Australian National University are responsible. I therefore will not move an amendment. Instead, I appeal to my leader in this debate to report progress and to seek leave to sit at another time. 
 My question is addressed to the Minister representing the Treasurer. Is it a fact that certain research studies in the Bureau of Census and Statistics on the basis of collecting wholesale meat prices have been postponed because of the current economic policies? In view of public interest in this matter, and because of the importance of meat as an alternative to the present depressed wool prices, will the Government restore such studies and give high priority to them, especially as there is considerable dissatisfaction with the present basis of price assessment? 
I am not aware of the circumstances that the honourable senator speaks about. Perhaps it would be best for the honourable senator to put the question on the notice paper so I can obtain for him a considered reply. 
Has the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry seen a Press statement attributed to  Mr H.  D. Evans, the Western Australian Minister for Agriculture that funds for the implementation of a rural reconstruction scheme would not be put in the hands of the Western Australian Government until Commonwealth legislation had been enacted to validate the proposals? When will such legislation be brought forward? In consideration of the Minister's reply to  Senator Byrne's  question No. 211 on 3rd August 1970, has the Western Australian Government access to any other Commonwealth fund which could be used to commence a programme of reconstruction? 
My question to the Minister representing the Minister for Health refers to a question asked earlier about DDT. Is there any medical evidence to prove any harmful effects to infants because of the presence of DDT in mothers' milk? If there is no such evidence, why is there such concern? 
 I rise to support the amended Income Tas Assessment Bill. I want to draw attention to something which the Minister for Supply  (Senator Sir Kenneth 
Anderson) who in this chamber represents the Treasurer  (Mr Bury)  said in his second reading speech. The reasons given for reversing a decision which was made in 1962 are that the economic conditions of 1962 are not the economic conditions of 1971. It is pleasing that a government has enough flexibility to adopt policies suitable for the occasion. 1 supported the Bill when it was introduced in 1962 believing it was a measure which would promote industrial activity in this country. But having looked at the effects of this legislation and examined the principle of this taxation concession in the generality and in its effect on the economy I am highly doubtful whether we should have contemplated the legislation in the first place. This sort of taxation concession is regressive in its effect, ft gives the greatest benefit to the people least in need. It gives great concessions to people and companies with large incomes. To that extent it is not needed. 
If the investment of a certain amount of money in some machinery or equipment is desirable, in a purely economic sense that investment will pay for the money invested. A greater profit will be returned to the person investing the money. Therefore no encouragement such as this is needed for that investment to take place. On the other hand if the investment is not an economic investment a taxation concession does nol make it economic. It simply transfers the cost of an uneconomic transaction from the individual or company concerned to the taxpayer. In no sense does it make an uneconomic activity an economic one. I have grave doubts whether in any circumstances this sort of taxation concession should be contemplated by a government seeking to allocate the resources of the country to the best advantage. Here we see a great opportunity for a misallocation of resources. 
I think the taxation system is the wrong process to use in these circumstances. If the achievement of this objective is desirable for some other economic reason then a more direct and more selective approach should be used. This is a wasteful process, lt is a sort of shot gun approach which misses the target every time. I draw to the attention of the Senate the financial statistical record of Imperial 
Chemical Industries of Australia and New Zealand Limited for the 10 years ending 30th September 1970. My figures show the ICIANZ consolidated cash flow and dividends. I have no doubt that many honourable senators have seen the document. It sets out tax savings on investment allowances. It gives the amount of tax saving in regard to investment allowance over the 9 years during which this legislation has been in effect. In the first year in which the legislation was passed there was a tax saving of some $55,000; for the next year the saving was $440,000; the next year, $1,520,000; the next year, $1,191,000; the next year, $2,860,000; the next year, $2,209,000; the next year, $553,000; for 1969 it was $691,000 and in 1970 the saving was $970,000. We see that there has been a total tax saving to ICI of some $10,490,000. This figure represents 6 per cent of the company's total profit before tax or 15.5 per cent of its profit after tax. I think this highlights the point I have made. 
During that period the Government has failed to collect the sum of nearly $10,500,000 from a company which by no stretch of the imagination could be said to need this sort of assistance. Could it be said that a. company which last year made a profit before tax of $32,826,000 and a profit after tax of $15,196,000 requires assistance by a tax saving of nearly $lm? I use this illustration to point out that the tax concession as an instrument of economic policy needs to be looked at very carefully. I regret that section 62ab of the Income Tax Assessment Act which extended the concession to rural industries has not been included in this amending legislation. In regard to this I find myself in agreement with my friend,  Senator Wilkinson.  I fail to see that the argument that there are changed economic circumstances in regard to the investment allowance in industry does not apply to primary industries. There are certainly changed circumstances. If it were necessary to encourage production in 1963 is it necessary to retain the measures today when we see wheat quotas, restrictions on the production of butter and other restrictions of one sort and another, when we talk about farm amalgamation in order to preserve primary industry and when we have a problem of income, not of taxation? How stupid it is to maintain a policy which, today has no application to people in the farming industries except those with non-rural incomes. I refer to people who invest in the industry for capital gain. This process is distorting the whole economy of farming industries. 
I do not particularly like that expression. I have in mind the type of person who uses this legislation, which was intended originally to help farmers to develop their properties, in a manner which may not have been foreseen. I think to a great extent it has misfired. It brought about some very undesirable consequences in rural industries, notably a rise in capital values that was never justified. It aggravated the probate problems of farmers. I am fortified in my opinion because for once the economists and I are in agreement. 
I must be right sometimes.  Mrs Hylda  Rolfe is employed by the rural organisations. ' She said that special taxation concessions . would have to go and that the economic difficulties of many farmers were due to taking on in better days debts they could not now service with reduced prices for products. She added that in this respect they had been encouraged by taxation concessions and preferred finance which had been available. Professor Lloyd wrote a very forthright article which appeared in the Melbourne Age' of Friday, 1st January last. He wrote: 
The concessions also encourage economic waste and inefficiency. 
I maintain that that point has relevance to industries other than rural industries. He went on: 
There is an 'Alice in Wonderland' quality about a policy which, through subsidised investment, diverts resources into producing extra farm output which, facing already glutted markets, often must be subsidised a second time. 
Ordinary depreciation is a business matter. I objected strongly some years ago to the amendment to the taxation legislation which compelled a farmer to depreciate his machinery over 5 years, instead of having the option of writing it down over a 10-year period. That amendment could have. had no other effect than to benefit the farm machinery manufacturers. Professor Lloyd wrote that to subsidise rural expansion was quite lunatic. I am not saying anything now that I have not said before in the Senate. I am sure thai no honourable senator remembers what I said 1b the debate on the Wheat Industry Stabilisation Bill in 1968. That would be altogether too much to expect. On that occasion I quoted from a book titled Taxation in Australia; Agenda for Reform'. Messrs Downing, Arndt, Boxer and Matthews, the authors of the book, opposed the introduction of special concessions, particularly those related to income derived from non-farm sources. I will not quote again from that publication. The relevant extract appears in Hansard and I will not again inflict it upon the Senate. In that speech I also quoted from an article entitled 'The Effect of Australian Income Tax on Initiative' by  Dr J.  K. Connor. I have failed to discover one economist who supports this kind of taxation incentive. 
I think that using taxation for this purpose is a mistake economically because it is regressive in nature. It assists most those people who do not need assistance, lt does not assist at all the people most i need of assistance. Therefore socially and economically it is an undesirable use of the taxation system. I am now in support of the measure before us. I regret that it is not wider in its effect. I trust that the Senate will give a speedy passage to the Bil), such as it is. 
I wish to raise some points in relation to the 3 Bills before us. We have heard from the Opposition a completely invalid comparison of the penalties imposed under this legislation and those imposed under certain industrial legislation. If we have not listened to utter rubbish before, we have done so on this occasion. It is complete and utter rubbish to compare the significance of the two different types of legislation. In this instance growers have requested the Government to impose a levy for the purpose set out in the measure. 1 remind honourable senators that in these Bills 'research' refers to scientific, technical or economic research in connection with the production, processing or packaging of dried fruits. 
I sincerely hope that the research is not concentrated too much on production. Certainly considerable benefits can he gained by producers through processing and packaging improvements, but if the marketing of dried fruits remains as it is. as is common with most primary products the benefits of this legislation will not go to the producers but to the public at large. In the first place the benefits will go certainly to those carrying out the research, and to the general public through better quality fruits. If research into production results in increased production without maintaining the price of the final article to the growers, the growers will receive no benefits from research. The benefits will go to the community at large. We have heard ridiculous comparisons made between penalties imposed under this legislation and penalties imposed for industrial blackmail. Having made that point, I emphasise that in respect of scientific research I would like to see the purposes of the levy enlarged. I 

 Dried Fruits Research Bill have  in  mind particularly investigation into the marketing of the primary products. 
A study of returns to growers of basic foodstuffs and the prices paid by consumers of the same products shows a tremendous disparity between the price paid for the food material and the price paid by consumers for the article in the form in which it reaches them. If we want to assist producers and consumers to get a better deal I think the lines of research should be directed more towards an examination of the inefficiencies that occur in the marketing and retailing of products. As the measure stands, this research will undoubtedly result, as has happened with most other research directed towards production rather than marketing, in increasing the volume of production without adding to the profitability of the growers. The hopes of the growers are that increased production will result in increased returns, but, if the history of other primary products is repeated, benefits may be returned to the community but it is doubtful that benefits will be passed on to the producers. 
 The question that arises in my mind as a result of what  Senator Willesee  said is this: How would the Crown prove that certain levies had not been paid if all it could produce were books showing the absence of such a record? To my mind, to place the full onus of proof on the Crown in this matter would perhaps be more undesirable, for the purpose of the administration of the Act, than to require the grower concerned to produce evidence that he had paid. It would be much simpler for the grower to produce the evidence than for the Crown to prove, in a negative sense, that there was no record of payment in the books. From the point of view of the Crown, this could not be a very satisfactory means of proving the case. On balance, I think it would be impractical in this sort of situation to have other than the process set out in the Bill. 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Trade and Industry or to the Acting Minister for Primary Industry. In view of the abysmally low prices now being paid for mutton in Australian stock markets, has the Australian Meat Board or have the Commissioners of the Department of Trade and Industry reported any recent success in promoting sales of mutton in India or Pakistan? Considering that Australian mutton is the cheapest available source of protein, will the aforementioned agencies increase their efforts to dispose of Australian surplus mutton in these nearby markets? 
I asked earlier a question regarding the sale of mutton to India and Pakistan. The question related to the functions of the Australian Meat Board and the Australian Trade Commissioner Service. Obviously it came within the responsibility of 2 Ministers. Will the Acting Minister for Primary Industry agree to answer that question in relation to the activities of the Meat Board? 
I direct my question to the Acting Minister for Primary Industry, ls it a fact that one of the strongest criticisms of the Australian wheat industry during the past 10 years has been on the ground of its dependence upon the Chinese market for sales? Is it a tribute to the magnificent work of the Australian Wheat Board that the current year's sales are of record dimensions without sales to China and reflect a great widening of the market? 
 This item is clearly related to item No. 7, the debate on which was postponed. I was not aware that this matter was to be called on for debate. As there is a great deal more to be said about the subject, 1 ask for leave to continue my remarks at a later stage. 
Leave granted; debate adjourned. 
Has the attention of the Minister representing the Minister for Trade and Industry been drawn to a paragraph in a leading article in an Australian newspaper of today's date to the effect that there are justifiable fears in the minds of the Japanese Government and of exporters that any foothold they have established in a particular segment of the Australian market can be capriciously closed by Australian vested interests - often United States or United Kingdom owned companies - and the closure justified on the spurious ground of balanced development? Is this statement true? Can it be justified in any way? If it is not true, will the Minister for Trade and Industry take appropriate action to correct that statement? . 
My question, addressed to the Minister for Health, concerns the matter of advertising high powered motor cars and its relationship to casualties in the younger age group. Will the Minister also study the economic factors which enable people in that age group to purchase and acquire such motor cars? 
asked the Minister representing the Treasurer, upon notice: 
Have certain research studies in the Bureau of Census and Statistics on the basis of collecting wholesale meat prices been postponed because of the Government's current economic policies. 
Will the Government, in view of public interest in this matter, restore such studies and give high priority to them, especially as there is considerable dissatisfaction with the present basis of price assessment. 

 Senator Sir KENNETH ANDERSONThe Treasurer has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
No. 
It is understood that the honourable senator is referring to a collection which has been undertaken by the Western Australian office of the Bureau for a number of years. The Acting Commonwealth Statistician has advised that this collection is being continued and that it is planned to conduct a review of it in the near future. 
I am delighted that this Bill is not raising controversy, and I do not intend to add any controversial note to the debate. But I would like to say that it is of tremendous relief to the wheat growers of Australia to know that the  1971  International. Wheat Agreement has been successfully negotiated. Lots of doubts have been cast upon it, but it is very much on the lines of past agreements with the one exception that the Minister for Civil Aviation  (Senator Cotton)  has pointed out. No definite agreement has been reached on price. It will be remembered that a rather complicated pricing arrangement was entered into under the last Agreement and that it broke down because it was impracticable. 
The Minister pointed out in his second reading speech the very good reason why it was not practicable to introduce a definite pricing arrangement into the Agreement this Bill seeks to ratify. The reason is that the. Canadian grading system, including traditional Canadian grades such as No.  1  Manitoba, will disappear and presumably it will be some time before the relative values of the new Canadian wheats will be established on world markets. Therefore it was not possible to retain .the old basis relating wheat prices to the price for No. I 
Manitoba. The Agreement is to my mind a very satisfactory agreement and reflects great credit upon all those countries which gathered together in a civilised way to - determine the progress of this great and important internationally traded commodity. We note that this new Agreement includes- major exporters and importers such as the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics and Brazil. It is a better Agreement because these countries have entered into it. I am happy that it has been concluded on these lines, and I am delighted that there will be no controversy on the subject of this Bill. 
 I was going to say that I welcome the Bill which we are considering but I do not think that we should welcome a Bill of this nature because, having regard to the disastrous circumstances in which primary industry finds itself, there is nothing very much to be cheerful about in what is essentially a salvage operation. While I am not happy about the occasion, I am pleased that the Government has been able to produce a Bill of this sort, having regard to the fact that the Bill is largely the result of consultation, debate and agreement with the States as to their needs and their requirements with regard to this legislation which they will be called upon to administer and in which they have great interest, concern and responsibility. The Government has produced the Bill in the face of great difficulties which it has confronted and the Bill goes a long way towards meeting the situation. No such Bill could be perfect in everybody's view. Certainly, this proposal is not perfect nor does it entirely meet the position but, within the limitations that are imposed on the Government because of the uncertainty and unpredictability of the present situation, I think it is an achievement. 
However, there are some aspects about which I am worried, because I am one of those members who went through the depression, one of those who knows something about the operation of the Loan (Farmers' Dept Adjustment) Act and one of those who knows the disastrous situation in which that legislation was accepted by the farming community of that time. But the difference between that legislation and the present proposal is great indeed. The whole of the economy and all of the people were then suffering from depression but today the situation in rural areas is aggravated by the fact that the cities are enjoying a great measure of prosperity. We are experiencing a so-called booming economy in some sectors and the present difficulties arise primarily from inequalities within the farming community. 
The Minister for Air  (Senator Drake-Brockman)  provided some figures which indicate a disastrous effect on the farming industry as a whole. A drop in net farm income from $760m to $290m between the years 1966-67 and 1970-71 is a decline of about 62 per cent in the net farm income. A fall of this sort cannot occur without having disastrous effects upon the people in the industry, especially when one recalls that, even on the 1966-67 figure, a great number of farmers had a farm income of not more than $2,000 a year, which is not much more than pensioners receive. This is their return from the farm but, of course, there is no return from the capital involved in the enterprise. So, we have gone from a situation that was barely tolerable then to one . that is completely disastrous now. When one examines the export price index figures, one wonders just how this situation has been brought about. In the last year, there has been a rise in the export prices of meat, sugar and dairy products. However, the position is readily understood by those who are in the sheep and wheat industries. Our farming structure is composed principally of the wheat and sheep industries in various mixes. Fortunately, the wheat industry, because of our international agreements, has been able to retain a price structure, but at a cost in volume. We have had to accept cuts in production and, income has been seriously depleted but it has not been evenly depleted because it has not been possible in practice to achieve a complete equality of sacrifice in the field of quotas. So there is a varying situation within the wheat industry itself, some farmers being relatively well off and others badly situated. Then, there is the component of the sheep industry having a varying effect on farm incomes. The value of wool exports is down to about $600m, and wool still accounts for IS per cent of our national export income- We cannot face up to the loss of an industry that in the past has at times returned more than half of our total income from export earnings. The position is serious not only to those directly employed in the industry but to the national economy. We must consider all the ramifications and the resultant effect on those who depend on the farming structure for a living. I refer not only to the farmers but to people living in the small towns, the businessmen, the machinery agents - all those who make up the structure of our social existence as a community. Therefore it is right that the Commonwealth is con.cerned and should be prepared at this time to venture the taxpayers' money in their own interest and not solely in the interest of the farming community. 
I suggest that the record of the wool industry deserves the utmost consideration from the Government today because over the years it is the one industry that has stood on its feet. We have heard ad nauseam about Australia riding on the sheep's back. Today we have shorn the sheep and have broken its back. The wool industry is in no position to exist without help. The present situation in the industry is not due to any fault of the industry. It has been caught up with the movement in technology and all the scientific advances. The question facing us today is whether the wool industry will survive. I think it has a legitimate claim upon the Government. The Government should ensure that the industry has at least time to readjust, where possible; time for it to get back to some basis whereby those engaged in it can live decently as members of this community. 
The Schedule to the Bill is the most interesting part of this measure and as I glance through it I would like to refer to some of the significant paragraphs in it. Paragraph 6 of Part II is very important. It states:   . . the financial assistance provided by the Commonwealth under this agreement shall be allocated between the forms of assistance under the Scheme as the State considers appropriate . . . 
I am pleased that this is expressed in such a way. However there is a qualification because the paragraph continues in this way:  but with the general objective that one half of the financial assistance made available over the period of 4 years as hereinafter provided will be applied to farm build-up. 
I am very sorry to see included this qualification providing for one-half of the financial assistance to be directed to this general objective. It seems to me that a great deal of flexibility will be necessary on the part of the Commonwealth as to the manner in which States interpret this general objective. Each State faces a different situation so far as the need for farm build-up is concerned. Personally I am not excited at all about the prospect of farm build-up. I think it is the least pressing part of the present situation. I think there are economies to be gained by having bigger farm units although there are big disadvantages, one of which is the need for more capital when in the present situation men on the land are having difficulty in financing their capital structure. The next point to be considered in this respect is the increasing liability for probate tax. Provision for this cannot be borne under the present situation. The third point is that the economies of scale that have been demonstrated in any research work done to date are so marginal, so small, that they will be caught up very quickly with the general inflationary situation. We may build up larger units and then find within 2 or 3 or 4 years that the fine margin of gain is lost. 
Added to these things is the fact that when we get a larger unit we have a far greater requirement for managerial skills. Perhaps this is one of the commodities in short supply in the farming industry today. Managerial skill can be taught and can be acquired, but in he main it is inherent in the person in the industry that comes from being in the industry for a long time and thereby gaining experience. Managerial skill is not readily acquired. Therefore, on balance, I am not concerned at all about the provision for farm build-up. I think that it would have been better not to have included this direction or general objective that the States should give consideration to allocating half of the financial assistance for farm build-up. 
The Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Sinclair)  said that this Bill represents the first instalment, as it were; that if the amount is not sufficient to meet the requirements and the general objective of the scheme, additional moneys will be provided. I welcome that statement. The present situation is that the States have been directed to use such moneys as they have available under the old Loan (Farmers' Debt Adjustment) Act and then to use the money being made available under this scheme. This money is to be spread over 4 years. The amount to be made available in 1 year to my own State of Western Australia is $3,657,500. If we are going to hypothecate half of it for farm build-up it means that only  $1,828,750  will be available for the general purpose of rehabilitation which is the urgent necessity today. Definite review provisions are set out in the Bill. For instance, paragraph 10 of Part II states: 
The provisions of the Schedule to this agreement may be amended from time to time by agreements between the Ministers of the Commonwealth and of the States for the time being responsible for the administration of the Scheme. 
I welcome the inclusion of that provision. I hope the States will not delay in coming forward if they find that the terms they seek to impose are too harsh, that there are not enough people eligible or that there is something wrong with this idea of putting half the money into the farm build-up scheme. In my judgment there will be little or no demand for farm build-up. I trust that the States will press for a review and an amendment of the Agreement under paragraph 10 of Part II. I notice that there is additional flexibility in this scheme because paragraph 1 0 (2.) states that:   the amendments to the provisions of this Schedule to this agreement may be made and take effect as between the Commonwealth and one or more of the States without affecting the operation of this agreement as between the Commonwealth and a State the Minister of which has not so agreed. 
It is wonderful to see this included in the Schedule. It imparts flexibility. This is good because conditions are not the same from State to State. Our industries are not the same in each State. For instance, sometimes the men engaged in them cannot turn to other enterprises. In some areas a man can divert readily but in others this is not so easy. Therefore consideration must be given to differing circumstances in each State. Provision is made to cover a State which provides assistance in good faith but finds that this entails losses that could not have been foreseen. For instance, paragraph 20 (2.) of Part III states: 
Should a State certify that, without taking into account its administrative costs, it has incurred losses under the Scheme from circumstances beyond its control arising after the date of this agreement and disadvantageous compared with past experience and normal expectations as to factors that affect farmers' incomes . . ., the Commonwealth agrees to review the position with the State with a view to adjusting amounts payable to the Commonwealth by the State under this agreement to the extent of such losses. 
I congratulate the Commonwealth for including that provision in the legislation because no authority is in any position today to lay down terms and conditions which foresee movements in prices. I draw the attention of honourable senators to one statement in the speech of the Minister for Air with which I disagree. The Minister said: 
At the present time the price of wool is averaging about 30c per lb greasy. This is the lowest level wool prices have reached for 23 years. 
If the price of wool were 30c per lb at the present time the industry would be in a lot better position than it is in. I have in front of me details of the average price of wool sold at auction. These details were made available by the Joint Wool Selling Organisation. In referring to the price of wool at the present time the Minister was in fact referring to the average over 9 months. The price at the present time is not 30c per lb. The Australian average for the months of March and April at the sales was in fact 26.8c per lb. The average price in my own State of Western Australia for those 2 months was 24.54c per lb. A farmer who had some 5,000 sheep producing a cut of about 10 lb each - which is not uncommon and makes it easy for me to calculate - would have a total of 50,000 lb of wool. A difference of 5c per lb represents a total of $2,500. The Minister is a long way from the mark in fixing the present price at 30c per lb. I believe that the provision of flexibility in the States is very necessary because the price that a farmer in Western Australia gets for his wool determines his viability - to use a horrible word - in relation to any plan or any scheme that may be suggested. If a State authority were to work on the basis of the price of wool at the present time averaging about 30c per lb the reconstruction would be doomed from the start. I think that it is necessary to look at this matter in relation to the price of wool that is actually being realised at the time. The Minister said that the present price for wool is the lowest in 23 years. That is so if one looks at the price without taking into account the purchasing power of money, but if one takes into account the purchasing power of money at present the price being received for wool is the lowest ever. There has never been in our history a lower price for wool. We are looking at this situation in terms of the depression years; in terms of the Loan (Farmers' Debt Adjustment) Act. 
I read with horror some of the conditions under which the Queensland Rural Reconstruction Board intends to operate. The terms of supervision of farmers are such that to me it is going back to the thinking of the 1930s. This is the sort of thing that happened in the 1930s. I remember reading at that time a headline in a Western Australian paper: 'Farmer has unauthorised baby'. Apparently the maternity expenses of a farmer's wife had to be submitted to the authority for payment and there was a delay in going through the machinery. It went on for a year or so. By that time there was another baby. When the account came in for this other baby the farmer got a memo back stating that the baby had not been authorised. That illustrates fairly well the extent to which the farming community can be bound by any State which attempts to administer this scheme under the old basis of the Loan (Farmers' Debt Adjustment) Act. I was very pleased to learn that this is not the intention in Western Australia, but that there is going to be an attempt to operate the scheme in a way in which the farmer who perforce of circumstances has to come under the protection of the scheme will retain a little bit of human dignity in the administration of his own affairs. Paragraph (e) of Part 1 - General Principls - of the Schedule to the States Grants (Rural Reconstruction) Bill provides:   . . it is an essential part of the scheme that adequate supervision of property management and the financial affairs of the assisted farmer is maintained. If the Authority deems it necessary it may require that moneys receivable on account of the property will be received by the Authority or its agent or a body nominated by the Authority, payments within the approved budgets being made through normal channels. 
I hope that that provision is administered with intelligence, feeling and respect for the dignity of the human beings involved. We cannot in this day and age impose the same conditions as were imposed in the 1930s. I like the general principles which are set out in Part II - Debt Reconstruction - of the Schedule. I know that they are flexible and that they can be interpreted in various ways to assist the farmer who, although having sound prospects of long term commercial viability, has used all his cash and credit resources and cannot meet his financial commitments. I know that there are going to be difficulties in determining which individuals will be accepted under this scheme. I am very worried about the fact that the early applications from Victoria, for instance, indicate that only approximately 10 per cent of those who have applied have been found to be eligible. 
 I am worried about this aspect. I think that the State administration is to a great extent afraid in the early stages to look at the thing liberally enough, to interpret these provisions in the Schedule with the liberality and flexibility that the Commonwealth has intended. I think that the Commonwealth will need in the early stages to reassure the States, if reassurance is needed, that it is going to be disastrous if there is not some flexibility and expansion with regard to the acceptability of people under these circumstances. I am afraid that the requirement about the applicant who is unable to obtain from any other normal source finance to carry on and is thus in danger of losing property or other assets if not assisted under the scheme will narrow the field tremendously. If assistance cannot be extended from another source there will be grave doubt about the commercial viability of the enterprise. There will be a very sharp dividing line between those who can be carried on by normal finance and those who cannot. I think we need to broaden this provision and I hope that as we get experience in administering the scheme it will be broadened. 
Paragraph (4) (d) of Part III of the Schedule states that it is required that there must be reasonable prospects of successful operation with the assistance possible. Of course, here we have two propositions. This depends on what assistance is possible under the scheme. I think that at a very early stage we will see that it is necessary to increase the amount of money available to the States for this purpose. 
Otherwise the benefits will be minimised considerably. I like the provisions set out under the heading 'Nature of assistance'. For example, assistance may mean the rearrangement and/or a composition of debts to allow more time for payment. If this can be arranged without the Commonwealth providing money, and if creditors are willing to provide the money, to that extent the effectiveness of the legislation will be expanded. I admit that this will require the co-operation and perhaps the generosity of those who have lent money to the industry. 
I think this means what it says - a rearrangement and/or a composition of debts to allow more time for payment. I believe that if many institutions who have lent money believe that by extending the period of repayment they will ultimately be paid they will be willing to do this, particularly if the Commonweath, as it can do, picks up some part of the load. There is provision for negotiation for a concessional rate of interest for the existing rates. For instance, a man who knows jolly well he is not going to get 7 per cent might have the prospect of 5 per cent, and he will accept 5 per cent. Another form of assistance is advances of additional funds for carry-on expenses, live stock and further property development at reasonable interest rates. I hope this is made available where it is necessary. Paragraph (3)(d) of Part II of the Schedule provides that, when the State legislation so provides, a protection order against any creditor who has threatened action for debt may apply. There is always the greedy creditor who wants to get in for his pound of flesh in advance of the rest, and this paragraph provides protection against that individual. So there is much that is very good under this scheme. I am very interested in the method of operation explained in paragraph (4) (b) of Part II of the Schedule. It states: 
The possibility of creditors including the Crown, local authorities and public utilities being asked to defer or write off part of their debts - possibly at  a  uniform rate but with due regard to  priority of security - should be considered. Creditors should not be pressed to the extent that the availability of credit to rural industries is damaged. 1 am pleased that this paragraph includes the possibility of creditors including the Crown. This takes me to a subject we have discussed before in this House. I want to refer directly to a matter that was aired in the 'Farmers Weekly' of 29th April under the heading 'Probate is a Crippling Burden for the Troubled Farmer'. It concerns a Gnowangerup farmer whose probate bill was $94,000. Part of the estate that was left to him was shares. Apparently the State Government did not agree to his selling these shares. During the time that the estate was being wound up the shares fell in value from about $3 each to about $1 and there was a loss of $20,000 to $30,000 in the value of the shares. But the tax was levied at the time of death. This is something that, quite apart from this Bill needs the urgent attention of this Government because the same thing that happened to the share values happened to the value of the property. It was valued at some $43 an acre but now it is doubtful whether it could be sold at $20 or $25 an acre, and then on terms. So it is doubtful whether the amount the property would realise today would pay the probate bill. 
In the meantime, the probate bill is unpaid. The farmer is being charged interest by the Commonwealth at 10 per cent and by the State at 6i per cent. The Commonwealth has come to the party, so it is said, to the extent that when the probate is paid the Commonwealth Government will consider waiving the interest charge. But the State will not make such a statement. So the farmer in question is faced with a situation which is the direct result of our stupid probate laws, which are harsh and unconscionable in their effect. I believe that the Commissioner of Taxation is very reluctant to accept the realities of the present day values. How can one value a property today when it is impossible to meet working expenses without provision for any capital value? What is the value except a speculative value for some city farmer who will use it under our tax concessions as a means of offsetting income tax. 
I feel deeply that we need urgently to look at this whole question of probate in relation to the farming structure and also its effect on the general community. I think if necessary we must look to other sources of revenue derived in a way more consistent with our philosophy of pay as you earn. We have introduced pay as you earn income tax. We have derived other revenues from current expenses but with regard to probate we have what is virtually a deferred capital gains tax lodged under appalling circumstances at the time of a man's death, which can, as it was in the case to which I referred, be an intolerable burden upon those involved. With an ageing farm population we will have many cases of these sorts of things happening, where we have people with a large obligation with regard to probate. The only glimmer of hope I get is from this paragraph which provides for the possibility of creditors, including the Crown, being asked to defer or write off part of the debts. I hope that that provision will operate and that the Government will announce its intention with regard to it at a very early date. 
There are many other sound paragraphs in the Schedule. I invite attention to paragraph (5) of Part II of the Schedule, which provides that the Authority shall have the discretion to determine the terms and conditions of any loan it may make up to a maximum repayment term of 20 years, in a number of cases an initial period of freedom from repayments of principal would be justified, depending on the circumstances of the case and the interest rate to be charged. In that connection I notice that provision was made in the Queensland rural reconstruction scheme for an interest holiday of 3 years but with a capitalisation of the interest. That is, the total debt would be increased by the interest which it was agreed was impossible to pay. I think this is the height of stupidity and short-sightedness because if a man needs an interest holiday to get him a start it is unfair and impracticable that he should be in effect loaded with an increased rate for the next period to make up for the capitalisation of his interest. I hope that this will not be imposed under this scheme. I commend the Government for reaching agreeement with the States. It has not been an easy task. The States have varying attitudes towards the agreement but it was essential that an agreement should be arrived at. Provision has been made in the Schedule to the Bill for amendments to be made to meet conditions in one State which may be different from those in other States. I think this is a good provision. I commend the Government for bringing in this legislation. I hope that it will have regard to some of the criticisms that have been put forward. I also hope that the Senate will accept this agreement and interpret the clauses liberally and that there will be no reluctance on the part of the Government to amend as soon as possible and whenever it is found necessary to do so in order to make the scheme work as it should work. 
 While I have a great measure of sympathy for the thought behind the amendment I cannot support it in the form in which it has been presented because it contains some words about which there could be debate and doubt. Whether it would enable rapid and effective action is surely debatable. I find myself in greatest disagreement with the suggestion that a national rural finance corporation should be set up outside the banking system. I think it is necessary that any such action should be within the banking system. It should be an integral part of the present structure if the skills, abilities, knowledge and practice of banking is to be utilised in a way whereby there could be rapid and effective work done in alleviating the present situation. I believe that the Minister for Air  (Senator DrakeBrockman)  will speak on this matter later and I do not want to traverse the whole argument that has been put regarding the necessity for such legislation. At this stage I indicate that I will, if the opportunity presents itself, move an amendment to the Bill as follows: but the Senate is of the opinion that the Government in its Budget considerations should give earnest attention to retiring from the field of estate duties. 
I have spoken on other occasions on this topic and I do not want to delay the Senate by traversing the grounds of the case against estate duties. It will suffice at this stage to indicate that, if given the opportunity, I will move the amendment that I have foreshadowed. 
I move: 
At end of motion add - 'But the Senate is of the opinion that the Government in its Budget considerations should give earnest attention to retiring from the field of estate duties.' 
The  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Bull)  - Is the amendment seconded? 
 Any honourable senator who is opposed to the amendment moved in this form is in fact saying that he or she does not want the Government even to consider estate duties in its general consideration of the Budget. I think there has been ample evidence from all sides of the Senate that a desire exists that this matter of estate duty should be considered. No honourable senator has been prepared to rise in his State and argue that no consideration could be given to that matter. I am loath to delay the Senate at this stage. The fact is that I have spoken at some length on other occasions on the general question of the effect of estate or death duty on the people of Australia and that duty's doubtful validity as an effective way of raising tax. A thorough study of all the relevant side issues and the losses that occur to revenue through the incidence of a probate tax has never been made. A study has never been made of the loss of incentive in people who want to make provision for their families knowing that as they do so they will have to increase their protection by way of insurance. 
I believe that these things have markedly effected our ability to secure the necessary capital generated from within the country, not borrowed from outside, to develop this country. I think that had that examination been made we would have seen that probate taxation is one of the most undesirable forms of taxation. We have adopted in our taxation structure the principle of 'pay as you earn' or 'pay as you go'. We meet our tax obligations while we have the money. But here we clearly depart from that principle. We impose what is in effect a capital gains tax on the value of an estate accumulated at the point of death, paying no regard at all to the sort of estate or its position in relation to the general economy. 
Certainly this position has been highlighted by the case that I have already related to honourable senators where a farmer in Western Australia had his property valued at the time of his death.  His  beneficiaries are now being asked to meet $94,000 in probate duties, although the asset has considerably decreased in value since the valuation was made. This is an impossible situation. Whatever the result of the Budget deliberations, very earnest consideration must be given by the Government to the whole impact of estate duties, not only in relation to primary industry. We are using primary industry to highlight this position because it has become almost a primary industry tax. Thirty-eight per cent of the total probate collected comes from the estates of those engaged in primary industry, whereas in relation to the gross national product the percentage is less than 5 per cent today. The number of taxpayers in the field of primary industry is about 7 per cent and they are being asked to shoulder nearly half the burden of probate. 
The amount assessed is partly State and partly Federal. I do not want to confuse the issue as some people have by saying- 
It is $33,000 to the Commonwealth. But surely the position will be more manageable if that part is removed. Surely we cannot hope for the States ever to do anything about probate duty if the Federal Government does not set the example. Other details have been raised in debate. The point raised about Canberra is a valid one. But this amendment does not go into detail. It simply asks that the Government, in preparing its Budget, give earnest attention to retiring from the field of probate duty. I cannot imagine any honourable senator who has spoken in this debate having sufficient grounds on which to oppose this amendment in the terms in which it has been put forward. I trust that the Senate will carry the amendment to the Bill. 
 I wish to comment on the Superannuation Bill in as brief a way as possible. The Bill stems from a study made of the question of portability and pensions by  Sir Leslie  Melville in 1967. It was introduced into the House of Representatives last year and quite recently very substantial amendments were made to it. I find that proposed new section 119a under Part XA is a very lengthy insertion into the Bill. It contains long and difficult clauses. I think they are difficult for a layman to read and to interpret. Because of the complexity of the Bill, I believe that considerable anomalies and difficulties will arise in its interpretation. 
This matter has been brought to my attention by a friend who gave me some instances which illustrate that there are grave doubts about the meaning of certain clauses of the Bill, whether in fact the Bill as written will achieve the purpose of giving this right of portability of pensions to public servants and others, and whether they will in all instances enjoy the freedom of movement which it is suggested is the purpose behind the Government's move in introducing the Bill. One case is that of an officer who had completed  16  years in the Commonwealth service and who was for  4  years on the senior academic staff of an Australian university. As an employee of the university he was a member of a superannuation scheme established by the university. The officer wishes to move to a more senior academic post in a university, but because of grave doubts whether the scope and application of the proposed legislation will preserve his accumulated superannuation rights the officer is remaining in the Commonwealth service. Thus the community, the university and the person concerned have to forego the great advantage which the Government intended should be achieved by this legislation. If, at this stage, this is the observation of an officer who is concerned and who has read the Bill as carefully as he can and has this doubt in his mind, surely the Government should be prepared to examine the machinery of the legislation as it goes into operation. 
I believe that in the other place there was a suggestion that in about  2  years' time, the Government might be prepared to consider amendments. I trust that the Minister for Works  (Senator Wright)  can assure us that the Government will not wait that long if amendments are found necessary and that it will proceed as found desirable to rectify shortcomings or anomalies if they are shown to exist in the legislation. I have further notes, which I will leave with the Minister because I do not want to delay the Senate at this time, but I trust that he can give an assurance that the Government will continue to try to make this Bill achieve the purpose that it sets out to achieve. 

Order! The Minister's time has expired. 
Is the Minister for Civil Aviation aware of the inconvenience occasioned to users of the Perth airport due to the poor quality of the public address system, particularly when there is a fairly high noise level within the terminal? Will the Minister take steps either to rectify this matter or to supply arrival and departure boards so that the public will know when aircraft are departing or arriving? 
Is it the wish of the Committee to consider the report item by item? There being no objection it is so ordered. 
A Standing Orders Committee, to consist of the  President  and  Chairman  of Committees and 7 senators . . . 
At the present time the 7 senators comprise 4 Government and 3 Opposition senators. Having in mind the present composition of the Senate  -  26 Government, 26 Opposition, 5 Australian Democratic Labor Party and 3 independent senators - the Committee considers there should be an opportunity for further representation on the Committee. Accordingly, the following amendment to the Standing Orders is recommended: 
Leave out the word 'seven' and insert the word eight'. 
To promote debate upon that matter I move: 
That the amendment to standing order 33 contained in paragraph 2 be agreed to. 


 Senator Lawrie, are you moving that as an amendment? 
I wish to point out now, to obviate any confusion that may be in the minds of honourable senators as to the procedure in these cases, that whatever action is taken consequent upon the moving of the amendment it will be first necessary to deal with the amendment in 2 parts. What ever we do, we must move for the leaving out of certain words. I think it may clarify the proceedings from that point if we first decide whether we leave out the words that are proposed to be left out. Unless there are further speakers to that point I propose to put the question that we leave out the words proposed to be left out. 
Has the Minister representing the Minister for Customs and Excise considered the recent rise in the price of superphosphate in Western Australia in view of the fact that there has been a continuing fall in the price of sulphur over the last  2  years? Will the Minister advise the Senate of the basis on which any ministerial supervision has resulted in an approval of the price rise? 
My question, which I address to the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry, relates to the subject referred to a short while ago by  Senator Lillico.  I ask: What proportion of claims under the recently passed rural rehabilitation legislation are in respect of, firstly, reconstruction, and, secondly, farm build up? What percentage of such claims is currently being approved? 
 I would like to speak to this motion very shortly. To my knowledge it is a unique procedure that a matter of this sort should be referred back to the Standing Committee on Public Works. As one who took part in 2 aspects of this consideration it is clear that what is now proposed to be done is a measure of the heightened sense of awareness of the general public on matters concerning the pollution of the environment. Although I believe that the first investigation made by the Public Works Committee into this matter was a sound and thorough one it is clear that this new approach comes from general public awareness and a desire for higher standards of cleanliness in the environment. I think that this inquiry will be far reaching with important effects upon the whole matter. The question which will have to be faced is the extent to which the public is prepared to go to pay for such an upgrading of standards. This inquiry will have a far reaching effect on sewage disposal throughout the area of the Australian environment. This is not only a unique occasion but also one which marks in this Senate the heightening awareness of the need for environmental control. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Sitting suspended from 12.47 to 2.15 p.m. 
There are advantages, and disadvantages I suppose, in speaking relatively late in a budget debate. I believe that one of the advantages in speaking relatively late in this debate is that I had had the opportunity of hearing the maiden speeches of our new senators. I was delighted at the standard of those speeches. It would be invidious of me to mention particular names, but I must refer to one of the speakers. Neville Bonner, in his speech, introduced a new era in the Senate and in the parliaments of Australia. I feel that the Press did not give justice to this great occasion. I was proud that Queensland, which has been rather villified because of its attitude to his race, selected Neville Bonner to represent not only his people but the people of Queensland. The State Government did that of its own choosing. After hearing and seeing him and after observing his conduct, I believe that he will be a wonderful representative of the people of Queensland. I was thrilled to welcome him to the Senate. I look forward to his contributions to debates in which no doubt he will make us aware of the needs of his people. We have long needed somebody to interpret for us the needs of his people and in turn to take to them the ideas and the aspirations of the rest of the community. i think this was a great day for the Parliament and for his people. I join with the other senators who have welcomed him to the Senate. 
Coming in late in the debate, I have had the advantage or disadvantage of listening to what was said from the Opposition benches. I cannot help referring to some of the many foolish things that were said by  Senator Milliner  who preceded me in the debate. I hope he takes no offence at what I have just said. He stated that on the Government side there were critics of the Budget and added: 'fancy daring to criticise their own Budget!' He could not understand that. He would not be allowed to do that if he were in a similar position. I think the healthiest sign of any group is that it can exercise some self criticism. Provided it is constructive criticism, it helps to build the strength of the organisation concerned. When we become so subdued that we cannot express a point of view - be it as a result of a decision of a caucus, a government leader or a Party leader - we reduce democracy to a miserable farce. I believe that, instead of criticising Government members for daring to express some self criticism, in reality he was expressing some suppressed envy because he would not dare to criticise the Budget if he were on this side of the chamber. 
On 25th August last I listened to the Leader of the Opposition  (Senator Murphy)  explain to us and to Australia at large - the proceedings were being broadcast as is the custom on Wednesdays - why he thought the Budget should be condemned. I listened carefully, as i generally do, to  Senator Murphy,  and since then i have read with some care the report of his speech in Hansard. As I read his speech and thought about what he said, one thing came vividly to my mind.  His  speech reminded me of one of Aesop's Fables - the story about the wolf and the lamb. The wolf, anxious to devour the Iamb, accused it, although it was drinking lower down the stream than the wolf, of muddying the water from which the wolf had to drink. When the lamb replied that that was impossible the wolf said: 'Anyhow, last year you insulted my father'. The lamb said: That is impossible I was not born last year'. Having failed, by force of argument, to subdue the lamb, the wolf pounced on it and devoured it. It seemed to me that running through the whole of  Senator Murphy's  criticism of the Budget was this attitude of deliberately putting things the wrong way and of attributing to the Government, through the Budget, the things that I believe should be attributed rightfully to the political Party to which he belongs and to the leadership of the trade union movement. 
He set out, as his main complaint, that the Budget would continue inflation. Then he said that it was a depressive Budget. I find it difficult to reconcile those 2 statements - that it was an inflationary and a depressive Budget.  Senator Murphy  did not get around to reconciling those 2 statements. He did not tell us very much about the Budget. He certainly did not attempt to justify his statement, in which he followed statements made by  Mr Hawke  and  Mr Whitlam,  that the Budget would produce unemployment. He made this bland statement, without any evidence from the Budget, to support the statement that the Budget would produce unemployment. Like the wolf, he growled a lot. 
I had a look at one of his complaints. He said that in the case of the average income earner the 21 per cent increase in income tax more than takes away - note those words - the benefit of the child endowment increase of 50c a week for the third and successive children. I took the trouble to check the figures. I found that if the average income earner with 3 children is on an income of $80 a week he would have a taxable income of $60 a week. The increase in his tax would be $7.84 and the increase is child endowment would be $26. In the case of the man who has 4 children and a taxable income of. $80, the increase in tax would be $5.43 but the benefit gained by the increase in child endowment would be $52.  Senator Murphy  said that the average income earner would more than lose the benefit of the increase in child endowment, but the cases I have just cited indicate that in fact there would be a rather substantial gain. Either the honourable senator was short of a valid argument or he was putting up a case in which his accuracy or his credibility are suspect. 
The honourable senator also criticised the wool subsidy by saying: 
The wealthy wool grower receives a heavy subsidy - the rural battler gets a handout. 

 His use of those emotive expressions could bepardonedbuthisneglecttotellus where he would find a wealthy wool grower could not. A wealthy man may also be a wool grower but he would not . be wealthy today from wool. Of course, the fact that if that man did receive a subsidy in respect of the wool grown by him and that he, on his marginal tax rate, would pay back over 60c in every $1, escaped  Senator Murphy's  honest evaluation of the situation. Surely the Commissioner of Taxation would see that the proceeds of the wool subsidy were distributed fairly. 
Other Opposition senators advanced the phoney suggestion that we should turn the wool subsidy into some kind of social benefit scheme. Last year when the Government attempted to do something along those lines by allocating $30m for this purpose - only $21m was spent - we were subjected to tremendous criticism. The Government attempted to assist financially the people whom it thought would be in the greatest need. lt was a tragedy that the step was ever taken. There has been further criticism of the anomalies that that kind of proposal perpetuates. Even economists have joined in the criticism of a subsidy scheme based on price. Of course, everyone agrees that the trouble with the wool industry today is that the price of wool is too low. The Government's proposal simply attempts to rectify the situation. If we fiddle with the proposal and turn what is a price subsidy into some kind of glorified social welfare scheme we will run into economic anomalies of unknown magnitude; we will be faced with distortions in thevalue ofland and property, and we will create 100 problems instead of curing one. If the- industry is to survive we need a fair price for our wool or, failing that, a fair scheme by which the price can be subsidised. The industry cannot carry on without that assistance. 
In an attempt to cover cases outside the general economic deficiency caused by low prices the Government introduced legislation in the last sessional period. The proposal covered by that legislation will run into difficulties and in many cases will be ineffective, but we must try to do something to assist or even reconstruct the industry. The Government's scheme is simply an attempt to return the price of wool to some semblance of relativity to the increases in our cost structure. This is the only way in which that can be done.  Senator Murphy  also said: 
The average worker will see his real wages again eroded while prices continue to rise. . . Wage increases are chasing price increases, not the reverse. 
There is an example of the lupine trick of a person blaming someone else for something of which he is guilty. The true position is reflected in the percentage increase in the average weekly earnings compared with the percentage increase in the consumer price index. That information appears on page 16 of the White Paper on the Australian economy. We have been told ad nauseam by honourable senators on the Opposition side that prices are forcing up wages. It would be just as sensible to say that water runs up hill, in view of the facts of the situation. I think that  Senator Davidson  and other honourable senators have cited the facts in part, but I should like to turn to the details relating to the years from 1965 to 1970. In 1965 average weekly earnings increased by 6.1 per cent whereas the consumer price index rose by 4 per cent. In 1966 average weekly earnings increased by 4.8 per cent whereas the consumer price index rose by 3 per cent. In 1967 there was a rise of 6.7 per cent in average weekly earnings but  a  rise of only 3.2 per cent in the consumer price index. There was an increase of 6 per cent in average weekly earnings in 1968 and the consumer price index rose by 2.7 per cent, while in 1969 average weekly earnings increased by 9 per cent and the consumer price by 2.9 per cent. In 1970, the final year for which figures are availr able, average weekly earnings increased by 8.2 per cent but the consumer price index rose by only 3.9 per cent. In each of those years, especially the last  4,  the increase iti average weekly earnings Has been 2 or 3 times as great as the rise in the consumer price index. We could start arguing about the chicken and the egg and which came first, but the facts are that the consumer price index has risen by very much less than average weekly earnings. 
That is a reasonable and proper question and I could reply to it in full, but I would have to look up the figures and I do not want to delay the Senate unduly. I have cited percentages for the sake of clarity. To support his argument that wage increases are chasing price increases,  Senator Murphy  has stated a phoney case. True, we will continue to have price increases. The private sector of the economy over the years has absorbed a great deal of the wage increases by giving more attention to management, increased efficiency and greater use of capital. This has kept the increase in prices down to about the same rate as the increase in wages. The private sector is able to do this. 
But the public sector is a different kettle of fish. In the public sector, the proportion of direct wages/ cost is much higher. We see Government charges in such fields as health, education, defence and administration generally increasing at a very much faster rate than the rate of increase in costs in the private sector. Although it is hoped that increased productivity exists in the public sector, it is fairly difficult to measure and very difficult to define. Sometimes I am dubious whether such a thing exists. But while it would be reasonable to assume that some increase in productivity occurs, it certainly is not of the order of the wage increases. Without doubt, when we have wage increases exceeding the increase of productivity we must have increases in costs. This, of course, gives a further kick along to the inflationary spiral. 
Inflation benefits some people, but it is harmful to many people. It is harmful to those who are dependent upon export income. It is harmful to those who are on fixed incomes. It is harmful to those who are dependent upon investment. I was interested to hear  Senator Murphy  refer to and join in the popular attack on the Broken Hill Pty Co. Ltd, partly because it is big, partly because it is successful and partly because there is an element of jea-lousy of the success of an Australian company of this sort. He cited the rise of 8 per cent in steel prices. But he completely omitted to acknowledge that the rise in the price of steel followed by 6 months the 6 per cent rise granted in the national wage case. He failed to recognise the fact that income from steel manufacturing was well down; that it was not up. 
Then, as did the last  speaker Senator Milliner,  he played with the fact that the Government was increasing personal income tax by 2i per cent. He referred to the fact that the taxpayer in receipt of $9,000 per annum received a tax cut of $300 last year whilst the taxpayer in receipt of $3,000 per annum received a tax cut of only $50. Then he said that because the Government has now increased income tax by 21 per cent it has perpetuated the injustice on the man on the lower income. I do not know how on earth he could justify a statement of that sort when, in fact, the man in receipt of a $3,000 income will have to pay an extra $10.16 while the man in receipt of a $9,000 income will have to pay an extra $65. I cannot see the injustice ing with the tax scale which demands that in this.  Senator Murphy  was simply playthe man in receipt of $9,000 per annum pays 30c in the $1 tax while, quite rightly, the man on $3,000 per annum pays only 14c in the $1 tax. I do not know whether the honourable senator disagreed with that, but he tried to make some sort of criticism out of it. I fail to see any point at all in his criticism. 
While I disagree with the honourable senator's conclusions in this regard, 1 agree that an urgent case exists for a complete review of our tax scales. I do not believe that we could ever introduce anything approaching a perfect Budget, even if it were possible for any government ever to bring in a perfect Budget. But I believe that our ability to introduce a sound Budget is being increasingly hampered and stultified by our adherence to a tax scale which is in shreds and tatters. It is out of date; it has been built on by bits and pieces; and it has been amended for various political reasons. I think that today the tax scale fails to give expression to either equity or economic sense. Canada tackled this job - I think it was in 1964 - by bringing into the area of public debate a survey of the tax structure. The position is not yet resolved, but the Canadian public has had its attention drawn to the problems of budgeting and the problems of taxation. 
I think that we could very well reexamine our tax structure and our tax scales. We have adopted policies which give to the Commissioner of Taxation a tremendous area of discretion. I feel that it would be better to have all Australians more aware, through the legislation itself, of what is required of them in the form of their duty in regard to tax. I believe that we have to look at the question of tax rebates. Tax rebates have been used as an instrument of economic policy. 1 believe that in almost every case these policies have broken down because they are regressive. They give benefit to people who need it least and little or no benefit to people who need it most. If we are to have policies to assist industries or a particular class of people, much better and more positive ways are available to us than by trying to do this by tax concessions. 
Some obsession exists in regard to tax concessions. This was manifested by the last  speaker, Senator Milliner,  who suggested that small business men in the country towns of Queensland, because of the recession in the primary industries, would be benefited by tax concessions. What benefit would accrue by granting a tax concession to a small shopkeeper who was virtually broke and had no income? There is muddled thinking or an obsession about tax concessions. 
-He would not be paying any income tax and he would not be receiving any concession. 
 But the honourable senator was putting this proposition forward in relation to the position that obtains today. Of course, when the small business man had a big income he did not need the tax concession. This whole theory of using income tax as a means of carrying out economic policies is unsound and should be scrapped. I believe that we should look at what we are doing with regard to concessions with respect to a married man who has, as we say, a dependent wife. I think it is a horrible term to use. Here we have 2 people sharing an income. I believe that if there is one wage earner the income for those 2 people should be attributed to 2 people. If the wife is earning an income the combined wages should be averaged for tax purposes. 
I believe that Canada has proposed a special tax rate but I would prefer that 2 people living on one income have the family income regarded as 2 separate incomes for taxation purposes. At present a concession is granted to people in primary industry and owners of small businesses in that they are allowed to treat their wives as business partners for taxation purposes. A great number of people receive this benefit and I think it is grossly unfair that a lawyer, a doctor or a worker in industry who shares his income with his wife should be deprived of access to a means of lowering the incidence of tax on a family in that way. 
That is only one of the anomalies that exist in our tax structure. Another is associated with home ownership. A person who owns his home has no notional tax attributed to his home ownership; but should he sell his home and be forced to live in a rented house he will receive no tax deduction for the rent paid. On the other hand, if be invested the money from the sale of his home the income he gained in that way would be taxable. We have to study these matters in relation to our tax plans. I have suggested that one of the anomalies in the present situation is the absence of a capital gains tax. I think we should very soon set about replacing death duties with a capital gains tax. I have some support for that idea from no less a person than  Sir Cecil  Looker and others who have given thought to this matter. 
Death duties are simply a deferred capital gains tax, in most instances. They are levied in the most adverse circumstances and perpetrate harshness and cruelty on families. Death duties bring about enormous economic cost for accounting devices aimed at avoiding the tax. The present reluctance of the Commissioner of Taxation to place realistic values on farming properties particularly is a national scandal. I have seen assessments of farming properties which are completely and utterly ridiculous. I think it is about time that we asked the Commissioner of Taxation to put up or shut up. 
I wish I was. 
1 grant that, but the Opposition opposed the proposal on death duties that 1 and others in the Senate supported. To use a colloquialism I think the Commissioner of Taxation would quickly pull his head in if he was required to buy a property, his valuation of which was disputed. He would quickly see that his valuations are not realistic and are unrelated to the price that could be obtained in the market place. 
There could be an argument between valuations. 
 I think the valuation in any case should be the true market value of the property. I think it is wrong for an individual to try to extort an unreal value. I think it is very much more in the province of the Commissioner of Taxation not to demand payments of tax which are completely and utterly unrealistic. That is what is happening. In some cases today if properties were sold up to meet the death duties it is doubtful that the price realised would meet the tax being demanded. The matter is completely out of hand. 
I turn now in a general way to the farming situation, and particularly to the wool industry. In the light of purchasing power the present prices for wool are lower than at any time in the history of the industry. They are not merely, as has been suggested, the lowest since 1947, but in terms of purchasing power they are the lowest prices in the history of the industry. We have been told that the proposal in the Budget is that $275m out of a Budget of $8,833m is to assist the primary industries of this country. I have studied the composition of that figure of $275m and I do not think lt is a very accurate assessment. Included in that total is an amount of $9,800,000 for the nitrogenous fertiliser subsidy. This amount is correctly attributable to the fertiliser industry and not to the farming community because the prices charged to the farmer are on a scale equal to imported nitrogenous fertiliser costs. The subsidy is provided to enable the manufacturers to carry on in this situation and not with a view to assisting farmers. 
The petroleum products subsidy for the inland cost of petrol, amounting to $25m, is included in the total of $275m, but that subsidy is not directed to the farming industry. Any city tourist who visits Alice Springs or anywhere in the interior benefits from the subsidy which is paid to keep down the price of fuel inland. It is not particularly attributable to the rural industry. In fact, it is probable that the tourist industry benefits more than anybody else. 
A sum of $40m is attributed to rural reconstruction. I have been trying to find out what is happening about rural reconstruction moneys and the likelihood of that amount being spent. It is hardly likely that much more than half of it will be spent, because in the first year we have hypothecated about half of it to farm build up. Experience shows that there is very little demand for farm build up, so I think that an amount of about $S4m has wrongly been included in the figure of $275m said to be devoted to assisting the primary industries. On the other hand, the figure attributed as assistance to manufacturing industries is $82m. To that amount we need to add $9. 8m which is going to the nitrogenous fertiliser industry. The actual split up of the total amount provided in the Budget for assistance to industry is $220m for primary industry and $92m to assist the manufacturing industry. I have seen pages of criticism and crocodile tears about how much this assistance will cost the taxpayers. The taxpayer will be asked to subsidise the wool grower. The total amount of this alleged subsidy is $220m. In the same Budget $92m is being found for manufacturing industries. Did anyone see any complaint in the newspapers about the taxpayers being asked to subsidise the manufacturing industries? ' Proportionately, a greater amount is being found in the Budget for manufacturing industry than is being found to assist primary industry. 
I would say proportionate to their export value. We have figures here showing that last year our manufacturing industries accounted for 20.5 per cent of our total exports. This figure has risen over the years. It has been 14 per cent, 15 per cent, 16 per cent, 17.8 per cent, 18.2 per cent and for the last year the figure was 20 per cent. Agricultural exports represent 20.9 per cent of the total amount. Despite the depression in the pastoral industry that industry was responsible for 26.3 per cent of our exports. If we add all primary industries - which includes the mining industry - we find that they accounted for 76 per cent of our exports as against 20.5 per cent for our manufacturing industries. 
As expressed through the newspapers of Australia we see that the community at large has some idea that the taxpayer is being required to provide some fantastic amount of money as assistance. It is $202m out of a budget of $8,833m. That is the amount that the taxpayer is finding. The figures should be put in their proper perspective. Primary industry has produced up to 80 per cent of the total exports of this country. Our manufacturing industry has been built on primary industry, as has the complex of our city life. Yet we find this miserable attitude when circumstances throughout the world are such that the industry is in real trouble. Primary industry is still vitally important to the economic well being of Australia. As far as wool is concerned the assistance is provided on a temporary basis because it is a proposal for one year only although we may have to continue the assistance. We are trying to cushion the blow against the industry which, without a doubt, has contributed enormously to the well being of every man, woman and child in Australia. We hear squeals and whines. 
From virtually every newspaper in Australia. We hear criticism from honourable senators opposite. This afternoon we heard  Senator Poke  criticising the Australian Wool Commission because it is trying to stabilise the price of wool. I think this is a miserable and contemptible attitude from people who have benefitted enormously because people have taken the risk to develop Australia to the stage where there is a measure of prosperity in the general community. 
It is fine to criticise methods, but we have to have some method and no alternative method has been suggested. An honourable senator suggested that the answer was to look at  tha  markets  om-t tn -.-I--  what  n  hap-HJW markets ana IU VAU1III1IW  v*  lt  CI I la u ap"  pen ing with regard to Russia and its potential as a market. I have here figures which show that last year we exported 40 million kilograms of raw wool to the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics. That equals the amount which we exported to the United Kingdom which is traditionally one of our biggest markets. We are exporting and we are trying to find markets. We have not received any worthwhile alternative suggestion. I believe in the present policy whereby we protect an industry which has done so much for the wellbeing of this country. 

Order!  Senator Cavanagh  has chosen not to answer your question,  Senator Byrne. 
Both these motions came from an unexpected source and they must have been an attack on the Opposition. The activities of the Opposition in relation to the Vietnam Moratorium were well known and the motion relating to Papua New Guinea followed a visit by the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam)  to that area. It was natural that  Senator Greenwood  would have half an hour in which to explain his urgency motion. He was not attacking ministerial responsibility but the Opposition and the first  speaker  for the Opposition was entitled to half an hour in which to reply. But under the Standing Orders dealing with such a motion the Opposition, having no Ministers in its Party, was limited to 15 minutes because all other speakers had only 15 minutes in which to speak. Following the reply from this side to that attack,  Senator Wright,  a Minister, spoke and supported  Senator Greenwood  in the urgency motion. Under the Standing Orders on that occasion one hour was granted for the presentation of the case by the 2 senators supporting it and only a quarter of a hour was allowed for the honourable senator leading the case in opposition to the question of urgency. 
This necessitated some arrangement whereby there could be equality. Each side should have equal opportunity. The Standing Orders Committee has recommended that the person moving the motion should have 20 minutes. I oppose this idea and say that it should be left at 30 minutes. The one opposing, the first speaker in opposition- 
It is true that under the Standing Orders all interjections and interruptions are disorderly However, the practice of the Senate is that so long as interjections are not made for the purpose of disrupting the proceedings they are allowed. I will allow those interjections which I consider are not designed to deny a senator who has the call the right to speak.  Senator Poke,  I have considered your point of order but at present I do not uphold it. However 1 would request all honourable senators to bear in mind the purpose for which there is a standing order stating that the proceedings of the Senate shall be orderly. 
asked the Minister representing the. Minister for Primary Industry, upon notice: 
What proportion of claims under the States Grants (Rural Reconstruction). Act 1971 are in respect of (a) reconstruction; and (b) farm buildup. 
What percentage of such claims have been approved. 

The purpose of the debate in committee is to relate speeches to a particular item in the clauses of the Bill and not, in this case, to the title of the Bill. If the honourable senator can relate what he is saying to a clause which is the subject of the proposed amendment he will be in order. 
 1 have made known in a previous debate my beliefs on capital punishment. As the Parliament is the ultimate court in the land where the representatives of the people have the opportunity and the responsibility to express themselves, I believe that I should take part once more in a debate on the subject of capital punishment. I do so partly because I regret that we have not heard speakers from the Opposition side of the chamber, although this is a non-Party debate, and because it assumes that, having come to a conclusion collectively, that is the end of the matter. I believe that everyone in the community has a right. 10 examine this question, to examine himself with regard to it, and the reasons why he reaches a certain decision and the basis of his conviction. 1 think this debate is important because a study of this question of crime and punishment, and what is the ultimate punishment, leads along paths that can contribute very valuably to our ideas of punishment as such as part of our society. Why do we punish? How do we punish? What is the effect of the punishment on the people inflicting it and on the people receiving it? Because I believe that there are great areas of doubt in the minds of people, I think we need to bring to this debate more than a machinelike decision that we will do this or that. 
One of the matters that concern me is one that has been raised already in this debate. I refer to the theory of deterrence and punishment as a deterrent. Although our colleague  Senator Wright  says that the study of the evidence does not support one side or the other as to the value of deterrents and that he had come to the conclusion that there was some deterrent value in punishment, my study of the matter leads me to conclude that, on balance, there is no deterrent value in punishment. If this is so, this would lead us to a recasting of a great area of our thinking with regard to the law and with regard to our whole system and basis of punishment in this society. 
Consider the offence of drunken driving. I can recall when this was regarded as an escapade, that drunken driving was something in which young fellows, and others not so young, might indulge. But gradually we have come to look upon drunken driving more seriously and to regard it as a more serious crime. Punishments for drunken driving have been increased, but has this reduced the number of crimes or offences of drunken driving? 1 remember when the fines for drunken driving were doubled in one act. For perhaps a couple of weeks there was some effect, but today the number of offences for drunken driving is greater than ever. The punishment has not had the desired effect. 
When we consider the whole question of penalties for driving offences, what is the punishment for a driving offence? The ultimate punishment is death, on the spot. Does it deter? If we look at the road accident figures we must come to the conclusion that people are not at that time deterred. They might on sober reflection think: 'What a fool 1 was'. This leads to the example mentioned by  Senator Wright  of his impression of deterrence in a court of law. The situation in a court of law is far different from the situation at the point of time when a murder is committed. By the time the matter has come before the court the murderer might have been convinced of the enormity of his offence and at that time he might be afraid, but the significance of the punishment is whether it affects the man at the time he is about to commit the offence. I do not believe that it does and I cannot find any evidence to support the view that it does. 
But beyond this, I am greatly concerned with the morality of using punishment as a deterrent. Do we punish A to prevent B from committing a crime? Is this moral? Should I punish a man for what another man does? I think the unanimous opinion is that a man should not be punished for what another man does, but if we should not punish him for what another man does how much more important is it that we should not punish him for what somebody else might do? Surely this is the thinking behind using deterrence as a reason for punishment. In the field of law with regard to behaviour on the battlefield civilised countries have rejected the idea of the execution of hostages, which is simply the application of a form of deterrence. In that case a group of people are being PUSnihed for what some other people might or might not have done. I think we need to look very carefully and very clearly at this question and search our thinking and our reasons for punishment. 
I believe that this debate is a valuable one if we use it for the purpose of examining why we do things. I am convinced that I should support the Bill for the abolition of capital punishment. I believe that there are crimes far worse to society than murder. 1 believe that it is worse to degrade a fellow human being. I believe that it is far worse for gain to introduce a person to the use of drugs which will destroy him morally, spiritually and physically. It would be far better to kill another human than to degrade, belittle and destroy him while he still has the remnants of life about him so that he becomes just a thing and not a person. This, to my mind, is a greater crime. Yet we tend to treat murder as the ultimate. I do not think it is the ultimate crime. I can think of other crimes against society which are far worse. For these reasons I support the Bill. 
I believe that there is some suggestion of an amendment being proposed. If the amendment will lead to a clearer understanding of the reasons why we do things in our community I would be prepared to consider supporting it. However, I should not anticipate it at this stage because I have not seen it, although I have heard that some consideration has been given to it. If this will contribute to our thinking and understanding of why we punish people, which is the whole basis of our law enforcement with regard to punishment for crimes, it will be a step forward in a civilised approach to these matters. I would eagerly look forward to a debate on this aspect of the Bill. 
Is it the wish of the Committee that the Bill be taken as a whole? 
Sitting suspended from 5.4 to8 p.m. 
Clauses 1 to 3 - by leave - taken together, and agreed to. 
Clause 4 (Interpretation). 
My question to the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry follows the question asked of him by  Senator Poke  regarding the buying of wool by the Australian Wool Commission. What will happen to the price of wool if the Commission ceases to support it and, therefore, Australia's main primary industry? 
by leave - I move: 
That the Senate take note of the paper. 
In doing so, I would like to express my thanks, as the leader of the delegation, to the members of Parliament who made up that delegation. They were:  Mr Scholes,  who was the  deputy  leader of the delegation,  Senator Little, Senator Ridley, Mr Dobie, Mr Hamer  and  Mr Hansen.  Accompanying the delegation were  Mr Alan  dimming Thorn and  Mr John  Bowen, who represented the Department of Foreign Affairs. The members of the delegation were greatly indebted to both those gentlemen for their services. We were - especially myself - largely inexperienced in overseas work. We were greatly strengthened in our contacts by their presence. In my opinion their work enabled the delegation to be a very successful one. We made some very valuable contacts. I think it is customary for members of delegations to the Inter-Parliamentary Union to find that the contacts they make are of great benefit to them. As I do not wish to take up a great deal of time at this stage, I seek leave to continue my remarks at a later stage. 
Leave granted; debate adjourned. PLACING OF BUSINESS 
Order! 1 am sure the honourable senator does not need the assistance of other honourable senators in putting forward his views. 
In assessing (he length of service required, an average of 6 months must be allowed for recruit and corps training. Provision must also be made for leave, movement and  acclimitisation  should the national servicemen bc sent to an overseas theatre. In order to permit a period of at least 12 months effective service in a unit a total period of 2 years full time duty is required and this will be the basis of the Government's scheme. This will bc followed by a period of 3 years on the Reserve. 
In  Sir Robert's  opinion it takes at least 6 months to train a national serviceman. In fact, he said that with leave entitlement, and acclimatisation if it is necessary to serve outside Australia, it would take 12 months. In other words, the Government has in operation a system whereby it calls up national servicemen for the sole purpose, if they are required to serve outside of Australia, of getting 6 months' service out of them. Can this country afford to continue this system? 
In 1964, because of the possibility of having to fight in Vietnam and because we were fighting in Malaysia, it was necessary to have a strength of some 30,000 men. With no possibility of any dispute arising at present and, according to the previous Prime Minister, with no visible possibility of an invasion of Australia or of a necessity to defend Australia in the next 10 years, it is apparently necessary to have a strength of 40,000 men in the defence forces. If we had adopted the advice of military experts in 1964 we could have today, by way of normal recruiting methods, sufficient servicemen from whom we could get 5 years' service. As I said last night, it is possible that  Senator James  McClelland and the Labor Party are prompted in their actions by the fact that it is contrary to the Labor Party's policy to have compulsory military service. But there is no logic in arguing that because the Labor Party opposes compulsory military service it is not interested in Australia's defence. The Labor Party is interested in Australia's defence. The Government is sacrificing Australia's defence by following a useless system of training men at a colossal cost to the nation. This money could be well used in other avenues. 
Has the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry seen a letter from the Western Australian Fruit Growers Association which draws attention to the parlous situation of the industry in Western Australia arising from recent demands for increased freight? What action is contemplated to devise ways in which the industry may have a chance of survival? 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry. Has his attention been drawn to an article in today's 'West Australian' claiming that the wool deficiency payments scheme will not benefit the average wool grower? Is there any substance in the charge that it will protect only the brokers? 
 I would not delay the Senate, except for the fact that I want to draw to its attention some matters that are perhaps somewhat different from those that are considered in a general survey of the existing legislation. I last spoke on a Phosphate Fertilizers Bounty Bill on 9th September 1969, but I do not want to repeat any of the things that I said then. This legislation has been and is, as  Senator Cant  pointed out, of tremendous value in helping to offset some of our rising costs. Since September 1969 the f.o.b. landed cost of sulphur, which is one of the important ingredients of superphosphate, has declined from $32.54 a ton to $17.71 a ton - a drop of $14.83. This means that the cost of the sulphur ingredient in a ton of superphosphate has fallen during that period by $1.80 a ton. 
However, during that time, other costs, including the cost of wages and materials, have increased; so that the price of superphosphate recently was increased by 20c a ton. Whereas there should have been a reduced cost to producers, the amount of that reduction has been more than absorbed by rises in other costs. It is fortunate that in the original Bill we provided that the Department of Customs and Excise should supervise the operations of the manufacturers of superphosphate to ensure that the bounty was passed on fully to the producers. I believe that this is being done. 
The aspect of the Bill to which I wish to refer is one that has been of some concern to me for some time. In the original Bill in 1963 the subisidy was made payable only in respect of soluble and citric soluble phosphate. The calcium phosphate of the original rock phosphate did not qualify.  Dr R.  J. Swaby and others reported to the Australian Plant Nutrition Conference of 1964 in Perth that it was possible to produce a mixture of powdered rock phosphate with sulphur and water which behaved very much like superphosphate, except that it was a little slower in its initial reaction in the soil. I shall read the final passage of the report and ask the Senate to note carefully what was said by  Dr Swaby: 
In all soils all plants in their first season produced highest yields from superphosphate and lowest from rock phosphate, the granules being intermediate. 
They are the granules to which I have referred as being the new process. The report continued: 
In the second year the residual value of the granules exceeded or equalled that of superphosphate and rock phosphate. 
In Australia while there is a bounty on superphosphate but none on granules this fertiliser cannot compete. In underdeveloped countries lacking superphosphate plants this fertiliser has possibilities, particularly for perennial crops and pastures. 
That passage attracted my attention; so I sought to find out what the position was. I learnt from  Dr Swaby  that because the legislation put superphosphate in a highly preferential position it was not economically possible to develop this new form of phosphate. Later on great concern developed because of the inability to exploit the Rum Jungle phosphates. These phosphates were found to be intractable. Because of very high iron content they would not respond to normal treatment with sulphuric acid. I drew attention of the then Minister for National Development to the possibility of using the Swaby process on the Rum Jungle phosphate. Various things had been tried. The phosphate had been calcined. It had been crushed finely but it was not soluble enough in its original form. There was virtual despair at being able to use the Rum Jungle phosphate economically. However, the then Minister for Education and Science,  Mr Gorton,  persuaded the Commonwealth Scientific and Industrial 
Research Organisation to go ahead with some experiments on the Swaby process. The results were published. The experiments were done by Fisher and Norman in the Northern Territory at Katherine. I will not bother honourable senators with full details of the results but in vol. 10 No. 46, October 1970, of 'Experimental Agriculture and Animal Husbandry' a summary appears. It states: 
Pelletting the Rum Jungle material with sulphur and Thiobacillus  ('biosuper')- 
It was then known as 'biosuper' instead of sulphur granules-  increased its effectiveness in the field at the end of the second year to the equivalent of that of superphosphate. 
At least experimentally we have solved the problem of how to use the Rum Jungle phosphates. I bring this matter to the attention of the Senate because I desire the Government to take note of the experimental material now at hand and so that we can utilise the findings of  Dr Swaby  The inclusion in the Bill of a restriction on the use of rock phosphate should be altered so that rock phosphate used as biosuper should become eligible for the payment of subsidy. If we do this the experimental findings in the Northern Territory can be carried into the practical field of agriculture. 
There are tremendous possibilities of saving in this process. We have the raw material on the spot. Manufacture is much simpler and costs are much less. I believe that this phosphate could conceivably be the answer to the costly phosphatic fertilisers now in use in the Northern Territory. But it would go beyond this. I believe that there is a role for this type of fertiliser in all the acid soils throughout the Commonwealth. It would have the advantage that it could be applied perhaps every second year instead of every year as now occurs with superphosphate. Thus great savings could be made in the actual cost of spreading. In addition it has the virtue of being less rapidly available. It is also less rapidly leached. In these days we find that there is a considerable wastage of soluble phosphate in times of heavy rainfall when soluble phosphate is washed into our rivers and lakes. I think that there is a place in our agricultural practice for this type of slower acting but still extremely valuable and economical phosphate. I urge the Government to consider amending this Bill at some early date to provide for the use of biosuper in agriculture in Australia. 
 Mr Acting Deputy President,  the honourable senator who has just spoken has had the advantage of a longer speaking time than is available to me this evening. So I do not intend to traverse at any length his arguments, because quite frankly I do not think they are worth spending very much time on. I am in agreement with one feature of what he said. I join with  Senator Wilkinson  in expressing a substantial degree of confidence in the future of the wool industry. 
This is a rather historic occasion. For the first time in our economic history a subsidy is being provided to an industry that in the past has been proud and independent. Those engaged in it have previously rejected indignantly any idea of a subsidy. They have wanted to be independent. They have fought against the influences that they could see were dragging their industry down. These influences include increasing costs to the community. They could see the peril of a stationary or declining return while faced with constantly rising costs. But still they desired to preserve their independence. The most stubborn people in Australia in rejecting the idea of a subsidy for their product have been the people in the wool industry. 
During the last decades the wool industry has been the mainstay of the Australian economy. For many years the wool industry alone has earned one-third and more of Australia's total export income. Today we are recording the lowest and the saddest time in the history of an industry upon which the wealth of this country has been built. I believe that this occasion calls for a greater measure of interest than is being exhibited in the Senate tonight. In the wool industry in the last 4 years prices received by growers have fallen by some 40 per cent. During that same period costs have increased. This is indicated by the fact that the average wage of Australian workers has increased from S61.70 to $89.70. Wool growers have seen their incomes disappear while the rest of the  community is prospering and getting increased returns. During the period from 1966-67 the consumer price index rose from 100 to 117.2. This illustrates in dramatic form the situation of the wool industry today. 
The Government has taken action in 2 ways. Firstly it set up the reserve price scheme. Originally it was intended that the scheme should have some flexibility in order to prevent inequalities in the market, the so-called potholing operation. But it was soon found that the decline in prices necessitated the introduction of a firm base. The Australian Wool Commission decided that it would not allow the price of wool to fall beneath the established base. This Wool (Deficiency Payments) Bill relates to that base. Following the establishment of that firm price base there are to be payments to the industry to lift the price of wool to 36c per Jb. Although we are on the verge of switching to metric weights and measures I will continue speaking of cents per lb because most of us are accustomed to thinking in that way. 
That substantially was the concept of this legislation and what the industry requested. lt asked for a price of 40c per lb originally but the Government, having been advised by the Bureau of Agricultural Economics of the probable price trends over a period, decided that the appropriate price would be 40c plus or minus 10c. The Government adopted a conservative line because it realised a great amount of money would be involved in the scheme. Tt decided on a price of 36c. Tt was never intended that this should be a social welfare measure or a means of making payments to individuals in the greatest difficulty. The Government has passed other legislation to deal with those difficulties. I refer to the rural reconstruction scheme. The Government is doing this with a limited amount of funds. It is limited in many other ways in attempting to deal with this very difficult aspect involving individuals is the industry who are in the greatest economic trouble. The rural reconstruction scheme is similar in concept to the dairy industry payments which have never been subject to a means test. It is similar to payments made in the wheat industry which have never taken into account the financial position of growers but rather have been industry payments. 
A similar principle has applied to the Tariff Board where payments are made to economic members of the community, people who can show some chance of standing up economically to the price level determined. 
It seems to me that only one member of the Labor Party comprehends or understands this and that is the honourable member for Eden-Monaro  (Mr Allan Fraser).  I take my hat off to him for the way he has stood up for his clear understanding of the needs of the industry. Many criticisms have been levelled at this legislation and I have mine. I believe it could well have been planned to cover a 3-year period. That is what (he industry requested and I believe that would have been the soundest base on which to work. One year is far too short a time in which to see what will be the real future of the industry. It is not long enough to determine a national policy with regard to the industry which for generations has been the mainstay of the Australian economy. Is the Government going to allow the scheme to run for a few short months and then decide to dump the whole thing? That is a dangerous concept and is my main criticism of this legislation which I otherwise fully support. We could prejudice the whole of our endeavours in the reconstruction, planned to take place over a period of some 4 years, by a premature decision about this assistance to the wool industry. Much of the criticism we have heard tonight has been inspired by and emanates from the private wool buyers.  Senator Wilkinson  innocently quoted a letter whose author he said he did not know. 
That letter was sigsed and it was published in the 'West Australian'. I will tell the honourable senator who wrote it. It was written by  Mr E.  R. Pedlow, manager in Western Australia of CIL, one of the biggest wool buying firms in the State. He wrote it and today he is advocating that interest. That gentleman has great financial interests in buying wool and he is accusing the Government of hypocrisy. Later on I will let the Senate decide who is guilty of hypocrisy. Private wool buying interests in Western Australia purchase something like 30 per cent of the Western Australian clip. Some firms fail to pay the growers. There was a recent sad experience when buyers for a private firm received SI. 5m worth of wool and did not pay a cent to the growers. These are the people that our friend on the Opposition side of this chamber is supporting; the people whose arguments he swallowed holus-bolus. 
Yes. Private buyers buy the best wool. They go to the best growers and offer them a price for their wool. To the extent that they take that wool away from the auction room they lower the average return at auction. Private buyers do not buy the rubbish; they do not buy the crutchings and the locks. By and large they leave those to go onto the auction floor. This results in a double pressure aimed at decreasing the average realisation at auction. Those buyers then use this depressed standard as the price at which to buy in country areas. They go round and say to growers: 'We will offer you a better price that that received at auction'. They will do this because they have already depressed the price through the use of their policy to buy the better wools. I believe that it is these interests - this opinion is firmly held bv the Wool Commission - which have been largely responsible for the Wool Commission having to buy in 40 per cent of the Western Australian din at the outset of the wool sales. Recently the Australian Wool Commission was negotiating sales to Russia. It was undercut by the private buyers by 5c 1o 6c a kilo. These are the people who have the interests of the growers at heart. Right at the outset this very  Mr Pedlow  went around saying that the Wool Commission price was too high. He published a statement in which he said that the Wool Commission was buying at 2c above the market price. This gentleman has the interests of the growers at heart. 
Yes. Very private. I repeat that this is not a glorified social service scheme, lt is an industry scheme which sets out to lift the price of wool approximately 20 per cent from its present base.  Mr Pedlow  - echoed by  Senator Wilkinson  - said that there is no possible chance that the average woolgrower will benefit from the 36c a pound payment scheme. What he is saying is that a lift of 20 per cent to the wool industry will be no good to the industry - 
If the honourable senator likes to split hairs he may. We will take the honourable senator's verdict. He says that the  20  per cent increase in the price of wool will be no good to the grower. I think that if the honourable senator received a 20 per cent increase in his salary it would be some good to him. In any case, I reject completely the absurdity of that statement, whoever makes it. We tried the idea of specialised assistance.  Senator Poke  reminded us of that idea this morning. He called it the  S30m  scheme, lt started out to be a  S30m  scheme but it finished up as a  S21m  scheme.  Senator Wilkinson  would know very well that it was the biggest disaster to result from anything that we ever attempted. We produced anomalies which we could not have foreseen and they were tragic in their effects. Never again do I hope to see an attempt to repeat the application of some sort of means test to an industry. 
I was interested to hear the figures put forward by  Senator Wilkinson.  I have prepared similar figures. Perhaps great minds think alike. Our figures are very much alike but what they prove and what ons can deduce from them is something very different. The wool buyers pretend - for all their accusations of hypocrisy against the Government - that their concern about the deficiency payments is that the growers should benefit. But let us have a look at the figures. My figures are slightly different from the honourable senator's, although not much. The private buyer on a farm pays the net auction value. An average bale of wool today at auction is worth  $90.  On my information costs would be about  $10.  The wool buyer can offer  S80  on a price equality but he claims - I do not know how valid this is - that the cost savings are in the vicinity of  S6.  Assuming that in the goodness of his heart and in order to make a sale he passes on $5, the price he offers to the grower is $85. The deficiency payment on that wool is $17. 
Pardon me. The price on farm is $85 and the deficiency payment is $17. 
We will not argue about the matter at this time. The price is the price paid on the farm. The deficiency payment is $17. In addition to this the grower who  sells to the  private buyer receives his money some 2 to 3 months sooner than does the man who sells at auction. At current interest rates this is worth approximately $2 a bale. The private seller is able to give to the grower a price of $104. At auction the seller sells at $90. less $10 which he has to pay in costs. So he receives a net return of $80 and he receives a deficiency payment of $18. The total amount to the grower is $98. I fail to see how there is any injustice in this proposition to either the private seller or the grower who sells privately. It is my experience that the private buyer will pass on that saving to the grower who knows enough about his wool to know what it is worth. To others he will offer a different price. In other words the private buyer will make as much out of the grower as he can. His concern now about the difference in the deficiency payment is not that the grower will receive $1 less but that he, the buyer, might have to offer $1 more to make up the price. So where lies the hypocrisy? 
I do not know how much time 1 have left but I wish to look at the criticism which has been coming from the Press and over the radio - we hear it every morning from  Senator Poke  - criticism of the accumulation of wool. At 30th June this year the Commission had on hand some 340,507 bales. Much of this wool was from the dubious price averaging plan scheme. The Commission now holds approximately 600,000 bales which is 20 per cent of all wool which was offered at auction during the ensuing period. I want honourable senators to note that at the moment the current buying in at Sydney is 15 per cent and at Geelong it is 10 per cent. This is because there has been a considerable improvement in wool prices. I can find no-one associated with the wool trade of any opinion other than that this wool stock could not have been absorbed by the industry. By that I mean that it would not have been possible for this amount of wool to go into the manufacturing side of the industry at this time and under the conditions which exist in the textile industry. 
There are a great number of reasons and if the honourable senator knew as much about the industry as he thinks he knows he would know the answer. 
-Last year the wool industry did not absorb all the wool. It finished up with about 340,000 bales at 30th June. At the moment, under existing conditions, the manufacturing side of the industry cannot absorb this wool. What is the alternative? We do not hear much about the alternative. We hear a great deal about the amount of wool on hand but we do not look at the alternatives. I want honourable senators to look at what the alternatives would have to be in order that this wool could be transferred by the buying interests; I do not say to the trade. The wool would have to be paid for and finance would have to be obtained. The price at which the wool was bought would have to be discounted from the current price to allow for the capital cost of buying and holding the wool. The wool would incur storage costs somewhere. Therefore it would incur costs considerably greater overseas than the costs incurred in Australia. So storage costs cannot be wiped. An allowance would have to be made and the price accordingly discounted to allow for these costs. 
Then the wool would have to be shipped overseas. This would incur freight charges, another capital cost that would have to be allowed for, and the speculator who entered into this sort of transaction, having calculated all his costs and allowed himself a considerable margin of risk, would buy this wool at a price - nobody could determine it exactly - which would be, in my  view, at least  30  per cent below the price at which wool was bought by the Wool Commission. But the point is that this price of  30  per cent below the Commission's present price would constitute the price for the whole of the Australian clip. The net result would be that we would have sold all our wool certainly, and we would not have a stockpile here in Australia. But we would have received in total for all of the wool sold less money than we now receive for the  70  per cent or so bought by the trade. We would have no asset in the form of wool on hand. Nobody would have been better off. The industry would have been worse off. We would have lowered the price of wool to a depth that would have meant the absolute destruction of the wool industry. 
If we burnt the wool that we have in stockpile we would be better off than if we had sold all of the wool at the price to which it would have been depressed had we attempted to force its sales. I believe it is an asset. If we accept the proposition that the wool on hand is worthless then we have written off the whole future of the wool industry. Like  Senator Wilkinson,  I will not agree that there is no future in the wool industry. I believe that we are seeing a lift in prices. In the last two or three weeks the sales at Goulburn, Sydney and Fremantle have shown substantial and worthwhile rises in prices. This confirms my judgment, that by firmly holding to the policy that we have set out to achieve of creating a reserve of wool by what is virtually a supplymanagement scheme we can hold the price of wool at a stable level. 1 know that there are a lot of people who love fluctuations. The people on the futures market live by this sort of gambling. They love fluctuations. They hate an idea that might lead to the stabilisation of the wool industry. I trust that the Australian Government will hold firmly to the course it has set, because only by pursuing that course, and pursuing it consistently, can we hope to enable the industry to get back onto a firm basis. We can and we must continue this policy as long as they supply-management technique can be applied by the growers instead of by speculators. By doing so we will retain a reasonable price for wool, otherwise we will have to face up to the complete disappearance of wool as a commodity and the complete disappearance of the industry which for so long has been the mainstay of the Australian economy. 
Is it Ihe wish of the Committee that the Bill be taken as a whole? 
Is lt the wish of the Committee that the amendments to clauses 8, 10 and 11 be taken together? There being no objection it is so ordered. 
I ask the Minister representing the Minister for Labour and National Service: Does the Commonwealth Employment Service, which recently opened a Career Reference Centre at 199 Flinders Lane, Melbourne, intend to widen the service provided? If so, will it give urgent consideration to establishing a similar centre in Perth because owing to the isolation of the western capital from the facilities offered in Melbourne, the usefulness of the centre in Melbourne to the residents of Western Australia would be severely limited? 
 Would it not accentuate the very thing you are complaining about if the Government did what you propose? 
Leave out all words after 'That', insert - the Bill be withdrawn and re-drafted because it (a) does not comprehensively restructure the rate schedule and (b) increases the tax payable by certain individuals on aflat percentage basis'. 
The effect of the flat percentage basis has been revealed in the illustrations I gave relating to the deductions for spouses of persons on varying incomes, and for insurance deductions. We can apply it also to the amount allowable for medical expenses, payments to hospital benefits funds, education and so on. All these things have been included. 
A number of suggestions have been put forward as to how the tax schedule could be varied and how we could have different types of income tax. There are a lot of authorities in the world for such a proposal. I think you have heard me mention negative income tax before,  Mr President,  or reverse income tax. Since I mentioned this subject last year I have done further reading on it.I have been very intrigued by the merits of a suggestion, that came to me through the usual service provided by the Parliamentary Library, in an article entitled 'Guaranteed minimum income' written in Canada by James L. Clare. He proposes a system called 'Canada Income'. I do not want to go right through this article; 1 merely mention it as being one of the very good systems which aims to eliminate poverty. That is particuarly relevant at this time because of the situation facing our primary producers and particularly age pensioners and people receiving social service benefits. 
Under this 'Canada Income' scheme, social services as we know them would be abolished and replaced with a much more realistic living allowance. I am only suggesting this idea so that it can be looked at by the Treasurer and his Department. The characteristics of this 'Canada Income' scheme are that it eliminates poverty; it provides an incentive for the poor to work: it breaks the poverty cycle and removes the need for public housing and other subsidies to the poor, it is readily and fully understandable to the poor; it is visible and open for comprehension by non-poor; it takes care of sporadic and seasonal employment most readily; it eliminates testing; it eliminates snooping; it minimises administrative overheads. This article, which contains some tremendously important suggestions, warrants investigation to see whether the system could be incorporated into or adopted by our tax law. It applies not only to taxation. As I have said, it also provides for a more reasonable approach to social services as we know them, which is the most important part of the operation. 
Those are the main reasons why we of the Opposition believe that this Bill should be withdrawn and redrafted. It is not pertinent to the subject for me to go through the Bill because we do not agree with it. I have endeavoured to show that we believe that commonsense indicates that we should apply some other principles, in the changing conditions that we find in the world at present, in order to make our income tax law more realistic and a more operative way of raising our finance. This also would be helping those in need in the community. 
The  PRESIDENT  - Is the amendment seconded? 
Is the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry aware that following the 4c rise in the price of wheat the price of flour has been increased by some $6 per short ton? As the rise in the price of wheat accounts for only about $1.50 of the $6, have there been any protests from the Press or the honourable senators of the Opposition about the flour milling industry recovering increased costs in its price structure, or is it only the wheat growers who must absorb costs and smile? 

Are there any requests? There being no requests, I declare the vote passed. 
Postmaster-General's Department 
Proposed expenditure, $74,155,000 
ls leave granted? There being no objection leave is granted 
That the Committee  is  of the Opinion that, unless the Parliament has expressly provided otherwise, there is no area of expenditure of public funds by Statutory  Authorities  which can nol be examined by Parliament or  its  Committees, and in this regard confirms the opinion expressed in the report to the Senate by Estimates Committee  H,  viz.  - 'The Committee is of the  opinion  thai whilst  it  may be argued that these bodies are not accountable through lh responsible Minister of State lo Parliament for day to day operations. Statutory Corporations, may be called lo account by Parliament itself al any time and that there are no areas nf expenditure of public funds where these corporation* have a discretion to withhold details or explanations from Parliament nr its Committees unless (he Parliament has expressly provided otherwise.' 
I moved this motion because, in view of what Estimates Committee B said, it seemed desirable that the viewpoint expressed by it - I understand that  the Committee was unanimous and -that it expressed the viewpoint of all parties in this chamber - ought not to be left simply at the Estimates Committee stage but ought to be endorsed by the Committee of the Whole and ultimately adopted by the Senate if the Senate is so minded. This is a matter of extremely great importance but it is a little difficult. The Opposition believes that the proposition put by Estimates Committee B is correct, that when public moneys are being expended by corporations they should be subject to the scrutiny of the Parliament and its committees. After all, those corporations are only agents or instruments of the Commonwealth. They are set up in the form of corporations as a convenient means of conducting business. There is no need for them to be set up as corporations but we find that that is a convenient way to handle matters. 
Australia was one of the world's pioneers in the establishment of statutory corporations. In the last century we had in the States examples of the various corporations which were established to deal with the functions of transport and other spheres of governmental activity. Those people who have written articles on this subject have pointed to the extraordinary role which Australia played in forming corporations. The various States had the opportunity to experiment with different types of corporate control. One on the great questions has been the extent to which corporations should be subject to the control of the government. One finds in the various corporations different kinds of subjection to governmental control. Sometimes corporations might have to act according to the directions of a Minister and sometimes, unless there were intervention by the Government, the corporation was left free. But there has been a whole area of experimentation and sometimes change with regard to the different statutory corporations in relation to the manner and degree to which they were subject to government control. But the central principle has remained that, after all, corporations are only instruments of the Government. 
Certainly in the Commonwealth sphere they are agencies or instrumentalities of the Commonwealth. They expend moneys. 
They are set up in that form often for the purpose of removing them from interference in their day to day management. -It is a very convenient form in which to carry on certain governmental functions. But it would astonish anyone if a suggestion were to be seriously made that financial operations of the corporations were to be removed from scrutiny by the Parliament or its committees. While recognising the principle that one does not interfere with the day to day managerial operations of the corporations, nevertheless if the Parliament or one of its committees does in any particular respect want to know any detail whatever of the expenditure of the public funds controlled by these corporations there is no discretion to withhold those details or explanations. When I say that anyone would be astonished, I think the whole of the community was astonished when a high officer of one of the Commonwealth corporations announced that it was nobody's business when half a milion dollars were given away, that it was the corporation's money and no affair of anyone else. Of course, that is not right. Those moneys are public moneys. We think that the Committee was exactly right in its conclusions. This is not put forward in any way as other than to suggest that the. viewpoint which was taken by the persons appointed to that Committee by all the parties ought to be formally endorsed by the Committee of the Whole and then, we would hope, by the Senate on the adoption of the report. 
I would suggest to the Attorney-General that he should keep close to the terms of the debate. 

 CHAIRMAN - Several points of order have been taken. I have ruled on the earlier points of order which were taken. I now rule in respect to the latest point of order which has been taken. I think honourable senators need to exhibit some degree of restraint in their enthusiasm and emotion. I have allowed several speakers to stray beyond the strict limits of a discussion on the subject of immigration. The debate has switched to a debate on the policies of the Australian Labor Party. I rule that the Attorney-General is in order if he confines his remarks to the context of defending his criticism of the immigration policy of the Australian Labor Party, but it is not in order for him to go beyond the matter of the immigration policy of the Australian Labor Party. 
One of the strongest objectors to what I have been saying is an honourable senator who, for some 7 to 8 years was the Federal  President  of the Australian Labor Party. He. above all others, should know the truth of what 1 am saying. Why 1 say there has been a retreat from the Labor Party rules is that there has been a refusal to meet up to what honourable senators opposite were asked  to  challenge. How did this issue arise? It arose because  Senator Poyser,  a member of the Austraiian Labor Party, accused the Government of having an immigration policy which was based on racial discrimination. 1, as the person representing the Minister for Immigration  (Dr Forbes)  denied that we had a racial policy. I denied that we had a policy which would properly be described as a policy based on racial discrimination. I said quite fairly - this was before the suspension of the sitting for dinner - that if the Labor Party and  Senator Poyser  say that the Government has a racial policy what would the Australian Labor Party do in a comparable situation? 
I invite the attention of the Australian Labor Party lo its own platform. For more than an hour we have been listening to speeches by members of the Australian Labor Party. Not one of them has been prepared to explain the contradictions, the difficulties and the inherent problems in their own policy. It was for that reason - wilh some difficulty, I must confess - 'hat I was saying that the Australian Labor Party had engaged in as great a retreat on this night as  Mr Whitlam,  as Leader of the Australian Labor Party, engaged in when put* ing his leadership on the line to defend  Mr Harradine. Mr Whitlam  did not have the numbers so he abandoned  Mr Harradine  and even now that man is not allowed to attend a Federal Council meeting of the Australian Labor Party. Why should I use that example? It is one of many examples one can draw from the history of the Australian Labor Party of how its members say one thing one day and precisely the opposite the next day. The Australian people are entitled to something better from a Party which puts itself up as the alternative government of Australia. 
What does its policy say which honourable senators opposite will not explain? This is an area about which we are entitled to an explanation. As distinct from other parties members of the Australian Labor Party are bound by every letter of what is contained in their platform because it is their policy. I ask them to explain part of their policy to me. I accept  Senator Keeffe's  point about its being a policy 'administered with sympathy, understanding and tolerance'. The Labor Party's platform states that it shall be a policy which shall have regard, amongst other things, to this factor: 
The avoidance of the difficult social and economic problems which may follow from an influx of peoples having different standards of living, traditions and cultures. 
I understand that. I think all honourable senators understand it. lt is the attitude and the approach adopted by the Government, lt is the approach which the Labor Party has followed, I think, for more years than this Government has. It is the policy enunciated by  Mr Daly,  the Labor Party's spokesman on immigration for man) years, ft is the policy on which the Labor Parly went to countless elections. It is a policy, in other words, which is clearly understandable. 
We want a country, a people, which is not rent by the divisiveness which has characterised a host of other countries. That is not being racialist because we do not shut our doors to people of other colours, of other nationalities and of other skins. We do admit them. But we say to them that we want them to help our development; that we want them to assimilate in our own community. In that way we arc no different from Malaysia, the Philippines and Indonesia - all the other countries which have a similar immigration policy. That,  Mr Chairman,  is understandable. Then I ask: How does the Labor Party reconcile this part of its platform with that particular paragraph which, after months of controversy, it inserted in its platform at its annual conference this year. That paragraph is as follows: 
The avoidance of discrimination on any grounds of race or colour of skin or nationality. 
Which of those two principles is to be paramount? Are we to have an avoidance of discrimination irrespective of what might be the impact on our national wellbeing and on our homogeneity of population, or is the homogeneity of population to be the pre-eminent consideration? 1 hope it is the latter. But we have people like  Senator Poyser  and  Senator Keeffe  aided of course by the silence of  Senator Willesee,  who is the Labor Party's spokesman on immigration, and people like  Senator Cavanagh  and others, getting up and taking the view that the Government's policy is wrong because it is racialist, when all we are saying is that we will not give assisted passages to people wanting to come here if they are not of European descent. If that criticism is valid the Labor Party ought to say where it stands on this issue. Does the Labor Party say that it would change this policy of the Government which it is criticising? We have not heard that from  Mr Daly,  albeit he has been dismissed from his position as shadow Minister for Immigration. We have not heard it from  Mr Whitlam  or from  Senator Willesee,  but we have heard it from  Senator Poyser  - or have we heard it from  Senator Poyser? 
All I say is that these are areas upon which the Australian Labor Party is seeking to delude the Australian people. These are the areas upon which the Labor Party is seeking to have something each way. These are the areas upon which the Labor Party will not give a fair and square answer to the Australian people. 
The  CHAIRMAN (Senator Prowse)Your  point of order is not upheld. 
A Motion may be made at any time during the proceedings of a Commi.tee 'That the  Chairman  do report progress and ask leave to sit again.' 
My point of order is that your ruling in respect of the advice sought by  Senator Georges  was incorrect and  inconsistent with this standing order. 
The  CHAIRMAN (Senator Prowse)The  point of order is not upheld. An honourable senator cannot interrupt a  speaker  to move that progress be reported. 
Is it the policy of  Mr Dunstan?  ls it the policy of  Mr Whitlam?  Or was what was aid by  Mr Young,  the Federal Secretary Of that Party, on 'Monday Conference' some 2 months ago, true: 'It is a policy (hat we do not. have to explain until we get into government'? 

Order!  Senator Georges  wishes to raise a point of order. 

That is right. 
Proposed expenditure - Department of Primary Industry $78,646,000  -  agreed to. 
Proposed expenditure - National Service - Rural Occupation;! - ReEstablish.ment Loans and Vocational Training $434,000- agreed to. 
Department of the Army 
Proposed expenditure, $465,081,000. 
Repatriation Department 
Proposed expenditure, $374,545,000. 
Department of the Navy 
Proposed expenditure, $261,081,000. 
Department of Supply 
Proposed expenditure, $109,638,000 
Antarctic Division 
Proposed expenditure. $2,667,000. 
rs leave granted? There being no objection leave is granted.  (The document read as follows) -  4th November 1971 
Dear  Senator Withers, 
During the Estimates Committee A sittings on Tuesday, 26th October, dealing with the Division 459, Australian Security Intelligence Organisation,  Senator D.  McClelland asked, 'Are these funds subject to audit by the Auditor-General?' 
A comment was made by  Senator Georges  which was not relevant to the point to what I desired to refer to and then the  Chairman  said, 'I understand that the gentleman at the table is a Treasury official who may be able to help  Senator Marriott'. 

 Senator Marriott then said, 'My advice is that the Auditor-General's Department does not audit the ASIO accounts. My advice, which I repeat, is that it is accountable to Treasury'. 
I have now been informed by the Department of the Treasury that the answer given by  Senator Marriott  on the advice of the Treasury official present at that time was not completely accurate and I therefore desire to give the corrected information to your Committee as supplied to me by the First Assistant Secretary of Treasury,  Mr D.  J. Hill. 
The corrected answer as supplied to me is as follows: 
The accounts of the Australian Security Intelligence Organisation are audited by the AuditorGeneral under arrangements agreed in 1949 between the then Prime Miniter and Treasurer and the then Auditor-General. These arrangements provide for a normal audit of transactions and include as part of that audit the provsion of a certificate by the Director-General of 
Security in respect of a minor portion of the expenditure and by the responsible Minister certifying that that portion of the expenditure was properly made in the interests of the Public Service,  t  The Auditor-General accepts these certificates in completion of his audits. This arrangement is patterned on the British practice, dating back to the late 19th Century.' 

 Senator Sir KENNETH ANDERSONIn view of the reply which came to the Committee I gave a promise that an investigation would be made. As the reply is incorporated 1 do not think it is necessary to proceed with the argument. I would like to complete the consideration of the Estimates before the Senate rises. 
I seek leave to move a motion for the Senate to take note of the paper. 
Is leave granted? There being no objection, leave is granted. 
fail or neglect duly to furnish a return or information that he is required under this Act or the regulations to furnish; or 
furnish, in pursuance of this Act or the regulations, a return or information that is false or misleading in a material particular. 
Penalty: Two hundred dollars. (2.) A prosecution for an offence against this section may be commenced at any time within three years after the commission of the offence. 
On behalf of the Opposition I move: 
Leave out the words 'three years' and insert the words 'twelve months'. 
The Opposition has always opposed this type of proposition. It believes that a prosecution for an offence under the Act should be commenced within 12 months instead of within 3 years. The Committee might recall that in previous legislation the term was 5 years. On one occasion an amendment was moved to a Bill and the Government agreed to insert '3 years' instead of '5 years' but the Australian Labor Party believes that 3 years is far too long and that the term should be reduced to 12 months. 1 commend the amendment to the Committee. 

The question now is: 'That the words proposed to be inserted be inserted.' 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Clause 4, as amended, agreed to. 
Proposed new clause 5. 

Leave is granted. 
The second point I want to make by way of explanation of how 1 have been misrepresented is that 1 was accused of having wanted to delay this measure, to tuck it away, to hope that it never hit the deck. That is quite untrue. It is absolutely untrue. If anybody would care to remember what 1 said or to read the record of what I have said or to speak to anybody on this side of the chamber to whom 1. have spoken concerning this matter he will know that it is untrue. But it is part of a typical smear in which the Labor Party engages in order to denigrate anybody who happens to disagree with the point of view that it holds, and it will do it in complete defiance of what the record says. I have been concerned to have looked at in some depth the very deep problems which this issue has raised and which are involved in it. That is why I said earlier that I regret that the Committee to which it was referred had not done so. 
Order! The Senate has debated this matter hitherto on a very high level. I trust that tonight there will be no exception to the way in which this serious matter has been discussed. These comments apply equally to both sides of the chamber. 
I call  Senator Rae. 
The statement I wish to make is the interim report of the Senate Standing Committee on Industry and Trade. I present an interim report from the Standing Committee on Industry and Trade on the proposed takeover of Ansett Transport Industries Limited by Thomas Nationwide Transport Limited. 
Since 13th April when the Senate directed this Committee to investigate the proposed takeover of Ansett Transport Industries Limited by Thomas Nationwide Transport Limited, the Committee has been heavily involved in preparing itself in relation to the matter under inquiry. 
The Committee has already carried out a substantial amount of background work in relation to the matter before it and has availed itself of expert advice in areas of aviation, transport, industrial economics and relevant legislation. 
The Committee commenced its public hearings on 26th April and they continued this morning. However, the  Chairman  of TNT,  Mr K.  W. Thomas, this afternoon stated to the Committee that the Directors of TNT made a decision today not to proceed with the proposed takeover. The relevant part of  Mr Thomas's  statement is as follows:  1 am informed that in the Victorian Parliament this morning a Bill was introduced which, I understand, has now passed the second reading. I am informed that there is a specific prohibition in that Bill of a takeover offer for Ansett Transport Industries Limited by Thomas Nationwide Transport Limited. 
In the circumstances, our Directors have been consulted during the luncheon break and I have been authorised to state that the Directors of TNT have resolved not to proceed with the proposed takeover. 
The Committee will report to the Senate in more detail within the 28 days specified in its reference, but takes this early opportunity to ask the concurrence of the Senate to agree to the Committee's suggestion not to continue further with its investigations under its existing terms of reference. 
 The purpose  of  bringing this matter to the Senate is obvious to all honourable senators. The Committee was considering the reference that had been given to it under a definite set of circumstances. Th circumstances changed rather dramatically and we of the Committee felt that we had an obligation to return to the Senate and report the situation so that the Senate would have an opportunity to consider the altered situation in which its Committee found itself. 
 So that the Senate itself could, if it felt it was necessary, alter the wording of the reference which the Committee feels is no longer applicable. We realise that certain matters are unresolved, but they are not related to the existing reference. I suggest that the Senate defer this debate which has been brought on suddenly owing to circumstances. Some little time could then be given to consideration of restating the terms of reference taking into account the altered circumstances. I feel that there is a need for such action because the reference as it stands is no longer applicable. 
My question is addressed to the Minister representing the 
Postmaster-General. Is there any significance in the fact that my question asked on 21st March 1972 is numbered 1974'? May I be assured that the reply will be made before 1974? If so, might I have an early reply, especially in consideration of the universal dissatisfaction with the telephone books used presently in Western Australia? 
Exactly. This is quite a serious matter. If petitions are to be treated seriously they should be presented in a proper form. I support  Senator Turnbull's  suggestion that the whole matter of the presentation of petitions and the way in which they should be received should be examined by the Standing Orders Committee. 
I move: 
That the Senate take note of the report. 
In doing so, I wish to speak very briefly on the matter. I have no intention of attempting to convey to the Senate any of the matter contained in the report. The report is available now for all to read. However, I do wish to take this opportunity to place on record the appreciation of the Committee of the most able and willing cooperation of various departmental officers whose assistance has been made available to us by their respective Ministers. We have been able to avail ourselves of specialist advice in the many matters involved, without which we could not have prepared a meaningful report in the time available to us. As Chairman of the Committee, I express my thanks to the staff, who have worked under considerable pressure for many days. Not least do I appreciate the co-operation and enthusiasm of the members of the Committee in engaging in this task, which has been subject to considerable publicity and great frustration by events occurring since the work has commenced. 
Debate (on motion by  Senator Wilkinson)  adjourned. 
Motion (by  Senator Prowse)  proposed: 
That  the  resumption of  the  debate  be  made an order of  the  day for  the  next day of sitting. 
I present the report from the Senate Standing Committee on Industry and Trade relating to the proposed takeover of Ansett 
Transport Industries Ltd by Thomas Nationwide Transport Ltd, together with the evidence taken by the Committee. 
Ordered that the report be printed. 
I ask for leave to move a motion in relation to that report. 
asked the Minister representing the Postmaster-General, upon notice: 
Have any, savings been made by separating the Western Australian telephone directory into a metroplitan and several country directories; if so (a) what is the amount of the savings, and (b) is it considered that these savings warrant the inconvenience imposed upon subscribers, as evidenced by their many protests. 

 Senator GREENWOOD- The PostmasterGeneral has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
Yes. 
$18,000. This amount is the difference in the expected cost of producing the metropolitan and 5 country telephone directories and an estimate of the expenditure which would have been incurred had the State of Western Australia been covered as a whole by one telephone directory as before. The saving has been achieved notwithstanding the inclusion in each country telephone directory of a fully classified section allowing for each business subscriber to have a free listing under an appropriate classification. Also it was necessary to produce extra copies of the 1971 directories for free issue to subscribers who feel they may have a need for other than their local book. Experience has shown that after the first issue of a restructured directory, many subscribers requesting books for other areas find they have little real need for them. Accordingly, the number of additional copies which needs to be printed for this purpose diminishes significantly with consequent savings in production costs. 
The change would not have been made if it were felt that it would have meant loss of convenience for subscribers generally and it was accepted that some subscribers, because of their calling habits, would have a need for books other than their local one. Therefore, provision was made for subscribers who had such a need to obtain free copies of the required books on request. 
Order! The honourable senator is straying a little from the clause. 
Order! The time allowed for the discussion on the allotment of time has expired. Therefore I put the questionthat the time for consideration of the Bill be, for the Committee stage until 12.30 p.m. on 31st May and for the remaining stages, until 12.45 p.m. on 31st May. 
Question put: 
That the motion  (Senator Greenwood's)  be agreed to. 
 Mr President  as  Chairman  of Committees I have to report that  Senator Greenwood  moved that the Bill be declared an urgent Bill, whereupon  Senator Murphy  sought to move a motion which I ruled as not being in conformity with the Standing Orders.  Senator Murphy  then moved dissent from my ruling. 
 Senator Murphy,  are you proposing to debate it? 
 Order! In conformity with the sessional order relating to the adjournment of the Senate. I formally put the question: 
That the  Chairman  do now leave the Chair and reportto the Senate. 
As  Chairman, Mr President,  I have to report that 1 requested  Senator Keeffe  to withdraw the word 'untruth' in connection with a statement by the AttorneyGeneral.  Senator Keeffe  refused to withdraw and I accordingly named him. 
Order!  Senator Milliner,  you are now getting dangerously close to offending the Chair. 
 Mr President,  during the debate  Senator Wheeldon  has moved dissent from my ruling. He sought to criticise a ruling of the Chair on certain grounds. 1 can find no standing order to permit such criticism. I ruled that  Senator Wheeldon  was not in order and he has moved dissent from my ruling. 
I think the Hansard reporters would have difficulty in recording the nodding of a head. 
Railway Department in Queensland and of course, there are always demarcation disputes. The Australian Federated Union of Locomotive Enginemen, which is not the major union, decided on Sunday that at a meeting of its members and that it would embark on a 24hour stoppage as from midnight on Sunday. As a result the whole Railway Department was thrown into confusion. Of course, the public was also inconvenienced. I believe that if all the unions within the Railway Department had amalgamated there would have been far greater consideration of the problem in dispute. The AttorneyGeneral will not accept these things, but they are factual and they happen every day. I submit to the AttorneyGeneral that until such time as he does accept the facts he is going to have problems. 
I am not going to appeal to the AttorneyGeneral to withdraw that part of the legislation which concerns amalgamations. In my humble opinion it is extremely bad legislation, but the trade union movement will deal with that in its own way at the appropriate time. But I do appeal to the AttorneyGeneral to withdraw this amendment because if he does not it will cause confusion. The amendment will be the basis of litigation in years to come. Like  Senator Cavanagh,  I believe it will injure those people who have genuinely gone about seeking amalgamation. I spoke the other day about a State union in Queensland which has no federation whatsoever and which is seeking to affiliate with its parent union, the Australasian Meat Industry Employees Union. Those negotiations are going on at the present time. Please do not interfere with them. If the Attorney General interferes with them he will interfere with the livelihood of about 1,500 workers who cannot sustain their union under the present circumstances. 
Is it the will of the Committee that proposed sections 18 to 31 be taken together and proposed sections 32 to 35 be taken together? There being no objection, that course will be followed. 
Proposed new sections 18 to 31. 
Proposed section 20, which relates to a disputes procedure designed to regulate relationships, becomes a device by which to apply penalties. At first glance one would say that the disputes procedure provision - something which the union movement discussed with the employers and with the Government over many years - would be a good thing. These discussions did take place. In 1969 and 1970 the trade unions, through the National Labour Advisory Council, discussed this matter with the Government and with the employers, and a procedure was developed from these discussions. The Government is putting this new procedure into the legislation, and a breach of the procedure becomes a matter for the application of section 119 of the Act. In a moment I shall read the procedure that was proposed in the first instance. I personally am aware of voluntary agreements having been made by employers with employees and the unions in relation to disputes procedure. These procedures now appear in many agreements and there are no penalties or sanctions involved in them. At the conclusion of a meeting of the National Labour Advisory Council held on 21st April 1971, the Minister for Labour and National Service  (Mr Lynch)  issued this statement: 
The employer and ACTU members of NLAC agreed: l.That representative tripartite discussion concerning the operation of the Commonwealth Conciliation and Arbitration Act should begin as soon as possible and should embrace the question of sanctions, including the ACTU suggestion of the desirability of investigating the adoption of a system of voluntary agreements to regulate the relations between employers and unions outside the legislation, including, if desired by the parties, provisions for their enforcement. 
That is the critical part of the Minister's statement. These procedures were designed first of all as arrangements fully entered into between the employers and the unions. A great number of these arrangements are now incorporated in agreements which have been certified by the Commission. Many other arrangements have been entered into outside the Commission. They were entered into voluntarily. The provisions being sought to be put into the Act will mean that these arrangements can be enforced in the event that they are breached. To talk about improving the conciliation processes of the Act by inserting these procedures in this way is, I suggest, quite wrong. 
I turn now to the provision which relates to the new task force panels. The new panels in fact will mean the implementation of a very rigid system of arbitration. It will not be as flexible as it is under the present legislation. For example, proposed section 23 (3.) reads:  lt is the duty of the Presidential Member who is a member of a panel under this section to organise and allocate the work of the members of the panel in respect of the industry or industries allocated to the panel, and the other members of the panel shall comply with directions given by, the Presidential Member in the performance of that duty. 
So instead of providing for a more effective system of arbitration, the panel provision splits the activities of the Commission into 2 rigid sections of arbitration and con.ciliaton, but the proposed new section provides for this tight control where the ordinary member shall comply with the instructions of the presidential member in relation to proposed section 25. Proposed section 25 reads:  (1.) As soon as an organisation or an employer becomes aware of the existence of an industrial dispute affecting the organisation or its members or affecting the employer, as the case may bc, the organisation or employer shall forthwith notify the relevant Presidential Member, or the Registrar, accordingly. 
The legislation has been redrafted and it seems to me to be more restrictive. Proposed section 28 (2.), which relates to the obligations of the Conciliation Commissioner, reads: 
A Conciliation Commissioner shall refuse to certify a memorandum or make an award or order in accordance with this section if he is of the.opinion that - 
the terms are not in settlement of an industrial dispute; 
any of the terms is  a  term that the Commission does not have power to include in an award; or 
it is not in the public interest that he should certify the memorandum or make the award or order. 
The terminology of paragraph (b) has been changed. In addition it will be seen that the Commission is now bound to take note of the public interest. Reference to this matter occurs in a later part of the Bill and more will be said about it. Proposed section 30, which provides for reference of disputes to arbitration, states that the conciliation commissioner shall report to the relevant presidential member as to the dispute and the unsettled matters. Here we become involved in a legal situation. It is said that there shall not be disclosed anything said or done in the conciliation process concerning matters in dispute which have remained unsettled. There we see the framework being established bit by bit on purely legal lines. The proposed section restricts whatever ability a commissioner has to settle a dispute by conciliation. It establishes a restrictive channel. It is bad and is  a  backward step. It is directly the reverse of what has been the custom and the trend over many years and should not be passed. 
The extension of matters which have to go before a full bench of the Commission is also of great concern to the Opposition and to the trade unions. Proposed section 31 reads as follows:  (1.) The power of the Commission to make an award, or to certify, under section twenty-eight of this Act, an agreement - 
making provision for, or altering, the standard hours of work in an industry; 
making provision for, or altering, rates of wages, or the manner in which rates of wages are to be ascertained, on grounds predominantly related to the national economy and without examination of any circumstance pertaining to the work upon which, or the industry in which, persons are employed; 
making provision for, or altering, a minimum wage that is to be payable to adult males without regard to the work performed or to the industry in which they are employed; 
altering rates of wages for females on grounds pertaining to the relationship between rates of wages for females and rates of wages for males, except where the alteration is in accordance with principles determined by a Full Bench; or 
making provision for or in relation to, or altering a provision for or in relation to, annual leave with pay or long service leave with pay, is exercisable by a Pull Bench . . . 
This is the proposed section which imposes on the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission, as it will be constituted, the obligation to consider 'grounds predominantly related to the national economy and without examination of any circumstance pertaining to the work upon which, or the industry in which, persons are employed'. It becomes an extra  responsibility  placed on the Commission to deal with a question for which, in the main, it is not fitted. After all, it is the Commission's responsibility at the present time to be acquainted with the Government's views. The Government is the specialist. It sets the tone and the terms of the economy. It decides whether there is to be inflation or no inflation, unemployment or full employment. Obviously, the Government ought to have the responsibility of appearing before the Commission and putting its view in regard to any effect a decision might have on the national economy and negating whatever the unions or the employers may say in respect of this. Of course, the aim of this proposed section is to bind and hogtie the Commission to strict criteria, which the union movement will have to face, in order to make sure that the Government's policies on wages are kept intact. It is a backward step. The alteration of these matters and the extension of matters that go before a full bench are backward steps. 
Is leave granted? There being no objection, leave is granted. 
Section  119  of the Principal Act is amended by omitting from sub-section  (1.)  the words 'section thirty-two A' and inserting in their stead the words 'section thirty-three'. 
Operating on the wording of that clause of the Bill we are proposing to leave out the reference to section 32a. 
 Mr President,  I  have to report that the Committee has considered the Bill and has agreed to the same with amendments. I further report that the motion was agreed to in the Com mittee in accordance with standing order 407b under which the time allotted for the remaining stages of the Bill was until 1 p.m. today. 
Motion (by  Senator Greenwood)  agreed to: 
That the report by adopted. 
I have allowed the Leader of the Opposition and the Attorney-General to make statements which are not directly related to proposed new sections 32 to 35 and it would help the Committee if the honourable senator would confine his remarks to these sections. 

The question is, that the remainder of the Bill, including the remaining amendments circulated by the Government, be agreed to and the Bill be reported. 
The  CHAIRMAN (Senator Prowse)The  question is: That the remainder of the Bill, including the remaining amendments circulated by the Government be agreed to and that the Bill be reported'. 
Clause 68. 
Part  VIIIa  of the Principal Act as amended by this Act does not apply in relation to an amalgamation in relation to which, before the date of commencement of this section - 
an application was made to the Registrar in accordance with section one hundred and thirty-nine of the Principal Act; or 
a request referred to in paragraph (c) of sub-section (3G) of section one hundred and forty-three of the Principal Act has been made to the Registrar, being a request that complies with the requirements of that paragraph. 
Government amendment - 
At end of paragraph (a) leave out 'or', insert and'. 
Question put. 

<graphic href="052232197205311_30_5_2_N.jpg"></graphic>


<graphic href="052232197205311_30_5_1_A.jpg"></graphic>


<graphic href="052232197205311_30_5_3_P.jpg"></graphic>

Question resolved  in  the affirmative. 
In the Senate 

The question is that this Bill stand as printed. Those of that opinion say aye, those against no, I think the ayes have it. 
asked the Minister representing the Postmaster-General, upon notice: 
Having regard to the minimal estimated saving of $18,000 in establishing the new system of multiple telephone directories in Western Australia, will the Postmaster-General give earnest consideration to the many requests from Western Australian telephone subscribers for the introduction of a separate directory for country subscribers and another for metropolitan subscribers. 
If economies are to be gained by the introduction of  a  multiplicity of telephone directories, will the Postmaster-General examine the possibility of dividing the metropolitan directory into several sections similar in size to those for rural communities  in  an effort to effect savings to the Department 

 Senator GREENWOOD- The PostmasterGeneral has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
The figure of $18,000 mentioned in reply to Question No. 1974 asked by the honourable senator earlier this year was arrived at notwithstanding the additional cost of printing extra copies of the 1971 directories for free issue and the inclusion, in each country telephone directory, of a fully classified section allowing for each business subscriber to have a free listing under an appropriate classification. Nevertheless, the question of subscriber convenience is regarded by the Post Office as being of more importance than savings in costs and the new arrangements in force in Western Australia - and elsewhere throughout the Commonwealth - would not have been introduced if it were thought that subscribers were not being adequately catered for. In this regard, most residence and small business subscribers call within their immediate community of interest which can be covered by regional telephone directories. Other subscribers who regularly call outside the area covered by their local telephone directory are supplied with free copies of other area directories on request. 
Subscriber convenience is also the determining factor in regard to metropolitan directories. The current Sydney and Melbourne directories are fast becoming too bulky for subscribers to refer to conveniently and inevitably they will have to be produced in smaller valumes. The Perth book has not reached this stage of development and will not be split solely in the interests of cost savings. 
I direct a question to the Leader of the Government in the Senate which relates to a question asked earlier concerning French nuclear tests. In view of the current protests against the French nuclear tests, is the Minister aware that the Chinese share with the French a policy of persisting with nuclear testing? Is there any evidence of harmful levels of radio activity following the last French nuclear tests? If there is no evidence of health dangers, what are the grounds for protest? Finally, will any protests directed against nuclear testing be directed to both nations using nuclear test explosions? 

 Senator Sir KENNETH ANDERSONThe honourable senator's question relates to an answer given earlier or, more particularly I think, to a question asked earlier. I am not in a position to say categorically the extent of the testing that has been conducted by Mainland China. Statements have been made through the agencies of 2 departments in relation to previous testing in the Pacific which state in fairly categorical terms that the influence of the tests has not been significant and, in fact, has not been a hazard to health. I am happy to obtain those statements and perhaps produce them tomorrow. As I say, I think they emanated from 2 different departments with an interest in the subject. As to the suggestion of  Senator Prowse  that if protests are to be made in relation to what the French Government is doing, protests should be made in relation to what the Government of Mainland China or other nations are doing. I could not agree more. 
I seek leave to make a short statement relating to the report. 
I also direct a question to the Minister representing the Minister for Shipping and Transport relating to  the supply of sleepers to the Commonwealth Railways. Has the Minister received urgent representation from the Labor Government of Western Australia in the interests of an existing industry that the Commonwealth give consideration to the continuation of the supply of sleepers for the Commonwealth Railways? 
 Last Wednesday the Senate, in Committee, took a great deal of time discussing the Estate Duty Assessment Bill. During much of that time, because I was occupied in my capacity as  Chairman  of Committees, it was quite unethical for me to attempt to reply to some statements that were made during that debate. However, late in the evening a situation occurred in which  Senator Douglas  McClelland, in pursuing an argument, was let to quote from the policy of the Country Party. I intended to rise to speak to this matter on Thursday night and I informed  Senator Douglas  McClelland of my intention. But owing to a combination of the selerity with which the  President  adjourned the Senate and my aging knees - my being rather slow to rise - I missed the opportunity of correcting the statement made by  Senator Douglas  McClelland. (Honourable senators interjecting) 
I know that the Senate is in a good humour tonight. I was interested that  Senator James  McClelland referred to his maiden contribution on an adjournment debate. This also is my maiden contribution on an adjournment debate. However, to get on to the matter under discussion, certain parts of the policy of the Country Party in relation to taxation were quoted by  Senator Douglas  McClelland. I suggest that because of pressure of time and because he came into the debate late - I believe originally he did not intend to come into it - he did not sufficiently research the subject on which he was speaking. An injustice has been done to the Country Party in relation to its policy by what now appears in Hansard. I take this opportunity to correct what is a wrong interpretation of Country Party policy. That error was aggravated because  Senator McLaren  chose to interject: 
No mention of abolition. 

 Senator Douglas McClelland replied: 
No mention of abolition, no mention of relieving hardship on the widow . . . merely a mention of minimising the estate duty. 
I have taken the trouble to obtain a photostat copy of the relevant portion of our policy and, with the concurrence of honourable senators, I incorporate it in Hansard so that there will be a clear understanding of Country Party policy in relation to taxation. (The document read as follows) - 
TAXATION 
The Australian Country Party supports theapplication of taxation at the lowest level compatible with the financing of national obligations and the maintenance of private initiative and borne equitably by all sections of the community but with minimal use of indirect taxation where the effect is to increase the cost of production. 
It supports: 
The use of taxation - 
to assist the development of Australia's natural resources; 
to encourage an even distribution of Australia's population throughout the continent. 
Taxation incentives, including concessions, rebates and depreciation allowances to enable efficient expansion in rural and export industries. 
The application of taxation so as to encourage individual initiative, enterprise and stimulate private capital investment. 
The provision of maximum relief for the taxpayer with family responsibilities. 
The encouragement of improved productivity through concessional allowances and taxation rebates on the acquisition of new plant and machinery and on money spent on research and development. 
The application of taxation concessions - 
to minimise the cost of education and medical and hospital expenses to persons living in isolated country areas; 
to offset the dissolution of stud properties and family rural estates to meet probate duties; 
to minimise the incidence of death duties so as to avoid the necessity for the forced sale of family property where the estate is left to the wife and children of the testator; 
to offset the effects of national disasters to primary producers. 
The maintenance of the 'averaging system' for primary producers at a reasonable level. 
The continuance of the optional system of self-assessment for provisional taxation. 
The progressive lessening of death duties towards their abolition. 
Whereas  Senator Douglas  McClelland replied that there was no mention of abolition, clause 9 of Country Party policy states: 
The progressive lessening of death duties towards their abolition. 

 Senator Douglas McClelland chose to state: 
I have a copy of the 1972 policy of the Australian Country Party. Page 36 of that policy. . . . 
That is the page I have had incorporated in Hansard. Unfortunately for  Senator Douglas  McClelland, he was quoting from the policy published in 1966, and there has been no official alteration to that publication. So the policy from which he was quoting way the 1966 policy, not the 1972 policy. So that the record may be put completely straight, let me say that in 1971 the Federal Executive of the Australian Country Party, which is the senior body in relation to policy matters, passed this resolution: 
That Federal death duties be eliminated forthwith. 
That is the current policy of the Country Party with regard to death duties. I raise this matter because there could be a complete, misunderstanding of Country Party policy in relation to death duties if the matter were not corrected. I am not suggesting for one moment that  Senator Douglas  McClelland deliberately misquoted our policy. In the time at his disposal it may be that he did not read as thoroughly as I think he might have the policy of the Country Party. 
This leads me to comment on something that was said by  Senator James  McClelland on the matter of the alleged association of the League of Rights with the Country Party. It has been variously stated by writers on the subject - there have been many published studies of the vagaries and the peculiarities of the League of Rights - that the League of Rights has an influence on the Liberal Party. It has even been said that members of the League of Rights are also members of the Labor Party. I have no doubt that this is true. I have no doubt that the policy of the League of Rights is to infiltrate all parties, and it certainly has made attempts to infiltrate the Australian Country Party. But  Senator James  McClelland engaged in a very pleasant little exercise in attempting to demonstrate some variations in attitude between various members of the Country Party - mainly in varying degrees of condemnation, it must be admitted, of the League of Rights. 
I doubt whether any approved completely. Some statements could have been interpreted as approving some part, but if one looks at the various publications of the League of Rights one will see that it espouses a great variety of causes. 
This sort of exercise, of course, could be repeated by other parties perhaps in relation to the Australian Labor Party. We could draw attention to some variation in thinking between  Dr Patterson  and  Mr Whitlam  in relation to the question of revaluation and we could ask: What is the attitude of the Labor Party towards revaluation? We could also draw attention to the opinion expressed by  Dr Patterson  on the ability of the Labor Party to have anything intelligent to say about rural policy. I can recall him saying on one occasion that there was hardly anybody in the Labor Party who knew anything at all about rural conditions. I am sure that he had never heard of  Senator Primmer,  for instance, who I think has considerable knowledge. But, if we like to pursue this sort of question, we can determine some very strange inconsistencies in various statements that have been made from time to time by members of the Labor Par:y. 
I would like to interpose at this stage with regard to the incorporation of the graph in Hansard. It has been ruled in the past that the Printing Office equipment is not geared to the printing of graphs of that sort in the daily edition of Hansard. In the past it has been ruled as not being practicable for graphs to be incorporated in Hansard. 
The question now is: 'That the Schedule be passed without requests'. 
Is it the wish of the. Committee to deal with the group of estimates considered by Senate Estimates Committee C as a whole? Is there any objection to that course being followed. 
Department of Works - proposed expenditure, $87,382,000 and proposed provision, $103,884,000 agreed to. 
Department of Foreign Affairs 
Proposed expenditure, $105,040,000. 
Proposed provision,$2,980,000. 
Is it the wish of the Committee to consider the estimates of those departments examined by Senate Estimates Committee E together? There being no objection, it is so ordered. 
Is leave granted? There being no objection, leave is granted. (The document read as follows) - 
DEPARTMENT OF EDUCATION AND SCIENCE 
P.O. Box 826 Woden, A.C.T. 2606 Telephone 81 7211. Telegrams 'EDSCI' 5th October 1972 
My dear Minister, 
During the examination of this Department by the Senate Estimates Committee the undertaking was given to provide additional information in regard to the contract for the cleaning of Nhulunbuy Area School on the Gove Peninsula. 1 should appreciate it if you would forward this letter to the Committee. 
At the time tenders were called for cleaning the Nhulunbuy School the Tender Board of the Northern Territory Administration was continuing to provide this Department with services on the same basis as it had provided services to the Education Section of the Northern Territory Administration when it was responsible for community schools in the Northern Territory. As a matter of routine it determined the form of tenders for the cleaning of this new school and invited tenders on 17th August 1971 to close on 13th September 1971. The Department's Northern Territory Office  concurred in the acceptance of the tender submitted by  Mr D.  A. Orr of Nhulunbuy at a cost of $40 per 1,000 square feet per week on 20th September 1971. 
Although it was understood by the Department's Central Office and so reported to both the Public Accounts Committee and the Senate Estimates Committee C that  Mr Orr  was the only tenderer, information has now been provided from the Department's records in Darwin that there were in fact 3 tenders received. Details of the tenders are not now available to the Department as all papers relating to them are held by the Tender Board. The Department's officers in the Northern Territory concurred in the acceptance of the tender submitted by  Mr Orr  on the understanding that it was the lowest. 
It was not until March 1972, when the first accounts were received, that it became clear that the contract with  Mr Orr  was so expensive. This was because the officer who examined the tenders assumed incorrectly that the area in respect of which payment would be made was the internal area of the school only. The contractor bases his price on the cleaning of certain external as well as internal areas and the tender documents support his interpretation. 
The Department shares the Committee's concern that such an expensive contract should have been accepted without more detailed consider'ation, and that a more detailed analysis of the implications of the form in which tenders were invited was not made before the tender was accepted. 
The remedial action taken by the Department to ensure more appropriate consideration of such contracts in the future comprises: 
the filling of the senior administrative position of Executive Officer, Class 10; 
the establishment of the Department's own Northern Territory Tender Board; and 
the future approach to the Public Service Board for 16 additional positions and to substantial revision of the administrative staff structure in the office within revised ceilings made available for the financial year 1972-73. 
The Executive Officer has entered into negotiations with the Northern Territory Administration Tender Board and the contractor with a view to reducing the cost of the contract. The negotiations are not yet completed but it is expected that they will result in a saving of approximately $9,000. The contract will terminate at the end of the school year. Tenders for 1973 will be called by the Department's Northern Territory Tender Board. They will be subject to detailed scrutiny to ensure that the best price for the Commonwealth is obtained consistent with providing for the health and comfort of the children. 
The Department has been looking closely at alternative ways of arranging cleaning for schools. The direct employment of cleaners presents difficulties at present. An attempt was made in previous years to provide cleaning at Katherine Area School by direct employment but this arrangement has not proved to be satisfactory. 
For this reason, current arrangements are for cleaning at Katherine to be done under contract. 
The Department, however, is giving serious consideration to more fundamental changes in the organisation of schools so that responsibility for such matters as cleaning and maintenance may be delegated to the school itself. A major aim of this study is to increase efficiency. 
The Department was also asked for an estimate of the total salary bill for the teaching staff at the school. This has been assessed at $138,000 for the 1972 school year. 
Yours sincerely, H. K. COUGHLAN  for A. H. ENNOR, Secretary 

 Senator the Honourable R. C. Wright, Minister for Works, Parliament House, 
Canberra, Australian Capital Territory 2600 
Is it the wish of the Committee that the Bill be taken as a whole? 
 Is leave granted for the 2 amendments to be moved together? There being no objection, leave is granted. 
My question is addressed to the Minister representing the Treasurer and/or the Minister representing the Minister for Overseas Trade. I think both Ministers are involved. Will either Minister make available to honourable senators a list of random retail prices of about 50 imported items ruling in the week before revaluation and also showing the retail prices of the same goods 30 days after revaluation? 
My question, which is addressed to the Minister for the Media, covers also in part his representation in this chamber of the Minister for Health. Is the Minister aware that in a 'Four Corners' programme on 17th February the statement was made that the English general practitioner paid his own rent and secretarial assistance out of salary received from the government? Is it a fact that rent is paid directly by the government on the basis of council valuation? In addition, is 70 per cent of ancillary help paid for from the national health scheme? If the answer to the second part of the question is yes, will the Minister endeavour to see that the Australian Broadcasting Commission employs persons who are capable of reporting fact instead of fiction? 
My question which is addressed to the Minister for the Media is further to my question of 1st March which was related to the 'Four Corners' television program of 17th February. Now that the Minister is aware of the statement referring to the English general practitioner in relation to the British health scheme, has he verified the accuracy or otherwise of those statements? If they have been found to be inaccurate, what action is being taken to inform the public correctly of the facts? 
My question, which is addressed to the Minister for Primary Industry, follows upon a question asked by  Senator O'Byrne. Senator O'Byrne  asked whether the Minister could tell the difference between a merino ram and a corriedale ram. My burning question to the Minister is: Could he tell whether the rams in question were black or red? 
My question, which is directed to the Attorney-General, is prompted by the exchange of questions and answers in relation to the practice of Scientology. Does the acceptance of loose and indefinite criteria and provisions in recognising a church mean that people practising witchcraft and similar practices can now apply to have their practices given benign approval and marriage ceremonies perpetrated under their rights recognised by law? 
 As a Western Australian I cannot allow this debate to go on without a contribution on behalf of my State. I would hate to have a situation in which it was thought that only Tasmania had an apple and pear industry. The concern which has been expressed by the honourable senators from Tasmania is equally a concern in Western Australia. The apple growing industry is a major part of the economy of the south west of Western Australia. All the difficulties which have been mentioned and perhaps some more are experienced by those growers. We are fighting additional costs such as shipping and handling. The cost of packing is eating into the return to the grower so that he is always last on the list. Everyone else seems to be protected. The grower receives what is left. 
 Mr President,  1 understood you to tell the Senate that this matter had been referred already to the Standing Orders Committee. Am I right? 
Therefore, I do not propose to delay the Senate for many moments on this matter. The Standing Orders Committee is the rightful place for the problem of the incorporation in Hansard of material in the course of a speech to be considered, in a calm and dispassionate way. Basically, the purpose of incorporating material in Hansard is to save the time of the Senate. Implied in the right to incorporate material in Hansard is the condition that the material is relevant to the speech that is being delivered and does not contravene the Standing Orders in any way. Therefore, I think that this practice which, admittedly, has existed for some time is open to abuse. It is a subject that should be examined by the Standing Orders Committee so that the Senate may have a sensible and uniform practice. I trust that the Senate will agree that the Standing Orders Committee is the correct body to consider this matter. Whatever findings it reaches will be presented to the Senate for discussion. That discussion of the practice of incorporating material in Hansard will, I believe, be a worthwhile one. 
Does the Leader of the Government in the Senate recall that on 17th October last year he had referred to the Senate Standing Committee on Industry and Trade the matter of the high prices of hides and the effect of these high prices on the leather footwear and allied industries? Is he aware that figures published in the 'Daily Telegraph' today show that the price of a 35 lb hide has fallen from $17 in November last to $7.80 - a drop of 54 per cent - and that there are now no inquiries for leather from overseas? Has the Minister received any representations from the leather footwear and allied industries indicating that because of the great fall in the price of hides there is an intention to lower the prices of their products? 
My question is  addressed to the acting Minister for Primary Industry. Has the Minister seen the telex report of the statement by the Minister for Primary Industry that there would be no more open-ended subsidies to the wheat industry? What open-ended subsidy has existed in the past? Have the subsidies not been determined by the Bureau of Agricultural Economics calculations relating to cost movements and limited in quantity to 200 million bushels? 
Having regard to the Minister's statement that a rural price organisation similar to the Tariff Board is to be set up, does the statement indicate that the determinations of such a body will be overridden by the Minister? 
My question is  addressed to the Minister representing the Minister for Civil Aviation and also to the Minister representing the Minister for Health as 1 think that it comes within both jurisdictions. It concerns the circumstances surrounding a strike by porter-loaders employed at Perth airport on 30th March of this year. 
Were the food scraps taken by the person involved from an international aircraft? Was the food initially loaded at an overseas point? What procedures have been adopted to ensure that there can be no further occurrences of this nature, having regard to the high degree of risk associated with the release of food scraps from international aircraft, if the food in question comes from an overseas source? 
I listened with considerable interest to the contributions from  Senator McAuliffe  and  Senator Poyser.  If  Senator McAuliffe  were a soccer supporter rather than a rugby league supporter, I would say to him with respect to one point that he made that he was a little offside. The honourable senator said that one of the purposes of the introduction of this Bill was to permit a redistribution in Western Australia to take place. I do not blame  Senator McAuliffe  for making that sort of statement because he errs in good company. The same statement was made in the second reading speech delivered by the Attorney-General  (Senator Murphy).  He said: 
The Western Australian situation therefore makes a redistribution not only necessary but urgent - 
We all agree with that statement. He continued:  . . and, if the provisions of the Electoral Act relating to distributions are to be changed, appropriate legislation must be passed by the Parliament. 
Of course, that is utter nonsense. The Labor Party and other people prior to the last Federal election were talking about taking legal action to compel the then Government to arrange for a redistribution in Western Australia. So both  Senator McAuliffe  and  Senator Murphy  were completely erroneous in suggesting that the need for a redistribution in Western Australia was one of the reasons why the Bill was introduced. 

 Senator Poyser attributed to my leader,  Senator Drake-Brockman,  a statement that the Country Party was interested in opposing the Bill because we wanted to preserve the interests of the Country Party in rural areas. He pointed out, quite rightly, that a large number of seats in rural areas are held by Labor Party representatives. He mentioned the distinguished member for Kalgoorlie  (Mr Collard)  who holds one of the seats which are well below the quota. I do not know what purpose, other than misrepresentation, he had in saying that we are concerned primarily with the fate of the Country Party, but my leader said that he was concerned with the representation of country people whether they be represented by Labor, Liberal or Country Party. We believe that electoral justice in a situation in which the movement of population to the city areas is increasing requires a loading in favour of country people.- The loading cannot alter to any major degree the balance of the parties, except insofar as country people accept the policies of the Country Party to a greater degree than they accept the policies of the other 2 parties. On  Senator Poyser's  admission, certain very large areas are held by the Labor Party. At the same time, the Country Party holds the seat which is the second largest over the quota. At the previous election a Western Australian vote was worth less than a vote in any other State. So what we have to consider is the practicability of the Elecoral Act. 1 know that the cry of one vote one value is essentially the cry for a mathematical equality of seats so far as numbers of electors are concerned, and this ideal of one vote one value is inherent in the present proposals. I think all honourable senators subscribe to that idea, . within the realms of a sensible and workable scheme. I heard  Senator McManus  speak very strongly in favour of a system of proportional representation. He had very sound arguments in favour of it, but it is not a part of this Bill. It is not a suggestion which is contained in this Bill. The essential part of the Bill is the proposal to reduce the margin from 20 per cent to 10 per cent in order to attain this ideal of mathematical equality. Let us look at what could happen if we had, say, 100 seats perfectly and evenly divided. Would it result in an evenness of voting or would the ultimate electoral results reflect the percentage voting of the people? I submit that it would not do either unless at the same time we had in these 100 seats a situation in which all parties were equally balanced. If a small number of seats gave a large majority to one or other of the parties and if a large number of seats gave a smaller majority to one or other of the parties, a minority would elect a government. This principle is inherent in the one seat idea of electing the parliament. It is not being altered by the Bill. The Bill narrows the margin and will make the electoral system very nearly unworkable. In fact it will require such frequent alterations to boundaries that nobody will know who his member is. People will not be in one constituency long enough to know who their member is. 
I listened to  Senator McAuliffe  suggesting, as is popular, this idea of a Country Party gerrymander. Of course, that is nonsense. The relevant section was introduced into the Act 20 years before a Country Party was in existence. 
Let us look at the 1965 amendment.  Senator McAuliffe  said that the Country Party was responsible for making drastic changes to the Act in 1965. What were the changes? The old Act referred to community or diversity of interest'. The amended Act referred to 'community of interest within a division, including economic, social and regional interests'. That is not a change. It is simply an expansion of the meaning. The old Act referred to 'means of communication'. The amended Act referred to 'means of communication and travel within the division, with special reference to disabi lities arising out of remoteness or distance*. The amended Act added the phrase 'the trend of population changes within the State'. That phrase was not in the old Act, but the Commissioners had been using the trend of population changes within the State as a guide. I think everybody will agree that those alterations were thoroughly reasonable ones because if Commissioners were to be consistent in the distribution of seats or in setting them up in the first place it was highly desirable that they could take into account as a guide to the quota which should be set, whether the electorate was increasing rapidly or was declining rapidly. 
The only additions in the new Act were the density or sparsity of population of the division' and 'the area of the division'. Of course they were simply in line with the 20 per cent margin which had been in operation since Federation. The physical features of the division' and the 'existing boundaries of divisions and sub-divisions' were not altered. If they are drastic alterations, I do not comprehend the meaning of the word 'drastic'. There was another alteration, and that required the Commissioners to make known to the Parliament the reasons for and the objections to proposed redistribution. It was provided that under the Act it would be illegal for any representations to be made to or any attempt to be made to influence the Commissioners, except in the manner set out in the Act. I think this was an eminently sound safeguard against this very gerrymandering that has so often been alleged against the Country Party. Of course, at various times it has been alleged against the Liberal Party and the Labor Party. It is a popular cry. But this safeguard was put into the Act. 
If we look at this ideal of a perfect balance or equality of number of electors in each seat the situation could arise in which a swing of 2 per cent or 3 per cent either way could virtually annihilate one or other party. It is clear that the closer you get to this ideal of equal representation and equal numbers, the closer you are to getting a change that would sweep one party or the other completely out of the Parliament at an election in which a swing occurred one way or the other. I do not think that this is a desirable situation in our electoral system. 
The 20 per cent margin was provided originally for a good and practical reason. I believe that if we alter it to 10 per cent, as is proposed in the Bill, we will do something that will add enormously to the cost of maintaining our electoral apparatus. We will bring confusion to the electors and I think that we will do an injustice to people who live in the outback. At times we give great support to the concept of decentralisation, but I think that we have to live with the fact that the cities today contain a disproportionate number of the people of Australia. We have to recognise the fact that people in the nutback are contributing disproportionately to the economic wealth of Australia. The members of Parliament who represent those people have a much harder task in getting access to their electors; conversely, the electors in those areas have a very much harder task in getting to see their members of Parliament. The distance that they have to travel is enormous. So unless we make this concession that was built into the Commonwealth Electoral Act at the outset, I believe that we will perpetrate a greater injustice than any of the alleged injustices in the present Act. Therefore, I must oppose the Bill. 
 I call  Senator Wright. 
My question, which is addressed to the Minister for Primary Industry, refers to a previous question asked regarding the reported sale of wool to China. Was the Australian Wool Corporation in any way directed by or influenced by the Government into entering into this sale or was the sale entirely on the initiative of the Australian Wool Corporation? 
We are dealing with the Bill as a whole, so we can deal with any clause. 
asked the Minister rep resenting the Minister for Health, upon notice: 
Did a strike of porter-loaders employed at Perth Airport occur on 30 March 1973, over the removal of food scraps from an international aircraft. 
Were the food scraps taken from an international aircraft. 
Was the food initially loaded at an overseas point. 
What procedures have been adopted to see that there can be no further occurrences of this nature, having regard to the high degree of risk associated with the release of food scraps from international aircraft, if the food in question comes from an overseas source. 

 Senator DOUGLAS McCLELLAND - The 
Minister for Health has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
Yes. 
Yes. 
No. The food was initially loaded at Sydney on an aircraft bound for overseas in transit through Perth, W.A. 
Food on aircraft arriving from overseas is under direct quarantine control at all times. 
Removal of food which is a quarantinable risk and disposal of food scraps is effected  by  Commonwealth quarantine officers who supervise removal from aircraft and disposal  by  incineration. 
My question to the Minister representing the Minister for Health follows upon the answer supplied yesterday to my question on notice No. 265 regarding food taken from international aircraft. I had asked what procedures had been adopted to see that there were no further occurrences of this nature. The answer did not provide a reply to this question. If food was illegally taken from an international aircraft landing in Perth or elsewhere, can the Minister give an assurance that the quarantine control is adequate to prevent the illegal removal of food coming from overseas sources? What difference is there between procedures with regard to food surpluses from overseas and food surpluses from internal sources? 
We have 3 Bills before the Committee. An amendment has been circulated to the Housing Agreement Bill 1973. I suggest that the Committee proceed to deal with that Bill first and then deal with the other two Bills together. Is it the wish of the Committee that we follow that procedure? There being no objection, we will proceed on that basis. 
Housing Agreement Bill  1973 
The Bill. 
Is leave granted? There being no objection, leave is granted. 
Progress reported. 
Order! I think that the honourable senator is getting a bit wide of the Bill. 
Order!  Senator Byrne,  I have to convey to you the opinion of the Clerks that your amendment is out of order. The motion before the Chair is that clause 1 be postponed. The balance of the amendment is merely an amplification of the motion. Therefore, your amendment as put forward is not in order. 
 My comments on the 4 Bills will be brief for very much the same reason as  Senator Rae  indicated. The whole area of education these days is an exciting and challenging one. Developments in the field of education would excite a wide-ranging debate, given the opportunity. However, I shall comment very briefly on the 4 Bills that we have been asked to discuss together. The States Grants (Advanced Education) Bill 1973 provides $5m for libraries in the 1973-75 period without any requirement of a matching State contribution. It provides 40,000 for post-graduate social work in 1973. It provides $3m to universities and colleges of advanced education. A certain amount has been provided to colleges of advanced education for special assistance to students suffering financial hardship. I think these are all very worthy aims and provided the money is directed and spent wisely it will be of great benefit in achieving those aims. 
AH the institutions which will benefit are centered in the capital cities. I think at this time we should be paying greater attention than we are giving to the needs of education in country areas. I know that it is an expensive business to do so. J know that it is much easier to concentrate on education in the cities, but the need is perhaps greater in the country towns, particularly for libraries in country high schools where there is" no alternative such as the public libraries which are available in the cities. Many alternative sources of library facilities are available to city students. If the Government wants to get mo/e balance in providing adequate education for our people it will have to broaden its approach, expensive though that will be. 
The States Grants (Universities) Bill will provide assistance for needy university students. However, I think that the decision to abolish fees in the 1974 academic year is a great mistake. It will remove the necessity for a great number of students to pay fees, although they or their parents could afford to do so, and to that extent it will impose a greater load on the general taxpayers who have to finance universities. In the past the Commonwealth has provided scholarships for the payment of fees and I think it would have been better to have expanded that approach rather than to abolish fees. I think the approach adopted is mistaken and shortsighted. The States Grants (Universities) Bill (No. 2) will provide additional money to train qualified social workers and obviously they are needed. The purpose behind the Bill is to provide something for which there is a great need and we welcome it. 
I am interested in the additional $10m which is to be provided under the States Grants (Technical Training) Bill, one of this group of 4 Bills dealing with education. The proposal is to increase the amount of money available over a 3-year period from $3 6m to $46m. I hope that the extra $10m will pro*, vide some increase in the benefits obtainable, from expanded technical training and will not be absorbed in the overall costs. We can visualise costs escalating in the general inflationary situation and within the next 3 years that escalation could very well absorb the whole of that $10m without providing any real increase in the benefits which are the ostensible aim of this Bill. Again I wonder how much of this money will be available in country centres. I note that the Minister for the Media  (Senator Douglas McClelland)  said that additional sites will be acquired. In doing this I think it would be well to give more consideration to the needs of people outside the metropolitan areas. When the Government is considering the provision of extra assistance in order to develop technical train) ing facilities there is a case for a proposition that was put up many years ago to develop country centres in which Aboriginal and other Australian children could be trained together. There is a tremendous need for such centres, particularly for Aboriginal people. A great number of part-Aboriginal people live under difficult conditions in country centres where their future employment opportunities depend upon their gaining some technical skills. I suggest that if the Government wants to achieve the best from this expenditure it should look at the development of technical training centres in country areas which will provide this sort of education and training for all the people there and thus achieve a real advance in the status and usefulness of these people in our community. I support the Bil and I will be very interested to see the amendment which is to be moved during the Committee stage. 
-Is the Minister representing the Treasurer aware that, owing to the recent rapid increase in wool values, returns to wool growers place their incomes beyond the effective range of the averaging system, thus negating the value of averaging at a time when it is most needed? Is he aware of the consequential misallocation of resources and the inflationary and demand pressures being exerted because of efforts by growers to reduce incomes below the averaging limit? Will the Government give early consideration to a considerable increase in the present averaging limit of $16,000 in the light of present circumstances? I could add that this has a direct bearing on the matter raised in the last question relating to the maximising of production by Australian grain growers. 
 I move: 
That the notice of the acquisition of land by the Commonwealth, published in Gazette No. 59 of 24 May 1973 under the Lands Acquisition Act 1955- 1966, authorising the acquisition of land by compulsory process for the following public purpose approved by the Governor-General: The planned development and control of the City of Darwin and its adjacent areas (Ex. Min. No. 464.), be void and of no effect. 
On 24 May this year a notice was gazetted in the Northern Territory which had the effect of acquiring some 32 square miles to the east of the existing city of Darwin. This is freehold land held by a great number of small land owners although some larger blocks are involved. It is a very considerable area, some 20,480 acres. The nature of the action taken aroused considerable resentment not only on the part of the people involved directly but also on the part of other people in the Northern Territory who believe that the Commonwealth is endangering the whole question of freehold rights and titles which up to this time have been honoured and respected. As a result of the action taken,  Senator DrakeBrockman  and I have received a great number of telegrams of protest. We also have received a petition signed by some 346 people involved. I understand that there are other signatories in the Northern Territory and if they were added the total number protesting against what has been done would be some 500 people. In order to bring the matter concisely before the Senate I shall read the petition that I have received. It states: 
We the undersigned landowners and occupiers in the Northern Territory respectfully seek your support in disallowing the acquisition notice tabled in the Senate on May 29 on the following grounds: 
We do not consider it necessary to abolish all freehold titles in the area to achieve sound future planning. 
To do so is in fact predetermining the recommendations of the recently appointed ElseMitchell Royal Commission. 
It is also suggestive of an exercise in socialistic control of people's land and lives, which could have future implications for the States. 
As acquisition of land and improvements is likely to cost well over $20m of taxpayers' money, the Government must clearly establish its case for acquisition to the extent and by the method proposed as being the only means available to achieve its objectives. 
This has not been done. 
The views of the public and the Legislative Council have been ignored. Their quest ions have been treated in the most cavalier fashion. 
The methods used by the Government under the Lands Acquisition Act have tried to by-pass the protection normally afforded to the public in matters of land acquisition. 
If the acquisition notice is disallowed the Government can still proceed immediately to deal with those land holders who arewilling to surrender by the normal processes of the Act, and in the process obtain at least 8,000 acres of land for its purposes. 
In discussing this matter personally with one of the people involved I ascertained that apart from the wording of that petition there is the objection that the Government has not provided sufficient reasons for acquiring the whole 32 square miles. The people object to the manner of carrying out the acquisition by gazettal rather than by the customary means of dealing with individual land owners. Most importantly, they object to the almost complete lack of information to the people affected regarding the consequences of the acquisition. They object particularly to the basis of compensation and the absence of plans upon which land owners could decide whether to seek lease back arrangements. In expansion of that point I point out that one of the contentions is that the rights of these people would be adequately safeguarded because they could lease back the land. However, they do not know what is planned. They do not know whether the land that they owned would be in the middle of an industrial area or in the middle of a residential area. There are no plans on which they can make a judgment about what they could or should do regarding lease back arrangements. The people object to the indeterminate nature of the proposal which means that members of the public affected are unable to make plans for the future. They object to the arbitrary nature of the proposal which ignores the opinion of the Legislative Council. They object because the Government failed to allow for expression of opinion. In amplification of the first point, I point out that the report presented by P. G. Pak-Poy and Associates was made available to the public only recently although it had been available to the Government for some considerable time. 
The report was available to the previous Government but it also had been available to this Government for some 6 months. It was released only a few days before the gazettal of the notice. Members of the Legislative Council in the Northern Territory hardly had time to read it. The Pak-Poy report draws attention to the very considerable area of conveniently situated Commonwealth-owned land which could be made available if the present Royal Australian Air Force base were relocated. The strategic concept of having an Air Force base close to the city of Darwin and the coastline is more consistent with the concepts of 1920 than those of 1973. There is great urgency in the need for re-examination of the present Air Force defence base. Consequently it is premature to put forward plans for acquisition of large areas of land without first finalising a town planning concept which takes into consideration the possibility of availability of such large areas of conveniently located land. 
The Pak-Poy organisation has estimated that these Commonwealth held areas are capable of providing a housing area for some 107,000 people made up as follows: 40,000 on the airport area; 20,000 at Lee Point; 19,000 at Thorak Reserve; 18,000 at Sanderson, which is Commonwealth held; and 10.000 at Coonawarra. This fact is made clear at page 7 of the Pak-Poy report. In addition, the decision to go ahead with the aquisition of 32 square miles ignores the existence of Army held areas which may become redundant and RAAF explosive storage areas located quite close to inhabited areas. The Pak-Poy report, under the heading 'Conclusions and Recommendations', states that the Darwin peninsula could accommodate the urban requirements of almost 200,000 people. The present population of Darwin is some 46,000 people. An area of about 14 square miles of land on the Darwin peninsula which at present is freehold will need to be developed on a comprehensive basis to meet the needs of up to 150,000 people. I remind the Senate that the Pak-Poy report refers to about 14 square miles but the present acquis^ tion covers some 32 square miles. Members of the Legislative Council cannot understand the necessity to acquire some 20,480 acres of land which includes a large number of small 5-acre blocks at present owned or occupied by Darwin citizens, when some 8,000 acres in 2 large holdings are readily available from persons who are willing to make them available. 
The argument that this acquisition is necessary to prevent haphazard development ignores the fact that the Northern Territory Legislative Council has power to legislate for such developmental processes. It also ignores the fact that a great deal of this land which is being acquired will not be occupied or used for some 25 years. In addition we need to look at the incompatibility of some of the Commonwealth installations with the nearby developmental areas, such as the hazards and nuisance to people from the bombing range areas, which are considerable. Further the effect of domestic appliances and industrial equipment on the efficiency of the radio transmitting stations at the air base is a serious problem to these installations which are badly located in regard to the planning of Darwin. The attitude taken by the Northern Territory Legislative Council is expressed in the debate which was held in the Council and by a motion that was carried unanimously by the Council objecting to the acquisition. I shall summarise quickly the points made.  Dr Letts  said: 
These people are not speculators. Most are small landholders with S-acre blocks who choose to live in this area. The Northern Territory Legislative Council passed amendments to Town Planning Ordinance requiring the owners of 320-acre blocks to obtain administrative permission for subdivision. A number of subdivisions were approved but some went ahead without approval and these people are unable to obtain title or finance. 
I would add that the very fact that a great number of people have been willing to go outside the town site to take up 5-acre blocks has meant to a great extent a lessening of pressures on other land in Darwin. They have contributed to keeping down costs because they have relieved some of the pressures of demand for areas closer to Darwin.  Mr Kentish,  another member of the Council, said: 
This was a great shock to many hundreds of people on the eastern side of Darwin. Palmerston freeway was reconsidered because 11 families would be inconvenienced. 
Here hundreds of people are virtually dispossessed and their rights ignored and trampled on. Yet we sent the Public Works Committee back to Darwin because we found that in a proposal for the Palmerston freeway some 11 families would be inconvenienced. We have no recourse and no appeal except as lies  within this Senate to protect the interests of the people of the Northern Territory.  Mr Kentish  went on to say: 
The battlers out there, many of whom have spent half a lifetime in the Territory, are to be chased off their land to provide cheap land for people coming from the south. . . . The method of this acquisition is unique ... the method of going about it is a threat to the whole of Australia . . . The majority of these people are anxious to retain their holdings and their homes. 

 Mr Kilgariff pointed out that in this particular case the Legislative Council was not even consulted.  Mr Macfarlane  quoted  Mr Whitlam  as saying 'Labor will trust the people'.  Mr MacFarlane  then said: 
That is so much poppycock. . . . There seems no reason for this indecent haste. 

 Mr Fisher said: 
It appears unjust that this other area should be acquired while this enormous area within Darwin is still left to be used for defence purposes. Defence based on such facilities in Darwin would be completely abortive in times of war. 

 Mr Withnall, an independent member, said: 
The people of the Northern Territory suffer from 2 disabilities. The first is that the Commonwealth may not acquire any land in any State unless it is for Commonwealth purposes. In the Northern Territory, the purpose is any, purpose at all for which the Parliament has power to make laws. . . . Thus, the Commonwealth is no longer limited in acquisition. The other disability is that there is no constitutional guarantee in the Northern Territory that just terms will be provided. . . . The Commonwealth Government would be better advised to exercise its power with a great deal more care than seems to have been shown in the precipitate decisions which have been made with respect to this land. 

 Mr Bell, a Labor member of the Legislative Council, is on record as saying:  . . the attitude of some members of the bureaucracy al that meeting was to be deplored. 
This was the meeting at which the official reasons were given. 

 Mr Bell went on to say: 
They did not seem to realise that they were dealing with people. Some of these people had lovingly built homes in which to live or retire and they were told: 'Once I put the bulldozers through. . .' This is not the way to deal with people outside of a totalitarian country. 
This is a statement made by  Mr Bell  in his speech to the Legislative Council.  Mr Bell  is a Labor member of the Council. I quote it for what it is worth. He said: 
This is not the way to deal with people outside a totalitarian country. I regret to say that so far as this acquisition is concerned we might as well be in a totalitarian country. . . . They have no plan; they have no accurate map; they have no idea of the number of people affected by these illegal subdivisions. ... I wrote to the Minister that 'I will fight this thing which I believe is a monstrous thing, and which will cause unnecessary misery, for many families together with other territorians'. 

 Mrs Lawrie, an independent member, and  Mr Ward,  a Labor member, supported the motion.  Mr Withnall,  an independent member, said: 
When it comes to acquisition in this case, it is the people who are to suffer, and not the government land. It is the people who have some affinity with the land who must give it up whether they wish to or not because the government departments are too lazy to change or too uncomprehending of the situation to understand what they have done. ... lt has been said town planning is 90 per cent guesswork and 10 per cent witchcraft. As far as Darwin is concerned, it is about 98 per cent guessing and 2 per cent witchcraft. 
These are the expressions of the elected representatives of the Northern Territory but their wishes and desires are completely overridden and completely ignored by this Government's action. This Senate is the only way by which deferment can be achieved because' once the 30 days expire - it is only by the merest chance that we have been able to discuss this matter in the Senate - there will be no recourse for these people and no appeal whatever. I plead with the Senate to give these people at least an extension of time in which the Government's plans may be more closely examined and in which a better understanding of the purpose of the acquisition may be reached. We know that part of this area is readily available through the ordinary channels. It has been argued that if this 8,000 acres were available and were purchased, this would mean an increase in the price of the other holdings. But the Commonwealth has power to freeze prices in the Northern Territory, and prices can be held at their present level for subsequent negotiation. Therefore the argument that these people are seeking a speculative investment simply does not hold water as an excuse. I appeal to the Senate to give to the people in the Northern Territory a chance to see what is required of them. Let the Government put forward a better considered plan which takes into account the whole of the area in Darwin that can be developed. I have been to Darwin on Public Works Committee investigations many times and I have seen the result of the sort of development that has gone on and the concentration of the  centre  c-f P.ir*k&gt;  05  a very  small peninsula. One of the effects is that we now have to consider the expenditure of some $5m to build a 5-mile freeway through a difficult area because of the lop-sided nature of the development into which the city of Darwin is forced, being built around the perimeter of an Air Force base which occupies what ought to be the heart of the city of Darwin. All these areas should be taken into account before a well considered plan is submitted. 
The Government has set up the ElseMitchell Committee and, as I pointed out, the acquisition of this land pre-empts the decision of that Committee with regard to development. Every argument that is rational and logical seems to me to justify the Senate in taking action which will at least delay this acquisition so that the proper and right thing may be done with regard to the development of the City of Darwin, especially with regard to consideration of the rights of the people involved. 
Motion (by  Senator Wriedt)  agreed to: 
That the papers referred to by  Senator Prowse  be tabled. 
Debate (on motion by  Senator Wriedt)  adjourned. 
Order! I hardly think that this is relevant to the debate or an occasion for hilarity. 
I believe that the Australian public, if asked at a referendum whether the death penalty should be provided with respect to acts of terrorism and hijacking of aircraft would say, in a majority vote, that it expected responsible members of Parliament to provide penalties for such extreme situations. We on this side of the Committee have identified the special cases in respect of which we believe the death penalty should be retained. This does not mean that we are bloodthirsty barbarians by any means. In fact, none of us would wish wilfully to take a life. But I do believe that, as responsible members of this Parliament, we should provide such penalties in cases of the type referred to in my amendment. We on this side have the right to exercise a free vote on every matter and particularly on this one. We are not bound to support the dictates of the Party as Government supporters are. It is for this reason that clauses dealt with previously have not been included in the legislation. I hold this right very dearly, and as a responsible member of this Parliament I have moved my amendment. 
Sitting suspended from 6 to 8 p.m. 
My question, addressed to the Minister for Primary Industry, follows an answer he gave on Thursday last in reply to a question asked by  Senator DrakeBrockman.  Did the Minister vote for an amendment moved on 26 October last by  Senator Wilkinson,  on behalf of the Labor Party, requiring that the Australian Wool Corporation formulate a detailed plan for operation by the Corporation to acquire and market the Australian wool clip, and to report this plan to the Parliament within 6 months of the commencement of the Act? Does the Minister now airily dismiss a considered vote as comment? Has he since changed his mind on the matter, or does he admit to a rather discreditable attempt by the then Opposition to gain political advantage without regard to the well being of the industry? 
lt is with very mixed feelings that I rise to speak on this Bill. I have before me the 35th annual report of the Public Works Committee. I have noted that the greatest worry of the Committee is the work load upon it. As a member of the Committee from 1962 until my appointment as Chairman of Committees, I have perhaps had longer experience of the Committee than any other member of the Senate. I believe that the Senate has a peculiar interest in the national works program because historically it, as the representative of the State, has the responsibility of ensuring that the national works program is distributed equitably between the States. 
Therefore the Senate should have a special concern for the workings of this Committee, which has been known as a watchdog committee. 
Great concern has been expressed abour the work load on the Committee. With the assistance of the Committee's secretariat, I have taken out some figures concerning its work load. In the year in which I became a member of the Committee it held 37 meetings and had before it only 3 references. We were able to devote an average of 12 meetings of each of those references. The next year the number of references jumped to 12 - a tremendous percentage increase - but the average number of meetings per reference dropped to 34. The next year the number of references dropped to 5 and we had an average of 8 meetings per reference. The next year we had 15 references and we dropped again to an average of 34 meetings per reference. The next year we had 13 references and again we devoted an average of 34 meetings to each reference. The next year, 1967, we had 11 references and we devoted an average of 44 meetings to each reference. The next year we had 20 references and we devoted an average of 3 meetings to each reference. The next year we had 18 references and we devoted an average of 24 meetings to each reference. The next year we received 22 references and we were able to devote an average of 24 meetings to each reference. In 1971 we had 18 references and we were able to devote an average of 34 meetings to each reference. In 1972 the number of references virtually doubled - there were 35 references - and the Committee was able to devote, on average, less than 2 meetings to each reference. In 1973 it is proposed that there be 54 references. 
There is a descending scale in the average number of meetings for each reference, and with the work load that is proposed it will be necessary to dispose of each reference in only one meeting, or something of that order. It is clear that as the work load has increased the Committee has been able to devote less and less time to the references. Clearly this is not good enough. The Government proposes that the minimum limit for the cost of works which have to go before the Committee be increased from $750,000 to S2m. I do not think that is good enough either. The solution to the problem must lie elsewhere. If all works of an estimated cost of less than $2m are to be excluded from reference to the 
Committee a considerable area of public expenditure will escape Committee scrutiny. 
The subsequent scrutiny would be given under very great difficulty. The scrutiny that the Senate can give is virtually minimal. If we reduce the work load of the Committee in that way we will seriously limit the ability of the Senate to do anything about proposed expenditures. It disturbs me greatly to see this situation arising. I have looked at the cost of the works included in the 54 references proposed for this year. If the proposal contained in the amendment to be moved by  Senator Wright  is adopted - that is also the proposal that the Committee recommended - namely, that works costing under SI. 5m be excluded, only 1 1 of those 54 references will be deleted. The Committee still will have a work load of 43 references for this year. If we accept the Government's proposal that the figure be S2m, this will remove 17 references from the list but still leave the Committee with 34 references, which nearly equals the work load of 1972 when there were 35 references and the Committee was able to devote, on average less than 2 sittings to each reference. Neither the proposal of a limit of SI. 5m nor the proposal of a limit of $2m will solve the problem of the work load of the Committee. 

 Senator Wright has proposed in his amendment that there be an addition to the work load of the Committee. In his amendment he proposes that the Committee also look at work 'that is proposed to be carried out by or on behalf of the Commonwealth or a Commonwealth statutory authority within the Commonwealth or within a Territory'. I am strongly in favour of the principle contained in that part of the amendment. As Governments set up statutory authorities empowered to carry out work involving vast expenditures of public money, those activities and expenditures are removed still further from the scrutiny of Parliament. I believe that we urgently require a more precise and more effective means of the Senate and the Parliament in general supervising the expenditure of the Commonwealth in the public works field. Surely in the inflationary situation in which we find ourselves today we should be looking at the proliferation of the number and cost of public works. This calls for greater scrutiny, not less. 
1 believe that that is so. I have discussed this matter with senior officers of the Department of Works. In many cases expenditures of a lower order of cost are of doubtful validity, or because they are of a lower order of cost receive less scrutiny by the Department. The fact that such expenditures are not to be brought before the Committee for examination tends toward that end. Senior departmental officers have told us that they welcome the scrutiny that the Public Works Committee gives because it keeps officers on their toes. Because of the great spread of work senior people cannot always have their fingers on everything that is being done. The knowledge that there is a parliamentary committee which examines proposals in some detail means that there is much greater effort to present that work in a proper manner. Every government that I have known since I became a member of the Committee has failed to present to the Committee any works costing below the stipulated minimum figure although governments have the right to do so. Governments are not obliged to present to the Committee any works costing below the minimum figure, and in fact they have exercised their prerogative not to do so. 
I will make that exception. That matter, which related to the responsibilities of the honourable senator who was then Minister for Works, escaped my memory. However, governments have a habit of trying to keep as many works as possible from the scrutiny of the Committee. I have seen works of very doubtful validity escape scrutiny as a result of reliance on the statutory provision that works of an urgent nature can escape scrutiny by the Committee. The urgency has sometimes been caused by the dilatoriness of the department in bringing the works to the point where they could be submitted in time. I have seldom if ever seen works delayed to any extent by the Committee. I have seen defence works of tremendous capital cost, particularly housing, escape the scrutiny of the Committee because it has been decided in the public interest not to submit the work to the Committee. I think that one project was to cost some $23m and it consisted of housing. This housing escaped the scrutiny of the Committee because the government of the day declared that in the public interest it should not be submitted to the Committee. At the time I objected strongly and members of the Committee also expressed strong opinions about this. I can see a reluctance on the part of governments to submit some projects. I make an exception to this in relation to  Senator Wright  who was Minister for Works and the present Minister  (Senator Cavanagh).  There has been a genuine regard on their part. I am sorry that  Senator Cavanagh  is not here and I regret the circumstances which force his absence. I believe that  Senator Cavanagh  and  Senator Wright  are 2 Ministers for Works who have appreciated and understood the function and role of the Public Works Committee. 
I feel that we have to look further for a solution to the problem, because I have shown that neither the figure of $1.5m nor the figure of S2m will in any substantial degree reduce the work load. We have a continuing proliferation of public works and I think we should be careful about it. So I feel that we have to look at some way in which the Committee can function adequately and not be overloaded. Through our committee system we have imposed upon honourable senators a great additional load which is apart from the work which they accept as members of the Public Works Committee. I suggest that the Public Works Committee adopt in principle a system which has worked very well for the Senate Standing Committee on Regulations and Ordinances. The Regulations and Ordinances Committee could not possibly look at every reference that would come under its scan without the assistance of professional scrutiny. I think that we have to do this with the Public Works Committee. We have to set up a body at high level of professional people and include in it, as  Senator Poyser  suggested, people expert in relation to the environment. There should be persons with some knowledge of and ability in regard to environmental factors, for instance engineers. I suggest that we have a body consisting of, say, 3 people which will scrutinise all public works and, irrespective of price, recommend to the Committee those works which, in their opinion, should be the subject of examination by the Public Works Committee. This method has worked successfully over the years for the Regulations and Ordinances Committee. I think it is worth a trial with regard to the Public Works Committee. 1 hope that this debate will not conclude today without giving us an opportunity within each party of looking at the proposals that have been brought forward in the debate. I trust that this very important matter - 1 think it is one of the most important matters that we have to deal with at the present time - will be given more careful scrutiny having regard to some of the factors that have been mentioned by  Senator Poyser, Senator Wright, Senator Byrne  and myself. The matter is worthy of more careful examination. 
lt is expected that I should say something about this report presented by the Senate Standing Committee on Industry and Trade. I had the honour and indeed the pleasure of being the  Chairman  of this Committee while the bulk of the work was being done. It would be remiss of me not to say at the outset that anyone who had been in a position similar to that which I occupied realises the tremendous load of detailed work that is thrown upon the officers who are employed to assist the Committee. They have to gather together all the threads, make the arrangements, organise the various meetings and arrange for the witnesses to appear before the Committee. In that regard I think that our secretary,  Mr Bill  Symington, and his assistant, Tim Mackey, did a magnificent job. Without their loyal co-operation this report would not have seen the light of day. 
The investigations with which the report deals comprise only a part of the continuing task which the Senate has given to the Committee, namely, looking at Australian trade agreements. We chose in the first place to look at the New Zealand-Australia Free Trade Agreement, partly I think because we had on the Committee two distinguished Tasmanian senators who had a very real interest in this matter. Having listened to  Senator Lillico's  remarks honourable senators would realise what a very strong advocate we had in relation to one section of trade between New Zealand and Australia. I do not think  Senator 
Wriedt, who is now Minister for Primary Industry, would mind my saying that even if he did not learn the difference between a corriedale sheep and a merino sheep at least he got a very solid introduction to some of the problems facing primary industry, and particularly that section of primary industry involved in trade between Australia and New Zealand. 
Our inquiry was interrupted by a request from the Senate to divert our attention to another matter, namely, the proposed takeover of Ansett Transport Industries Ltd. This diversion did not help us very much in our inquiry into trade problems but we had to throw it aside. Subsequently I became ill and was unable to attend Committee hearings for some time.  Senator Lillico  also became ill. The loyalty and the hard work of the remaining members of the Committee, particularly  Senator Wilkinson  enabled this report to appear.  Senator Wilkinson,  while occupying the position of Acting  Chairman,  was untiring and loyal in his work. I do not want to mention every member of the Committee, but I know that  Senator Young  attended hearings at times at great inconvenience to himself in order to maintain a quorum and to keep the work flowing. 
The report deals with a very important part of Australia's trade relationships. New Zealand is Australia's fourth biggest customer and Australia is New Zealand's fourth biggest customer, and trade between our countries is important. At the outset of the inquiry we found an element of distrust. The history of the Agreement has been one of considerable doubt as to its advisability, not only on the part of Australia but also on the part of New Zealand. This mutual suspicion was a recurring factor. It is something which I think must be overcome. As  Chairman  of the Committee I tried to do everything possible to attain a degree of confidence and cordiality whenever we came into contact with New Zealanders. One of my greatest regrets was that we did not get enough evidence on the New Zealand side of the question. We had evidence from some firms represented on the New Zealand trade scene. We had one submission from a group of New Zealand farmers. But I think our work was hampered by our inability to look at the New Zealand side of the situation. 
There are a number of reasons. We were hampered partly because of the limitations imposed on Senate committees as far as travel outside Australia is concerned. We came up against constitutional problems as well as a reluctance on the part of New Zealanders, with some exceptions, to submit evidence. I think this is to be regretted. If we are to have a Senate committee charged with the responsibility of looking at trade relationships, we should not be limited to looking at the situation on one side of the fence. I would prefer some means to be devised whereby we can get a proper perspective on the problems that we meet. When one looks at the geographical situation of Australia and New Zeland one realises how important it is that we come closer together and have a better understanding in trade matters. I submit that we are not a part of any other country or any other continent. Australia and New Zealand, together with the Pacific Islands, constitute a group of countries that could more properly be called Oceania than anything else. New Zealand, Australia and the Pacific Islands certainly are a region in which, I believe, we should develop our common interests. NAFTA has that as an idealistic concept. 
In pursuance of that objective we have come up against the realities of life, the real problems of trade. We find that New Zealand and Australia produce, to a great extent, the same range of products but under different conditions. I think Australia has a considerable advantage in regard to manufactured products. On the other hand, New Zealand has a corresponding advantage, as  Senator Lillico  has so strongly stressed, in regard to some primary products. If we are to develop a reciprocal trade the problem is to see that we do not damage the interests of one section in promoting the interests of another section, the submission has been made that in fact this has happened with regard to the New Zealand-Australia Free Trade Agreement - that the primary products of Australia have tended to suffer in order to advantage the development of trade in manufactured products. Of course, this is something upon which witnesses commented. I think that those who read this report would need to go deeply into the question if they wish to arrive at a proper understanding of the problems in the way "&gt;&gt; nlarging Australia's trade vis-a-vis New Z eland. I draw attention to this statement in the Committee report: 
Overall, the NAFTA appears to have had little effect on the pattern of trade between the 2 countries, although New Zealand has gained more in terms of increased exports to Australia. 
In fact, what has happened over a period of 6 years, from 1964-65 to 1970-71, is that although Australia's exports to the rest of the world increased by 60 per cent, our exports to New Zealand increased by only 24 per cent. So in the overall position NAFTA has not increased the ratio of our exports to New Zealand. While Australia's imports overall increased by some 34 per cent, imports from New Zealand increased by 43 per cent. 
 I am not concerned with, and I will not be drawn into, any political argument. As  Chairman  of the Committee, I kept away from that. Of course,  Senator O'Byrne  and I know that John McEwen, as head of the Department of Trade and Industry, was the Minister at the time this Agreement was signed. I think that the concept, the ideal, is a splendid one. We, as a Committee, were charged with the responsibility of looking at how the Agreement works and I believe that we reported factually on how it is working. We did not come down with any recommendations because it was not a report in which recommendations as such were appropriate. But we made some comments, and I think that would be about the only part of the report I would like to read to the Senate. 
 Yes. I am concerned with the comments at this point. The Committee in its report stated: 
Schedule A remains severely limited in its product coverage. Too much attention seems to have been paid to the costs of adding 'sensitive' items to the free trade  list,  but unless Governments are prepared to be more flexible in this regard, they will forego the gains to be made from freeing trade. 
Retention of import licensing by New Zealand on- Schedule A items appears to be in conflict with Articles 5 : 2 and 5 : S of the NAFTA now that New Zealand's balance of payments position has improved. 
The GATT was not happy with the proportion of trade originally included in Schedule A, and the value of that trade has not increased in the seven years in which the NAFTA has been in force. 
In this respect, this is a criticism that NAFTA has not achieved some of the aims that it was set up to achieve. The report continues: 
The NAFTA has not altered substantially the pattern or rate of growth of trade between the two countries. However, it does provide a framework for the  progressive  development of ;&gt; free trap-; area and the trade Ministers of both  cour  -tes have  agreed  that Schedule A should be expanded at a faster tale. 
Article 3 : 7 has been of marginal value only in freeing trade, mainly because its use has been highly selective and the value of trade concerned is small in comparison to the total trade. 
I would particularly ask the Senate to note comment (vi), which reads: 
New Zealand has secured certain advantages under the NAFTA without reciprocal advantages for Australia. The maintenance of New Zealand import licensing is a major restriction to the further freeing of trade. 
The final comment reads: 
There can be no doubt that on certain goods the NAFTA has achieved some success in freeing trade on selected products without serious disruption to the producers of these products in either country. The NAFTA also has done much to improve the trading climate between the two countries. Nevertheless, there appears to have been a loss of momentum of the NAFTA which suggests that new initiatives are required to extend it beyond its present scope. 
These ecn ments illustrate the difficulties. I regret that I had overlooked the list of recommendations. The recommendations really flow from the comments. We found these real practical difficulties and made recommendations regarding their amelioration. I recommend that all honourable senators read this report if they pre interested in this subject of expanding Australia's trade with New Zealand. I think it is more than just expanding trade on a commercial profit and loss basis. New Zealand and Australia are near neighbours. We are people who are closely related in every possible way. Perhaps New Zealanders are the most isolated people in the world, at least in relation to distance. I appreciate what  Senator McAuIiffe  has said about thi need for developing a tourist trade, but it should not be on a dollars and cents basis because New Zealand has something magnificent to offer Australia in the way of tourist facilities. Australia is so different from New Zealand and therefore has something to offer New Zealand. There I think lies one of the great possibilities for expanding the tourist trade between Australia and New Zealand so that our people get to know one another better, to appreciate one another and to develop a better understanding of our problems. 
Along that road, perhaps more than on any othe lies the solution to the  problems that  Sei. ?: Lillico is concerned about. A better understanding of each other will lead to a greater facilitation of trade and commerce between us .na a uniting of people who have so much in common. 
It was an honour for me to serve in this capacity on the Committee. I v/as proud of the people who were working with me. I regret that the interest created by the report has not been greater because this is one subject which should concern the Australian people. I commend the report to the Senate and pay tribute to the present  chairman, Senator Wilkinson,  who I know will carry on the work of the Committee in the best traditions of Senate committees. 
-I am advised by the  Clerk  that the practice of the Senate is that when a question has been decided in this way the result is as you have indicated. So your motion is not necessary. In view of the automatic result of the vote the Committee insists on its original amendment standing. 
-It would be necessary for the honourable senator to speak to clauses of the Bill. 

 Senator BYRNE (Queensland). (9.44)-I wish to speak to the Schedule to the Bill and relate my remarks to the actual style and titles of  Her  Majesty. I do so only for one purpose. Clause 2, the covering clause of the Constitution Act reads: 
The provisions of this Act referring to the Queen shall extend to Her Majesty's heirs and successors in the sovereignty of the United Kingdom. 
That is the covering clause in the Constitution Act which embodies the Australian Constitution. In other words, all of our laws must be subject to the Constitution Act and the Constitution. It is all right for  Senator Murphy  lightly to brush aside compliance with the strict legal requirements that should be followed in order to change the royal style and titles or the Citizenship Act which we discussed earlier. It is all right to propound the proposition that the sovereignty of the Queen rises from the will of the people here. But I would expect the Attorney above all to comply with the legal requisition. If it is his intention that the power and authority should stem solely from this there are ways in which it can be done legally and constitutionally and in that regard the Constitution, if the honourable senator feels so disposed, should be amended. But until that is done - 
-Order! The question now is: 'That the clause be agreed to subject to the request being complied with '. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Remainder of the Bill- by leave- taken as a whole. 
-Leave has not yet been sought. 
My question, which is directed to the Leader of the Government in the Senate, follows upon the one asked a short while ago by  Senator Mulvihill.  Will the Minister read the whole of the Commonwealth Scientific and Industrial Research Organisation report and not merely page 2 1 , which was mentioned by  Senator Mulvihill?  Is the Minister aware that a Western Australian Government instrumentalitynamely, the vermin board- found it necessary to poison kangaroos because of the menace of overgrazing of pastoral lands in the north-west of Western Australia? 
I rise to express my personal view on this matter. I think that a vital principle regarding the role of the Senate is involved.  Senator Wright  has reminded us that we are faced with the ghastly reality of a war with a tremendous potential of world involvement. In a situation of this kind it is the responsibility of the Government of Australia to express the opinion of the Government I believe that it is not the role of the Senate to initiate or to attempt to initiate a policy for the Parliament of Australia. We are not here for that and that is not our role. I believe that we would have a role as a House of Review if we disagreed with the Government's pronouncement. But I believe that we in this chamber have no right to attempt to initiate a commitment or to commit the people of Australia on a matter of this sort. The matter is far too serious for us to take this sort of action on any ground that we have had submitted to us. I think that we must await a decision of the Government on the matter. 

The question is: 
That the words proposed to be left out be left out. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
-I have not called you yet,  Senator James  McClelland. 
Sentor GREENWOOD- I sat down because I thought the honourable senator was raising a point of order. 
-Order! In conformity with the sessional order relating to the adjournment of the Senate, I formally put the question: 
That the  Chairman  do now leave the Chair and report to the Senate. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. (The  Chairman  having reported accordingly) 
-My question, which is addressed to the Minister representing the Minister for Health, follows the answer given to a question asked recently by  Senator Webster.  Will the Government seek to require the meat producers to carry the cost of eliminating foot and mouth disease should it unfortunately gain a foothold in this country? 
-Order! In conformity with the sessional order relating to the adjournment of the Senate, I formally put the question: 
That the  Chairman  do now leave the Chair and report to the Senate. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. (The  Chairman  having reported accordingly) 
-The question is that the words proposed to be left out be left out. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
-Order! In accordance with the sessional order that General Business shall take precedence of Government business at 4.30 p.m., I shall report progress. 
Progress reported. 
-Order! I think you are getting a bit away from the clause,  Senator Hannan. 
My question is addressed to the Minister representing the Prime Minister who I believe is responsible for the Commonwealth Literary Fund. Is it a fact that the Commonwealth Literary Fund provided a 6-month fellowship in 1969 valued at $3,000 for the completion of a so-called novel entitled 'The Wort Papers'. Has anyone yet succeeded in reading the whole of this book without disastrous consequences to his mental health unless, of course, he was mad before? Would the Minister examine the circumstances and criteria in and by which the Commonwealth Literary Fund disburses taxpayers' funds for the production of unreadable trash? 
-Is leave granted? There being no objection leave is granted. 
Amendment agreed to. 
Clause, as amended, agreed to. 
Clauses 28 and 29 agreed to. 
Clause 30. 
Section 58 of the Principal Act is amended- 
by omitting from sub-section (2) the words "the award" and substituting the words "an award, other than an award referred to in paragraph (b) of subsection (1)". 
-I wish to ask a supplementary question. 
My question is addressed to the Minister for Primary Industry. Having regard to the wonderful record of the Australian Wheat Board, did the Minister's answer to  Senator Young  today represent criticism of the Board's past performance? Seeing that the Minister did not answer  Senator Drake-Brockman's  question and state who owns the wheat- the grower or the Government- I now ask: When did the wheatgrowers vest their wheat in the Minister? Does he expect to be able to sell wheat at better than world prices? Is the Minister's practice of directing the Wheat Board how it should operate an expression of no confidence in the competence of the Wheat Board? 
The debate has been an interesting exercise, with various points of view and various degrees of emphasis upon the role of the Senate. I appreciated the logic of  Senator Cavanagh  's speech and I have been almost persuaded by several other speakers. But I sense that the opinion of the Senate is clear. The Senate, by an overwhelming consensus of opinion, desires that we proceed with the erection of a new parliament house at the earliest possible time and that nothing that we may do here should delay that procedure. 
Great and proper concern has been expressed, I think, for the Senate as a part of the Commonwealth parliamentary structure. I agree with  Senator Cavanagh  that we should not, by inadvertence or eagerness, in any way denigrate the status, significance and role of the Senate. However, I think that the impasse at which we seem to have arrived between these conflicting views can be resolved fairly simply, We are discussing a motion put forward by  Senator Murphy  regarding an approach made to the Senate from the House of Representatives. If I recall the matter correctly, that approach originated from a private member's motion in the House of Representatives. I move the following amendment to  Senator Murphy's  motion to meet the situation as it appears, to have developed: 
That all words after 'That the Senate' be deleated and the following words be inserted- while not agreeing to the request of the House of Representatives for a joint meeting of the Senate and the House of Representatives, expresses the opinion that planning for the New House should commence immediately and that the site be upon Capital Hill. ' 
-Order! I think the point of order raised by  Senator Sir Kenneth  Anderson has substance to the extent that there appeared to be an imputed reflection in the words used. I consider that they should be put in a more parliamentary form. 
Like the Australian Teachers Federation, ACSSO submitted to the Minister a panel of nominees from which one was chosen as a part-time commissioner. 
This is not a panel from which the organisation demanded that one should be chosen. Surely the Minister for Education  (Mr Beazley),  in looking for people to put on this Committee or Commission, would not go round looking for people expert in animal husbandry, water and sewerage, or something like that. Naturally he would be looking for people who know something about education. He would go as widely as he could across the spectrum. That is precisely what the Minister did in setting up the Committee. 
It is our view that if every group represented on the Commission were required to do the same, the result would be a Commission properly representative of the education community, but free enough from sectional pressures to be able to function as an expert, objective body. 
Nowhere in that entire paragraph is there a demand that from the panels submitted to the Minister a representative should be chosen in the way that, for example, a senator is chosen or a man from a constituency is chosen for the House of Representatives. If the letter is read as a whole, how is it possible to imagine that  Mrs Ryan  could have written the paragraph that I have read today if in fact she had intended by the other paragraph the narrow meaning that  Senator Carrick  puts upon it? 
I illustrate the absurdity of trying to set up a Commission based on such inflexible yardsticks as is suggested by the Opposition- that certain specified bodies should elect or nominate. 
-Order! I think it is better not to confuse the issue. A point of order has been taken and I intend to make a ruling on that point of order. 

 -Order! Senator Milliner, I want to draw your attention to standing order 416 which requires that any allusion to a debate in the House of Representatives must be relevant to the debate. In this case we are having a debate in Committee and that relevance is narrowed to the clause we are discussing. I trust that you will bear that in mind. 
-Order! For your information, senator, there is no amendment.  Senator Rae  is opposing the clause. 
I cannot believe that boards of this kind operating in this context would necessarily prove effective.  Senator Rae  said that experience has shown and does show that if the Commission finds it difficult to keep that close contact which is necessary the matter may have to be reconsidered. But I should imagine that the effect of the interposition of a board such as this would be to make the Schools Commission even more remote, that is the real danger because undoubtedly where an intermediary is introduced, the remote body will undoubtedly rely upon the information which comes from the intermediate body and if it were to trespass upon that field it might find a local resentment that it is intruding in an area which this other body regards as its province. We could therefore imagine that the Schools Commission might finally emerge only as a repository of filtered information that came to it from the series of boards which operate in these geographic areas. 
We acknowledge the concept has stemmed from good faith and an attempt to improve the position but it is our firm and unprejudiced belief that it might have the contrary effect.  Senator Rae  has indicated that he and his Party are opposed to it and that the Opposition is opposed to it. We of the Democratic Labor Party feel that in all circumstances opposition is warranted and therefore we support the stand which has been expressed by the honourable senator. 
-Is it the wish of the Committee to take the Bill as a whole, except clause 5 and clause 6? There being no objection, that procedure will be adopted. At the outset I point out that it is customary to take the title of the Bill at the end of the Committee consideration. 
-Is leave granted? There being no objection, leave is granted. (The document read as follows)- 

<graphic href="058232197311223_59_4.jpg"></graphic>


 -No. Senator Wright raised the question in relation to clause 5 only at the outset. 
This is what troubles me. All I can say is that we are all trying to achieve a result. I am quite troubled that irrespective of the assistance that has been given there may be some matters which occur to others. I think that it is fair that the Senate ought to be given all the assistance it can be given to make sure that we do not do something that we regret. This is a sphere in which as a House of Parliament we must be very cautious in our dealings. Once such a Bill is passed and becomes an Act it will be construed in the way that it reads and it will not be a matter of what we thought we were doing here. For example, suppose that someone said: 'Here is what the Parliament has said. It has used the expression 'of the Parliament'. There is no reference there to the privileges pertaining to each House of the Parliament as distinct from those of the Parliament as a whole or of committees of the Parliament. Does not that mean that an argument could be advanced that the Parliament deliberately said that the privileges were not extended there? There is no suggestion about privileges attaching to committees extending outside those grounds'. Such an argument may be rejected, but one could imagine it being advanced and being upheld. That troubles me. I suggest again to  Senator Wright  that the opportunity should be given for some further consideration of clauses 5 and 6 in order to get them into a form which we could all accept without any reservation and without having any objection to the clauses. I would ask the honourable senator to agree that we report progress in order that some consideration may be given to the form of these clauses for a few days at least. 
asked the Minister represent ing the Minister for Health, upon notice: 
1 ) What are the terms of employment of senior medical staff employed at the new health centres located at Melba and Scullin in the Australian Capital Territory, with regard to (a) salary; (b) holiday leave; (c) study leave; (d) long service leave; (e) any other benefits. 
What is the case load per doctor employed. 
Is Saturday work undertaken. 
What is the call time. 
