-My question to the Minister for Agriculture relates to the recent savage increase in the price of superphosphate, an increase ex works in Tasmania from $19.30 to $38.76 a tonne plus the equated freight component making a total cost of $46.96 a tonne delivered to the nearest railway station. I ask: In view of the resultant severely increased cost burden upon the primary producers with an inevitable rise in the cost of food to the whole community, will the Government give immediate consideration to reversing its decision to remove the bounty so that primary producers in this country can plan ahead with some degree of confidence? 
I address my question to the Minister representing the Minister for Transport. As King Island has been almost entirely dependent on air freight for essential requirements for many recent months I ask: Has the Minister any idea when the runways at the King Island aerodrome will be improved so that aircraft like the Argosy air freighter can be used? Is the Minister aware that should this aircraft be used at the present time it would be limited to about 75 per cent of its capacity payload of 24,0001b. 
My question is directed to the Minister for Agriculture. As there still seems to be a good deal of confusion about the dairy assistance scheme I ask who will be eligible? Is a minimum production standard required to qualify? In the field of retrospectivity, are all costs involved in the changeover to qualify or only those related to refrigerated equipment? WU1 the scheme cover interest paid on other loans, since 23 July 1973? Can a dairyman who paid cash still get a loan if he so wishes? At what point can dairymen start availing themselves of the loans? 
My question which is directed to the Minister representing the Treasurer refers to the withdrawal of Tasmania from the status of a claimant State under the Grants Commission and to the repeated refusal of the Premier of Tasmania,  Mr Reece,  to provide the people of Tasmania with the detailed information on which this important decision was based. In view of the Federal Government's persistent claim that it believes in open government I ask: Were these details set out in a letter from the Prime Minister to the Premier? If so, will the Treasurer table the letter or make the pertinent details available so that the people of Tasmania can be informed of this important decision? 
I refer the Minister representing the Treasurer to the request for Commonwealth Government assistance for the north-west regional water supply in Tasmania. An answer to this request is vital to a number of municipal councils because of the urgent need for improvement in water supply. Can the Minister indicate when a decision on this matter is likely to be made so as to obviate the need for unnecessary and duplicated capital expenditure? 
My question is directed to the Minister for Agriculture. Did the Minister recently receive from  Mr R.  B. Walker,  Chairman  of the State Fruit Board of Tasmania, and  Mr N.  S. Bridge of Tasfruit Pty Ltd a request for advance assistance of $ 1 per bushel against an estimated $ 1 .72 of government assistance for this season on fruit shipped to the United Kingdom and European markets at risk?  In  view of the undertaking given with regard to any adjustments that will be necessary after final calculations are made and bearing in mind the current economic situation in the fruit industry and the need for orchardists not only to pay current packing costs but also to assist in the procreation of requisites for the 1975 season, can the Minister indicate when a decision on this matter is likely to be made so as to encourage a return of some degree of confidence in the industry? 
My question is directed to the Minister for Agriculture and relates to the possible outbreak of an exotic disease, particularly foot and mouth disease, in this country. The following facts serve to illustrate the enormous national loss which could occur. In the outbreak in England in 1969, 2,364 farms were affected and 430,000 cloven hooved animals were destroyed. The cost to the Government in direct compensation was $75m. The estimated uncompensated cost was as high as $500m. The cause of the outbreak was eventually traced to part of a shipment of 770 frozen lamb carcasses from the Argentine, and the disease was spread in bones brought from a local butcher and fed to pigs as swill. Will the Minister look carefully at this situation, especially at the possible need to stop the imports of all foodstuffs from any area which is affected by either foot and mouth or any exotic animal disease, to minimise as far as possible the inherent danger should any such importation eventually find its way into pig food? 
My question which is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Tourism and Recreation relates to federal assistance to community youth centres. I ask: Is the one for two grant still available on much the same lines as previously? Is this scheme likely to continue into the foreseeable future, say at least the next two to three years, without any major alteration? 
Senator Webster in the latter part of his speech has virtually asked the question about the matter that was worrying me with regard to bank loans being alternatively available. 
I ask the Minister for Agriculture: Is the immediate future of the timber industry in Tasmania at risk as a result of the Government's credit squeeze and its effect upon housing construction? Does the Minister share the concern of all the Liberal senators from Tasmania for the future of the timber, textile, and other industries in Tasmania? These industries have been afflicted by the combined results of the total failure of the Government's economic policies, together with the Government's apparent lack of concern to take any positive steps to overcome Tasmania's trade strangulation which has resulted from shipping and air transport strikes, delays and particularly cost increases. 
My question, which is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Labor and Immigration, relates to unemployment in the areas chosen by the Government for initial assistance. In Tasmania the 2 areas chosen are Launceston and Devonport. As the majority of the people concerned are from the textile industry and in consequence are female, what specific types of alternative employment are planned for the people in those areas? 
asked the Minister representing the Treasurer, upon notice: 
1 ) Has Tasmania ceased to be a claimant State under the Grants Commission. 
Did the Premier of Tasmania,  Mr E.  Reece, refuse to provide the people of that State with the detailed information on which this important decision was based; if so, were these details set out in a letter from the Prime Minister to  Mr Reece. 
If the answer to (2) is in the affirmative, will the Treasurer either table the letter, or make the pertinent details available, so that the people of Tasmania can be informed of this important decision. 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Labor and Immigration. It relates to the unemployment position in the Launceston area of Tasmania. I ask: Does the Minister agree that the figures given last night by  Senator Rae  of between 1,300 and 1,400 as of last Friday more truly reflect the current situation than those quoted by the Prime Minister at yesterday afternoon's news conference, namely, 340 people? 
-Can the Minister representing the Minister for Transport indicate when the steps to be taken to examine the freight differential, as outlined last week by the Prime Minister, will be undertaken? Are these steps to be taken in conjunction with an interim report from the Nimmo Committee of Inquiry, or are they to be taken separately? 
-The freight differential as outlined by the Prime Minister in his announcement last week. 
I direct my question to the Minister for Agriculture. I refer to the visit to Tasmania by  Dr J.  F. Cairns last Friday and to his comment that the Government's decision to withdraw the bounty on superphosphate may well have been wrong. I ask, therefore, whether this indicates that the Government will give further consideration to this matter and that we may well see a reversal of the decision in this regard. 
My question is directed to the Postmaster-General. Is it true that under the Post and Telegraph Bills passed last week provincial newspapers distributing in rural areas have either one of two alternatives, namely, to distribute all newspapers through the Post Office which does not make deliveries on Saturdays or pay a rate of postage 6 times as great by way of penalty if the alternative means of distribution used at present are continued? If the latter is the case, as outlined in yesterday's Tasmanian North-West Coast 'Advocate', does not the Minister agree that this is not only unfair to the large distribution area outside the urban delivery service but also distinctly dictatorial and discriminatory against the rural areas and the decentralised Press? 
-Thank you,  Mr President.  Firstly I thank the electors of my State of Tasmania for their support. It is because of their support that I can now serve them in this Parliament. I also take this opportunity to thank you,  Mr President,  the Clerks and the parliamentary officers, and colleagues on both sides of the chamber for their help and courtesy in the time I have been here. I also take this opportunity to congratulate all the other senators who have passed this point in their parliamentary careers. 
In this my maiden speech, I would like to refer to 2 topics that are of great concern not only to myself but more especially to my State of Tasmania. They are Bass Strait shipping and the rural industries. I am more than concerned that the recent Budget will not contain inflation or do anything to relieve unemployment. It virtually ignores the serious problems of Tasmania. Because of the regularity with which strikes affect shipping to and from Tasmania, most honourable senators will be reasonably informed on the disastrous results or effects on virtually the whole of the State of Tasmania of this continual disruption to this vital sea link with the mainland States. During the campaign leading up to the election on 18 May, together with other members of the Liberal Senate team, I visited many factories in Tasmania and, without exception, each time the management were asked a question on shipping they gave the same answer. It was that because of this factor they wished they were not in business in Tasmania. They gave 2 very good reasons for this. The first was the unreliable nature of shipping, caused mainly by industrial unrest, and as a consequence the need to stockpile, when possible, sufficient raw material to enable them to continue to manufacture during the currency of any future shipping trikes. Then, of course, there is the attendant difficulty of getting their goods to the markets in the other States of Australia. I am sure honourable senators would acknowledge that in the current economic situation this is unnecessarily costly and only lends weight to what I said about their wishing that they were established on the Australian mainland. 
Another feature is the dramatic increase in unemployment in Tasmania, due in no small part to the Government's decision to impose an acrosstheboard reduction of 25 per cent in tariffs. The marked downturn in employment in the textile industry, particularly in the Launceston area, is a direct consequence of this action. This action, along with the other things mentioned, has left virtually no alternative employment opportunities for Tasmanians. The need at the moment is for a climate which will encourage expansion, not retard it. The stagflation that is evident in Tasmania at the moment is due in a very large degree to the Government's decisions and its inability to handle industrial unrest, particularly in the transport area. While recent announcements about additional tonnage to start operating during the early months of 1975 will, if it eventuates, overcome the problem of backlogging, it will not, and does not, in any way solve the problem of industrial unrest. Nothing, or very little, has been achieved in exempting Tasmania from the disruptive ravages of maritime strikes. 
Let me now look at the cost of these strikes. I want to illustrate what unreliable shipping services do to the cost factor. One manufacturer, who makes brass fittings for nylon water piping, said at the time we were discussing this matter with him that he was forced to send 40 tons of brass fittings a months to the mainland States by air because of his inability to get the supplies to the market in the way that the market demanded. Air freight is twice the cost of sea freight. Is it any wonder that the owners of factories such as this are asking themselves whether it is worth it? I think this illustration also serves to bring into stark focus the other most important element in shipping, and that is the cost of freight. When we examine this question we see the disadvantage that all Tasmanians suffer. While transport costs throughout the nation must increase of necessity, due to the uncontrolled inflationary situation, the costs are much worse in the Bass Strait area than in any other area in Australia over a similar or relative distance. The authority for that assertion can be found in the report on Tasmania's interstate transport problems by the Bureau of Transport Economics which was presented in March 1973. That report clearly shows that what I just said about comparative distance unfortunately is only too true. 
To add weight to what I have said and to illustrate what I mean I would like to refer briefly to some extracts from that report. As to tourist vehicles, southbound into Tasmania there were 17,225 and northbound from Tasmania there were 17,313. I think honourable senators appreciate that any cost which militates against an increase, however slow, in the number of vehicles going into a State like Tasmania, which depends so greatly on tourism- the tourist industry is worth in excess of $30m a year to Tasmaniais something we have to take the greatest care to avoid, if it is at all possible. As to freight, 1,002,972 tons went into Tasmania and 1,088,726 tons went north from Tasmania to the mainland States. These figures may be somewhat out of date as that report was presented in March 1 973, but any differences would be only slight. 
I want to refer to a couple of extracts from that report to clarify the real situation. I refer, firstly, to table 2 on annexe E7 which refers to line haul costs. Later I will deal with door to door costs. The cost in the northbound direction is $5 for line haul, $1.51 for wharfage and $1.30 for terminal costs. The total for the line haul and associated costs is $7.81. In the opposite direction, southbound, we find that the costs are: Line haul $5.20, wharfage $2, terminal costs $1.30, making a total of $8.50. Again referring to an extract from the report we find that the costs by rail over a similar distance are: Line haul $5.50, loading and unloading 70c, making a total of $6.20. By road the costs are: Line haul $7.50, loading and unloading 70c, making a total of $8.20. These figures apply to 1 ton of 40 cubic feet cargo. 
It is interesting when we look at what happens when we take the costs of 1 ton of 140 cubic feet cargo of, obviously, a different type. The sea freight costs in a northbound direction are: Line haul $16, wharfage because of extra handling $5.25, terminal costs $4.55, making a total of $25.80. The costs in a southbound direction are: Line haul $17.25, wharfage $7, terminal costs $4.55, making a total cost of $28.80. By rail the costs are: Line haul $8, loading and unloading 70c, making a total cost of $8.70. By road the cost is exactly the same, $8.70. We must add to these costs the door to door costs. Annexure 10 in the same report shows the costs on the Melbourne to Devonport distance, using the 3 modes of transport, for line haul to be: Sea, southbound, $17.70, sea, northbound, $15.80, road $14.60 and rail $12.60. These figures suggest that under the circumstances specified previously the door to door costs over the distance would be from $ 1 to $3 greater by sea than by road or rail in a northbound direction and from $3 to $5 in a southbound direction. These figures refer only to the movement of cargo of density of 1 ton of 40 cubic feet. 
The difference in the door to door costs for cargo of lower density can be shown to be very much higher. The line haul cost for cargo of a density of 1 ton of 140 cubic feet is much greater by sea than by road or rail. However, efficient blending of cargoes of varying densities could be used to modify, at least to some extent, the cost of sea transport. Density of cargo generally only slightly affects the line haul cost for road and rail. The other costs of freight forwarders would increase slightly due to the lower density and the charges would be similar for all modes of transport. The costs associated with the additional handlings peculiar to sea transport would probably be in the range of $2.50 to $3.50 for 1 ton of 140 cubic feet cargo. This would mean that the difference in the door to door costs between the modes of transport for 140-cubic foot consignment would be in the range of $20 to $25 a ton. Medium density cargo of, say, 60 cubic feet a ton would cost from $6 to $9 a ton more on the door to door basis when using sea for line haul. The line haul and associated costs which are about $12.80 in a southbound direction and $11.50 in a northbound direction by sea compared with $7.40 by rail and $8.20 by road are the major differences in the door to door costs. 
I think it is interesting to look very quickly at what happens when one extends the distances. There we see a greater relativity, but it does not help our situation with regard to the huge tonnage of cargo that is shipped in in the non-bulk cargo area in the northern part of the State. Using the same modes of transport, but this time extending the distance from Melbourne to Hobart instead of to Devonport, we find the costs by sea are: Line haul $11.98, wharfage $1.72, terminal charges $1.30, making a total of $15. The costs by rail are: Line haul $13, loading and unloading 70c, making a total cost of $13.70. The costs by road are slightly dearer. They are: Line haul $19.70, loading and unloading 70c, making a total cost of $20.40. Again this is for one ton of 40 cubic feet cargo. 
We see the difference in cost as soon as we look at the figures for one ton of 140 cubic feet cargo. Here the costs are: Line haul $38.90, wharfage $7, terminal charges $4.50, making a total cost of $50.40. By rail the costs are: Line haul $15.60, loading and unloading 70c, making a total of $16.30. The costs by road are: Line haul, $21, loading and unloading 70c, making a total of $21.70. These figures, I think, not only indicate the variation in commodities; they also serve to show that by taking the average between $ 1 and $5 of $2.50 and applying this to the amount of cargo we see that the State of Tasmania is paying about $5m more in transport charges than other areas which are a similar distance from capital cities. 
I recognise that  Mr Nimmo  is currently conducting a further inquiry into cost differences with regard to Tasmania. I feel, however, that there may well be merit in the thought that because of the necessary time delay in the receipt of the report, and taking into account the rapid escalation in costs, an interim subsidy may well commend itself to the Government. This would return some rationalisation to a continuing and frustrating situation and, hopefully, restore some degree of confidence in secondary industry that is sadly lacking at the present time. I am sure that the combination of costs of transport delays, however caused, has served to undermine this confidence which at this moment is surely needed to assist in creating additional job opportunities. 
I note that last Friday  Dr Cairns  on a visit to Tasmania announced that the Government would pay a $2m subsidy to the Australian National Line operating on the Tasmanian trade. This will do nothing to reduce the disadvantage that I have already mentioned. It will serve only to offset the recently announced rise in freight rates to the mainland and not to Tasmania. The need for prompt action has in no way been resolved by this subsidy. Therefore, the problems as outlined still exist and they are crying out for resolution in order to bring about some equality in the costs of transport. It seems highly discriminatory to pay a subsidy only in one direction. Of necessity it will do nothing to decrease the costs of imports into Tasmania which will still carry the 25 per cent increase in costs. 
I turn now to primary industry. To me it is not by accident that the term 'primary' is used when talking about this industry because rural industries still earn in excess of 50 per cent of Australia's export income. We have seen many decisions taken by this Government which have served only to destroy the confidence of the rural industry in this Government's ability to recognise and assist the one industry which by its very nature is unable in any way to insure itself against the ravages of inflation. There have been so many decisions taken that they are too numerous to mention, but some of the most important with their possible and eventual flow-on results include the alteration in the depreciation rate on machinery. This must have the effect of reducing demand, with the inevitable result of an escalation in unemployment in that part of secondary industry which services primary industry. There is a natural tendency on the part of farmers to retain plant, tractors and so on long beyond their useful life. The decision to alter the depreciation on development costs from a claim for the year in which the expenditure was incurred to a claim spread over 10 years means, in effect, that the farmer will be paying tax on nine-tenths of any cost of development. While this may have something to commend it after a period of years, it will be disastrous in the early years in the present economic situation with the cost of money at record high levels. 
The increase in telephone charges has added to the burden particularly because many rural producers unfortunately live outside of the local call area. The Government has increased fuel costs, both by imposing an additional charge by way of excise duty and by removing the petrol subsidy that kept prices in country areas more relative to those in the city areas. 
I refer now to the very much debated removal of the dairy subsidy. The Government has decided to remove the dairy subsidy over 3 years, in spite of all of the economic and social disabilities it will cause. While money has been made available by way of assistance to the dairy industry in other directions, this assistance almost certainly will help, unfortunately, only a small percentage of people engaged in rural industry. This decision, in common with many other actions of the Government, seems to have been dictated by pressures from within the trade union movement which seems not to want to appreciate, or is unable to appreciate, that the whole family in rural areas is often involved 7 days a week for up to 12 hours a day. 
The imposition of the 1.6c tax on the export of meat is another example of the Government's attitude. This was an almost panic like reaction to a situation which all but the Government seem to recognise could only be short term. This tax did not represent a very high percentage increase when export meats were commanding 35c to 40c per lb in the sale yards, but now that the price of export meat is down to 1 5c or 1 8c per lb it certainly will mean a high percentage increase. We do not hear anyone on the Government side of the chamber getting nearly as excited as some of them did earlier this year when prices were much higher. Perhaps they are not concerned with the situation of many of the beef producers who purchased store stock when prices reflected the high market price of beef and now face limited markets with low and uneconomic prices. 
We have heard a good deal about the removal of the superphosphate bounty during question time over the last couple of days. Notwithstanding the 100 per cent increase in ex-works price in the last 6 months- in some cases the increase has been slightly in excess of this- the removal of the subsidy is a further example of the Government's attack on rural industries. In this decision, as in many other decisions, we see what appears to be an intense dislike by the Government of the farming community, or at least the bigger producers. The Government should at least recognise the plight of the smaller producer and pay a bounty on at least the first 30 tonnes or 40 tonnes used on each property. The inevitable result of the Government's decision will of necessity be twofold. Firstly, it will gradually reduce production and, secondly, it will almost certainly force up the price of food. However, I imagine that prices will not move anything like quickly enough to compensate completely for costs which are estimated to be increasing at around 20 per cent a year. While there has been some recognition in the food and vegetable processing industry of a need to allow for cost escalation in contracts, it is a pretty fair bet that costs will not be entirely recoverable from price increases. At the moment meat, of course, is a classic example of this. 
I have given some examples of decisions taken since December 1972 which seem to illustrate the apparent disregard by this Government for the rural industry. Also the emergence of much talk amongst farmers about taking militant action highlights not only the condition within the industry but also their dissatisfaction over the militancy in many sections of the industrial union movement. This situation is very disquieting because normally rural people are more inclined to be conservative than militant. The Government must recognise its responsibilities in this situation and take what steps are necessary to try to find remedies that are not simply short term palliatives, as such remedies will only cause continuing problems. 
On many occasions we have heard from Government senators about the Government's research and endeavours in relation to international markets. But, unfortunately, judging by the situation we see in relation to many commodities in Australia today, the Government has not yet been able to achieve what we would have liked it to have done in this field. I think it is well, though, to acknowledge at this point the initiatives taken by the Minister for Agriculture  (Senator Wriedt)  and the Government with regard to the establishment of a floor price for wool. These are the types of stabilising moves that are very much needed right throughout primary industry. I certainly commend and congratulate the Minister for his part in this plan. There has always been a tremendous problem in rural industry associated with the stability of commodity prices. I would imagine that there always will be some instability, particularly in relation to those products which of necessity are sold on international markets. 
It may well be possible to cushion the severity of movements in farm income if steps were taken to allow farmers to insure against low incomes and low prices in the bad seasons by enabling them to purchase bonds or to take out some type of insurance when commodity prices are high. 
They would then be able to use this capital to assist in meeting taxation payments when prices were low. In this way perhaps we could see one of the greatest worries of the farmer- that is, the instability of prices- somewhat dissipated. I think that this would not only help the farmer but it would also bring about a good deal of benefit to the whole community. It seems common knowledge that while farmers have money they spend it, and if they are spending it so is everybody else. 
Another problem which I think demands some action is in the field of currency movements. It has been obvious for some time that Australia should have cut its ties with the American dollar and allowed the Australian dollar to float for a fixed period so that it might find some relativity with other world currencies. Alternatively we could have allowed for a fixed float over a given percentage. A moderate devaluation of the Australian dollar to the rural industry could at the present be of great national benefit. It remains to be seen, however, whether the Government's devaluation of 12 per cent, and its timing, is, on balance, good. Let us truly hope that it is. Undoubtedly the devaluation will cause some upsurge in the inflationary situation, and this may have the effect of offsetting some of the benefits that have been so long overdue from such a move. Devaluation cannot be judged in isolation; it must be considered in parallel with the Federal Budget which, unfortunately, is severely inflationary. 
Another problem that is giving concern to rural industry, due to the escalation in the price of land generally, is the old problem of estate duty or probate. I feel that while there is an immediate need to extend upwards the minimum limit under which probate is not paid, so as to bring about some relativity and relief to the curent situation by a comparison with what it was immedately after the last alteration, there is a more pressing need, I feel, for the formulation by the Government of a policy that will eventually abolish this unfair and destructive tax. It is destructive in the sense that for the vast majority of rural estates it often brings about a situation which is a paradox in relation to the policies on rural reconstruction of both of the major political parties. When Government funds are made available by way of loan for farm build-up, consolidation of farm properties, unfortunately we see time and time again that on the death of the owner some asset- usually land- has to be sold to meet the unfortunate burden of probate. Surely, with the combined abilities that are available to this national Parliament, we could arrive at a solution as an alternative to estate dutiespreferably a solution which was capable of exempting estates not only from Federal estate duties but also from State estate duties.  Mr Acting Deputy President,  I note that my time has nearly run out. I conclude by mentioning again the concern that I share with a great number of people everywhere that the economic situation that faces this country now is frighteningly akin to what we saw in 1 929. 1 feel that this situation requires the co-operation of all who can contribute anything towards a sensible and balanced solution of it. 
I direct my question to the Attorney-General. Is it correct that members of the Attorney-General 's Department or officers acting on behalf of the Attorney-General held discussions with representatives of sporting shooters associations, firearms traders and others earlier this year with a view to developing law reform proposals with respect to firearms? If so, what has been the outcome of those discussions? 
-I wonder whether the impressive list of figures that  Senator Everett  gave us during his address on this Bill took into account the dramatic increase in inflation since 1972. He said that the figure was around 50 per cent. But when the inflation rate has increased from 4.5 per cent per annum to 20 per cent per annum there is a fairly obvious need for a dramatic increase in the grant to take up this sort of slack in true money terms. 
I agree with  Senator Everett  when he says that in freeing itself from the Grants Commission Tasmania has made a real step forward. I also agree with him when he says that the Grants Commission has had an effect on policy. We all can remember that not so very long ago the Totalisator Agency Board issue was raised. It was a policy that had to be looked at very carefully by the governing party. The direction that was given by the Grants Commission in its report for that year indicated fairly clearly that unless TAB operations were introduced there would be an adverse decision the following year. By enabling Tasmania to get out from under that sort of direction, the action of the Tasmanian Government has been of tremendous value to the people of Tasmania. But there have to be reasons why this action was sought and why it was needed. 

 Senator Everett mentioned the increasing number of visits to Tasmania that have been undertaken by members of the Federal Labor Ministry in recent times. I wonder whether those visits are not related to the particularly high vote that the Liberal Party received at the election in May this year. Of course, both parties are quick to recognise moves in public opinion. I think that at present the Government is recognising some signs which are unpalatable to it. This is the sort of situation that will make any government respond, and respond in much the way that  Senator Everett  outlined; that is, by sending its representatives into the area and by trying to overcome disfavour and unpopularity by the sheer weight of numbers and personalities. This will not necessarily achieve the result that is hoped for. When we look at the situation in Tasmania and relate it to the debate that is taking place at the moment and to the debate that we had a few minutes ago on the Australian Shipping Commission Bill, we can see that there is some reason for disquiet. I mentioned a fortnight ago today in my maiden speech that in Tasmania there is tremendous disquiet in the business community, in the farming community and in the commercial world. The quarterly report of the Australia and New Zealand Banking Group released just recently indicated clearly that a very large number of manufacturing businesses in Tasmania were looking closely at the possibility of moving out of that State. There is only one reason why they cannot do it: It would cost too much to move, notwithstanding that the present cost of getting their raw materials into Tasmania and their exports out of Tasmania is nearly as high. 
The inflation rate and the high interest rates have destroyed the confidence of the people throughout Australia in this Government's ability to handle the situation. More particularly, this situation applies to Tasmania which, by reason of its size, does not have the ability to be flexible in its policies and does not have the resources to call upon to make job opportunities available to people who are displaced from industry.  Senator Rae  mentioned in his address to the Senate the number of people who are out of work in Tasmania. The figures show fairly clearly that the situation is worse there than anywhere else in Australia. The figures show that 3.14 per cent of the work force is unemployed in Tasmania. This percentage is above the percentage in other States. 
The 2 areas in which the greatest pressure of unemployment is being felt are the textile industry, in which there has been a 5.15 per cent increase in unemployment, and the building industry, in which there has been a 1.78 per cent increase in unemployment. It is fairly obvious that, with the policies that have been adopted over the last 12 months, these are the sorts of industries that will react most quickly to changes in the economic climate. The building industry has always been a wonderful barometer of the economic situation. If there is a recession or if there is a downturn in demand, fairly obviously this industry will respond very quickly on the employment side. If there is an upsurge in activity, as we hope there will be in the not too distant future, the reaction is just as quick. But in the textile industry it is a different story. The position would not be so bad in the textile industry if there were only unemployment in certain of the mills. But, when the action of the Government causes the complete closure of a mill, this is a more difficult position. The mill then has to be reestablished and made into a viable business. This is not always easy and it is certainly extremely costly. The subsidy that has been mentioned without doubt represents a recognition of the seriousness of the situation. Mention has been made of the reason for the payment of the subsidy, not only in the Senate but also in the other place. The reason why this has been brought about needs some explanation. 
We find, when we look back at the situation, that the accusation that the previous Government did nothing for 23 years cannot be borne out by a close look at the facts. There is no doubt that into the late 1960s, with the introduction by the Australian National Line of the roll-on roll-off method of shipping, Tasmania, in common with other areas of Australia, enjoyed a relatively competitive cost of transport. But, as time went on, this situation slowly started to change. It was recognised by the then Government and by people on this side of the Senate towards the end of the 1960s and in the early 1970s that something needed to be done. In this respect, we have the report that was mentioned earlier by  Senator Rae.  It is the report of the Senate Standing Committee on Primary and Secondary Industry and Trade on Freight Rates on Australian National Line Shipping Services to and from Tasmania. On 3 September 1970, the Committee was appointed to look into this matter. It made various recommendations. Two quite interesting reservations were expressed by 2 of the members of that Committee. The first reservation to which I refer is in relation to subsidy arrangements.  Senator Rae  stated: 
I recommend that 
the questions related to the introduction of some scheme of subsidy or freight cost equalisation be referred to the Bureau of Transport Economics for consideration at the same time as they carry out the recommended quantitative assessment of Tasmania's transport disabilities relative to the other States (Committee Recommendation No. 2); 
the Bureau's report upon both matters be published for the consideration of all interested persons to then determine what action should be taken at a Government level. 

 Senator Wriedt, who was then a member of the Committee, said in his reservations: 
For this reason alone, and for several others, particularly the vast sums of Commonwealth money which has been spent on mainland railways and beef roads, I believe the Commonwealth has an obligation to directly assist Tasmania in respect to shipping freight rates. 
The significance of the comparatively low degree of departmental spending in Tasmania has been largely overlooked in the past and coupled with the declining rate of private investment in secondary industry in Tasmania, is a major factor in the State's inability to maintain a level of economic development with Australia as a whole. 
I agree with the Committee's finding that the normal subsidy methods would prove difficult to achieve but I also contend that a taxation allowance on company tax should be given favourable consideration. The present rate of tax on all the shipping operators trading to Tasmania is a major factor in their consideration of freight rates. 
I think it was clearly demonstrated at that time that these 2 honourable senators, who sit opposite one another in the Senate chamber, recognised that there were problems which, within the scope of the inquiry, the ability of the Committee and the time allowed to it, it would be impossible to unravel. The subsequent report that it was recommended be supplied by the Bureau of Transport Economics was made available in March 1973. I quoted from that report a fortnight ago many of the pertinent points which are still relevant to the situation that exists today. We see from that report that it is not easy to find a long lasting solution. The Government has had this report for nearly 1 8 months. It has not been able, from the information contained in the report, to arrive at a solution. Therefore, it has commissioned the Nimmo Committee report. We hope that that report will contain the details that will give sufficient clarity and a decision that is permanent, just as permanent as the one referred to by  Senator Everett  in regard to the $ 15m that is being made available to Tasmania. It will be of tremendous value, I think, to Tasmania which has shipping problems in its Transport Commission notwithstanding that two or three of its ships have finished up at the bottom of the sea. I think it is important that there is room for the Tasmanian Government to have opportunity to manoeuvre in the capital field and in the budgetary aspect, without continual recourse to Federal Government funds. 
The other important subject with regard to costs in the freight field is the unquestionably very high pay that seamen get. I do not think anybody disagrees that a seaman like any other worker in Australia is entitled for his labour to a fair and equal share of the products of the nation. When one considers that these people work only a 32-week year, their rate of pay is over $300 a week. If shipping is to be effective on a scheduling basis, fairly obviously this must be extrapolated out to 12 months- 52 weeks of the year. If we do that we find that the cost of a seaman on each of the ships is in excess of $15,000 a year. It is fairly obvious that costs must of necessity increase very rapidly. When an inflationary pressure exists, as at present, it is fairly obvious that there will be large jumps in demand for increased wages and an increased share of productivity. There are many other aspects and side issues. I think that I demonstrated fairly clearly during the Budget debate that Tasmania is disadvantaged to the extent of $5m. I do not agree with the supposition that because certain goods that are imported into Tasmania receive the benefit of a freight equalisation scheme, there is no increased cost to the people of Tasmania. If one goes to the worker, the carpenter, the builder or the housewife, they will all tell you that there is very definitely an additional increase in costs. Some of those people still have enough money left, notwithstanding the economic situation in Tasmania today, to travel occasionally to another State. They can compare then quite easily the cost of groceries. Women seem to have a particularly keen eye for doing so. 
Another matter has been causing a good deal of concern in my region of the State- the northwest coast. As many of the senators from Tasmania know, for many months there has been a good deal of speculation on the possibility of establishing a vegetable processing factory on the north-west coast with assistance from the Australian Industry Development Coporation We were trenchantly criticised by senators on the other side for our refusal to pass the AIDC and NIF Bills. When we look at what happened on Saturday of last week we realise that honourable senators opposite can hide no longer behind that excuse for the non-establishment of this factory. In the 'Advocate' of Saturday, 12 October,  Mr Costello,  the Minister for Agriculture in Tasmania, in answer to an accusation by  Mr Mervyn  Radford from the north-west coast that the Minister was unaware of what was going on, stated: 
My Department co-operated with the feasibility study being conducted by the PDS, both in the provision of statistical information and also in discussions. 
This company from Sydney was looking into the economic viability of the project. The report continues: 
I also was present when the then Acting Prime Minister  (Dr Cairns)  visited the North- West. 

 Dr Cairns had made it quite clear that, although he personally was in favour of the project, the Australian Industry Development Corporation had rejected it since it did not believe it was economically viable. 

 Dr Cairns had gone on to say that, had the Senate not refused to pass the amendments to the AIDC Bill, then it would have permitted the establishment of such projects as the co-operative. 
But the AIDC had decided already that they would not approve this project. For Government senators to use that as an excuse for their inability to compromise on such an important issue does them less than credit in this sort of situation, because it was not a point of policy in the Bill; it was just a request for a finalisation of the investigation. 
Sitting suspended from 6 to 8 p.m. 
Prior to the suspension of the sitting I was trying to explain that the much vaunted processing factory in north-western Tasmania has not received the support of the Australian Industry Development Corporation because they themselves with all their wisdom and their ability have realised that it is not an economically viable proposition. Earlier,  Senator Everett  mentioned that there had been a 100 per cent increase in the amount of moneys received by Tasmania from the Commonwealth Government. I think the relevant point here is that during the last 4 years the tax revenue to the Commonwealth has doubled. Four years ago it was $7,248m. It is estimated that this year the amount will be $14,5 18m. If we take into account the 100 per cent increase in moneys received by Tasmania we must also take into account the 100 per cent increase in revenue to the Commonwealth Government which is about the same figure. There is not quite the generosity that would appear from what  Senator Everett  said. It is fairly clear that while  Senator Everett  said we ignored the situation it is important that he, in turn, ignored the amendment moved by  Senator Rae.  I think it is an extremely important matter. To support the amendment would show a solidarity to the people of Tasmania. It would show the people who elected us to this place- on whichever side of your chair,  Mr President,  we may sit- that we are vitally interested in what is going on and that we earnestly desire to get together to try to formulate a plan that will act as a solution for the disadvantaged people in Tasmania who have suffered, unfortunately, for too long a period. 
Between us I think we have explained quite readily the reasons for the difficulty in arriving at a rational or workable decision. It is not a matter of just coming up with money. The money has to be applied in such a way that it will give relief that is needed. Mention was made of the $2m in connection with exports from Tasmania. Unfortunately, this could not relieve the disadvantage that Tasmania already suffers. It will also do nothing to relieve the import factor. We hope that the Nimmo report will bring down the types of figures and the types of graphic detail that is needed to arrive at a formula whereby this continuing problem to Tasmania which has occurred over the last 4 or 5 years can be finally solved to the satisfaction of the people of Tasmania. It has a relevance, of course, to the people of Australia. I think that we all realise because of the very nature of the agricultural activities in Tasmania, particularly on the north-west coast, a tremendous amount of frozen food and other things of this nature are produced which find their ready markets in Victoria and New South 
Wales. For this reason it is extremely important that everybody should share the cost of transport between centres. Everybody in Australia should be prepared to accept something of the burden of the disadvantages suffered. 
I think the reference made by  Senator Everett  to a group of people who were in Launceston yesterday hardly acknowledged the real situation. I understand that at one stage there was somewhere in the vicinity of 500 people. This has been brought about by a genuine desire of the people to bring to the Government's notice the real situation that faces this part of Tasmania. It is terribly important, I think, that we should recognise that there are areas in Tasmania and in other parts of Australia which have been sadly affected by policies of this Government. The Government acknowledges that some of the policies that it has followed in recent months have been responsible for the present situation. The Government has done what it could in this respect but there is still very much more to do. 
In closing, I should like to return to the amendment. I again ask other members of the Senate from Tasmania to support the amendment moved by  Senator Rae.  In this way they will show the people of Tasmania the genuine desire of us all to find a solution to a problem that has been with the State of Tasmania for a long time. Unless a genuine and earnest desire is demonstrated to the people of Tasmania by us all they will lose faith that we will ever find a solution to their problems. 
My question, which is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Transport, refers to a report in the 'Advocate ' of Saturday, 12 October, that the Commonwealth fire protection services are to be withdrawn from the airports at Devonport and Wynyard in north western Tasmania. Can the Minister confirm this report? What would be the savings in cost of such an action? Does the Minister consider that as these 2 airports handle nearly 200,000 passenger movements a year the safety factor should be of paramount importance? 
My question which is directed to the Minister representing the Treasurer refers to the proposed capital gains tax. Has consideration been given to whether property owners whose land is resumed by either a State or Federal government and who are in effect forced to dispose of their property in this way will be required to pay capital gains tax in this situation when it may well be that they would not have decided to dispose of their property at that particular point of time? 
My question, which I direct to the Minister representing the Minister for Labor and Immigration, relates to the retraining scheme. By way of preface I mention the following facts: Recently I was informed of a situation in Burnie in Tasmania where an employer needed 3 men. After advertising without result, he resorted to asking the Commonwealth Employment Service to send him 3 people. This was duly done. After the men had been employed he received a letter from officers of the retraining scheme asking for his estimate of how long it would take to retrain these men. He replied that it would take 6 weeks. But he received reimbursement for 22 weeks. I ask: Does this not indicate a misuse of public funds? Cannot some control over this kind of irresponsible use of public moneys be formulated? 
My question is directed to the Minister for Customs and Excise. It relates to the Australian marine engine industry. I ask: Will the Government consider taking any steps possible to assist this industry to remain viable by using the locally made products instead of the fully imported units which are now entering this country free of tariff, not only as this exacerbates the employment situation but also because, should any international situation arise when such imports would be not longer available, the necessary expertise also would not be available? As many Federal and State government bodies have a need for marine engines the use of locally made units would greatly assist the industry to remain in a viable situation. 
Can the Minister representing the Minister for Labor and Immigration supply the Senate with the following information on unemployment in each State: The number of people receiving social security unemployment benefit, the number of people receiving assistance under the income maintenance scheme, the number of people involved in the national employment and training schemesometimes known as the NEAT scheme- and the total weekly cost of unemployment to Australia? 
I direct my question to the Postmaster-General. I refer to the increase of from $6 to $ 12 in the amateur wireless licence fee announced in the Budget. In view of the fact that there are only about 6,000 such licences and that many of these licences are held by either elderly or handicapped people, and as the extra revenue derived from this source would be only $36,000 a year, I ask: Will the Minister give consideration to reverting to the $6 licence fee, especially in view of the points that I have mentioned and also because of the sterling work undertaken by many of these people in times of emergency without their receiving any pecuniary reward? 
asked the Minister for Customs and Excise, upon notice: 
Will the Government give consideration to taking whatever steps are necessary to assist the Australian marine engine industry to remain viable, by using locally made products instead of permitting fully imported units to enter Australia free of tariff. 
As many Federal and State Government bodies have a need for marine engines, would the use of locally made units greatly assist this industry to remain viable. 
My question, which is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Labor and Immigration, refers to the report in the Melbourne 'Herald' of yesterday afternoon that some 50,000 tertiary students may be unable to obtain employment during the Christmas vacation period. The report indicates that unless many of these people are able to obtain employment, and extra funds because of it, they will be unable to continue their studies next year and this will, of necessity, exacerbate the 1975 employment situation. In view of this fact, and taking into account the already critical employment situation generally has the Government any plans which may assist students wishing to take up jobs to obtain such employment? 
I direct a question to the Postmaster-General as the Minister representing the Ministers in charge of the Regional Employment Development scheme. What is the total amount of grants under the RED scheme already approved for the following Tasmanian municipalities: Circular Head, Wynyard, Waratah, Burnie, Penguin, Ulverstone and Devonport? Can the Minister give details of the number of applications in each of these municipalities which are being processed but which have not yet been approved? Can the Minister give details of the number of unemployed in each of these areas and the percentage unemployment they represent? 
1 would like to ask the Attorney-General a little more about the funds that will be provided in this year's Budget for marriage guidance counselling. First of all, has there been a general acceptance that this is sufficient? Is there any indication that there is likely to be a proliferation of such marriage guidance organisations, church or otherwise? Does the Attorney-General see the need in the immediate future for some contribution by way of regulation? He indicated that he felt there was not nearly enough of a contribution by the churches for their own marriage guidance organisations and all the funds should not come from the Commonwealth. I think I would tend to agree with that. Could the AttorneyGeneral answer those questions for me? 
I refer the Minister representing the Minister for Transport to my question on King Island aerodrome on 17 July 1974 when I asked when the aerodrome was likely to be improved so that it would be capable of taking the Argosy freighter. Will the Minister consider giving permission for this aircraft, which has about  3  times the cargo capacity of those currently being used, to be used on an occasional basis to help overcome the seasonal shortage of space that is almost certainly to occur during the next 3 to 4 months and is in fact currently causing concern? If the Minister is prepared to allow use of this aircraft for a limited number of spaced out flights, it is anticipated that no damage would be done to the existing runways and that this method of rationalisation would remove the need for the abattoirs to close because of inability to ship and inability to hold stocks. 
My question to the Minister for the Media relates to the improvement of television reception in the far north-west of Tasmania with the installation of a grid of repeater stations at Tier Hill, Lileah and Christmas Hills. As it is quite some time since a request was first made on this matter, has the Minister any information that would indicate when the people in this area can expect better television reception as a result of the completion of these relay stations? 
asked the Minister for Labor and Immigration, upon notice: 
1 ) What number of persons in each State 
receive social security unemployment benefits; 
come under the Income Maintenance Scheme; and 
are involved under the National Employment and Training System. 
What is the total weekly cost of unemployment in Australia. 
-Yes, I second the amendment. I think  Senator Sim  in his speech tonight has outlined the difficulties and problems that are facing civil aviation today. I wish to localise the problem somewhat, refer to the situation on the north-west coast of Tasmania and use that as an example of the sort of thing that is happening in civil aviation. A number of use who are associated with the position have seen in recent weeks a certain amount of guestimation as to whether either or both of the airports at Wynyard and Devonport may be closed. It has been said that the suggestion has come from the Department of Transport. This is not so. The policy of this Government, which is to recover 80 per cent of the charges, as outlined in this Bill, has made it nearly impossible for these sorts of charges to be passed on to the passenger traffic. I think it is fairly obvious that if we expect the passengers to pay for at least 80 per cent of the charges, as outlined in the Bill, sooner or later we must reach the point where it is no longer possible for the industry to carry the increased charges. 

 Senator Sim said that, according to the Government, the industry is set up to cater just for the silvertails, that it is a luxury industry. Of course it will be a luxury industry if the industry itself is forced to carry these sorts of charges. We will see this reflected in the cost of air fares between various cities. I suppose, because of the geographic nature of Australia, that we suffer a disadvantage. We have large concentrations of people who live very great distances apart from each other. I suppose that Australia pro rata is probably one of the most air-minded of all countries in the world. If we destroy this inustry we will destroy an industry that is extremely valuable, not only from the point of view of moving traffic from point A to point B but also from the point of view of the light aircraft industry in Australia. If aircraft are not being used because the costs of use are too high the manufacturing and design side of the light aircraft industry will be destroyed purely because there is insufficient incentive to maintain it. Light aviation, or in other words the third tier of aviation- the small airlines, the various charter aircraft companies of which we see so many and which form such an important part of Australian aviation today- is finding, with the increased cost of hangar rental, landing charges and other navigation charges, that it is fast becoming virtually impossible to continue to operate with any reasonable degree of efficiency within this framework of costs and still be able to attract the numbers of people that they would wish to attract. 
I will return to the situation in Tasmania. I think a quote from the 'Examiner' newspaper in northern Tasmania clearly demonstrates the sort of problem that we have throughout Australia. This quote applies to one part of Tasmania, but I think it applies generally also. The article states: 
The efforts of  Mr Duthie,  M.H.R., and others to persuade the Federal Department of Transport to accept its rightful responsibility for Devonport and Wynyard airports seem likely to founder in the sea of Federal Government indifference. Canberra has made it clear that it wishes to shrug off these 2 airports as quickly and as cheaply as it possibly can. Its first, transparently, dishonest move was to offer the airports as profitable enterprises to the councils in whose territory they lay. The councils saw the trap at once: If running an airport was so profitable, they argued, why did the Commonwealth wish to dispose of them? 
They saw several other valid arguments against the proposal. The people of the 2 municipalities concerned (Wynyard and Latrobe) are not the principal users of the airports. They as ratepayers would have to undertake a big responsibility and the distinct possibility of heavy  losses  on behalf of residents of other municipalities. Moreover, all airline passengers and users of air-freight services pay for the facilities that the Commonwealth provides. Savage taxes on aviation fuel and burdensome air-navigation charges are paid by the airlines which naturally pass on the cost to their  customers. Nobody has suggested that users of KingsfordSmith or Tullamarine airports should pay a tax for the privilege - 
-That may well be, but I think one must look at this in a rather more realistic way. 
I do not know who wants to close them, but it has been reported that the airlines wish to close them basically because they cannot afford to keep the rate that they charge their passengers down to a competitive level. The rates are already quite a significant percentage higher than the rates for equivalent distances in other areas. I continue to quote: why should users of Wynyard or Devonport have to do so? 
Now the Federal Government has adopted a new attack. Having failed to tempt the councils into taking the airports as business' propositions yielding income from passengers and from parking and concessions, the Department of Transport has announced that it will withdraw all firefighting services from the airports- a move that could convert an incident into a catastrophe. Warden Stewart of Latrobe said that the action was shocking. He perceived it as pressure tactics to compel local authorities to take over the airports. Warden Smith of Wynyard was equally firm in rejecting the stratagem.  Mr Bonncy,  M.H.A., commented that the cost of maintaining the services would be trifling compared with the costs at Tullamarine, for example which the Federal Government meets without a question. 
He is a member of the Liberal Party, a very enlightened Party. He tells a good story that I would like to tell the honourable senator sometime. I do not wish to take the time of the Senate by telling it here, but it is something to do with  Mr Hawke  and some kittens. If the honourable senator wishes, I will tell it now. 
I know, but he woke up too. The article continues: 
Though more than 170,000 passengers used the airports last year-- 
This figure has been increased because of the greater use and the figure is now currently approximately 200,000 - 
The Commonwealth may argue that nowhere else in Australia does it maintain three first class airports in a distance of 150-odd km. True, but nowhere else in Australia's settled areas are people so dependent on air transport for passenger and freight movement. A North-West airport handling more than 100,000 passengers a year is to be treated as a bush strip to be managed by the local residents. 
Even worse is the plight of the people of King and Flinders Islands whose commercial services are being withdrawn. These people are to be graded as second-class Tasmanians who in turn are second-class Australians. To the centralist Federal Government, the people of the NorthWest and the islands, like other Tasmanians and, indeed, like all who don 't live in Canberra, Sydney or Melbourne, are bumpkins, conveniently to be ignored if they are not actively persecuted for the crime of decentralisation or of trying to make a living from a farm. 
I think it can be fairly clearly seen from that, notwithstanding the interjections from the other side, that there is a need for rationalisation and a commonsense attitude in this matter. Admittedly it was the policy of the previous Government to recover a certain amount of the air navigation charges from the users of the airports. We have heard talk, when it has been convenient for the Government to so talk, about flexibility in policy formulation. This is a situation in which there is a need for flexibility in policy formulation because the policy which was appropriate 3 months ago is not necessarily appropriate today. Due to inept economic management Australia at present is paying out something like $3m a week in unemployment relief. If we were to use just a portion of that amount it would be very easy to maintain these airports in the standard that has applied to date. It also would be relatively easy to give to these people the service and consideration which their very isolation demands we should give them. 
It is all very well for  Senator Grimes  who is seeking to interject. He lives near Launceston, one of the prettiest and most efficient airports in Australia. He has jet aircraft available to him; we have something else. The service we have is very good and we want to maintain it. The people in both towns want to maintain it. Theoretically it may well be that it is difficult to justify 3 airports within such a short distance, but I think the situation in north-west Tasmania has to be appreciated and understood before people can make a judgment on it. It is very difficult for anybody other than people who live in the area to do so. Honourable senators should not forget that we cannot catch a train or drive a car across Bass Strait. It is a very difficult proposition. 
-No. There is only one person, and he is on your side of politics and in the other House, who is supposed to be able to walk across water. I cannot. 
No. I have never tried to walk on hot coals. I believe people do so in Fiji. 
The ACTING  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Marriott)-  Order! The honourable senator will address the chair and ignore interjections. He will get on much better by doing so. 
-Walking on hot coals certainly puts callouses on your feet. Thank you,  Mr Acting Deputy President,  for your protection. Another feature not noted by the Government in the proposition before us is the use that agricultural aircraft make of the various airports throughout Tasmania. They have to go somewhere for servicing and maintenance. Agricultural aircraft are becoming more noticeable in the field of agriculture and are being used for the distribution of fertiliser, insecticide and weedicide. It is important that we consider this aspect as well. All of these aspects are terribly important today. Twelve months ago rural industry was riding on the crest of a wave. Typical of rural industry, some aspects of it currently are in a trough, I say some aspects advisedly because I realise that in the hard grain and the ordinary grain areas, and in sugar benefit is accruing to the people fortunate enough to be engaged in them. The meat industry is not one of those. Tasmania, like other places, relies heavily on agricultural aircraft for top dressing where cattle and other stock are run. From the very important point of view of the agricultural aircraft industry, this severe impost is going to make it extremely difficult for people to maintain the service at a cost that is relatively competitive with that already provided. 
I do not think that is the point. It is not what 1 would have done, it is what we are being asked to do at the present moment. 
I think we would have looked a good deal more realistically at the situation. Firstly, we would not have let the economy get into the situation it is in now. We would not have let inflation explode to the point at which money is fast becoming valueless. We would not have implemented policies that it was suggested would not work and which now have cost the Commonwealth Government, or the Australian Government, whichever you like to call it, an awful lot of money in the form of unemployment payments. We would have used that money so saved - 
-The value of it is rather awful at the moment. 
-That is right. The whole crux of this matter is whether the Bill before us adequately meets the situation. I do not think it does. We do not oppose it but we support the amendment- suggested by  Senator Sim.  The Government has made great play, as I mentioned earlier, on flexibility in policy formulation. It is not too late for the Government to admit it has made a mistake. Everybody makes mistakes. People who do not do anything do not make mistakes. This Government does plenty. I do not say that it makes plenty of mistakes. It tries hard but it finishes up with a lot of policies that appear to be mistakes. The ratings in the various surveys that are taken indicate this pretty clearly. 
I do not think I will bother about that. The honourable senator's version of that story would be far more interesting and probably far more entertaining that any I would tell. I believe in loyalty to my leader and I do not mind saying so and I do not mind being recorded as having said so. I want to get back to the question of King Island. Because of the withdrawal of the subsidy towards air fares or the cost of running the services into that area, the people of King Island and Flinders Island are now without a regular Fokker service, an ordinary commercial service. The area has been reasonably well catered for by small aircraft but unfortunately they have a disadvantage. They do not have toilet facilities on them, they are not readily available and not readily adaptable to cater for people who are ill or who need to lie down. The subsidy was costing the Commonwealth $6 a person, roughly the same as the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs  (Senator Cavanagh)  said in his second reading speech, it was costing everybody in Australia to maintain the services at the level they were. I think  Senator Sim  pretty clearly demonstrated that no transport service in Australia is running without some assistance from the taxpayer. Surely we can rationalise the cost and keep it down to a level where the service can be made available to everybody at a reasonable figure. Surely the best way to offset the cost is to encourage more people to use the service. One way to diminish the profit margin is to make the cost of usage so great that people no longer are able to afford to travel by this method. 
Those basically are the points I wish to make in this debate. I hope that the Government will look more objectively at this Bill than it has in the past. It is all very well to have a theory about recovering 80 per cent, 90 per cent or 100 per cent, but with costs and prices moving with the rapidity with which they are at present I do not think anybody will growl or be terribly upset if the Government looks at the question and says: We feel we are moving too quickly in this direction. We are prepared to look at the matter and to provide those areas which are not so populated as are others with a reasonably well protected service. We are prepared to try to make civil aviation the type of transport system that Australia and Australians can be proud of. 
I think we are all proud of the wonderful record of the Department of Civil Aviation and of civil aviation generally in Australia. If we are to be forced by reason of costs to try to cut corners, we could well fall into the trap that a lot of people overseas have fallen into and allow aircraft maintenance to fall below the line. I think that DCA regulations are very stringent and I doubt that that would happen. However it is a temptation and it may happen. It is a temptation that may be yielded to. We have seen generally in the employment field throughout Australia in recent weeks that the only way in which business people can keep ahead or maintain themselves at the level they were at is by retrenching so that the profit margin is maintained. We must make an effort to encourage people to employ more and to develop more. We want to see in this country the development of civil aviation to its fullest possible extent. We have a proud record in civil aviation. Do not let us destroy it by pricing it completely out of the market of the ordinary man in the street. 
I address my question to the Minister representing the Treasurer. It relates to the extreme liquidity difficulty of the Tasmanian Labor Government, as reported last week, when doubts were cast as to whether Tasmanian public servants, particularly teachers  and nurses, would be able to receive their holiday pay. I ask: Has the Australian Government received any request from the Tasmanian Government for any assistance to overcome these problems? 
My question which is directed to the Attorney-General relates to the refusal of the Secretary of the Seamen's Union of Australia,  Mr E.  V. Elliott, to supply documents to  Mr Justice  Sweeney, the royal commissioner conducting an investigation into alleged payments to maritime unions. As the refusal was reported to have been made because the Federal Government had not made a decision on whether the union would be able to get or was to be granted legal aid, can the Attorney-General now say whether a decision has been made on this matter? 
My question relates to an answer given by the Minister for Repatriation and Compensation on Tuesday to a question by  Senator Grimes  which was asked, I imaginerather unsuccessfully- to try to embarass Tasmanian senators.  Senator Grimes  had asked whether Government supporters did not know that the intention of a policy proposal was to station an aircraft permanently in Tasmania for the Royal Flying Doctor Service and also to be available for some social and health welfare work, with particular reference to pensioners who are at the moment discriminated against. 
The  DEPUTY PRESIDENT-  Order! The Minister has requested that you read the question again,  Senator Bessell. 
It is about the Royal Flying Doctor Service. The policy point was that the 
Royal Flying Doctor Service aircraft be stationed permanently in Tasmania and be available as well for some normal social and health welfare work, with particular reference to King Island and Flinders Island pensioners who at- the moment appear to be discriminated against by both the socialist governments- State and Federal. I ask: If the Minister does not know this will he acquaint himself with this policy point and also give it the special consideration that such a worthy and humane cause would demand? 
-First of all I indicate that the Opposition supports this Bill. We think that in the main it is a very good Bill. It has an added advantage over the Marginal Dairy Farms Bill in that it has been widened to take in a number of other aspects that are very important. Like  Senator Hall  who was faced with this situation some time ago, we are very disappointed that it is now very difficult to do anything about the two or three amendments that we proposed to move and that we thought would definitely improve the Bill. While we will mention these amendments and try to point out the advantages that would have resulted had they been accepted, we will probably now not proceed with them in the committee stage. 
The advantage of this Bill is that it does encompass uneconomic dairy farms, as completely opposed to the previous definition. I suppose the only thing that could be said against the inclusion of 'uneconomic dairy farms' is that it will have to be established what in fact is an economic dairy farm and what is an uneconomic dairy farm. By making provision for assistance to uneconomic dairy farms are we going to perpetuate something- perhaps it is not a fault but a problem associated with this type of assistancethat we would prefer not to have perpetuated? In other words, will there be an encouragement of production in uneconomic areas and in areas which are marginal in any sense of the word? I think this is a sort of two bob each way situation because we find that, irrespective of whether the area is suitable or whether the property is suitable, many people who have lived all of their lives on a dairy farm wish to continue with that type of pursuit. 
I do not think that people either from this side of the Parliament or from the other side of the Parliament have ever been able to come up with a complete solution to this problem, to the satisfaction of the nation. The Bill does go quite a way towards assisting the situation. Its provisions have been broadened to cover more people than were covered under the original Act. It replaces the original Act, and now we have what is known as the Dairy Adjustment Program. The assistance which is given under this Bill and which was not given under the previous Bill, to the dairy companies will, I think, be welcomed by many of the dairy companies. But the Opposition would have liked to move an amendment to give greater assistance in this regard. We know that in many areas in Australia there are very many small dairy companies, and I think that it would have been to the common good and to the advantage of the industry in general if these small companies could have been brought together as one consolidated factory. This is what we had in mind; we wanted to consolidate these types of places. In other words, an amalgam of dairy factories could be brought under the one management. That would have a number of advantages. Obviously, as we have seen with a number of industries in Australia today, it is volume throughput that is so terribly important, and that is where you get your economies of scale. 
At the present moment those people who qualify will be eligible for assistance in relation to refrigeration and storage and, in some instances, in relation to the capital necessary for the purchase of refrigerated milk collecting trucks. But it would be far better- I think the Minister may agree- if we could cut down on the number of collection areas so that fewer trucks were needed. We see the silly situation in a number of areas- I can speak specifically only of my own area- where, because of a lack of rationalisation within the industry, two or three different companies collect in the one area. I know that this Bill is not intended to cover that situation but it is a situation with which the industry itself has got to come to grips. It is ridiculous to think that 3 tankers with a capacity of 3,000 gallons each should be put on to one road to collect milk from 8 or 9 separate properties. With commonsense amalgamation and rationalisation this sort of situation could be overcome. 
The Bill makes provision for assistance for the purchase of refrigerated vats for the dairy industry at the dairy farm level. I imagine that there are a number of areas in Australia in which these vats are still needed. As far as my own area in north-western Tasmania is concerned, evolution in the industry has now virtually made these vats no longer necessary because people are using the system of milk storage. One of the things that we would have liked to have seen included in clause IS- and this is not covered in clause 12 notwithstanding what  Dr Patterson  said in the other House- is that there are a number of people who by reason of economies of scale or because they want to take up the advantages under the dairy adjustment scheme will find that the equipment which they have is no longer big enough. They would have at the present time a good deal of difficulty in establishing a need for assistance under this type of measure. This means that a dairy farmer with a 500-gallon vat will not be eligible under this scheme to get a larger sized vat. Again this comes back to the economies of scale. If it is possible for a dairy farmer to store in a vat all the milk from one day's milking it is much cheaper for the dairy company to do the collections. We know the cost of transport today. 
We recognise the tremendous costs involved in collection and it is fairly obvious that if these 2 things I have mentioned had been encompassed within the Bill it would have made a good Bill an even better one. It is unfortunate that the other House is not sitting and we will not be able to seek to improve the Bill by amending it. I know that the Minister for Agriculture  (Senator Wriedt)  did try to have this Bill brought in on Thursday evening in time for our proposed amendments to be discussed and then for the Bill to go to the other House and to come back here, but it was not possible. So we have to accept the situation as we see it. 
Coming back to the point I first raised, I think we have to ensure that we do not encourage an extension of uneconomic dairy farms in areas that are marginal or not particularly suitable. One other point to which consideration may have been given- this may still be possible- is provision of assistance to a person who wants to continue as a dairy farmer to move if necessary from an area that is marginal or is too far away from a collection area onto a property that is closer for collection purposes and is more suitable. In the past 4 years there has been a dramatic drop in the number of dairy properties throughout Australia. I think this clearly indicates one of 3 things. People are getting sick of getting up 14 times every week to milk cows, costs are too high or the unfortunate rapid increase in the price of beef has lured a few people away from the dairy industry into that industry which is now no longer lucrative. To illustrate the fall-off in the number of dairy farms I inform the Senate that over a period of 4 years from 1970 to 1974 there has been a 29.8 per cent drop in dairy properties in Australia and in the last 2 years the fall was 18 per cent. There were 48,000 dairy farms but at the present time the figure is 34, 100. 
There are a number of other problems facing this industry that bear mentioning and one of course is the price of butter. The Minister will remember that just over 12 months ago he and I together with a couple of other people debated the abolition of the subsidy provided to the dairy industry. I cited some figures then but unfortunately they have changed. Let me compare the price of butter and the average weekly wage in 1964 with the price of butter and the average weekly wage in 1974, which is an easy period of a decade. The average weekly wage in 1964 was $54.10. The retail price of butter at that time was 56c or on a percentage basis 1.030 approximately. By the September quarter of 1974 the average weekly wage had risen to $138 but butter had risen to only 64c. It had dropped from its previous figure to .0046 per cent. Had the price of butter maintained its percentage of the average weekly wage- I think it is fairly reasonable to assume that in 1 964, because our consumption of butter has been fairly even over that period, it was not too dear- it should now be somewhere about $ 1.35 per lb. I do not think that anybody in the community could say that the dairy farmer has not pulled his weight in trying to keep down the costs of food to the consumers. 
We often hear it said that the New Zealand dairy industry is particularly progressive, efficient and economic but it is interesting to read what the Leader of the Australian Country Party  (Mr Anthony)  said when he was talking about this Bill in the other House. As reported at page 4273 of the House of Representatives Hansard, he said: 
We hear so often about New Zealand being an efficient producer of dairy products. How many people know that in New Zealand last year $42.2S6m was paid in subsidy to the milk producers, who of course represent most of the production of the dairy industry. It is believed that this year the subsidy in New Zealand for milk production will climb as high as $59m 
This clearly indicates that, being basically a rural economy, New Zealand recognises that there is a need for support within the industry. This Bill goes a long way towards making it easier. Unfortunately, the Government has adopted a policy of gradually phasing out the dairy subsidy and of phasing out the fertiliser subsidy at the end of this month. This will add further to the costs of the dairy industry. Notwithstanding the figures quoted a while ago of the price of a pound of butter, it will probably not become very much higher than it is at the present moment. It will probably go up by only 2c or 4c a pound, yet costs will increase very rapidly. 
I want to refer to another problem confronting the dairy industry. It is one of which the Minister would be aware. It is not covered by this Bill and is probably not of tremendous concern to this Parliament. I refer to equalisation within the dairy industry. We know that four of the Australian States- namely, Queensland, New South Wales, South Australia and Western Australiano longer produce sufficient butter for their own needs and have to buy it from the States that produce more than they need, namely Tasmania and Victoria. This brought about a situation last year where, for fairly obvious reasons, they wished to withdraw from the dairy equalisation scheme. They were allowed to do this to the extent of 80 per cent. But this situation has not been resolved and it is a long way from being resolved. It is not a simple question of whether the equalisation should apply all over the State for butter because so many other aspects of the dairy industry are involved. 
Factories in Australia are involved in the production of dairy products, not necessarily butter. I think that Kraft Foods Ltd is a classic example of a company that produces only cheese. Many other factories produce fortified milk. Some produce powdered milk and casein, both edible and the other kind. It is very difficult to get all of these people to agree particularly when one realises that the dairy factories assess that at the present moment they are probably able to pay only 48c or 50c a pound butterfat but for full cream dried milk and casein the figure could go as high as 75c or 80c a pound butterfat. Fairly obviously, the industry has some very big problems to face up to in the near future. I do not suggest that this is one of the situations covered by this Bill but it illustrates the need for careful consideration by the Government in framing this type of legislation so that the greatest possible contingencies are able to be covered. We hope that this type of Act will not be looked upon as the be-all and end-all of the problems associated with the dairy industry. If in the coming months or in the next year or so we see a need for another look at this situation we should all be prepared to look at it with a view then of trying to keep this industry on a solid and a sound footing. One of our big problems is that about 60 per cent of the total production of the dairy industry in Australia is sold overseas on a market that does not give us anything like the prices for some of the commodities we produce that our own home market gives us. I say 'some of them' advisedly because the prices that some of the dairy products are now commanding or attracting to themselves are considerably better than they used to be. 
So we come back to deciding whether this is a good Bill. As I said before, it is a good Bill. It is designed to assist the industry in as many aspects as I think we could expect. It assists the industry both at the dairy level and at the factory level. The fact that advantages will accrue to the manufacturing side of the dairy industry, I think for the first time under such an assistance plan, will be of great benefit to the industry in general. I regret that unfortunately we will not be able to give active consideration in the Committee stage to the amendment that we would so much have liked the Minister to consider. We realise all of the problems associated with trying to do anything other than what we are doing now, that is, to accept the situation as it is. It is an inevitable situation. We do not want to delay in any way the money that this industry so rightly deserves. Somebody said recently that this Bill has a long gestation period. It may well have had but we do not want the gestation period to last any longer. We hope that this Bill, with our blessing, will soon have royal assent. 
-The Opposition does not oppose the King Island Shipping Service Agreement Bill 1974, but I think there are one or two observations that could be made beneficially at this time. During the debate on this Bill in the other House mention was made of the fact that after the reintroduction of the 'Straitsman' to the King Island service a freight subsidy was not paid. I think it was fairly obvious to everyone that one of the reasons for the 'Straitsman' being introduced to the service was basically to overcome the problems associated with the small ship that had been doing this trade for so many years, namely, the 'King Islander'. It was decided by Captain Houfe, I believe quite wisely, that the throughput and the capacity of the service were terribly important. The same situation applies in the dairy industry. The 'Straitsman' was eventually put into service. Unfortunately, due to a problem of liquidity, it had to be withdrawn from the service after only 7 weeks. 
There were probably a number of reasons for that. The basic reason, or one of the biggest reasons, was the cost of crewing the ship. I think we came across this very problem in a debate some weeks ago. Because of the award under which the seamen work, they work for a period of only 32 weeks in each year. This has the effect of making the cost of crewing a ship on a single man continuous complement basis about $ 1 5,000 a year. That is a pretty heavy burden for a small ship to carry, particularly when it is trading over only short distances. We know that the cost of shipping increases every time a ship is tied up and, on the triangular service upon which this ship was engaged, it was fairly obvious that a good deal of the time of the 'Straitsman' had to be spent tied up in one of the 3 ports that she visited. 
Mention was also made in the debate of the fact that the subsidy was not granted because the previous Commonwealth Government had provided money on the basis of 50 per cent loan and 50 per cent grant for the establishment of a port at Grassy. I do not think that that has any real bearing on the matter. However, that in fact was the situation. The Bethune Liberal Government in Tasmania authorised the establishment of a roll-on roll-off terminal at Stanley, so no grant was involved in that. I think that a quote from the King Island 'News' is relevant at this time to show something of the problem that this island has had and is in fact unfortunately still experiencing. The King Island 'News' of Wednesday, 11 October 1972, carries the headline 'Labor 
Party pledge ANL to King Island trade'. It goes on to say: 
The Warden, Cr. O. A. Smith was told this morning that the Australian Labor Party had pledged the Australian National Line for the King Island run if it is elected to the Government in December. 
Cr. Smith said Captain R. H. Houfe 's legal adviser,  Mr R.  F. M. Hollow, had rung him this morning and said he had a telegram from the A.L.P. saying this would be Federal Policy. 
Cr Smith rang the manager of the Transport Commission's Shipping Services, Captain A. Maddock in Hobart this morning to confirm this and other information given to him by  Mr Hollow  that the Federal Government had said no further import licences would be issued for ships. 
When we check on what the telegram said we find that referring to the House of Representatives Hansard at page 4550 of 4 December that the telegram as reported read as follows: 
Federal Parliamentary Party today approved the following policy decision. A Federal Labor Government will require the Australian National Line to assume responsibility for the King Island Shipping Service and, for this purpose, to negotiate with the owners of the ship Straitsman which was specifically designed for this purpose. 
The telegram dated 15 March 1973 was signed Ron Davies MHR'.  Senator Cavanagh,  representing the Minister for Transport  (Mr Charles Jones)  at that time, said: 
The Australian National Line has been instructed to purchase the 'Straitsman '. I believe I said yesterday that the vessel would not be suitable and would not be engaged. It is to start the service to King Island when agreement has been reached on manning conditions, about which there was some trouble previously. The ANL has been asked to maintain separate accounts for the operation of this service because it is realised that it will not be a profitable one. When the ' King Islander' was in use the Government was subsidising the freight to the extent of $3.35 a ton and this cost approximately $150,000 a year. I can assure the honourable senator that the service will be operating in the future. 
I think we all know what happened. Eventually the Tasmanian Government through its Transport Commission decided that it wanted to operate this service itself and sought assistance from the Federal Government by way of a loan for the purchase of this ship. In the meantime a Senate Committee was set up to investigate a shipping service to King Island and the use of the vessel the 'Straitsman'. That Committee came up with its report. 
Yes, but the Government was invited to nominate members. 
Thank you for your assistance, senator; I was just about to say what you said. 
I do not know whether they were interested or uninterested, but they did not appear at the hearing although they were invited to appear and to assist. 
-They could have been there. 
It may well be that they are still disinterested. 
You are, good. 
Well, the people of King Island would be very interested to know and hear that. The accusations against the previous government about inaction can, I think, be readily disposed of by referring to Senate Hansard of 3 May 1973 at page 1335. 1 quote a letter from the previous Minister for Snipping and Transport, the honourable Peter Nixon. He said: 
The Government remains extremely concerned about the deterioration of shipping services to King Island. However, it considers the provision of these services rests essentially with the Tasmanian State Government and its Transport Commission. I have discussed the problems facing the Island with both State and company representatives and, without presuming to interfere in an area of State responsibility - 
I emphasise that-  have offered to consider any proposals that the State may make to the Commonwealth. 
I think that this is extremely important because that statement was made 5 months after the Straitsman' had been tied up. In all that time arguments had been going on as to who was going to conduct the service. People were urging the Australian Government to assume responsibility through the Australian National Line. The Tasmanian Government wished to assume responsibility. Unfortunately, through a tragic accident in March of this year, that vessel is no longer in service. 
Whilst the Government has recognised that there is a need for it to assist Tasmania in providing a service to the Island, it also appears that action has been taken by the Government to allow the importation and the use of a new ship called the 'Rah '. I understand from a visit I made to the Island a week or two ago that this in itself will create a problem. It is just one of those unfortunate things that happen. 
It could be one or the other. We find that this ship is completely different in design from the ship that was operating the service before. We now have a ship that is longer and broader than the 'Straitsman', the result being that the rear ramp will not match up with that of the ship. The ship will protrude beyond the wharf, and if there is any breeze she will swing away. That is fairly obvious to people who are expert in this field. Whilst it will possibly assist the people of the Island in removing cargo either to the north or to the south it will not be the complete answer. On the information available it looks as though it will be about July of next year before the 'Straitsman' will be refitted and back in service. These are problems that the Island has had for a long time. The Minister will remember that a few days ago I asked whether consideration would be given by the Minister for Transport to the use of the 'Argosy ' on a full load level for the transport to Melbourne of beef which tends to build up at this time of the year due to the drying out conditions on the Island. I have not yet had a reply to that request. 
Whether the 'Rah' will do what is asked of it remains to be seen. For the sake of the people on the Island, it is to be hoped that it will. Last year we saw the nearly untenable situation that a lot of people on the Island had to suffer when beef and other meat was at its highest price for many years past and probably for many years to come and they were not able to shift the stock from the Island because the ships were unable to handle the tremendous backlog. This was due to the procrastination which took place when the 'Straitsman' was withdrawn and until it was reintroduced on the service. It was during a voyage when it was carrying stock from the Island that it tragically capsized. The people of the Island are used to adversities- they are long ranging- and we hope that this Bill will allow the Tasmanian Transport Commission to purchase this ship with all the bad fortune that has befallen it, and when it is refitted to put it back into service. 
There is one question I would like the Minister to keep in mind and to answer. As I understand it, the price that was being asked for the 'Straitsman' from the receivers was $1,000,070. This Bill makes an appropriation of $1.4 15m. I am wondering why there is a discrepancy, whether there has been any alteration in the figures or whether the cost was, in fact, higher than the original amount mentioned. I do not wish to take any more time. I know that  Senator Rae,  through his involvement for many years with the King 
Island shipping problems, has something more to add. I indicate again that we support the Bill. 
I direct my question to the Leader of the Government. In view of the statement in today's Press by the Prime Minister that his overseas trip is not a luxury, is it not possible for the Prime Minister to use a BAC 1 1 1 from the VIP fleet instead of a chartered Boeing 707 aircraft from Qantas Airways Ltd at a very much higher cost? 
My question, which is directed to the Postmaster-General, relates to the cost of installation of telephone services. What is the average capital cost in respect of a rural subscriber as against the average capital cost in respect of an urban subscriber? 
My question, which I direct to the Minister for Agriculture, relates to the beef industry. 1 ask: What are the general criteria for a producer whose property is 100 per cent beef producing to obtain assistance through the Government's $20m loan arrangement recently announced? I ask this question because one such producer after making application for short term assistance was advised to sell some plant and one property against a stock account of approximately $30,000, notwithstanding that he is currently paying 1 5 per cent interest to his stock agent who no longer wishes to accommodate him in this way. Does the Minister agree that such advice would only reduce the overall viability of this man's property as a fully operational unit and would do nothing to help him in his current short term problem? 
My question is directed to the Minister for Agriculture. It relates to the recent sale of beef to Russia. Is it a fact, as has been reported, that the price agreed to will return growers about 9c per lb? Is it not also a fact that had negotiations continued, with the Federal Government accepting some responsibility for the freight component, the return could well have been between 13c and 14c per lb, which price was reported to have been acceptable to the Russians? Would not the latter price, if obtained, have assisted in lifting the current disastrously low meat prices? 
My question is addressed to the Minister for Repatriation and Compensation. It relates to old age pensioners who own their own homes. As the Minister knows, the situation is that people who are in this position are required to pay a substantial amount for rates, insurance, electricity and maintenance amounting to approximately $10 a week. That situation does not, of course, apply to people who are in rented homes. I ask therefore: Will any consideration be given to people in this position in the current economic situation in an effort to alleviate some or all of this burden? 
Has the Minister representing the Minister for Minerals and Energy seen the report in yesterday's 'Herald' that major oil companies are now paying substantially lower prices for Middle East oil than the official price of US$10.46? In fact the report mentions US$8.50 as the current price. Can the Minister substantiate this report? If so, has Australia been able to purchase any crude oil at these prices by using the method outlined in the report, namely, purchasing on 30, 60 or 90 days credit, which gives the above result? 
My question, which is directed to the Minister for Agriculture, relates to superphosphate. In view of the predictable fall in demand following the rise in price and withdrawal of the bounty on superphosphate, can the Minister give any indication of the number of workers who may become redundant throughout Australia if, as has been the case with the Electrolytic Zinc Company of Australasia in Tasmania, production is delayed for 6 months? 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Health and relates to the medical health scheme. Since the amendments to the scheme were carried last December, expeditiously so as not to delay these benefits, and as these benefits apply to such things as stoma therapy with its special needs, when can we expect that these benefits will be available to those people unfortunate enough to require them? 
I ask the Minister for Agriculture: Is it a fact that under the recently passed Dairy Adjustment Act assistance will not be available to any producer who had leased a refrigerated vat prior to 23 July 1973? Should it not be possible under the Act for any producer who finds himself in this position to cancel his leasing arrangement, whenever that arrangement was made, and to decide to purchase the equipment with the benefit of the interest-free loans? As I understand it, many dairymen are in this position. 
I do not want to canvass any of the areas covered already by my colleagues on the Opposition side of the chamber. During the last 12 or 18 months there has been a lot of publicity surrounding the possible establishment of a co-operative vegetable processing industry on the north-west coast of Tasmania. As I live in that area I think it pertinent to make some observations about the possible merits or otherwise of this venture. In principle I agree entirely with the proposal but there are a very large number of practical difficulties that I think any venture such as this must overcome. At present we are seeing very high interest rates and the need for a tremendous amount of capital for the establishment of any such industry if it is to be viable. 
In the latter part of last year this proposal was presented to the Australian Industry Development Corporation with the hope that it would be able to attract sufficient support for the Corporation to be able to assist. The situation was, however, as stated in a report of the 'Advocate ' of 12 October last year, that that could not be done at that time.  Mr Costello,  the Minister for Agriculture in Tasmania, was reported as having referred to something said by  Mr Mervyn  Radford, one of the persons helping to propose this venture.  Mr Costello  was quoted as having said:   . I am fully aware of the present situation. My department co-operated with the feasibility study being conducted by the  PDS,  both in the provision of statistical information and also in discussions. I also was present when the then Acting Prime Minister  (Dr Cairns)  visited the North- West.  Dr Cairns  had made it quite clear that, although he personally was in favour of the project, the Australian Industry Development Corporation had rejected it since it did not believe it was economically viable.  Dr Cairns  had gone on to say that, had the Senate not refused to pass the amendments to the AIDC Bill, then it would have permitted the establishment of such projects as the co-operative. 
Only a fortnight ago this same group with the same continuing interest- if nothing else they have to be commended for the tremendous amount of time and effort they have put into this interest- journeyed to Canberra and presented again the same proposition to  Dr Cairns.  He indicated then, as he did on the previous occasion, that he was interested. He said that he was impressed with the case that the group presented to him and he was prepared again to present it to the AIDC. Obviously it was not a proposition that the AIDC had already looked at and rejected on the grounds of economic viability. 
Under certain clauses of the Bill a national interest division could be made applicable to projects such as this one. It need not necessarily apply to the one I have mentioned but it could apply to other projects that are of national interest. It may well be said that the project which I have mentioned is of national interest for a number of reasons, not the least of which is that for many years a large number of people in the food processing industry and many associated industries have been saying that food is too dear and there is too great a gap between what the producer receives for his product and what the consumer pays for it after it has been through processing and the various channels of handling through which it has to go. If such a project as I have mentioned can be established it could well disprove many of the beliefs held by the community if it is viable. Unfortunately the history of such co-operatives is not favourable mainly because of the tremendous difficulties in marketing and the tremendous costs involved. 
The meat industry is another labour intensive rural industry. It is reported that last year the labour content cost alone increased by 45 per cent. Because of the very nature of the vegetable processing industry it is necessary to work 24 hours a day for three to four months of the year during the vital part of the season, which is the harvesting and processing of beans, peas and a number of other vegetables. This raises the cost tremendously. So we are not looking at a small venture. I have heard figures mentioned of between $20m and $27m. I do not know what the current figure is. I have not had the advantage of being able to peruse or even look at what the proposition is. 
The important aspect is not only the national interest division contained within this Bill. The other important aspect is that should any such venture be presented-  Dr Cairns  has indicated in response to an interjection by  Dr Edwards  that this is what he has in mind and that this sort of venture would be presented to both Houses of Parliament- both Houses of Parliament would then be in a position to make a value judgment on whether they think the Government or the AIDC, which is the arm of the Government in this instance, should be called upon to assist in trying to create some stability. It is fairly obvious that if we are to have this sort of proposition put before us we must have the benefit of the reasons why, say, in the case I have mentioned, the AIDC rejected on the grounds of economic viability the case these people presented to it. If that information is not available to the Parliament it could well be that we would be shooting in the dark and somewhat shooting from the hip in trying to make a value judgment. These ventures would require a lot of assistance, capital and help, but we could not readily make a value judgment without the benefit of a tremendous amount of research. The research that has been undertaken into the feasibility of establishment is not necessarily what we would be wanting to look at. We would want to be looking at the feasibility of a continuing operation that would have the advantage of eventually, not necessarily straight away, showing a return to the people who have contributed the funds. 
We have heard in the debate today all the points that are relevant to the AIDC and the advantages that can now be obtained from it.  Senator Brown  indicated that one Bill is necessary to the other. I do not think this is true. I think it has been fairly amply demonstrated that this is not the situation, that the Australian Industry Development Corporation Bill can quite easily live by itself. It does not have to have the benefit of the support, as I understand he indicated it needed, of the National Investment Fund Bill. There has always been a worry by a lot of people, and certainly by some on the Opposition side of the House, that it could become the vehicle whereby the Government may decide to direct the savings of the people away from the areas where they have been very well served for a long time. Directing savings into particular areas is different from allowing utilisation of savings to be determined by the competition of the market. I think we all can fairly readily agree that one of the problems in the employment situation at the present moment is the inability or unwillingness of industry generally to spend money on development basically because it is not sure what the future holds. If it is restricted, as unquestionably it is, by the cost of money, it will have the effect we are seeing in the community at the present moment. 
I rose just to point out that I personally favour supporting the Australian Industry Development Corporation Bill, but for the reasons given by  Senator Guilfoyle, Senator Cotton  and others I have some reservations about the National Investment Fund Bill. I also indicate that if it is at all possible for the industry I have mentioned, which is so terribly important to the area of Tasmania where I live, to be given the kind of support by the Government or an agency of the Government that is necessary to get it off the ground, it can do nothing but good for the industry. There are many other aspects that we could go into at this point, but I do not believe they are relevant. The feasibility of the proposition I have put will be tested if we see a national interest division of the AIDC. I support the Australian Industry Development Corporation Bill and wish the venture on the north-west coast of Tasmania every success that it may be possible for us to help it to achieve. 
Notwithstanding what appeared in today's 'Australian' will the Minister representing the Minister for Science have an accurate assessment made upon mercury and other chemical contaminaton in fish? When this has been achieved will the Minister arrange to have the findings publicly announced and exhibited, firstly to give the public an exact method of ascertaining the amount of fish that can be eaten without having any adverse effects on the health of members of the public and, secondly, as recent publicity appears to have frightened many people with the resultant fall-off in demand which is seriously disadvantaging many fishermen's livelihood, particularly in Tasmania? 
I direct my question to the Minister representing the Minister for Labor and Immigration. Will the Minister provide to the Senate the following details on unemployment as at the end of February: 1. Current monthly cost of the Regional Employment Development scheme; 2. Current monthly cost of the National Employment and Training scheme; 3. Current monthly cost of the income averaging plan; and - 
My question, which is directed to the Minister for Agriculture, relates to the importation of processed potatoes. As the Minister would know, substantial imports can cause difficulties to Australian producers, particularly those in Tasmania, many of whom grow under contract to various processors and are experiencing extreme difficulty at the present moment in placing the current crop. I therefore ask: What is the level of imports at the present time? Is the Government taking any steps to control these imports at a level which will not adversely affect the Australian producer? 
asked the Minister representing the Attorney-General, upon notice: 
Have members of the Attorney-General's Department, or officers acting on the Attorney-General 's behalf, held discussions with representatives of sporting shooters' associations, firearms traders and others earlier this year with a view to developing proposals to reform the law with respect to firearms, if so, what has been the outcome of the discussions. 
My question which is also directed to the Minister for Agriculture relates to a proposal by the north-western vegetable co-operative in Tasmania and to the submission of this proposal to the Australian Industries Development Corporation for financing assistance. I ask: Has this project request yet been processed by the AIDC? If so, what is the current position? If not, when is the decision expected? 
-Can the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs give details to the Senate of what lands are currently being held in trust by the Australian Government on behalf of the Aboriginal people? 
My question is directed to the Minister for Manufacturing Industry. It relates to the superphosphate manufacturing industry. In view of the predictable and dramatic slump in demand due both to the increase in actual costs of manufacturing and the withdrawal of the bounty, as we now know many employees are either temporarily redundant or have been dismissed. Can the Minister supply any figures that show the extent of either temporary or permanent unemployment throughout Australia in this industry? 
My question to the Minister representing the Special Minister of State relates to a question I asked of the Minister for Agriculture last week which he was not able to answer, lt concerns the availability of statistical information to Ministers on matters related to imports, particularly rural products, lt appears that statistical information on imports of goods such as processed potatoes is not available for 6 to 7 weeks after the end of any month by which time, in a sensitive supply situation, irrevocable damage may well have taken place before either the Minister or the people involved in such an industry could take any action on control. I ask: Will the Minister endeavour to have such figures available on a weekly basis and to see that the release times are more pertinent to the period under scrutiny. 
My question, which is directed to the Minister for Agriculture, relates to the export of beef to Japan following the news release yesterday by the Japanese agriculture ministry of approval of a price support system for domestic beef which it is claimed will open the door to a resumption of imports from exporting countries such as Australia. Can the Minister indicate the likely amount that Australia may export to the Japanese market? Can he indicate the benefits to the export price of beef which may result from subsequent exports? 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Acting Minister for Foreign Affairs. Did the Minister hear the comments of  Mr Brian  Beadham, Foreign Editor of the 'Economist', on the Australian Broadcasting Commission program 'A.M.' yesterday morning, in which  Mr Beadham  said that, in his opinion, should Saigon fall, after a brief period there would be a purge of considerable magnitude of government and semi-government officials? Does the Minister agree with this statement, which unfortunately history records as the usual pattern in this type of situation? Will he and the Government do everything possible to minimise such action by the North Vietnamese forces? 
asked the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs, upon notice: 
What lands are currently being held in trust by the Australian Government on behalf of the Aboriginal people? 
My question, which is directed to  Senator Wheeldon  as Minister representing the Minister for Environment, relates to a situation in Tasmania somewhat akin to the Fraser Island mining venture and raises the question of the necessity for an environmental impact study to be undertaken on any project on which work has already begun. It is reported that the Minister for Minerals and Energy,  Mr Connor,  has indicated that in his opinion where this situation applies a study is not necessary. I now refer to the sealing of the Cradle Mountain road in Tasmania, some of which has already been done. The Director of Environmental Control in Tasmania,  Mr Pottinger,  is now saying that before this work can be finished a study will be needed. I ask: What is the situation with this kind of problem? What should the people concerned do to overcome it? 
-To try to answer in some way the last remark made by  Senator Everett  might I say that one of the greatest criticisms of the 2 governments concerned is that the people do not know what will happen and when it will happen. Like  Senator Everett,  I welcome the announcement by  Sir Allan  Knight in the 'Mercury' today that a progress report will be made on Monday. As I read and understood that article, it appears to me that the report is on whether the bridge can be repaired, not necessarily on the time it will take to repair it. It is quite obvious that because of the complexity and the magnitude of this disaster the estimate as to the time needed to rebuild the bridge is not known at this moment. While a lot has been said by the State Government, which is the real agent in this matter, the people do not know as yet what will happen and when. They know when the ferries will be there and when the ferry terminals will be finished. They have some idea when the roadworks on the Old Beach Road will be finalised. I agree with  Senator Everett  and the other speakers in the debate that the work done by the men who are undertaking this work should have drawn to them the highest possible credit for a job well done in a very short space of time. 
It is now 18 weeks and 3 or 4 days since the bridge collapsed. The 'Bulletin' last month contained a rather trite paragraph in an article which illustrates what I have said about the frustration of the people on the eastern and western shores of the Derwent River. The article mentions a time scale which relates to the date on which the article was written. The article states: 
It is 3 months since the 1 1 000 tonne ore tanker 'Lake Illawarra' slammed into the Tasman Bridge killing 12 people and dividing the city of Hobart. Now the city is united again, not by a new bridge across the Derwent River but by frustration and a rising anger over the lack of activity in solving the massive problems caused by the smashed bridge and the 'Lake Illawarra' which are settling on the muddy bottom of the river, covered by thousands of tons of debris. 
I think this frustration has brought about the spate of criticism. I think that when  Senator Everett  spoke about the 2 ferries which were referred to in a question this week he nearly said if they do not sink'. Let us hope that they do not sink. There is some doubt about their seaworthiness. I heard somebody say that when the copper plates were taken off the bottom, half the planks fell out too. I do not think it was quite as bad as that. 
It might be as well not to sail on it again. It does not matter which government, agency or body undertakes something in the public interest, it always brings about criticism because no 2 people will agree on it. We can see that point illustrated in the debates in this chamber. They are not necessarily political. As  Senator Rae  said when he opened the debate for the Opposition, we support this Bill. We are anxious to do all we can to assist the combined governments to get this repair job done. While all this is taking place there is a tremendous cost to the community. When  Senator Everett  was speaking  Senator Wright  attempted to interject about compensation of various sorts.  Senator Wright  said that the new theory is that the defendant has the right to supervise the expenditure of any amount received for damages. I do not know who will pay the damages. I think it would most likely be the persons who, unfortunately, live on the eastern or western snores of the Derwent River. A tremendous number of the people affected- approximately 50 000- live on the eastern shore of the Derwent River. The authority for various comments has been questioned, in particular by  Senator Everett.  The only authority for these figures is the Tasmanian Bridge Compensation Committee which was set up by the State Government to have a look at the cost and the problems associated with it. In economic and human terms the cost is enormous. For instance, it is estimated, as  Senator Rae  said, that the total cost to the people involved will be approximately $26m a year. 
Whether or not the committee has been disbanded does not alter the fact that they were the people responsible for compiling these figures. The committee did this with the aid of information made available to it from the Bureau of Statistics, from inquiries it made itself and from a number of other sources. Even if these figures vary by as much as 10 per cent or 1 5 per cent there is still an enormous cost to the individuals involved. 
I wish to refer to the extra travelling costs. The extra ferry fares to be paid by the people affected will amount in a year to $ 1.26m. People who travel by car from the eastern to the western shore will be forced to travel an additional 50 miles. The additional cost of this travel, estimated at 10c a mile, is $4!4m covering approximately 3500 vehicles a day. Fairly obviously if one must travel in heavily congested traffic conditions for 30 miles there is an enormous time loss, which is greater than if the traffic is of ordinary heavy density. The time loss has been estimated at 4 500 000 man hours and the total cost, calculated on an average weekly wage basis, is $ 17.392m. These are the costs which not so much the whole country but people who live in that part of the country must bear. It can be quite easily seen when we look at these sorts of costs that people will not bear them without having a growl. I do not know about other armies but I know that when I was in the Australian Army it seemed to be in the nature of the beast that we growled. Whatever else we did we growled. It seems to be the nature of the Australian people that if they are not happy about what is happening they growl about it and make their opinions known to their neighbour, their political representative or somebody else. 
Other costs include additional service costs, increased capital purchase prices and the loss of property values on the eastern shore. The annual cost to the 39 eastern shore companies is estimated at $580,000, which excludes any additional costs with regard to service stations and so on in that area. The room occupancy rate at hotels and motels on the eastern shore has fallen by 70 per cent. It is estimated that the loss will be $5,000 a week. Airlines estimate their combined loss at $250,000, which is a fairly substantial loss. This loss is particularly noticeable with regard to the intra-State airline, Tasair Pty Ltd. I had occasion recently to travel with that airline. I was talking to the pilot and he said that the fall off in demand is very noticeable among people travelling from the north and north-west to Hobart because of the inconvenience of getting into Hobart by travelling either the long way round or by coming to Bellerieve and then travelling across the river by ferry. 
The oil industry in Hobart has estimated a loss of $600,000 a year. I think it is extremely difficult to estimate what the long term effect on land values will be. I note that one real estate agent has indicated that just before Christmas, which was only a week or so before the accident, a person wishing to sell his home had refused $30,000 for it. A few days after the accident he was not able to obtain an offer of $20,000. 1 think that indicates an over-reaction, but it indicates something of the problem for people who live on the eastern shore. They must absorb these costs and I do not think that the long term depreciation of land values will be all that great for the people who will continue to live there. A number of these people by occupation are itinerant- bank managers and so on- and, of necessity must move around the country in their employment. If they are forced to sell their homes in this situation they will bear an unfortunate loss. Nobody has yet asked that compensation should be paid to such people. I think this is one of the things that people accept. 
We dealt earlier today with a similar tragedy which will probably not cost in total any more than the reconstruction of the Hobart bridge will cost, because the figures that I have just given completely disregard the cost of repairing the bridge. Recently the Premier of Tasmania said that he did not know what the cost of the repair of the bridge would be-it might be $ 1 3m, $20m, $25m or even $30m. I think it is fairly obvious that he would not know the definite figure at this time because nobody, as  Senator Townley  tried to point out, knows what the cost of the repair work will be nor the magnitude of it. It is fairly important that we do not forget these matters. People are expecting in a somewhat melancholy way that they will have to put up with these sorts of conditions and these sorts of costs for a period which is as yet undetermined but variously has been put as between 2, 5 and 7 years. If we take a figure of $26 a year and assume that it may take 4 years to rebuild the bridge, we come to a figure of approximately $110m, which added to the cost of repairing the bridge is a pretty substantial burden for the 50 000 or so people to bear. 
Not only the people on the eastern shore but also the people on the western shore have been affected. They have lost easy and rapid access to their airport. Also many people who are in business on the western shore do business or have agencies on the eastern shore. The facilities for getting their goods to market or to their other stores have been badly affected, I think the Senate will agree, by this unfortunate occurrence. Some idea of what this extra cost will mean to some of the people in that area is indicated in an article in the 'Mercury ' of 5 January. It was written by a person living on the eastern shore, in fact on the Tasman Peninsula. In part the article states: 
Transport operators R. B. and R. J. Skeggs, of Nubeena, yesterday announced that their freight charges would increase by about one-third because of the greater distance and time involved in transporting goods from Hobart since the collapse. 
These are figures that people rather blithely ignore. For those honourable senators who do not know, in the Tasman peninsula area there is a very large poultry industry which necessitates the transportation of about 100 tons of feed grain a week; and the poultry must come back to the various processing works. When one adds up the total cost we can see that if this repair job takes 4 years the total cost to the State and to the Commonwealth could be approximately $200m. It is terribly hard to be definitive about such rises in costs and it is nearly impossible, I think, to estimate just what the cost to the individual will be. 
We realise that winter is approaching and that because of the geographical situation of the southern part of Tasmania people there are now finding that they and their children must get up in the dark, must leave for work or school very early in the morning when it is barely daylight and must return home in similar conditions at the end of the day. They have all these problems associated with reconciling themselves to the fact that they must travel for an extra hour and a half or 2 hours prior to and after work than previously was the case. Prior to the collapse of the bridge on 5 January it took about 20 minutes to go from the eastern shore to anywhere within the business region on the western shore. 
One other aspect that has not been mentioned but is terribly important is that at the moment medical facilities on the eastern shore are virtually of a first-aid station kind. I noted in the Press yesterday that it has now been decided that a community hospital will be built. Arguments are going on between the Clarence Council and the Government as to where the hospital will be built. We hope the matter will be resolved quickly. With winter coming on and emergency transportation services not being readily available it is fairly obvious that something of a positive nature is needed quickly. Many other problems are associated with the bridge. The question of the cost and type of bridge to be built was mentioned by  Senator Townley  and I think by  Senator Rae.  It is interesting to note that  Mr Jones,  an engineer with the Hydro-Electricity Commission, said in 1958 when giving evidence to the Parliamentary Public Works Committee that the possibility of such an accident happening to a bridge of this nature was very great. At the time  Mr Donnelly-  this is no reflection on him at all- who is one of the Assistant Commissioners, said he felt that it was not really a big problem. 
We note from the 1968 Tasmanian AuditorGeneral's report that the bridge finally cost $ 14.4m. The estimate of cost at that time for a suspension type bridge was $ 16m. Now, with the benefit of hindsight- I suppose anybody could be nearly as wise as Solomon with that sort of benefit- it would appear that had that plan which was originally recommended to the Government been adopted we would have still had a very good bridge, we would not have been faced with this almost inevitable delay in the repair of the bridge, and we also .would not have been worried about the enormous cost to the nation. Not only is it an enormous cost to Tasmania, it is also an enormous cost to the nation. Tragic as the situation is, I think when the nation is in economic turmoil we would prefer not to see any such additional expenditure. Continuing to deal with the problems associated with the bridge  Mr Donnelly  said- it is referred to in the House of Representatives Hansard at page 1539 of 10 April 1975- that there was little possibility of shipping damage to the bridge. He said that there had not been a serious accident of that type for 15 years. Ironically, the year before traffic started using the new Tasman Bridge there were 2 instances of ships hitting bridges within 2 months of each other- one in Venezuela with the loss of more than 20 lives, and one in Louisiana in the United States of America with the loss of 6 lives. As we know, 12 people were killed in Tasmania. 
I think it was indicated this morning that we are trying to get through the business of the House and we have limited the number of speakers on this side as I know the Government has limited its speakers. I do not wish to take up a lot more time. I have more figures here which give a comparison of the cost of building a bridge of the nature of the Tasman Bridge. I remember Alderman Leo Port, an engineer from Sydney, saying when he inspected the bridge a few days after the collapse, that it was the most primitive type of design and that it seemed to be effective. It certainly was effective until a ship knocked a hole in three of its spans. The cost comparisons of bridges of a similar nature, spanning a similar distance and of the suspension type are not all that much greater in other areas in the world, but of course one does not go into a shop and buy a bridge. Approaches have to be built. There are other costs incidental to the cost of transporting traffic across water that are not necessarily catalogued or priced. It is fairly obvious that any figures taken out would be only comparative and of interest rather than of any real benefit. I will not weary the Senate or use any more of the dme of the Senate in going through these figures. I think it is important that the figures that we gave with regard to the cost to the people of Tasmania are not disregarded by honourable senators. The disaster must be looked upon sympathetically as one of those things that happens. It is the people of Tasmania who will have to bear these costs unfortunately for a long time to come. We support the Bill and wish it a speedy passage. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Labor and Immigration, upon notice: 
Will the Minister provide to the Senate details on unemployment as at the end of February 1 975 in respect of (a ) the current monthly cost of the Regional Employment Development Scheme, (b) the current monthly costs of the National Employment and Training Scheme, (c) the current monthly costs of the Income Averaging plan, and (d) other current costs associated with unemployment relief. 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for the Environment and Conservation. Have orders been given for the preparation of environmental impact statements for the following Tasmanian Government and local government works being carried out, or proposed to be carried out, with the assistance of the Australian Government money and, if so, what was the date in each case on which the necessary order was tabled in each House of the Australian Parliament, and what were the dates on which each notice was published in the Gazette as required by section 7 (1) of the Environment Protection (Impact of Proposal) Act 1974: ( 1 ) Reconstruction, upgrading and resealing of the Bass Highway from the vicinity of Elizabeth Town to Latrobe, Tasmania; (2) cutting of walking tracks in the Dial Range in the Penguin Municipality in Tasmania; (3) construction of the Burnie Expressway, Tasmania; and (4) upgrading of and the northern section of the Murchison Highway, Tasmania? 
My question relates to the income averaging plan. Can the Minister representing the Minister for Labor and Immigration say what is the current number of people accommodated under this plan and what is the current monthly cost? Further, what was the highest number of people to be accommodated under this plan and what was the monthly cost? 
My question to the Minister for Agriculture relates to the situation at Togari which is a soldier settlement area in the far north-west of Tasmania. In January that area was badly affected by flood waters and now it is again troubled in the same way. Has any request been made to the Government recently, in any way, for finance to assist in snagging and widening the Montague River which in times of heavy rain is incapable of carrying the water away from the Togari area, due in part to drainage creating a very much more rapid run-off? 
My question, which is directed to the Minister for Repatriation and Compensation, relates to the Government's proposal to establish the Australian Government 
Insurance Corporation and to the fact that one of the reasons given for its establishment is to cover such contingencies as national disasters, etc. I ask: Why has no action been taken on the report of March 1974 by the industry on this matter, other than to use it as one of the reasons for the introduction of the Australian Government Insurance Corporation? 
My question is directed to the Minister for Agriculture and relates to an answer which he gave to a question asked by  Senator Primmer.  In view of the predictable reaction of wool buyers at sales held yesterday when prices dropped by a reported 8c a kilogram, can the Minister achieve any meaningful stabilisation of auction prices by announcing unequivocally that there is no likelihood of any alteration to the reserve price, at least during the 1975-76 wool selling season? 
I assume that from the cognate nature of this Bill and the 3 following Bills the Minister for Agriculture  (Senator Wriedt)  would want a general debate on all of them so I will proceed on the basis that we have 4 Bills before us. Basically, these Bills were introduced as a result of a request by the pig industry for a levy on its product for a promotion fund. Most of the amendments in the other 3 Bills are of a machinery nature and are designed to bring the Acts into conformity with Government policy. The Bills are clear and are of a machinery nature. For example, in some instances where the word 'Commonwealth' appears the word 'Australia' is to be used and in others the words 'Primary Industry' will be replaced by the word 'Agriculture'. I have no real quarrel with the use of either of those terms although I have some nostalgia about the word Commonwealth', as does the Minister for Manufacturing Industry  (Senator James McClelland)  who said so recently. To me it has connotations of the Commonwealth of Nations or a federation of nations or States but I imagine that in this instance this point is not terribly important and I mention it only in passing. 
The Opposition is supporting these Bills, as it did in the other House. They have been introduced as a result of a request by the industry. When there is this sort of co-operation I am sure that this Government, like the previous government, is only too ready to acquiesce. It is fairly obvious in this day and age that it is most important for the producer of any product, be it a primary industry product or a secondary industry product, to establish some method of promotion. When an industry is as scattered and as decentralised as the pig industry is it is obvious that this can be done only at the industry level. That is why there is now a need for this pig promotion levy. 
One thing has to be carefully watched once the proposed Pig Meat Promotion Advisory Committee is set up. Because of the general trend in pig production we will have to be careful that we do not find that we are promoting a product that we can no longer supply. There has been a dramatic evolution within the industry and it has been brought about by the changes that have taken place in the dairy industry. For many years people were producing butter fat and the milk that was the by-product of the dairy industry was used to fatten pigs. We also have seen a dramatic evolution within the dairy industry and now a vast majority of the producers have switched over to milk production, either for manufacture or for town milk supply. The obvious result has been that no longer is there the relatively cheap food for the fattening of pig meats. It is important that this is kept in mind when decisions are made on a yearly basis as to the amounts to be spent by the industry for promotion. 
Another thing which has had quite a dramatic effect on the industry is the very substantial increase in the world price of grains. Two or three years ago feed grains were available to the pig industry and other industries for 70c or 80c a bushel but today the price is about $2 a bushel. The price of alternative foods is increasing. The prices of meat meals and fish meals, for example, are increasing at an ever accelerating rate and closing the gap between the costs and the eventual returns. There has been an intensification of pig production but it has been brought about not so much by one side of the industry disappearing and the other becoming more prominent; I think it has been brought about by the people who have intensified their production of pig meats. They have done so by establishing some relatively large single units. We see some very large single units throughout the Commonwealth today. 
Although research is not referred to very much in the Bills before us there is a need for the research side of the industry, about which we have just received a report, to give very careful attention to the importance of good husbandry and health. Where there is intense production of any animal, particularly pigs, we find a need for extremely good husbandry. I think it is necessary for the industry to get all the assistance it can in order to maintain its healthy state. We know the susceptibility of cloven-hooved stock, particularly pigs, to some of the exotic diseases. Let us hope that such diseases never reach Australia because we have so many cloven-hooved animals. This is something which must be watched carefully and research needs to be kept to the present level. There is one disturbing thing to be noted on reading the latest report on the industry. While there is some long term and medium term research being undertaken with moneys provided for research into the pig industry, a lot of it is of a biochemical nature and is of a short term. It is important, for the future and long term health of the industry, that this aspect be watched with every-increasing care. 
I want to turn now to promotion. The honourable member for Paterson in the House of Representatives,  Mr O  'Keefe, said that in 1972- 73 a certain amount of money had been spent on research. Since that time the Australian Pig Industry Research Committee report for 1973- 74 has been received and one disturbing fact that emerges from it is the drop in income. Under this legislation equal amounts of money will be collected for research and promotion. The fall in this collection of levies was from $227,000 to $244,200 which indicates a fall not necessarily terribly dramatic but significant and it represents in effect 56 000 slaughterings of pigs, whether it be for bacon or pork. I think this is a fairly significant number and it indicates that the narrowing of the gap between the cost and the end product is slowly easing more and more people out. I think that the industry itself has recognised this and this is the reason it has asked the Government for money to promote their product. 
We know that the secondary side of the pig industry does a lot of promoting in its own right and it has been estimated that in the bacon area this amounts to as much as $ 1 per pig, but I do not think this is in itself the importance of it. The industry itself at the producing end wants to be involved. In the promotion that will be established under this Bill and the recommendations that will come from the Committee to be established under the Bill, I think there is a need for the industry to have at least consultations with the Australian Meat Board so that we do not see a situation developing in which the Australian Meat Board, which unquestionably will be looking at promotion because of the over-production factor and its responsibility, undertakes a competitive type of promotion. I think it is terribly important that if possible the Pig Meat Promotion Advisory Committee and the Australian Meat Board should at least have consultations to establish the guidelines that each of them wishes to follow and to avoid, if possible, any duplication which of course in the promotion field is expensive and a waste of resources. 
Dealing with the provisions of the 4 Bills, I indicated earlier that the main provision is to allow the collection of an additional 5c to the maximum allowed under the Act of 10c per pig killed. It is perhaps important that this be watched very carefully because one thing that has not yet been made clear- of course it cannot be made clear until the provisions of these Bills are implementedis that one of the responsibilities of the new promotion Committee to be set up is to report, suggest and recommend to the Government, the amount that the levy should be. At present it is the maximum amount possible allowed under the Act- 5c for promotion and 5c for research. As has been set out in the second reading speech, the Committee is to comprise 3 representatives. There Will be a departmental representative, 2 representatives from the Austraiian Commercial Pig Producers Federation, one person being chosen for his expertise in marketing and with the departmental officer being chairman. Each of these representatives will have the right under the legislation to elect a deputy. 
The remuneration of this Committee will be provided under the Remuneration Tribunals Act. It appears that at least some of the administrative expenses of this promotion Committee will be met by funds collected from levies, and in this respect it may well be argued that the Australian Government could have seen fit to make some contribution, even if only of a token nature, under the amended Act. The expenses of the Committee will be paid for out of the trust account that is to be established under the legislation, and moneys collected will be paid into a trust account for pig promotion. It is also noted that one of the duties is to make recommendations, as I mentioned a moment ago. One such recommendation that cannot of course as yet be made is the recommendation to the Government with respect to the amount of individual levies so that the size of the levy account can be maintained. 
I think it would be unfortunate if we were to find a situation whereby there was a need for more money to be spent by this Committee on promotion than will be collected by this levy. On the figures available to us from the 1973-74 report, it looks as though the maximum amount available, including the administrative expenses, etc., of the Committee, will be about $225,000, and in a 17-odd per cent inflationary situation I think we can assess fairly accurately that this amount will not last in a very big, expensive or extensive promotion campaign. But it is what the industry has asked for and we thank the Government for acceding to its request. As I mentioned earlier, I think it is important that on this occasion the industry has asked for this. 
I know it has been the practice for these sorts of promotional committees to be set up in this way without Government contribution but I think that, all things considered, this might well have been one of those instances where at least some of the administrative costs involved could well have been borne by the Government. Be that as it may, we sincerely hope that the industry enjoys the benefits of the money that the industry itself will contribute for the promotion of its own product. Bearing in mind the things that I mentioned should be watched, I think there is no reason that this promotion cannot be as effective as the industry would wish it to be. I know that the Minister has the final say when the recommendations come to him, and I imagine that he will deal with them in the way he deals with the other matters under his responsibility. We support these 4 Bills and again we thank the Minister for acceding to the requests of the industry. 
-! support this Bill for the reasons outlined by both  Senator Carrick  and  Senator Scott.  Both of" them mentioned what I think is probably the most important aspect of local government funding in Australia at present, which is not so much to extend the Commission but, as  Senator Carrick  pointed out, to establish in each of the States a State Grants Commission. If we do a little arithmetic we realise that for the Grants Commission, even if its membership is extended from 6 to 7, effectively to do the job of looking around and interviewing representatives of each of the local government agencies in Australia, whether it be a shire or a council, would take 52 weeks- a whole year; and the Commission would have to interview 1 8 separate councils every week. 
Notwithstanding that additional administrative cost is involved in so many local councils. I think everybody will agree that the people best able to make a judgment on what is needed for local government are the people who are closest to it- those who are on the scene. No matter how efficient or capable a grants commission may be- we do not in any way decry the efficiency and capability of the people involved in the Grants Commission- I think it is well accepted that the only way that we will know what a situation is, is to have a look for ourselves. As I have indicated, to do this would take a tremendous amount of time. 
One of the other matters which is worrying local government today is the tremendous increase in costs in local government administration as well as in all other types of administration. A second feature which I think is worrying many of them- one which probably involves a shift of responsibility- is that such matters as child care centres, aged persons homes and environmental protection are slowly but surely being shifted into the responsibility of local government and are bringing with them the obvious additional costs. As we know, about 80 per cent of the income that each local government receives on average is available from its own funding. It is usually funded by a rate struck on the residents and landowners in the area. The other 20 per cent of income comes from State government. The changeover from Commonwealth aid road grants to other road grants recently has done nothing to help notwithstanding that a couple of hundred million dollars of additional finance is supposed to be available. 
When we go through the municipalities in Australia, particularly in my own State, we see the roads at local government level and at ordinary council level deteriorating through lack of funds adequately to maintain them and to provide the types of facility for which the rural industries of those areas are always increasing their dem and. It is fairly obvious that if we are to obtain that sort of finance we must move away from the situation we have had in the past. Many accusations have been made by many people in local government that patronage in the past has been one of the problems associated with local government funding at federal level and at State level. We realise that the States have obtained grants in the first place from the Federal Government usually under section 96 of the Constitution. There have been many occasions when money has fairly obviously been used for the express purpose of patronage. I do not say that this necessarily is directed towards one or other of the Parties when in government; I think that both major political Parties have been responsible for doing this. But I think it is fairly axiomatic and that it will continue while we have this sort of situation. 
I do not think the situation we have at the moment lends itself quite so much to that sort of practice, but what it does do, unfortunately, is to establish on a regional basis a tremendous air of competition amongst the local government bodies in each of the areas. Each one of them has to establish its needs when it is applying for more funds and fairly obviously, as I mentioned and as I think I proved earlier, it is not going to be possible for the Grants Commission to get around to all these local government areas, even if they are regionalised, to establish for itself without equivocation that that council or this council in a particular region really needs the money that is asked for. Without any doubt this will have the tendency to develop a situation in which local government bodies will not necessarily assess or guess the true level of their need. They will tend to claim more than they need so that if the Grants Commission cuts back on their claim they will still get somewhere about the amount they were hoping to get. 
I believe that there is only one way in which to prevent that sort of situation developing, that is, to have State grants commissions on which there are only a certain number of people- I do not think the number is important; it is the principle we are concerned with here and not the individual members- who will be qualified and will have the time to get around to the local government bodies. To increase the membership of the Grants Commission from 6 members, as it is at the present moment, to 7 members will obviously relieve individual members of the Commission of a good deal of the load. If the Commission is to be made big enough to do the sorts of things which I personally believe have to be done, its membership would need to be increased many times. If the membership of the Commission were to be divided into 3 groups, each of them would have to cover 6 areas during each of the 52 weeks of the year in order to ensure that each local government area was visited and had its real needs assessed. 

 Senator Carrick pointed to the tremendous increase in costs which each of the local government areas has had to bear. We all know that inflation, whoever is responsible for it- I think the Government must accept a good deal of that responsibility- is causing an increasing worry and an increasing burden. Unfortunately the result is not only unemployment at the local government level but also local governments are finding that they are not able to give the services that are required of them. One of the reasons, of course, is the dramatic increase in wages. 
I have before me some figures which apply to Queensland and which were prepared by the Legislative Research Service of the Parliamentary Library. I think they would be fairly relevant to other areas of Australia. They show that a garbage collection driver received $90. 1 1 a week in February 1973 and in September 1974 he received $131.03 a week, an increase of 45 per cent. A concrete worker received $61.80 a week in March 1973 and $101.72 a week in October 1974, an increase of 65 per cent. A general construction labourer received $57.80 a week in March 1973 and in October 1974 he received $94.01 a week, an increase of 63 per cent. A municipal officer in the Brisbane City Councilthese figures refer to a male clerk in his first year -received $3,632 per annum in March 1973 and $6,384 in July 1974, an increase of 76 per cent. Nobody would deny that these people are entitled to these wages, but the granting of those wages is putting councils into the sort of situation about which we hear all too often and which is all too true. 
I believe that the only method by which we can get some sort of rationale in this situation is that outlined by the three of us who have spoken from this side of the chamber. We have to establish in the not too distant future as a follow up to the Grants Commission, which has done a good job and will continue to do the same sterling job, grants commissions at the State level. Those commissions, when established, will have to have sufficient funds to enable them effectively to help ease the burden. One of the problems associated with local government funding is that account is not taken of the ability of the people to pay the rate demanded of them. At the present moment many people in the rural parts of Australia are required to pay a pretty substantial rate. Many of those people live in beef producing areas and fairly obviously, because of the conditions in the beef industry today, are not in a position to pay; but their rate is not assessed on their ability to pay. I fully support the motion and the amendment foreshadowed by  Senator Carrick. 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Labor and Immigration and relates to the Regional Employment Development scheme. What money has been spent on the RED scheme since it was introduced in mid-September 1974? What number of people are employed by this scheme, both male and female? What moneys have been allocated to the north-west coast of Tasmania from Deloraine to Circular Head including the west coast south to Queenstown? 
What is the anticipated overall cost of the scheme until the end of this financial year? 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Tourism and Recreation and relates to the Tasmanian Rosny Children's Choir, which is currently on a visit to China. Is it a fact that one of the conditions required was that the children were to wear red uniforms? Is it also a fact that they were requested to delete from their repertoire any songs or hymns that made any reference to the Christian religion? 
asked the Minister representing the Special Minister of State, upon notice: 
As it appears that on imports of products like processed potatoes, statistical information of amounts are not available for some 6 to 7 weeks, by which time, in a sensitive situation, irrevocable damage may well have occurred before either the Minister or the people involved in such an industry can take any action or control measures, will the Minister endeavour to have such figures available on a weekly basis and the release time be made more pertinent to the period under scrutiny. 
-We just heard the accusation that we on this side of the House are opposed to this measure. I think anybody who looks at this question objectively and humanely will realise that while the matter may or may not cut across principles or policies the situation has not been brought about entirely by the company.  Senator Grimes  indicated that it had been brought about entirely by the company. Admittedly Associated Pulp and Paper Mills Ltd said and recognised that it did misread the situation in regard to supply, but I fear that the Governmment, with all the resources available to it, was not in a position to help, either through not having people watching closely enough or through not having people able to give information to the company when it wanted it. The result was, of course, that with the announcements in late 1973 and early 1974 that there was likely to be a world wide shortage of paper, orders started to build up at a fairly rapid rate. The company then commissioned another machine and imports increased very dramatically at the same time. 
The world wide shortage of paper, of course, did not eventuate. This left this company, along with many others, in a situation of over supply- a position that it has not been possible to rectify in the interim period and one which unfortunately even today with the changes that have been made in production factors and cycles is still proving something of a problem.  Senator Wright  indicated that the Wesley Vale Mill, by receiving increased orders particularly from the Postmaster-General's Department, has been able to maintain a 5-day week instead of the previous 7-day week and in this way keep employment fairly constant. APPM- the largest employer of labour at Burnie and, for that matter, on the north-west coast- has had to change its method of production quite dramatically. In effect it has had to cut production by 25 per cent and work 3 weeks on and then one week off. This has caused a tremendous problem for the people involved. It has caused problems in a socioeconomic way and other people in the community are being affected by the fact that the employees at APPM have that much less money to spend. 
Another factor that has not been mentioned but must eventually and almost inevitably have a result is the unfortunate situation in which APPM, which normally makes bonus payments to its employees at the end of the year, by reason of the curtailment in sales and reduction in income will not be able to pay anything like the amount of bonus that would have been expected had this situation not developed. I think that it has been fairly amply demonstrated that the general economic situation in Australia has been part- not necessarily all- of the cause of the problem in which this company in line with many others finds itself. Honourable senators will remember a recent television program on which  Mr Henderson  indicated that 160 000 small businesses were in some danger of bankruptcy or were in extreme financial difficulty basically because of their size. It is not possible for these companies, due to their financial instability or their lack of financial backing, to weather an economically depressed situation. 
This is the second occasion on which the Government has come to the assistance of 2 relatively big companies in Tasmania- EZ Industries and Associated Pulp and Paper Mills Ltd. I do not think that, politically or otherwise, anybody would say that neither of those companies should have received the assistance that is being made available to them. As has been indicated, this section 96 grant of $650,000 is being made available to the Tasmanian Government for the purposes of loans to the company to pay for the interest on loans that it has negotiated for the storage of paper. The storage of paper for the company is not as simple as it may sound. Admittedly, these huge reams or rolls of paper from the various production methods can be rolled into a shed somewhere but unfortunately paper is a deteriorating product and is very much open to the intrusion of moisture. For that reason the company has some real problems associated with the storage of paper. Quite a large quantity of paper could be spoilt if it were necessary to keep it in storage for too great a period. We know that the storage of anything is an extremely expensive operation, particularly when it is of the magnitude of the paper which it is needed to store at the present moment. As I understand it, virtually every piece of storage available in Melbourne, Sydney and particularly in and around Burnie is chock full of APPM paper. 
The Minister for Labor and Immigration  (Senator James McClelland)  was in Burnie a week or so ago, when he was Minister for Manufacturing Industry. At about that time he indicated that this would be a once only method of assistance. The Opposition accepts that, for the reason outlined by  Senator Wright  when he was talking about the Temporary Assistance Authority. But we hope that, if this is to be the case, the situation in the paper industry generally picks up because, as I understand it, as of last weekend the company's orders were running at only about 40 per cent of the reduced productionnot 40 per cent of the maximum production on which the company was working previously. For the sake of the company and particularly for the sake of the people involved- it was indicated that 3000 or 4000 people are involved in this company right throughout Tasmanialet us hope that orders pick up so that the company will inevitably be able to get back to full production and thereby save the jobs of a tremendous number of people in the Burnie area. 
The other interesting fact that was indicated in the report of the Temporary Assistance Authority was that should the imports of paper exceed 6000 tonnes in any 3 months- in other words 2000 tonnes a month- this would automatically trigger off an additional inquiry. As a result of that inquiry, some other form of assistanceeither by way of import restriction or additional tariff- may well be recommended by the Temporary Assistance Authority. Be that as it may, we still have a rather unfortunate situation in the town. If the machine that was commissioned had to be taken out completely rather than adopting the method that has been adopted by the company and has been indicated by other speakers- 3 weeks work and one week's down time- it would have meant that 280 people would have become redundant. I do not think that anybody would like to see that happen because Burnie unfortunately, like many other towns with a specialised industry and a fairly substantial industry, has fairly limited job opportunities available, particularly in the economic situation we see today with unemployment at a very high level. 
Notwithstanding what assistance has been made available through the Government's Regional Employment and Development scheme and the National Employment and Training scheme, we find when we add the figures together of those still registered as unemployed we still have a figure in excess of 300 000 people. This fairly obviously is going to make alternative work extremely difficult for anybody to find for themselves. We sincerely trust that this money will, when the company gets the opportunity to receive it from the Tasmanian Government, tide the company over the next 6 months and that during the 6 months period, as I indicated earlier, there will be an uplift in demand for paper, orders will start to increase, and we shall see once again the economic situation within Australia- not only within this companyreturning to some semblance of order so that we may be able to continue on in a developing country with the sorts of development that we need, not only in Burnie, Tasmania, but in every other town of a like nature within Australia. 

 - Mr President, I assume that the Minister for Agriculture  (Senator Wriedt)  is quite happy to have this Bill and the Dairy Produce Sales Promotion Bill taken together as they are cognate measures. 
-The Opposition welcomes the introduction of the Dairy Produce Bill, basically for the reason that the reconstitution of the Dairy Produce Board was something that the Opposition had in mind when there was a change of Government. I must say that I and, I think, most of the dairy industry welcome the reconstitution. I think it will give additional emphasis and additional strength in a number of ways  to  the Board as it will be reconstituted in a way that will make it more effective and provide it with an opportunity to grapple with the problems that are now facing the industry and that have been facing the industry for a long time. 
Just before I move on to the reconstitution of the Board as a Corporation and one or two of the matters associated with that, I think it would be appropriate if I were to pay a tribute at this point to the  Various  people who have constituted the former Dairy Produce Board over the last 50 years or so for the work they have done. They have gone through some periods of extreme difficulty. I think that they have produced a particularly fine record for the industry. They, together with the industry. have realised for a long time that there have been certain drawbacks and there still are certain drawbacks within the powers that they have had. Hence they have been willing to see a reconstituted body. The former Board is now to be called the Australian Dairy Corporation. The reconstitution will in fact result in a reduction in the number of members of the organisation from thirteen to eleven. 
As pointed out by the Minister for Agriculture in his second reading speech, the Corporation will consist of 3 members who will be representing the dairy farmers, 3 members who will be representing the manufacturers, 2 members who will have special qualifications, one representative of the employees and a Government nominee. It will have an independent chairman. I think the only part of that aspect that has been the subject of any debate or discussion is the view in some sections of the industry that perhaps there may have been some case for a greater representation from the primary industry side- in other words, the dairy industry. But I suppose one can quite logically argue mathematically that three-elevenths is better than the previous position of three-thirteenths. I assume from the reaction by the Minister that he is quite happy with that mathematical calculation. 
There are some problems that the industry will have to look at in the future. Some of them have been with us for a long time; some of them are still arising in different ways. But perhaps we should look for a few minutes at the intention concerning what the Corporation is to do. We may realise from doing that that the Corporation, as it will be known, will be more effective. The first power that will be given to the Corporation is one of a regulatory nature. It will enable the Corporation to make assessments on the amount of the product from the industry that is needed for Australian consumption and the amount that is needed for sale overseas. We do not see any great difference in this respect, except that there will be a strengthening of the powers available to the Corporation. 
The second and probably most important power is the monopoly trading power. In other words the Corporation will be given the right to trade exclusively in the products of the dairy industry. Changes have taken place in the world demand for the products of the dairy industry, particularly with the entry of the United Kingdom into the European Economic Community. Of course, only last week there was a reaffirmation of that fact. That very large market used to be available to the dairy farmers and dairy industry of Australia but it is no longer available except in exceptional circumstances. Those circumstances probably are not foreseeable at this point. So I think there is a need in this area. I believe that these trading powers will help to strengthen the Australian Dairy Corporation to achieve what it is hoped will be achieved. The other purpose of the Bill, of course, is purely one that concerns the borrowing powers of the Corporation. We can see that there is a dramatic need for this. 
I mentioned that there are a number of problems still associated with the industry at which the industry and the Corporation, which will be at the head or the board of control of the industry, will have to look. I shall take a moment or two to enumerate them for the sake of record. As I have just indicated, there are many problems awaiting the new body. One is the increase in margarine quotas which perhaps is predictable in view of what has been happening in this field for many years. This is a problem that will increasingly worry the dairy industry. Although I do not say that I personally accept the argument that the margarine industry is or can be basically an Australian industry, I believe that we have to learn to live with it. In fact, one dairy factory in my own area is currently working on a blend of margarine and butter. Therefore I think that factory and a number of other people in the industry are accepting margarine, reluctantly though this may be. 
Perhaps one of the other problems that has been associated with the industry for a long time is getting what the industry accepts or thinks is a realistic price for its product. On two or three occasions in recent months a case has been put to the Prices Justification Tribunal for an increase in price. On one occasion the application was withdrawn. Subsequently there have been 2 very small increases in the price of basic dairy products, namely, butter and cheese. But I believe that the big problem, if we look at this matter objectively, is that of price. We have to realise that if the price of butter over the last 10 years had kept pace with rises in the average weekly wage its present price on the retail market would be something in the vicinity of $ 1.30 per lb. This, of course, is a very high price and is probably unrealistic in today's economic situation. But it is not a price that is unrealistic when one considers whether people were eating more or less butter 10, 12 or 15 years ago. In fact, butter consumption has dropped during that period up to 1975. As I have said, if the price of butter had kept pace with the average weekly wage it would now sell at $1.30 per lb. While this is a mathematical calculation, I believe that the industry will not push for such an increase. But I also believe that people have to realise that the time of cheap food has passed. They can no longer expect people in the dairy industry, particularly at the production level, to work very long hours, 7 days a week for 8, 9 or 10 months of the year for something less than actual wages. 
We have only to look through some of the numerous statistical records to see that dairy farmers in the main have had a pretty difficult time. Admittedly the dairy industry is the most effective, I suppose one could say, in this field in regard to stability of income. But it is not of much comfort for the people in the industry if the stable income is to be at a level that is too low to provide sufficient for them to live on and to pay their way. This problem was discussed on Tuesday of this week when the Senate was debating war service land settlement legislation. Many people have had to deal with this problem for a long time. Because things move so quickly it is not always possible for the individual, the Government or anyone else who wishes to do something to help or to correct the situation, to catch up in the short term. 
Another problem which is with us all the time- it is one I mentioned a few moments ago- is related to the sale of the product on the overseas market. In general terms the Australian dairying industry sells about 60 per cent of its total product on the overseas market. I refer to the manufactured side. Of course, the general narrowing of market availability is making it increasingly difficult for the new Corporation to find the conditions in which we can work and show a profit, and thus be of encouragement to the industry so that industry will be maintained at a viable and active level. The problem of viability today is one which is concerned not only with the question of price but also with the question of the availability of market so that there can be within the industry the diversification that is so sorely needed and, unfortunately, which is so terribly costly at the capital level on the manufacturing side. 
I think we all agree that the Dairy Adjustment Bill which was passed by the Parliament last year proved of tremendous assistance to the people who could take advantage of it. I do not think anybody would say that that is not so. But the big advantage of the legislation is that it is not as effective as it could be. It is a very effective piece of legislation and it provides for a very effective plan for those people who can make use of it, but the assistance which it provided was not as widespread as were previous forms of assistance- and does not necessarily mean that I am of the opinion that they were the answer, either. The legislation is not as effective as it should be, and for obvious reasons it is not possible to make it as effective as it should be. At the time when the legislation was introduced a tremendous evolution had taken place in the industry and a very large percentage of the dairying industry at that time had changed over from the production of cream to milk production. Most, although certainly not all, also changed over to refrigerated storage. 
Another thing that has had a marked effect on the dairying industry was mentioned earlier by  Senator Scott  in another debate when we were talking about assistance to the beef industry. I refer to the unfortunate fall in the demand for this type of beef- it is usually referred to in the industry as chopper cow meat- on the world market. It took a very severe pounding when prices fell. Because its price was the lowest in the original schedule of prices, it still has the lowest price and it took the greatest beating. It was, and has been for many years, particularly during the time when prices improved to a reasonably high level, a very valuable extra source of income to the dairying industry. The unwanted cows from the dairy herd, the cattle that were sometimes reared in conjunction with the dairy herd, all helped to augment and improve the income of the industry. Admittedly an income is still available, but at a very much reduced level. It does not now provide the advantage of increasing the overall income to any great or marked extent. So we see that there are still some problems in the industry. 
Another problem which I think is going to create a tremendous amount of work for the industry in the not too distant future is concerned with the situation which will arise in relation to the equalisation of prices for dairying industry products. Last year equalisation support dropped to 80 per cent of what it had been. As we look around the various States we see that some States now no longer wish to be involved in this particular aspect of pricing. I think the reason for that is fairly obvious. Three or four of the States of Australia are now consuming States and produce only enough of the product for their own needs. That does not help the 2 major producing States of Tasmania and Victoria. I think that anything that is done to destroy equalisation as we know it is going to be to the eventual detriment of the industry and possibly of Australia. The industry must be kept, as far as is possible by encouragement, by means of assistance from corporate boards and by means of other help, in as viable and healthy a state as is possible. 
I know that during the last few months thousands of words have been spoken on many occasions about the problems associated with rural industry. It is a soundly based industry. It is an industry in which for a long time a lot of people have been able to make a reasonable living. However, there are not very many rich dairy farmers, particularly at the ordinary or average level. 
The other aspect of the dairy industry that is constantly causing trouble and probably will remain with us is the tremendous capital cost in the manufacturing side. We must realise that because of market demands there is a need for very heavy capitalisation of costs in that side of the industry. The capability to diversify on the manufacturing side of the industry is a matter that increasingly creates a problem for the cooperatives and the various other manufacturing sides of the industry that are privately owned. This was one of the problems associated, as we saw a few months ago, with the Murray Goulburn Co-operative and the Kraft organisation in regard to equalisation. 
I turn to the Bill itself. There is only one clause in the Bill to which I do not necessarily object but which causes me a little concern. I refer to clause 6 of the Dairy Produce Bill which proposes to insert a new section 13A, paragraph (c) of which reads: 
. the Corporation may- 
subject to the approval of the Minister, on its own behalf or in collaboration with any other person, authority or association of persons, take, or  arange  for the taking of, any action in Australia or elsewhere that, in the opinion of the Corporation is likely- 
to lead to the improvement of the quality of dairy produce or the prevention of deterioration, before or during transport from Australia, of dairy produce; 
I think we can assume from the attitude that has been taken by boards, etc., in the past that an objective and reasonable attitude will be taken by this Corporation towards the problems associated with the industry. 
A subject that is increasingly causing concern to the industry both at the manufacturing and at the producing level is the increased use of pesticides and weedicides. So I would think that one of the problems that will have to be watched by the Corporation in the interpretation of that clause is that no overt action is taken which will be detrimental to the industry, at least at the production level. We know from past experience what careless use of either pesticides or weedicides can have at the manufacturing level when very large quantities of the finished product can be returned or rejected by the country in which the produce is to be sold or, alternatively, at the point at which the manufacture takes place. With these thoughts, as I indicated before, the Opposition accepts these Bills. We welcome them. We congratulate the Government for bringing to fruition thoughts that were in the mind of the Opposition prior to 1 972. We wish the Bills a speedy passage. 
My question, which is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Housing and Construction, relates to the reported undertaking given by the Minister to the national body of the Returned Services League that there would be an RSL nominee on the 8-man board of the Australian Housing Corporation. Was this undertaking given by the Minister? Is it going to be honoured? If not, why not? 
I present the following petition from 13 citizens of Australia: 
To the Honourable  President  and members of the Senate in Parliament assembled. The humble petition of the undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully showeth: 
That present and proposed development of limestone mining at Precipitous Bluff, tin mining at Cox Bight, woodchipping in the remaining native forests and damming of South West rivers to produce power, will significantly affect the wilderness quality of South West Tasmania necessitating extensive road systems and damaging irreparably one of the last great wilderness areas of the world. 
Your petitioners therefore humbly pray that the Senate will protect this national heritage by refusing Australian Government financial assistance to any project which will further alienate this wilderness. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
My question, which is addressed to the Minister for Social Security, relates to the difficulties facing many farmers on King Island, due both to the disastrously low beef prices and the high cost of transport to and from the Island. A number of farmers there currently are working on Regional Employment Development schemes and at the mine. There are 130 such farmers out of a total of 231. Bearing in mind that many of these people will not be able to continue employment when the current RED scheme project is completed, will consideration be given to making available unemployment benefit payments, on a means test basis if necessary, to any farmers who are unable to obtain employment because of the limited employment opportunities which are particularly in evidence on islands such as King Island? 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Environment, upon notice: 
Have orders been given for the preparation of environmental impact statements for the following Tasmanian Government and Local Government works being carried out, or proposed to be carried out, with the assistance of Australian Government money: 
reconstruction, up-grading and resealing of the Bass Highway from the vicinity of Elizabeth Town to Latrobe; 
cutting walking tracks in the Dial Range in the Penguin Municipality; 
construction of the Burnie Expressway; and 
up-grading of the northern section of the Murchison Highway; if so, what was the date in each case on which the necessary order was tabled in each House of the Australian Parliament, and the dates on which each notice was published in the Australian Government Gazette as required by Section 7 ( 1 ) of the Environment Protection (Impact of Proposals) Act 1974. 
My question to the Minister for Labor and Immigration is related to eligibility for assistance under the National Employment and Training scheme. Currently in Stanley in the north-west of Tasmania there is an 8-week course in trawl fishing being conducted by an officer of the Tasmanian Fisheries Department and a  Mr Koga  of Nippon Suisan Kaisha Ltd of Japan. As many of the fishermen are self employed and are not eligible under the terms of the NEAT scheme, will consideration be given to varying the eligibility criteria of the scheme to enable these men to gain experience in a new field that will fill the gap caused by the diminishing returns from what could be termed the recognised methods? 
I give notice that on the next day of sitting I shall move: 
That there be referred to the Standing Committee on Industry and Trade the following matter: 
The effect of the container method of handling cargo on the stevedoring industry and on overseas, interstate and coastal shipping, with particular reference to the effect of limited call on outports. 
-The Minister for Social Security will recall that on 19 February this year I asked him a question in his capacity as Minister representing the Minister for Social Security. Now that he has the responsibility for the portfolio can he give me any information on the matter of age pensioners who own their homes and whose homes maintenance costs are around $10 a week and rising? Has any decision yet been made that will ease the cost burden on these people? 
My question is directed to the Minister for Labor and Immigration. Taking into account the fact that the Treasurer announced in the Budget that although no new Regional Employment Development scheme grants will be made available, can the Minister indicate whether or not the grant already approved for the King Island Council to continue its water reticulation program will in fact be granted? Has a decision yet been made on this matter, particularly in view of the difficult employment situation on the island? 
-Has the Special Minister of State received a copy of a letter to  Mr C.  H. Rattigan from  Mr E.  P. S. Roberts,  President  of the Australian Woolgrowers and Graziers Council? If so, is the Minister in a position to make any comment on the principles outlined with regard to industry involvement in the activities of the Industry Assistance Commission at research level? 
It is good to hear that  Senator Georges  has recognised that some of the problems we have stem from inflation. In fact, I think that all of them stem from inflation. I have a strong feeling that many people who have spoken in the debate, as well as many of those who intend to speak in the debate, speak with something of a gloomy air. Notwithstanding the rather optimistic outlook of some honourable senators on the Government side, the current situation in Australia must imbue even some of them with an air of unease as to what is the economic future of this country. I refer particularly to the situation in our 2 main sectors of industry- secondary and primary. 
I would like to use the time available to me to point up some of the problems, without trying to find answers in particular, because I think that only in that way can we understand what are the real problems. It is perhaps a vain hope, but we would wish and possibly continue to hope that the corporate ability of the Government would assist in trying to find some of the answers to the problems that beset this country at the present moment. Sure, there are tremendous problems. The greatest single problem, as  Senator Georges  said, is inflation. I do not necessarily agree with the reasons he gave as to why the inflation rate should be increasing or should be at its present level. Not so many months ago the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  and other members of the Government indicated that we were importing our inflation. Recently the Prime Minister and other senior Ministers have said that its cause is the demand for wages. Possibly there is some truth in both assertions. 
Let us compare what has been done over the past year or two by some of the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development countries in relation to inflation. Table 13 of volume 17  of Economic Outlook  shows that for the years 1962 to 1972 Canada had an average rate of increase in consumer prices of 3.3 per cent. It rose to 7.6 per cent in 1973 and then to 10.9 per cent in 1974. For the 12 months ended May 1975 it dropped back to 10.1 per cent. In the United States the rates of increase for the same periods were as follows: 3.3 per cent, 6.2 per cent, 1 1 per cent, and again a fall back to 9.5 per cent. For the first three of those periods the rates of increase in Japan were 5.7 per cent, 1 1.7 per cent and 24.5 per cent. I believe that in the latter part of 1974 the rate rose to almost 30 per cent. Japan has now achieved a wonderful result; its rate of increase has dropped back to 14.1 per cent, which represents a decrease on the previous figure of 10 percentage points. However, as I said, I understand that it rose even higher than the 24.5 per cent which I mentioned. Between 1962 and 1972 Australia's average rate of increase was 3.4 per cent. In 1973 it was 9.5 per cent; in 1974 it was 15.1 per cent; and to the end of May 1975 it was 17.2 per cent. The figures for New Zealand, which is our closest neighbour, are very similar. They are 5.1 per cent, 8.3 per cent, 1 1 per cent and 1 3.2 per cent. 
An examination of this whole list of figures indicates that most of the OECD countries are controlling or have reduced their rates of inflation. The one exception is the United Kingdom. Unfortunately it is the one which gives us, as a member of the old British Empire, a lot of concern. We do not know, but perhaps its high rate of inflation is due to the fact that it has a Labour government. For the periods to which I referred previously, its rates of increase were as follows: 4.9 per cent, 9.2 per cent, 16 per cent and 25 per cent. We do not know whether the increase in its rate of inflation is due to wages or to the importation of things that cause inflation or increase the rate of inflation. Whatever is the reason, inflation there is increasing at a very rapid rate. 
There are very many facets of our communityour economic community in particularwhich are affected by these inflationary pressures. Probably this has been in evidence most in the secondary industry field. This problem, coupled with the tax measures used by this Government, has tended to make 'profit' a dirty word. The result is that we have in Australia the worst unemployment situation that we have had for decades. Sure, as I have said, there have been many indications of international economic conditions having an effect on our society. But, in the main, most of the problem has been caused by actions, or the lack of actions, by this Government. Ideologically, it seems that the Government has no retreat from the situation that now pertains. It was rather pleasant to hear  Senator 
Georges say that, ideologically, some of the problems besetting the country are giving the Government difficulties. Surely the Government has learned something during the last 32 months. Surely it has learned that it cannot transfer assets to the public sector at the rate at which it has been doing so without destroying incentive and profit. With those 2 important elements under pressure, it must finish up with unemployment and with many businesses either bankrupt or facing that soul destroying prospect when in many cases it has taken a lifetime of sacrifice and endeavour to put those businesses together. 
In that regard it is interesting to note that, when writing about the Mathews report, Graham Williams said: 
The Report says: 'If indexation removes the fiscal illusion surrounding the effective rises in tax, rational decisions will have to be made about the extent to which increases in effective rates of personal tax are possible'. 
It notes, with what is ill-concealed alarm, the massive rise in government revenue from personal tax. 
Here is the unhappy scenario of rises in the take from personal taxes. 

<graphic href="065232197509032_27_0.jpg"></graphic>

That last figure is approximately the size of today's Budget. It continues: 
The projected figures for the next few years assume a 20 per cent inflation rate. 
They show a spectacular shift in income from the private to the public sector- a shift that the committee maintains is killing the goose that lays the egg. 
I think we all agree that if we do not control inflation those are the sorts of figures we will be looking at and trying to absorb into our community. Just how much more can the private sector pass over to the public sector? We see also that the Australian manufacturing work force has dropped by 9.3 per cent in the past financial year. Those figures are supplied by the Bureau of Statistics. If we look at what has happened to small businesses over the last 12 months we get some idea of the gravity of the situation in which unfortunately they find themselves. I wish now to quote what  Mr W.  Henderson, the Director of the Associated Chambers of Manufactures of Australia, said on 2 June this year. A newspaper article states: 
About 160 000 small businesses were in danger of closing, the director of the Associated Chamber of Manufactures of Australia  (Mr W. Henderson)  said yesterday. 
This could put the jobs of 20 to 3Q.per cent of Australia's six million workers in danger. , . . 

 Mr Henderson said at least 1 500 small businesses closed in the past 12 months because of economic problems. 
About 70 per cent of these suffered a shortage of funds. 
Speaking on television,  Mr Henderson  said that part of their problem was that they were inefficient businesses. 
But they did employ about 40 per cent of the total workforce, and given the right economic circumstances, they could grow. Small businesses are those employing fewer than 50 people. 
In figures that we (ACMA) have developed in conjunction with the University of New England, I would think that about two-thirds of the 250 000 small enterprises are in some danger of closing',  Mr Henderson  said. 
I think even more alarming is that the latest figures show that since that article was written early in June 3000 such businesses have closed, an increase of 100 per cent in a little more than 2 months. Many other eminent writers have spoken about the situation in which we find ourselves at present. Professor Ted Wheelwright, who is a prominent political economist and a long time Australian Labor Party member, believes that the Federal Government is leading us inexorably into economic disaster. A newspaper report of an address by Professor Wheelwright states: 
Professor Wheelwright says a flexible taxing system must be introduced to save the highly vulnerable companies from going under. 
He advocates a 20 per cent reduction in company tax for small companies, with a cut in payroll tax in hard times and a payroll subsidy in many cases. 
Firms that are really hard hit should be able to apply for a 10 per cent government payroll subsidy to tide them over', he says. 
In effect, the Government would be paying 10 per cent of the payroll. But this is necessary to stop them going bankrupt, closing up and putting thousands of workers on the dole'. 
The professor, who has always kicked the Establishment, ponders and says: 'If the market force economists had had their way from the start, Australia would be just a bloody sheep run now'. 
He refuses to name them- but he is clearly thinking not only of the Treasury officials, but also the Reserve Bank economists, the Industries Assistance Commission and  Mr Whitlam  's personal economic advisers. 
That is quite significant. The article continues: 
We have caught, he warned, the dreaded 'English disease'- of bitter conflict between workers and employers, with polarised and intransient attitudes. 
Another person who has been looking at this problem and speaking about it recently is Rod Carnegie. I wish to quote only briefly from what he said in Queensland recently when he was talking about people who are involved and associated with industry in Australia. He said: 
The stakeholders are six groups of people: the people who work in the enterprise; the people who manage it; the people  who invest in it; the people who supply it; the people who buy from it; the people who live near it. 
I think it is well worth pondering on what he said. In a later part of the same speech he said: 
In Australia in the next few months many managers will take responsibility. They will resign, or be fired, or as small businessmen go bankrupt. And in many cases it will not really be their direct fault. 
It is a tragedy, a travesty of justice, that many of the people directly responsible for some of these business failures will pay no penalty. They will be protected by unbeatable electoral majorities, or by the safety of Public Service superannuation. 
It is not a very pretty picture with which we are faced at present. I think those quotations amply demonstrate the difficulty and the restriction on profits imposed by taxation and the effects of inflation in the general sense. 
I should like now to turn briefly to some of the situations in Tasmania. Those honourable senators who heard my maiden speech during the Budget debate last year will remember that I warned that there was a tremendous drain and pressure on small business, particularly in Tasmania. Now the disease seems to have spread far wider. In recent months this has been .exacerbated by many unexpected imposts on their profitability and capability. Small businesses are going through a terribly difficult period due to a lack of incentive. That incentive has not been restored in any way by the actions of the Government which I mentioned earlier. Since last year nothing has really been done to alleviate the difficulties. In fact many of the problems have multiplied with an increase of 40 per cent in freight rates. In the case of the paper industry, one of the industries that are greatly under pressure in Tasmania and particularly in the area where I live, that increase applies both northward and southward. We all remember that the Government exempted north bound trade with the exception of bulk, cargo and paper, using as its excuse to do so that the paper industry was making sufficient profit to carry the cost of extra freight. 
We now find that paper mills at Burnie and Wesley Vale are in tremendous difficulties. Those difficulties have been illustrated by questions from both sides of the chamber. Increased imports into Tasmania of certain materials and other stocks which are needed by the companies have increased their freight costs by $2.62m. So it is small wonder that this industry is finding itself in tremendous difficulties. 
Yes. I think that now approximately 500 people have been put off by these 2 plants in recent months. The increase in freight rates prompted  Mr Lowe,  who at the time was the Acting Premier, to say: 
There now exists a state of war between Tasmania and the Federal Government on this matter. 
This sort of situation will be seen more and more as time goes on. While I am still speaking about paper, I think it is interesting to note that Associated Pulp and Paper Mills Ltd increased its output by 30 per cent, so it was said recently, due no doubt to advice that it received from the Government because it was at this period that members of the Government were indicating to Australia generally and to the paper manufacturing industry in particular that there would be a world wide shortage of paper. I think the Postmaster-General  (Senator Bishop)  will know that his Department has helped this industry. Unfortunately, it was only a palliative. It did enable the industry to maintain production for a little longer at a rate of about 35 000 tons a year. The industry again is faced with a situation now in which it can no longer continue to stockpile. So it is a pretty grim situation in which the 2 big industries on the north-west coast find themselves. It looks as though, because of the importation of paper, the opportunity to go back to something like a reasonable and rational rate of production is no longer possible for this industry in the near future. 
I would like also to mention, but only very briefly because I think the situation is so serious that it warrants possibly a full-scale debate, that in Tasmania there is a situation currently in which because of the metal trades union strike which has been going on now for 9 weeks - 
Ten weeks tomorrow, I hear, and this is right. It has been estimated- I do not know how this has come about but it has been printed in the Press- that the extra cost to this Federal Government, not to the State Government of Tasmania, in restoring the Tasman bridge will be $10,000 a week. All work stopped on the bridge yesterday. The situation will stay that way for the next 4 weeks at least. The result will be that there will be about $130,000 to $140,000 unforeseen additional expenditure. I think it is a tremendous indictment of both the State and the Federal governments that this vital link between these 2 parts of the capital city of Tasmania should be left to rot and rust from the effects of salt water. That is really what is happening. The university recently conducted a study of the effects the disaster is having on the life styles of the people, particularly those who live on the eastern shore of the river. It showed, unfortunately, that many marriages were under tremendous pressure. As I indicated, this is not something that I wish to pursue now, but I think it is something that we should look at in the near future because it is this Parliament's responsibility to provide finance for this venture. 
One of the other problems that we have had in Tasmania for a long time, and it has been going on ad nauseam without solution, is that of freight costs on goods transported between Tasmania and the mainland. I think we are all waiting for the Nimmo report to be received by this Parliament in the hope that we will find some solution to the 3 times repeated promise of the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  and the avowed policy of this side of the House that freight costs between the mainland of Australia and Tasmania should be equated. Just to give some indication of the variations I wish to cite some figures. This is the first time I have had an opportunity to see figures that graphically illustrate what the costs are. These are figures which I received from the abattoir on King Island when I was there recently. These figures were supplied to the Nimmo committee of inquiry. The King Island Abattoir Board took Wodonga, the sister city to  Senator Bunton  's home town, as a place about the same distance from Melbourne as King Island is. For those people who have heard us talk about figures and variations in costs these figures will illustrate very graphically, I think, the tremendous pressures on the people of Tasmania. Ordinary freight costs on hide are about $25.95 a tonne between Currie and Melbourne, compared with $9.27 a tonne between Wodonga and Melbourne. 
The figures I am giving for Wodonga relate to road freight but I do not think the figures would differ all that much. Freight rates on many other items also indicate a tremendous difference. Until recently the only way meat has been able to be taken from King Island to Melbourne has been by air. Air freight on chilled meats from King Island to Melbourne is 4c per lb. The cost of handling it in Melbourne is lc, making a total of 5c. The road freight cost from Wodonga to Melbourne is 2c per lb, making a difference of 3c. Let me illustrate the difference this can make not only to Tasmania but in particular to King Island. During the year 1973-74 a total amount of 3 648 825 lb of meat was transported from the Island. That amount of meat at 3c per lb represents a loss to the Island and to the growers on the Island amounting to $109,464.75. That is a tremendous loss to the Island, which is really having troubles because with the exception of the scheelite mine it is virtually a rural area. Freight costs on tallow between King Island and Melbourne amount to $25.95 and between Wodonga and Melbourne $9.27. Freight costs on meat meal represent a difference of $16.88, which is a loss to the King Island Abattoir of $2,7 17. Freight costs on diesel fuel delivered in Wodonga amount to 26.55c a gallon compared with 31.29c a gallon, which represents a difference of 4.74c a gallon. All the heating at the abattoir is diesel fired so honourable senators can appreciate that this runs into a fairly substantial additional cost. In relation to general cargo, I have already indicated that freight charges to King Island are somewhere about 2&gt;/2 times as great. These figures apply fairly accurately to Tasmania although there is some slight variation because of the distance. Freight costs on vealers amount to $12.65 from King Island to Melbourne compared with $3.50 from Wodonga. Freight costs on steers or grown cattle are $16.77 from King Island to Melbourne compared with $4 from Wodonga. Freight costs on sheep and lambs amount to $2.42 from King Island to Melbourne compared with 65c from Wodonga. I think those figures graphically illustrate the differences in charges in such a way that will demonstrate to the House what we have been saying for a long time in respect to the differences in charges that the people of Tasmania have to accept. 
Another significant increase that has been brought about by the higher freight rates has been, unfortunately for the people of Tasmania, a dramatic increase in sales tax on a very large range of consumer goods which has been brought about by the landed cost of the goods being the figure that is used to compute the sales tax. I have no disagreement with this. I know that this has been the practice for a long time. This is particularly noticeable in respect of the heavier consumer goods such as refrigerators, electric stoves and things of that nature. It is fairly obvious that this disadvantages the people of Tasmania in comparison with people in other States as transport costs, as I have just illustrated, are very much greater and of necessity so too is sales tax. By no means are all the goods shipped to Tasmania freight equated, as has been said by others on occasions. We know that some of them are, including such things as cars, tractors and some of the food lines, but nowhere near all of them are freight  equated.  The result is of course that a very large range of the goods received into Tasmania carry' the '40 per cent increase in freight plus the commensurate increase in the computed sales tax'" which is the result of that increase. 
In the few minutes left to me in this debate I would like to look at the situation of the rural industry. Unfortunately time will run out before I will be able to deal, with it as fully as I would have liked, but I think it is important to note that the rural sector is not given very much consideration by this Government. At least it was given much greater recognition in New Zealand when the Prime Minister,  Mr Wallace  Rowling, in a statement delivered at the time that country devalued its currency by 1 5 per cent, said: 
The main  beneficeries  of the move would be the farming community. The farmers had borne the brunt of the decline in income which New Zealanders had suffered. Substantial financial support had already been made available this season, but considerably more would be needed if farmers were to remain viable and have their confidence restored. 
Whilst recognising that New Zealand has an economy that in some instances is different from ours in that it is more rurally based, I think the same situation still applies. It is important that this Government should give active consideration to some of the requests that have been made. 
I know that the Government has a difficult budgetary situation, but it is a budgetary situation that it has brought upon itself. It has encouraged the sorts of things that have created our inflation. Early in the Government's term of office some Government supporters encouraged the unions to make greater and greater demands for wage increases, which had the inflationary effect of starting prices moving upwards. We all know that wages are a strong component in the inflationary situation, but all these circumstances have been brought about by the Government's own actions. It is no good the Government's hiding behind the statement that it inherited inflation. If it is going to accept responsibility for government it has also got to accept responsibility for the economic situation in which it finds itself or with which it eventually finishes up. It is rather pointless to make excuses and say: 'We inherited inflation. We got it from overseas'. That will not convince the people. It is the people who are paying the piper and that is not going to convince them for any length of time. 
It has been indicated also by some people that because of the particular disadvantages suffered by the people of Tasmania the whole State should be included in Zone A for taxation allowance purposes. In view of the situation in which we currently find ourselves, that could well be something the Government took on board. 
The ACTING  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Georges)-  Order! The honourable senator's time has expired. 
My question is directed to the Minister for Labor and Immigration. It relates to a news item broadcast by the Australian Broadcasting Commission on Monday 1 September, which stated that of the 12 000 waterside workers in Australian ports, most were averaging about only one week's work out of four. I ask: Does the Australian Stevedoring Industry Authority anticipate making a severance payment to surplus labour at between $10,000 and $20,000 a man? If not, what would be the greater cost, severance or guaranteed wage payment in the long term? 
I ask the Minister representing the Minister for Science and Consumer Affairs: How does the Government justify the retention of a media propaganda machine of 800 people at a cost of over $60m when the Commonwealth Scientific and Industrial Research Organisation is being forced, because of lack of funds, to reduce its numbers of scientists to 300 people, particularly in view of the fact that many of the Organisation's research programs deal with matters related to the nation's health? 
My question, which is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Health, relates to the payment of patients' accounts by Medibank. The current practice seems to be to notify the patient of the receipt of a claim with a covering note indicating that a cheque in payment of the claim will follow. It is usually three or four days before the cheque arrives. I ask: Will this practice continue, with its greatly increased administrative costs because of the increased postage rates, or will Medibank use a more streamlined approach by making only one postal contact in respect of each claim? 
I direct a question to the Leader of the Government in the Senate, in his capacity as representing the Treasurer. As many taxpayers are complaining that tax refunds are slow in coming to hand, can the Minister indicate whether this is so and what is the reason for the delay? Is it because the Department of the Treasury is short of funds? 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Transport, upon notice: 
1 ) When was the Australian National Line established. 
When was the first Australian National Line ship launched and was it the 'PrincessofTasmania'. 
What are the names of subsequent Australian National Line ships and the dates of their respective launchings. 
What was the cost of each ship. 
What was the cost of ferry terminals for Australian National Line ships at Australian ports built or subsidised by the Federal Government or the Australian National Line. 
What were the comparative freight rates on Australian National Line roll-on roll-off ferries and conventional ships immediately after and during the first year of operation of the Australian National Line ships. 
What are the dates of subsequent and each freight increase by the Australian National Line. 
What annual subsidies have been paid by the Federal Government to assist Tasmanian shipping. 
When did the Australian National Line first begin trading overseas, either in its own right or in conjunction with overseas shipping companies. 
Can the Minister representing the Minister for Health confirm the statement attributed to  Dr Everingham  that one in five Australians requires psychiatric treatment at some time in his or her life? The ratio of psychologically disturbed people is so startling that Professor Graham Duncan of Adelaide discussed the matter on the Australian Broadcasting Commission's  Notes on the News  last week. If the Minister agrees that one in five Australians needs psychiatric treatment, what provision is likely to be made for the 35 to 40 members of Federal Parliament who may be included in that category? 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Environment, upon notice: 
1 ) Who applied for funds to make an environmental report on the Norfolk Range in north-western Tasmania. 
What was the total amount of Australian Government assistance originally sought for preparation of this report. 
3 ) Who was authorised to prepare the report. 
On whose recommendation, other than that of the applicant, was the work entrusted to the successful applicant. 
5 ) Were there any other applicants. 
What was the total amount of Australian Government assistance paid for preparation of the report. 
7) To whom was the cheque made payable. 
Did the Minister receive advice of the actual work involved and an analysis or break-down the costs incurred in the preparation of the report. 
I ask the Minister for Social Security: What has been the total expenditure in Braddon Region No. 2 by the Australian Assistance Plan since its inauguration? What is the estimated expenditure for the same plan in the same area during the current financial year? 
-Can the Minister representing the Minister for Manufacturing Industry give the Senate any indication of any action contemplated by the Government by way of assistance to the carbide works at Elecrona in southern Tasmania that may enable the 2 interests concerned, namely Consolidated Gold Fields Australia Ltd and the Australian Industry Development Corporation, to encourage other interests in the ferro-siliconal alternative as a means of saving the employment of 1 50 people who are employed at the present carbide works and who face dismissal due to closure of the works early in 1976? 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for the Media, upon notice: 
How does the Government justify the retention of a Media propaganda machine of 800 people at a cost of over $60m, when the Commonwealth Scientific and Research Organization is being forced, because of lack of funds, to reduce its numbers of scientists by 300, despite the fact that many of the research programs deal with matters of the nation's health. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Environment, upon notice: 
Did  Mr Peter  Sims of a firm known as Tasventure make a request or recommendation to the Minister for Environment that the Cradle Mountain Road should not be sealed until there had been an environmental impact study. 
If the answer to ( 1 ) is in the affirmative, on what date was that request or recommendation received by the Minister or the officers of the Department. 
Has the Minister received any request for Australian Government financial assistance for the conduct of an environmental impact study prior to the sealing of the Cradle Mountain Road; if so, from whom was a request, or requests, received. 
Has the Minister received an offer from any party to undertake that environmental impact study; if so, from whom, and for what remuneration. 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Transport. What are the current freight rates per tonne on all classes of cargo on the Australian National Line ships trading between Tasmania and mainland ports? What were the comparative rates in 1950? These figures would be for a conventional ship as it was before the days of roll-on roll-off ships. 
-Can the Minister for Labor and Immigration indicate what he meant when he said in a Press release recently that sympathetic and speedy consideration' would be given to claims by municipal councils who found themselves in difficulties because of the slowing down of the Regional Employment Development scheme which resulted in the cancellation of some projects? Projects of a total value of $568,000 have been cancelled in 6 municipalities in north-western Tasmania recently. All six are small municipalities and have suffered a collective embarrassment of $51,000 from money spent in preparation for work on RED projects. Will the Minister indicate when an answer to this problem is likely? 
My question is directed to the Minister for Agriculture. In view of the announcement at the weekend of a fall of 10c a pound butterfat in milk for manufacture and also in view of the inevitability of some considerable reduction to dairy farmers' incomes due to the world build-up in stocks of dried milk powder, has the Government any plans to assist this industry in what many reports indicate is a difficult period of some magnitude? 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Transport. 1 ask: Is it a fact that the most recent freight rate increase of 40 per cent imposed by the Australian National Line on its coastal shipping route between Melbourne and Brisbane has been reduced because the competition from road transport operators is so great that it has meant that the ANL has been in fact losing cargo? 
I ask the Minister representing the Treasurer whether he can indicate why the Statistics Bill which was passed by this chamber some months ago has not yet been proclaimed and when it is likely to be proclaimed. 
-Yes, I second the amendment. In doing so, I would like to support what  Senator Wright  has said. Everybody has agreed that this is fundamentally important. We have discussed this problem of Tasmanian shipping for a long time in this Senate. The Government has recognised that there is a problem and it has established the Nimmo Committee. The Opposition has recognised for a long time that there is a problem. The results of shipping strikes are a tremendous loss to the Australian National Line, as instanced by the Minister when he said that one of the reasons for the 40 per cent increase in freight rates was the fact that $3. 5m to $4m was lost to ANL because of industrial disputes. 
The big difficulty in this matter, of course, is what happens at the other end. Instances have been cited of the tremendous difficulties caused by industrial disputes faced not only by small industries in Tasmania but also by large industries.  Senator Wright  has cited a couple of instances of the problems associated with the rural industry and the paper industry which have been disadvantaged. This, of course, applies also in the case of small industries. I think honourable senators will remember that on one occasion I cited the instance of a manufacturer of brass water pipe fittings who freighted them out by air at double the cost purely because of the unreliability of shipping. If we can get an amendment such as this agreed to, I am sure it will go a long way towards solving some of the problems that we have before us at the moment, particularly in regard to regularity of shipping. 
The question of cost and equalisation of cost is a subject for another discussion. It is currently the subject of an inquiry. All these points lead to the same conclusion, that is, that we should establish for Tasmania its right to ship goods by alternative methods, of which there are none now. I think it is imperative that we do all that we possibly can to make sure that the one avenue for the movement of goods, either into or out of Tasmania, shall be as unfettered as possible. I support the amendment. 
I direct a question to the Minister for Labor and Immigration in his capacity as Minister assisting the Prime Minister in matters relating to the Public Service. Has the Minister seen reports in the Press recently that the Government may not proceed with amendments to the Public Service Furlough Act? As this matter affects many casual and part time employees of the Australian Government Reporting Service and other Government departments, can the Minister indicate to the Senate whether the Government plans to go ahead with these amendments? 
I ask the Minister for Labor and Immigration: Is he aware of reports that most of the men employed in the forestry operations of Associated Pulp and Paper Mills Ltd of Tasmania are to be stood down for a month. If so, what action is contemplated by the Government to alleviate the problems which are causing this position? 
Can the Special Minister of State indicate when the Industries Assistance Commission's report on the potato industry is likely to be available? I pointed out that it was about this time last year when the level of imports escalated rapidly, to the detriment of the Australian grower. 
I think we all remember that as  Senator Keeffe  sat down- or as he was about to sit down- he called on the Senate to pass the Appropriation Bills. I think that that is a forlorn hope on his part. He knows full well what is likely to happen a little later. Perhaps we should ponder a little on what was asked for in the the amendment to those Bills. If we look at the gallup polls that were released today we see that the Opposition still has 50 per cent of the support of the people and the Labor Party 43 per cent. 
-That was today. This is the gallup poll that was quoted by  Senator James  McClelland earlier. If those figures had been reversed I would not think there would be very much risk that the Government would not do what the amendment asks of it. It is purely a question of numbers- that is what politics is all about. I think the gallup poll results are indicative of the reasons for the Government on this occasion resisting going to the people and asking them again for their judgment on the Government's record over the last 14 to 16 months. On the previous occasion the gallup polls seem to be fairly accurate and the Government went rather willingly to the people. On this occasion, when it has been asked to submit itself again to the judgment of the people, with the gallup polls not showing the support for the Government that they were showing on the previous occasion, we see the Government refusing to accept the challenge and go to the people. As  Senator Bunton  said earlier, the democratic place is the people's place and it is the people who make the decision. We are the agents of the people, good or bad. 
I should like to take this opportunity on a money Bill to bring up something that has worried me and that I know has worried a lot of other people for a long time. There has been a good deal of argument about the pros and cons of the Appropriation Bills as such and other matters related to them. The matter 1 should like to raise is the situation that we find today in the potato industry in Australia where, because of lack of action by the Government rather than action by the Government, we find that that industry is in a rather parlous situation. Had the opportunities available to the Government been taken up - 
That, notwithstanding anything contained in the Standing Orders, the order of the day for the Second Reading of the Appropriation Bill (No. 1) 1975-76 and the order of the day for the second reading of the Appropriation Bill (No. 2) 1975-76 be now restored to the notice paper and that they be orders of the day for a later hour of this day. 
An amendment has been moved to this motion. I do not think that  Senator Bessell  was under the impression that this was the first reading debate on the money Bill. The Appropriation Bills lend themselves to fairly wide-ranging debate, but I hope that  Senator Bessell  will connect up his remarks as closely as possible to the motion before the Chair. 
-Thank you,  Mr President.  I thought I was starting to give one of the reasons why this Government should stand condemned for lack of action in this field. It has been very obvious that right throughout the term of its office the Government has disregarded the welfare of one section of the community, the section of the community engaged in primary industry. 
A lot of things have happened in primary industry, many of them of course beyond the control of government. They are related to international market fluctuations, prices and matters over which the Australian Government has no control or very little control. But the Government has an important responsibility of rather large magnitude. We have seen the wool industry go through a period of problems which have been somewhat overcome. We have seen the beef industry facing a major problem. Again there has been no action taken notwithstanding the report of the Industries Assistance Commission which has suggested certain measures that the Government may take to assist or alleviate the situation in some part at least. Unfortunately, all too recently exactly the same situation developed in the dairying industry. Because of the enormous buildup and stockpile of powdered milk the dairying industry, in some instances, is receiving up to 10c a lb less for butterfat in milk than it was receiving at this time last year. 
I come back to the topic I was discussing before I was interrupted and that is the situation we have in the potato industry. This industry has been of extreme importance to the people in the area particularly where  Senator Devitt  and I live. It is important not only to the people in that part of Tasmania but also to people in many other parts of the Commonwealth. It is an industry which has been up and down. It has fluctuated wildly due to seasonal conditions, disease and market price. One of the big problems this industry faces at the present moment arises from the importation of enormous amounts of frozen french fries and the Government has taken no action of any sort to exercise any degree of restraint. These imports have been coming into the country at prices which are very competitive for the home grown product. 
Naturally the home grown product is the best product. But it suffers the disadvantage of being grown in an area where costs are increasing rapidly. Freight charges are going up. The cost of fertiliser has gone up because of the withdrawal of the bounty. The cost of wages, machinery and fuel has gone up. Of necessity these increases must be reflected in what can be accepted as the cost of the product. Over and above that is the profit margin, if any is left to the growers. But what has happened in the last 12 months? An enormous amount of produce of this kind has been allowed into the country, and notwithstanding questions that have been asked from both sides of the chamber of the Minister for Police and Customs  (Senator Cavanagh)  and of  Senator Wriedt  when he was Minister for 
Agriculture, no effective Government action has yet been taken to limit or to control in any way the volume of the imports. This has had a tremendously important effect on the industry. 
In large parts of Tasmania- and I guess the same applies to some other parts of Australia- an evolution is taking place in the potato growing industry in that the State is starting to process rather large quantities of potatoes. In one instance a factory had purchased the machinery to undertake this processing. It left the machinery in storage and subsequently made alternative arrangements. This denied to the people who lived in that area an opportunity for further employment. This happened in a situation where we see something like 300 000 people out of work in Australia. Because the Government has not taken any action we look with some doubt at the record of the Government in accepting or acting upon any of the IAC reports with regard to rural industry. We note that a few months ago- in fact, I think it was in July of this year- the Special Minister of State on 1 1 July 1975 sent a reference to the Industries Assistance Commission on the question of long term assistance to this industry in terms of supplying both the fresh market and the local processing market.  His  response to a question I asked him this morning- I did not know at that time that I would have an opportunity to discuss this matter- made it fairly evident that no quick answer would come from the IAC. It may well be that the Commission's report, when it comes, will be valuable as so many other reports have been. But if the Government refuses to accept or just ignores the reports, it is fairly obvious that referring matters to the Commission is a waste of time and a waste  of  the expertise which the IAC has built up in recent years. 
We have seen a number of these reports. I mentioned some of them briefly a few moments ago. They are all excellent reports. The then  Senator Murphy,  who is now  Mr Justice  Murphy, also sent a reference to the IAC when it was his responsibility with regard to the situation in the tomato industry'. I shall quote a brief section from the recommendations to indicate the sort of action which I feel could be of tremendous value to the potato industry. I do not know whether any action has yet been taken on this recommendation. 
The recommendation states: 
The landed cost of imports- 
Of course this refers to tomatoes and not potatoes-  under by-law are equated with an established local price. This could be achieved by the duty free admission of that portion of each shipment (the balance being subject to the full substantive duty) as is necessary to arrive at a composite landed into store cost over the whole importation equal to the established local price; and conditions to prevent stockpiling of the goods are imposed. 
Further in the report it states quite clearly and categorically that the recommendation of the Commission is that, should any produce come in under lowered tariff, that must be cleared from the market before the next season begins so as not to interfere in any way at all with the cost in the subsequent year. 
This has not happened in the potato industry. This matter is of very grave import to the people in my State. When we look at the figures supplied by the Department of Manufacturing Industry we realise that the figures given as importations last year represent in total 65 per cent of the average production of Tasmania over the last few years. Fairly obviously, importations of that size will have a marked effect. That has had the effect of virtually destroying both the fresh market and the processed market in Tasmania. We know that it costs $40 a tonne to send potatoes on the direct sea route to the Sydney market, which is the main market for the fresh produce. I am not sure of the figure for imports from America to Australia. I imagine it is somewhat lower than the figure I have given. This gives the imported product a marked advantage. We do know that on occasions this year processed potatoes from Canada and the United States of America were being sold at a retail price that was about 10c lower than the local product. Of course this does not take into consideration the cost incurred in the processing in either country. The effect this year in TasmaniaI guess the same applies to many of the other States- has been that plantings are down markedly on what they have been as an average over the past several years. 
I know that importations of this size were a result of a low yield in the market during the 1974 harvest season.'But if the industry had been covered by and controlled by a tariff and an import restriction we would not have seen this situation continue into the harvest season for the Australian product. I shall cite some of the more pertinent figures supplied by the Department of Manufacturing Industry. I shall seek leave to have the table incorporated in  Hansard.  We note that in October of last year 2 441 270 kilos of potatoes came into Australia. In the following month, November, the amount was 3 599 283 kilos. In December the amount was 2.8 million in round figures and there was a jump to 3.7 million in January. 
The total quantity of frozen potatoes imported was 15 941 113 kilograms. This is an enormous quantity. What is more important is the value of these imports which was money denied to the Australian growers, many of whom this year have ploughed their potatoes into the ground or have ploughed them up for stock feed. The value of those imports was $5,71 9,639. There are other small imports with relative values, such as flour, meal and flake. The total for those imports was 1 274 579 kilograms valued at $973,813. This gives a total importation of 17 215 682 kilograms worth $6,693,442. Fairly obviously those figures should indicate to the Senate the damage which these imports can do to an industry and the damage which has been done to it. This threat is staring the potato growers in the face in the forthcoming year. What is even more disturbing is a telegram dated 25 July 1975 which was sent to one of the people in the trade regarding potato stocks and prices in the United States of America. 
No. These are not for temporary purposes. 
The telegram reads: 
The US Department of Agriculture reports current substantial excess for both fresh potatoes and frozen french fries. 
A lack of Government action in doing something about it; that is what it has to do with the Budget. It has broken nearly everybody who is growing potatoes. The telegram continues: 
In 3 billion pound Industry Cold Stores as of 30th June 1974 were 887 million pounds compared to year earlier figure of 544 million pounds. Outlook for current harvest and 1975 pack starting 1st August, is for extremely large harvest and pack- aggravating current situation. According to local Brokerage Houses, good quality french fries may be purchased for 22 cents-23 cents per lb, lower quality for 16 cents- 1 7 cents per lb and short pieces as low as 8 cent per lb. 
Fairly obviously unless the Government acts quickly we will be faced with the possibility of these stocks being unloaded onto the Australian market and it may well be- I do not wish to preempt in any way the recommendations on the report of the Industries Assistance Commissionthat the Commission will bring down a recommendation somewhat similar to the one I referred to with regard to tomatoes. If the Government does not take on board what I have said and does not do something about it we will see during this current year- most areas are already planting; that is, the few that are planting- a complete breakdown in this industry which has provided a valuable cash crop for many people in many parts of Tasmania and other States. It is an opportunity for the dairy farmer, who is receiving up to 10c a pound butterfat less than he was at this time last year, to earn something from his property during the winter months when his cows are not in production. 
I have discussed this problem briefly with  Senator Wriedt  and he is not unsympathetic to the view that some control and a careful watch must be kept on this industry. When  Senator Wriedt  was the Minister for Agriculture he set up a national potato advisory panel to keep himself and the Department of Agriculture informed of the growers' wants, needs and problems in the coming years. I ask the Government to look after this primary industry and not let it get ground down and subjugated by massive imports of potatoes so that this industry which at one time was an extremely valuable industry to Australia is not destroyed. 
-That is right. The countrydid grow on it, as  Senator Devitt  said. He and I well know the magnificent areas in which we both live that are capable of and suitable for this type of production. It is an extremely important industry to the north-west coast. It is one that has potential for an enormous expansion into the frozen foods area. Nowadays people seem to prefer to buy french fries rather than peel potatoes. If we are to keep down the cost to the consumer obviously we have to go into volume production. The only way by which we can do that is by maintaining an industry which is viable and in which the volume of production is such that the unit costs can be brought back to a level which is not going to make it unreasonable. I ask the Government to have a careful look at this matter and to watch that the imports in the coming few months do not escalate like they did at this time last year. 
If a situation like the one that occurred last season is not avoided people are going to go out of the industry completely in one or two seasons. The side effects of that are fairly obvious. It would affect the people who are manufacturing machinery. It would affect the people who are manufacturing containers. I heard the Minister for Police and Customs  (Senator Cavanagh)  answering a question this morning with regard to the importation of jute packing. This is used quite extensively in the potato industry, particularly the fresh side of the industry. There are very many people who would be affected by the destruction of the industry. An industry that is destroyed by the lack of competent government action is an industry that is not going to have very much faith in anybody who is watching over it. The Government has a responsibility to every aspect of industry, whether it be primary or secondary. If it is going to abrogate that responsibility it may well be, as this amendment says, that it is time it went to the people for their verdict. 
asked the Minister for Social Security, upon notice: 
What has been the total expenditure in Braddon (Region No. 2) under the Australian Assistance Plan since its inauguration. 
What is the estimated Expenditure under the Australian Assistance Plan in Braddon for the current financial year. 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Overseas Trade. In view of the apparent worsening situation in the paper industry, I ask: What amount of paper is currently being imported? If the amount is very high, does the Government have any plans to suspend such imports, at least temporarily, in an effort to relieve the very large stockpile? 
-Can the Minister for Social Security and Minister for Repatriation and Compensation indicate whether there are any medical statistics that in any way confirm or deny that ex-prisoners of war are more susceptible to and suffer a greater degree of disability from arthritis than members of the general public? If so, will he undertake to have this disease accepted as war-caused in respect of these men so described and affected? 
My question is directed to the Minister for Social Security. I refer him to a question I asked previously with regard to the payment of unemployment benefit to farmers. As many of these people are receiving no income and could be deemed to be unemployed in this respect, can the Minister indicate what progress has been made in his discussions with the other Ministers involved, to which he referred at that time? Have any conclusions yet been reached? 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Administrative Services. Can the Minister confirm reports that officials at polling booths will be required in future to pay income tax based upon the pay they receive on that day and not as part of annual income? If the answer to that is yes, does the Minister realise that many of these people, because of high taxable incomes, in fact would be working for a little over $ 1 an hour, based on the amounts paid at the last election? 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Transport, upon notice: 
Has the most recent freight rate increase of 40 per cent imposed by the Australian National Line on its coastal shipping routes between Melbourne and Brisbane been reduced because competition from road transport operators is so great that it has meant that the Australian National Line was losing cargo. 
