In directing my ques  tion to the Minister for Air I refer to bis recent statement which followed the finding of the Court of Marine Inquiry into the loss of the MV 'Noongah'. In explaining the delays caused to Royal Australian Air Force aircraft the Minister said that a delay of1½ hours from the time of the alert to take-off by a RAAF Hercules aircraft on 25th August 1969 was not unreasonable. I ask: Pending the review by senior officers of the Minister's Department and of the Department of Shipping and Transport, to which he has referred, can he assure the Senate that stand-by crews and aircraft will be available for emergency occasions requiring them, such as the occasion of the sinking of the 'Noongah' or a national disaster? 
My question, which I direct to the Minister for Supply, refers to the Australian aircraft industry. Does the Minister recall that on 25th November last year he promised to obtain information on the progress of arrangements for offset orders for the Austraiian aircraft industry in relation to defence and other overseas procurement then being made? Am I to take it that the sketchy information that the Minister has given in reply to a question by  Senator Greenwood  is the only information he has on this subject at this stage, or does the Minister propose at a later stage to give a progress report, as previously promised, on arrangements for offset orders? I also ask the Minister whether his attention has been drawn to a recent statement that the Douglas Corporation was surprised that no requests for offset orders were made at the time of the purchase of DC9 aircraft for Australia's domestic airlines. 
1 refer the Minister for Air to a question 1 asked him on 25th November - he might recall it - in relation to whether the mission to the United States headed by  Sir Henry  Bland which investigated the faults in the Fill aircraft and, in fact, the whole project, was widely reported in Australia as having been adverse to the project. The question was taken up by  Senator Anderson  who said that some information would be given to the Senate at a later stage when the opportunity presented itself. Does the Government intend to give to the Senate any information about the views of the mission, following its investigations, which could be assessed by the Senate? 
Bland mission, as it is called, was a committee made up of officials of the Department of Defence and the Department of Air. It was sent to America at the request of the Minister for Defence and it was to report to him. The mission has now returned and has reported to the Minister for Defence, lt is a matter for him whether he releases the report. 
Fill AIRCRAFT 
My question, which is directed to the Minister for Supply, refers to the recent visit to Australia by  Dr Paine,  who is the Administrator of the United States National Aeronautics and Space Administration, and his published statement that Woomera may become a centre for a space shuttle service. I ask the Minister: When  Dr Paine  talked to Ministers and the senior heads of departments, did he indicate any positive arrangement which would result in Woomera becoming a sort of space agency? Secondly, will this arrangement, if it is adopted, involve the new AustraliaUnited States communication station, or will it involve some other technical section of the Woomera establishment? 
-I direct a question to the Minister representing the Minister for Shipping and Transport. In view of the now well established international hazards created by the operation of oil tankers, and the Minister's own admission yesterday that it might be  2  or  3  years before effective legislation is introduced in respect of effective compensation, will he ask the Department of Shipping and Transport to consider the establishment of a special maritime unit consisting of mechanical and other devices which could be applied in instances such as that which occurred in Torres Strait so as to effect early repairs and prevent the discharge of oil, or otherwise control the oil so as to prevent pollution. The cost of such units could be negotiated between the operators of tankers using Australian waters. 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Defence. Is it a fact, as recently reported in. the Press, that a current review by a joint Defence Department-Army committee of inquiry into proposed new Army installations on the Australian mainland now considered to be urgently required and involving the expenditure of several millions of dollars is being restricted to sites in Western Australia and Queensland and that no consideration is being given to proposals that South Australia should be included in the provision of sites for units or for ordnance depots? Will the Minister consider the long standing request of South Australia that units might be housed in that State or, at any rate, that an ordnance depot be established at Elizabeth on land now held by the Commonwealth Government? 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Civil Aviation. Does the special licence to import a British made HS125 twin jet aircraft granted to a Western Australian charter company in November 1969 represent a change of policy by this Government in relation to the importation of executive jets and of its two airline policy? If this is so, what is the present position in relation to other applications by Australian operators? 
by leave - The Opposition welcomes this new venture by the Australian National Line, just as we welcomed the arrangement proposed by the Government to have Australian ships operate in the cargo trade to the United Kingdom and Japan. When this proposal was announced the Opposition considered that a greater opportunity might have been given to Australian shipyards to build the necessary vessels. However, we accepted the argument that the need to have the ships operating quickly and therefore for their early delivery was highly important in order to get the Australian National Line into this operation. Honourable senators are aware that the entry of the Australian National Line into overseas shipping services has been one of the constant aims of the Australian Labor Party members in this Parliament for at least 15 years. On many occasions we have in this Parliament raised it as a matter of urgency and have pointed out to the Government the advantages of having our own ships operating in the overseas trade. Recently the Government has accepted what we have proposed. 
I wish to commend the work of the Senate Select Committee on the Container Method of Handling Cargoes in recent years. The Committee stressed the need for Australian ships to operate in overseas trade. We argued then - the argument is still sound - that Australia's participation within the shipping conferences or Australia's operating its own ships would enable us to obtain the actual freight rates, which are highly important, which we have never been able to obtain, and without which Australian producers have been greatly prejudiced. 
While we welcome the proposal for Australia to enter the West Coast of North America shipping service, one of the catches in the situation, as we see it, is the argument that the National Line should enter into a small conference so that it can operate with an experienced shipping line. There may be some advantage in this situation for a short time, but we trust that the Government will not allow the arrangements for this trade or the arrangements for the Japanese or United Kingdom trade to inhibit the Australian National Line from operating in its own behalf as a separate entity, thus assisting the Australian economy and providing great benefits to the Australian producers. In recent years the Australian National Line has made repeated requests to do exactly what it is doing now, that is. to enter the overseas shipping trade. Honourable senators will recall that in recent reports of the Australian Coastal Shipping Commission, the  Chairman, Sir John  Williams, has advocated that the Australian National Line should enter the overseas trade. 
We ought to be considering the need to build these vessels in Australia. At the present time we are committed to a shipbuilding programme of approximately S45m. These vessels are being built overseas. It would seem to me to be possible now for the Government and the Australian National Line to plan in order to gain the other advantage from overseas shipping, that is, to have vessels built in Australia on a long term basis. Most honourable senators will know that the Australian shipbuilding industry is, to some extent, run down. There are troughs of depression in many shipyards in Australia, particularly in New South Wales. It seems to me the time has arrived when there should be discussion between the people engaged in the industry and the trade unions as tq the need to have vessels built in Australia. 
The final point 1 make is one which I raised earlier, that is, that in the future the Government should ensure that we will not be hamstrung by any of the arrangements into which we have entered with the other two companies. One of the Australian newspapers made this point, which seems to mc to put the proposition fairly: 
There are further complications for the Government in balancing its interests between owning and operating ships and the protection of those who use them. Its overseas ventures have meant joining four shipping conferences. 
We trust that careful consideration will be given to this aspect of overseas shipping in the future. 
My question, which is directed to the Leader of the Government in the Senate, refers to repatriation matters. On three occasions the Senate has carried resolutions affirming that a select committee should be appointed to investigate repatriation matters. The most recent occasion was in the latter part of last year. The Leader of the Government will remember that it was proposed that the select committee operate from 1st January this year. What is the intention of the Government in respect of that latest resolution? 
I do not think it is any surprise to listen to  Senator Davidson's  remarks in which  he  complains about a lack of courtesy or lack of attention on the part of the Opposition in not applying itself to moving an amendment until very late in the debate. In the first instance, let me point out to him that we have had only four working days of debate since the Governor-General's Speech was delivered. Secondly, I point out that all the items in the Australian Labor Party's amendment represent policies of our Party which are well known to the honourable senator. They are well known to every member of the Parliament and to the public. The Labor Party presented these issues to the people in the general election campaign last year, and as a result was very narrowly defeated by this Government. There is no reason to say that honourable senators opposite have not been warned about the great issues.  Senator Davidson  referred to Senate select committees and questions surrounding pollution.  Senator Marriott  referred in his speech to the formation of Senate select committees. Of course, whether honourable senators opposite like it or not, the real reason why a lot of attention is being paid to Senate select committees is that the Opposition in the Senate, led by  Senator Murphy,  gave a new impetus to the move. 
We are in fact the main force which has persuaded the Senate to set up Senate select committees.  Senator Marriott  referred to what  Senator Henty  had said. It is true that  Senator Henty  supported the proposition, but the record will show that the impetus came from  Senator Murphy. Senator Marriott  may complain about  Senator Murphy's  speech, but it was his interest that caused the change in Senate practice and the setting up of select committees. Since his leadership in the Senate we have had  a  great example- 
My question, which is directed to the Minister for Civil Aviation, refers to his statement on 10th March last regarding delivery dates for Boeing 727 and DC9 aircraft for the domestic operators. I refer also to a recent statement which was made at a seminar in connection with the Australian aircraft industry in which it was pointed out that the Douglas Aircraft Corporation in America had been surprised that no requests had been made to it for offset orders in Australia concerning the purchase of its aircraft. I ask the Minister: At the time when the Government approved the arrangement were any proposals considered for offset orders within the Australian aircraft industry, or has any consideration been given to this matter since that time? If not, before delivery of the aircraft, which will take I think a further 12 months, will the Minister, in conjunction with the operators, consider whether some work might be fed out to the Australian aircraft industry? 
I direct a question to the Minister for Air. Is it a fact that 7 of the 12 Royal Australian Air Force Neptune bomber reconnaissance aircraft at Townsville have been withdrawn because of salt water corrosion in various parts of the wings? Are any proposals being considered to replace the aircraft? Are replacements available in Australia from other squadrons? For how long will the aircraft be out of commission? Does the Minister consider that time taken to repair the aircraft will occasion any difficulties in relation to the squadron's operation? 
 Of course. Obviously he is the leader of our Party in the Senate, and is a good leader. It is always strange to hear honourable senators opposite talk about Labor leaders who have been changed or are dead. When Chifley was alive he was said to be  a  bad leader. The same was true  of  Curtin. We heard  Senator Marriott  say what a great leader  Senator McKenna  was in the Parliament. He said  the  same of  Senator Willesee,  who led our 
Party in the Senate. But these compliments are always paid when the officer has ceased to perform the function of leadership.  Senator Willesee  served his term as Leader of the Opposition in the Senate and did  a  good job. Now he is  Deputy  Leader. Every time a Liberal member compliments a Labor leader it is done after that Labor man has finished his term of office. That is very significant. No honourable senator opposite ever says a good thing about a Labor leader when he is leading the Opposition. 
The comments made by  Senator Marriott  about  Senator Murphy  are quite uncalled for. Obviously he is required to put up the policies of the Party.  Senator Murphy  spent a good deal of time discussing our policy on Vietnam. He is required to do that, because it is Party policy and because he believes that it is a proper policy, as I do. I have noticed that in this debate honourable senators opposite have spent little time on the issues of the nation or on what the Governor-General might have said. I expected  Senator Davidson  to discuss some of the issues concerning South Australia. Some great problems are confronting South Australia but they have not received the attention of this Government. I do not think that because we have entered the dying hours of this debate we should be satisfied that the great issues have been diminished. They have not been diminished. I remind honourable senators that on 25th November last the Governor-General spoke in this Parliament 200 words prepared by his advisers. He spoke 200 words about nothing and we were then dismissed and placed in the hands of providence. 
Yes. On our return this year, as would be expected because of the annoyance of the population at such wasteful expenditure and the failure of the Governor-General to mention the great issues in the nation, we heard another speech by the Governor-General, this time a greatly padded speech. The only two positive statements I have noticed in the Speech are those concerning the introduction of the metric system and the support of  the  Prime Minister  (Mr Gorton)  for the proposed Industrial Development Corporation. Since  the  Governor-General delivered his Speech  I  have noticed that some branches of the Liberal Party are attempting to make sure that the proposed Industrial Development Corporation does not come about. 
I was amazed last night to hear  Senator Marriott  talk about the great Prime Ministers who have come from the Liberal Party. There is no doubt that moves are being made to ensure that the present Prime Minister's stay in the position is only temporary. 
The honourable senator knows what has happened. I have no doubt that he has been active. As a West Australian he will recall that the skids were placed under his colleague,  Mr Freeth,  who was Minister for External Affairs. 
 Senator Sim  knows by whom, because it was publicised that the Democratic Labor Party had exerted great pressure on the Government to change its policy. After it had supported the policy of the then Minister for External Affairs and of the Prime Minister there was a reversal of form and the result was that the policy was changed.  Senator Gair  claimed that the pressure exerted by him was the reason for the change.  Mr Freeth  was defeated at the last general election and has now been appointed as our Ambassador to Japan. These things are well known. They are not just stories.  Senator Sim  must know that there are controversies in his Party.  Senator Marriott  last night referred to divisions in the Liberal Party. It is quite a pleasant change to note that the Press is paying some attention to divisions in the Liberal Party rather than trying to exploit what is happening in the Labor Party. The Labor Party is democratic and its policies are always discussed in public. Our federal conferences are open to the public. 

 - Mr Harradine of Tasmania has been the subject of public controversy. We do not have very much to hide, but the Liberal Party has, and  Senator Marriott  knows that as well as I do. 
Of course.  Senator Sir Magnus  Cormack served excellently as  Chairman  of the Senate Select Committee on the Container Method of Handling Cargoes. Then he became  Chairman  of the Government's Foreign Affairs Committee, but because of divisions in the Liberal Party he was deposed. 
Yes - by one who contested the Prime Ministership. Significant changes have taken place in the Liberal Party. Great stresses have occurred. No real programme is being brought before the Parliament to do the things on a national scale which ought to be done. Prime Minister Gorton has done a little bit of good on national issues. Honourable senators will remember that he decided to make sure that the business of MLC Ltd was not taken over by Americans. He was greatly criticised by his Party and a change was made by a number of people whose names are well known. He was again criticised when he gave his support to ensure that the Australian National Line would enter into overseas freight carrying, a policy advanced by Labor and supported by the Department of Shipping and Transport and the Department of Trade and Industry. 
It is true. It has been reported as public information. I think  Senator Young  was a member of the Federal Exporters Oversea Transport Committee. I think he was one of the people who agreed that the Australian National Line should enter the overseas shipping trade and I am sure he will accept that it has been one of the long standing aims of the Labor Party. The Liberal Party does not believe in government run enterprises. It believes in quick profits and free enterprise, but because of the way the economy is organised today it must face up to having some government enterprises operating. These issues are kept in the public eye by the Labor Opposition, which points out that the Government is not doing the job it should be doing. 
It appears to me to be quite clear that Prime Minister Gorton has done one or two good things, but it also seems that bis 
Party will make sure that they will be emasculated. When the legislation referred to in the Governor-General's Speech is introduced, it will contain no real benefits. The Industry Development Corporation will be quite limited. It will not be able to do what it ought to do but, as  Mr Whitlam  said, when the Labor Party takes office we will see that the legislation becomes an effective part of Labor's policy. I say quite clearly that nobody can challenge the principles contained in the Labor Party's amendment. They are well known. We fought the election on the health policies of each Party. The Government reluctantly was forced to accept most of the recommendations contained in the report presented by the Committee under the chairmanship of  Mr Justice  Nimmo. The Minister for Health  (Dr Forbes)  has sharply criticised the Australian Medical Association.  Dr Turnbull  did not deal with this matter during his speech, but it is quite obvious that the AMA intends to jack up against the Government. The question now is whether or not the Government is strong enough to make sure that the doctors take their place in the community in the same way that members of the work force and the unions have been made to take their place in the community.  Senator Wheeldon  referred to this matter at question time. The Government should tell the doctors what they must do under the national health scheme. 
We have our share of doctors now. Because they are doctors they are specialists on this subject. The Minister for Health is having trouble with the doctors. He admits it. The Government is bringing a substantial amount of pressure to bear on doctors to get them to agree to a scheme which will not work. During the election campaign the Labor Party's scheme received a lot of attention. We know that the main reason for the support we got in the election was the proposals contained in our health scheme. 
It is a comprehensive scheme which, in the final analysis, will be applied. I do not want to say much more on the subject, except that I do not think anybody could say that the programme outlined in the Governor-General's Speech, which of course is the Government's outline of works, is a particularly comprehensive one. The programme offers no solution to the rural problems. The Government still does not have a solution for the wheat crisis. There are other issues, such as utilising the capability of Australian manufacturers, to be faced. Over the years a number of honourable senators, including  Senator Poyser  and myself, have advocated the placing of orders with the Australian aircraft industry, but the orders were not given by the Service departments. The Minister for Defence  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  said that in future S60m worth of orders will be placed with Australian industry. The offer is a belated one. If the Government had taken the advice of the Labor Party, the capabilities of our own productive forces - both government and private - would have been utilised properly. We still advocate that the placing of a certain proportion of the orders with Australian industry should be part of the policy of any government. At present the Government says that it accepts the need for offsetting orders. It certainly has not formulated a policy about not placing orders overseas. 
As  Senator Devitt  pointed out, the Government talks about it but does nothing. We want to ensure that in future there will be a requirement that, when orders are placed overseas, Australian manufacturing industries will get a share in the orders. The Government ought to insist upon it. That ought to be the policy of the Government. It certainly would be the policy of a Labor government. We certainly would ensure that the abilities which Australians have are used properly. 
I know the debate is concluding, but I also want to say a word or two about Vietnam. The truth about the Vietnam issue has to be raised in this Parliament. The Labor Party believes that a futile war is being waged in Vietnam. Australia should not have taken part in an expedition such as this just because a Liberal government believed from the start that there was a military solution to a civil situation. That goes back to the time of Prime Minister Menzies. In the first instance he made an agreement with the Americans to send advisers to South Vietnam. Later, because of some pressure from the United States of America, he agreed to send Australian troops to Vietnam. Our military activities in Vietnam have proven to be futile. They are futile because the system of government in South Vietnam has not improved greatly. When I visited Saigon in 1 964 there had been fourteen successive military juntas in control of the country, including the junta of Diem. All those juntas were unable to persuade the civilian population that their activities were such as to encourage the proper development of South Vietnam, nor were they able to establish any kind of relationship with the Vietcong or with the North Vietnamese to arrange a peaceful expansion of the South as well as some future for the whole of Vietnam. As  Senator Murphy  said last night, we must start off with the concept that Vietnam is one country and not two countries. It is divided. The argument that we used and still use is that, if South Vietnam is to challenge the intrusion of the Vietcong or of some people who want to reject the government in control, it has to have a democratic government. The facts are that the successive governments in South Vietnam were not democratic. Averell Harriman and Vance, both of whom are American advisers and specialist peace negotiators, have taken part in the current negotiations with the North. Both have denounced the present leader of the South Vietnamese Government. 
 Trying to interrupt a speech by interjecting is an old trick and the honourable senator ought to know it. The Government is building up a man of straw in order to knock him down into its own image. The honourable senator ought to know that. I repeat what  Senator Kennelly  said last night. We would expect that the honourable senator, as a lawyer and as one who believes that it is necessary to send young people to fight, would take an interest in the defence of Australia or in the activities of the Australian troops in South Vietnam. That is the kind of thing we did when we were his age. If he believes that young men should go to South Vietnam to fight aggression then he should take an active, conscientious stand on the matter. Then we would respect him for his arguments which at present do not seem to us to be arguments about the defence of Australia but rather jingoisms which do not do the honourable senator much credit. He is a very intelligent young man. We hope that, as he grows older, he will become more mature and will see the true position. 
Only last night Professor FitzGerald, an expert on Asia and China, pointed out that military occupation troops are aiding the Communists. We have been saying that for a long time. We have been telling the Government that a military solution to Vietnam is quite wrong. A military effort will not solve anything. A military solution will be like the Fills; it will collapse in a heap around the Government, with the result that Australia will lose a certain amount of its prestige. Australia has a great reputation in this area of the world. 1 was surprised to hear people trying to compare the present situation with what happened in the struggle against Fascism. The two are entirely different. The struggle in Czechoslovakia today against the Russian occupation is a struggle against a great power. The situation in Vietnam is one of civil intrusion and civil wars. Unless the people are prepared to take part in the struggles, we cannot solve the problem. Military occupation is strengthening the policies and the prestige of the Communist forces which want to make an issue of Vietnam. 
Honourable senators opposite talk about the Laotian situation. They say 'Look at what has happened in Laos and Cambodia'. The Head of Slate in Cambodia is a neutralist, lt is true that in Cambodia many people have been attacking the embassies, but at the same time Prince Sihanouk is inviting the North Vietnamese Head of State to Cambodia. The Prince is still prepared to talk to the North Vietnamese. 
That might be so, but the Australian Government has been keen to keep good relationships with both these neutralist countries, Cambodia and Laos, because the Government believes that it is worth while. Both these countries are led by neutralists. Honourable senators opposite talk about the North Vietnamese infiltrating into Laos. I agree that they are. They are infiltrating. 
Yes, because they are being encouraged. They are encouraged to do so because of the intrusion of military occupation. At the same rime as they are doing this Prince Souvanna Phouma, who was a Social Democrat in the old French tradition and who was fighting his half brother Prince Souphanouvong, has said that he is still prepared to meet his half brother while the war continues on the Plain of Jars in an effort to negotiate for peace. This is what we should be doing. But the Government has never made any positive statement about this. The last statement made by the Prime Minister  (Mr Gorton)  about the withdrawal of troops of any consequence was in December. The Prime Minister still maintains as he dkl then that when the Americans have made a more positive withdrawal Australia will participate in the next reduction of forces - when that comes - but the extent and timing of that participation remain to be settled by discussions with the government concerned. In one speech the Prime Minister said the Government concerned was that of South Vietnam, and in another speech he said it was that of the United States of America. 
As  Senator Murphy  said last night, the position in the United States is becoming critical for the American Government. No longer will people put up with a so-called military solution which is not a solution, and which results in large numbers of people being killed. I would like to read to the Senate a short paragraph which appeared in the 'Courier-Mail' yesterday. It states: 
Whatever our pigheaded Commonwealth Government might think, this is not a war in which Australians will readily accept a rising rate of casualties at a time when US troops are in the process of withdrawing, and US casualties are markedly declining. 
The report goes on to say, bringing the issue right home to the Government: 
The Australian task force commander in Vietnam last week was quoted as saying that 'now is the time to hit the enemy harder.' Another Army spokesman spoke of 'a continuing plan to bring the Vietcong to battle.' Why? 
Some people have argued that the pacification solution in Vietnam is having some benefit and the situation is becoming stabilised. I suggest the situation is no better today than when I was there in 1964. The whole method of trying to solve the problem in Vietnam is not being effective and the only solution is the Labor Party's policy. 
Without taking up too much time I want to move on to a couple of associated questions. 1 want to raise the issue of why the Government and Government supporters say: 'Yes, you have to do these things. You have to send the boys overseas.' But every time there is a need to give proper repatriation benefits or something of this kind to national servicemen there is always a great resistance to it. May I remind the Senate that on three occasions it has carried resolutions which argue that there ought to be an investigation into repatriation matters. Honourable senators have clearly established in this chamber that ex-servicemen are not getting a fair deal. The Senate carried three resolutions because it thought there were good reasons for them. Nothing has yet been done. 
Let me raise another matter which is important and which 1 have raised with the Minister for Shipping and Transport  (Mr Sinclair).  National servicemen who were employed in railway industries are being sent overseas. While they are overseas their dependants are not entitled to railway passes for interstate travel. If these young people were working in the railway service they and their families on annual leave, if they wanted to, could enjoy a railway pass. They would receive this benefit while they were in railway service. If these men become national servicemen which ought to give them some sort of prestige - the Government says it does - they lose something and their dependants lose something. The Minister for Shipping and Transport states: 'Well, it is a matter for the Australian Council of Commissioners to decide.' The Minister, if he wanted to, or the Government ought to say: 'Well, at least in respect of our own railway' - that is the Commonwealth Railways - 'we will make sure that you get your interstate travel privileges while the boy is in the Army.' That is one of the things the Government ought to do. This matter of the travel privileges is a long standing complaint. The railway unions have written to the Government and I have written to the Government about it but nothing has been done. 
I come back to some of the matters 1 referred to after  Senator Davidson  had spoken. 1 said that I was rather surprised he had not raised at least two of these important State matters. The first matter is a long standing complaint by South Australia about the need to standardise the South Australian railway system. This is very important to South Australia. Large sections of the South Australian community including such respectable groups as the Adelaide Chamber of Commerce have complained about the failure of the Federal Government to settle the question of the rail connection between Adelaide and the standardised railway system. In 1964 Premier Playford of South Australia suggested a scheme to the Federal Government not just to standardise the link between Adelaide and Port Pirie but to do what was agreed upon in the 1949 railway agreement to which the Federal Government committed itself - the standardisation of the northern parts of the railway service in South Australia. This scheme was refused. 
The South Australian Labor Governments led by Premier Walsh and Premier Dunstan put forward the same proposition. It was rejected. During the currency of the Hall Liberal Government consultations were had with the Commonwealth Government but the only result obtained from the Commonwealth Government was an arrangement that consultants would examine the most efficient way of connecting Adelaide with the standardised system. South Australia has a standardised system completed from east to west which is, at the present time, carrying a large number of passengers and which means that cargoes can be carried in competition with the shipping trade. This is an important service. But Adelaide is still isolated and we have the 1949 agreement which, in fact, obligates the Commonwealth Government to connect Adelaide with the standardised system. Representations on the connection of Adelaide have been led by Premier Playford, two Labor Premiers, and latterly by a Liberal Premier. 1 do not think the Liberal Premier of South Australia has fought hard enough for what should be done. I think he is simply being conned by the Federal Government to accept what was a consultant's survey whose report will not be available for some weeks yet. When the report is made it is possible that the only connection with Adelaide and the only standardisation work in South Australia will be between Adelaide and Port Pirie. The result will be that important railways lines will still suffer the same disabilities as. in fact, apply now to break of gauge stations. Where important commodities are to be shipped from other areas of the State they will have to suffer double handling because there will be a break of gauge. There have to be bogie exchanges. 
The Federal Government is obligated to standardise the system as agreed upon. Some part of the work has already been clone in the south eastern section of the State which was converted. When South Australia receives standardisation it will have to bring the 5 feet 3 inch line back to 4 feet 8i inches at its expense. Although the Governor-General mentioned what Government policy was. the statement in the Speech is simply that the Government will support standardisation. It does not say that the Government accepts the need to convert the related lines which carry important traffic to Adelaide and other places. These will bc in the same position of disability as exists at the present time. This is a very vital question and the Federal Government ought to be strongly criticised. I suggest, too, that the South Australian Liberal Government has not fought hard enough for the needs of the State and the requirements of the South Australian Railways Department. South Australia has a very efficient Railways Department. 
I know time is going on and lor that reason I will restrict some of the other observations I intended to make. One of the matters related to railways which I think I should mention is one which I have raised before and that is the need to have some sort of backing up facilities for the Commonwealth Railways. A great service exists now in the Indian-Pacific service but the Commonwealth Railways still do nol have a sound workshop which can produce the requirements of the railways system. The Commonwealth Railways has been purchasing its locomotives, passenger carriages and rolling stock from sources outside Australia for many years. In some cases they could be made in Australian workshops, including the workshop of the South Australian Government Railways at Islington, but the orders are given to the Japanese. In recent months the New South Wales Trades and Labour Council has made representations to the Minister for Trade and Industry  (Mr McEwen)  for a restriction on tendering by the Japanese, lt is thought that the Japanese are successful with some of their tenders because of the great interest Japan has in Western Australia. 
At a time when  a  large number of our heavy engineering workshops are not getting the work they need to keep their skilled staffs going, it  is  believed that there should be a policy of ensuring that equipment of this nature is made in Australia. If it cannot be made by the Commonwealth Railways surely it can  be  made by private manufacturers. I  would  like to see the size and scope of the Port Augusta workshop increased so that it can build the modern passenger cars which are now required. 1 understand that the workshop has the skilled men, including some who  have  migrated from the United Kingdom, to carry out this work if the workshop is modernised. If the Government is of the opinion that it would be too expensive to commence work on constructing passenger cars there immediately  it  could place orders for their construction with the Islington workshops in South Australia, which are the most efficient workshops in Australia and which have specialist  staff  with many years experience in this sort of manufacturing work. There is no reason why the work could not be done at Islington. The only reason why Islangton is not given the opportunity to do the work  is  that the Government does not take the matter seriously. 
No railway organisation can work properly unless its employees are paid proper wages. Workers will not work on the trans-continental railway line because of the isolation and poor wages. A change of attitude by the Government is necessary in relation to the wages it pays the workers, particularly those men who work in the fettling gangs. Those people who were lucky enough to travel on the inaugural trip of the Indian-Pacific service would have seen for themselves the sort of isolation which many of these families experience. 
Perhaps the honourable senator was not invited, but I was. I think I was invited because I was secretary of Labor's transport committee. I would have liked the honourable senator to be invited. I think he would have enjoyed the trip as much as I did. I am familiar with the railway industry because I was an official of a railway organisation for 20 years. In recent years it has been very difficult to keep staff in this industry, which is understandable because the wages are not very high. The turnover in staff is large. The railways departments try to compensate their men for their low wages by giving them overtime, but this is not a very satisfactory system. They should give them special rates in addition to the small zone allowance which is paid. The staff turnover in the Commonwealth Railways in 1965-66 was over 3,500; in 1966-67 it was again 3,500; and in 1967-68 it was nearly 3,000. The figures I have indicate that up to the end of last year, which would be a period of only 6 months, 2,000 workers left the Commonwealth Railways. 1 shall not mention the issue of the Eyre Highway because representations have been made, and the Chowilla project is a subject which, I hope, I will have an opportunity to debate at a later stage. The South Australian Government and the members of the South Australian Parliament have for many years discussed the need to bituminise the Woomera road. The matter has also been raised in this Parliament. We know now that there will be extra activities at Woomera and, as a result, there will be more traffic on the Woomera road, but the South Australian Government cannot get a penny from the Commonwealth Government to seal the road. During the winter months and at other times when there are heavy downpours the road is impassable to the Commonwealth and other vehicles which wish to use :t. We have been told that a large communications station will be established at Woomera and it will play a role in tracking spacecraft. It has been alleged that the new communications station will be connected with the antiballistic missile programme of the United States of America. Regardless of its function, the fact is that the centre is sometimes isolated because of the poor road and the Commonwealth Government is not prepared to put in a cracker towards servicing it. It should do so because of the increased demand. 
I conclude by saying that there has been a great deal of speculation about the industrial relations which might obtain in Australia in the early part of this year. The Minister for Labour and National Service  (Mr Snedden)  said that there will be periods of great industrial unrest in the first quarter of the year. Although he did not mention that his statement was in any way related to Bob Hawke's ascendency to the presidency of the Australian Council of Trade Unions, some people have suggested that this will be a reason for industrial unrest. In my opinion Bob Hawke will perform for the ACTU the same sort of great service as Albert Monk performed. I know that Bob Hawke has great capabilities, as did Albert Monk, and I know that he will perform the job for which he is paid and which he believes in - ensuring that the workers in Australia get a fair share of the country's wealth. One of the main reasons for the industrial unrest which exists in Australia today is the very bad decisions which have been given by the industrial tribunals. They have rejected the claims not only of the blue collar workers but also of professional and scientific people. 
Of course not. The decisions which have been given are well known and therefore it is unnecessary for me to quote them. But the professional and scientific sector as well as the ordinary trade union organisations are challenging the decisions of these tribunals on the ground that they are too ready to echo ihe policies of the Government. Unless some share of the increased productivity in the nation is returned to the workers, whether they be blue collar workers, tradesmen, tradesmen's assistants, scientists or public servants, a situation of unrest will exist. Every time an organisation demands increased wages the argument should not be put up that the demand can not be met because it will place an increased burden on the production activities of the farming sector or something like that. The rewards of our increased primary and secondary production should be passed on to the people who are entitled to them. 
The most glaring injustices I can think of were the decision in the professional engineers case and the Government's rejection of a claim by Commonwealth public servants for 4 weeks annual leave. Commonwealth public servants have not had a decent increase in their basic conditions since the days of federation. They receive 3 weeks annual leave whilst their State colleagues receive 4 weeks. In fact, daily paid workers in South Australia arc now in receipt of 4 weeks annual leave. Why does the Government reject a relationship which existed at federation? If one reads the early debates in Hansard on the Commonwealth Public Service one finds that it was accepted by everybody on both sides of the Parliament that Commonwealth public servants were entitled to conditions which would justify their relationship with the Administration. As a result they received 3 weeks annual leave at a time when most people were receiving 1 week's annual leave and in some cases no regular leave at all. Today Commonwealth public servants are behind the rest of the field. Complaints have been made about the amendment which has been moved by the Labor Party. Of course, there is no reason why the Labor Party should introduce an amendment in the early stages of a debate. lt is entitled to consider all the matters that might be introduced into the debate. The amendment, which was moved yesterday, is a good one. It all represents matters which are contained in the Labor Party's policy, and everybody knows that policy. lt has now been attached to a document which is well known. In my opinion, there is no reason why anybody should complain about the length of the amendment. 
 My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Shipping and Transport.  1  refer to the decline in shipbuilding activities in a number of shipyards throughout Australia, including South Australia. I ask: Is the Minister aware that 76 skilled shipbuilders are to be retrenched this week from the Adelaide Ship Construction yards in South Australia because orders are not coming in as expected? Will the Minister consider the action the Commonwealth Government can take to help the shipyards, including the yard  1  have mentioned, to get orders, as well as assist them in relation to Commonwealth orders? 
I direct my question to the Minister for Supply. I refer to his promise to bring before the Senate current information on the state of the Australian aircraft industry and on the achievement of offset orders for the Australian industry in relation to defence procurements overseas. When is it likely that this information on the current position of the industry will be brought before the Senate? 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Shipping and Transport, upon notice: 
When will the report by Consultants into South Australian gauge conversion be the subject of discussion and determination by the Commonwealth and South Australian Governments. 
Does the Commonwealth accept that substantial conversion to standard gauge, on the South Australian Railway system, is necessary in addition to the Adelaide-Port Pirie link. 
I want to make one or two comments about the Bill. I think the basic comment which ought to be made is that the legislation is being introduced for the purpose of enabling a basically good intention to be carried out. I have no objection to acceding to what the Government is intending to do. Proposed section 329f proves that, where the Minister is satisfied the oil is escaping from or is likely to escape from a ship, and the oil is polluting or is likely to pollute any Australian coastal waters, any part of the Australian coast or any Australian reef, the Minister may act to reduce  the pollution. Oil pollution has been discussed in the Senate for some considerable rime. Pollution of our waters has been the subject of investigation of a particular committee of the Senate. Many honourable senators have asked questions about the particular vessel which is now in trouble within the Great Barrier Reef. I am rather concerned that the legislation was introduced hurriedly, because this does not allow the Senate to concern itself with clauses which might impinge upon the rights of individuals. 
We have to agree to a general proposition which provides for the amendment of an Act to allow the Government to take some action against the master of a ship who ought to be compelled to discharge his cargo under reasonable conditions so as to avoid pollution of the Barrier Reef or parts of the coast. All honourable senators would agree that such action would be appropriate. My main concern is about the lack of advice to honourable senators. Nobody knew anything about this legislation until about 12.45 p.m. today. No honourable senator, either on the Government side or on the Opposition side, had any opportunity to consider the particulars of the Bill. 1 am the secretary of the Transport Committee of the Australian Labor Party. At lunch time we were told that the Bill had to be passed some time during the course of the evening. 1 think it is most unreasonable for the Government to put before the Opposition a proposition that it has to pass a Bill because there is an emergency. That does not allow us to vet clauses which might impinge upon the rights of individuals. That is my main objection. I do not intend to impede the passage of the Bill. 
No, it is not. I think I should repeat what our Transport Committee decided. The Committee consists of representatives from most of the States, including honourable senators from Queensland who have been concerned about a Queensland situation which is also an Australian situation. We said that we would not impede the passage of the legislation but that we thought we should have been given more time to consider what requirements might obtain in a given situation which might imperil the nation  and  the Barrier Reef. The Government has had ample time to introduce this legislation. Honourable senators on this side of the House has'e asked questions about the 'Oceanic Grandeur' and about the possibility of discharging the cargo from the vessel. The Minister for Shipping and Transport  (Mr Sinclair)  could have commissioned a vessel to discharge the cargo. The Government could have ascertained that (he circumstances were such that the vessel's cargo did not imperil the Australian continent, but it has not done that. What it has done has been to introduce legislation at 8 p.m. and tell us that we have to pass it because it is good legislation. 
While we accept the general proposition and while we accept that there might be advantages in the legislation, we are concerned that in dealing hurriedly with it we might impinge upon the rights of u shipping company or of individuals. Those honourable senators who are lawyers should bc the first ones to say that legislation of this nature should be properly considered. I think I have made my point on this aspect. The Opposition does not oppose the speedy passage of this legislation because it is of the opinion that the general objectives of the Bill are in accordance with the policy of the Australian Labor Party. But the Opposition is of the opinion that the legislation should be reconsidered within the next 6 months so that the Opposition will be able to move amendments to certain aspects of the Bill if they are deemed necessary. The Opposition has not had time to consider fully the proposals outlined in the Bill; all it has had is a general outline of the proposals. I agree with the remarks of the Leader of the Opposition  (Senator Murphy)  on this aspect. In fact, the Government has not supplied the Opposition with a copy of the general statement which was made in the other place by the Minister for Shipping and Transport. 
The honourable senator probably has not heard the explanation which was given in the other place by the Minister for Shipping and Transport. In addition to his second reading speech the Minister explained in the other place the  scope of the Bill. He referred also to a convention which was carried in 1963. The Senate has not been supplied with this information, yet we find that an honourable senator opposite who is a lawyer and therefore knows the problems involved in the legality and the significance of a Bill saying that we should pass a Bill which we know nothing about. 
 I ask honourable senators to judge the situation for themselves. The Opposition accepts that there is an urgent need for such legislation in order to preserve the coastline of Australia. But the Opposition is also concerned about why vessels of this nature should use a route which involves their going between the mainland of Australia and the Great Barrier Reef. Why should they not go out into international waters? The Opposition is also concerned about a matter which the Minister for Shipping and Transport mentioned in passing in the other place concerning the obligations which a convention passed in 1963 imposed upon ship owners and others. I summarise the Government's attitude by saying that it says: 'We are doing something good. We want you to trust us because we  have to  pass the legislation in  a  hurry.' I object to such an attitude. I think the Parliament should be afforded the opportunity  to  consider the legislation properly. Do honourable senators opposite agree with me? 
 The honourable senator confuses me. He is  a  member of the Standing Committee on Regulations and Ordinances. He is a legal man. During debates on Bills he frequently raises the subject of the rights of individuals. It seems to me that  Senator Greenwood  is now proposing that the Opposition should vote against the Bill. All he is doing is taking the opportunity to criticise the Opposition because it is trying to be reasonable. Although the Opposition will vote for the Bill it is not satisfied with the methods which are being used by the Government to enable urgent legislation to be passed. Although the Opposition will vote for the legislation it will insist that the legislation be reintroduced to the Parliament within 6 months so that the Parliament can assess what should be done in the light of Australian requirements and international standards. 
The Minister has pointed out that what should be done to accord with international standards cannot be done in a short time and therefore this legislation is introduced as an emergency measure. At 1 o'clock this afternoon the Opposition was supplied with one copy of the Minister's second reading speech and one copy of the Bill and asked to co-operate in the speedy passage of the Bill through the Parliament. It is only reasonable to expect that every honourable senator should be supplied with a copy of the Government's proposals as well as the remarks of the Minister in the other place. [ have risen to make these complaints because I feel that the Senate should be allowed the opportunity of considering the Government's proposals in a serious manner. For that reason I believe that the legislation should be reintroduced in the Parliament within 6 months. 
During lengthy debates in 1968 and 1969 concerning amendments to the Navigation Act the Government stated that it would introduce comprehensive measures which would bring the Australian Navigation Act up to international standards, but it has never done so. This should have been done. The Opposition wants to know why these comprehensive measures have not been introduced. They concern not only the question of oil pollution but also the general provisions of the Act in regard to lifesaving equipment and the other things which go to make up safety at sea. The Opposition wants to know what progress has been made in this direction. In this regard one has only to be reminded that the evidence at the Court of Marine Inquiry into the 'Noongah' disaster indicated that there was great dereliction of duty by certain sections of the Services. In the closing stages of my speech I shall refer to the errors which were made by the Royal Australian Air Force. The Minister for Air  (Senator Drake-Brockman)  is looking at me. The fact of the matter is that there was not the sort of organisation which one would expect from the RAAF in an air rescue. For example, great delays occurred. A more comprehensive examination of the provisions of the Navigation Act is needed. The Opposition wants to know when it wil be given an opportunity to make that examination. 
The explanation given by the Minister for Shipping and Transport  (Mr Sinclair)  in another place - we did not hear so much by way of explanation here - was that the Government could not instruct the master to shift the vessel, lt was suggested in the other place that this situation could arise and in explanation the Minister said that he could not tell the master to remove the vessel and in the event of the Department taking action to remove the ship it would not be able to recover costs. I am suggesting that the only penalty that the owners of the vessel would have to face under this legislation is $2,000 for not removing the vessel, despite the fact that the vessel might present a great danger while it remains at that spot. 
I come next to the point that the Minister may serve a notice on the owner, agent or master of a ship requiring the removal of oil from the vessel. That provision is qualified by proposed section 329o which provides the owner with a qualifying argument. The owner might be able to prove that although he did not take action to remove oil from the ship, his failure to do so did not matter very much because the oil might not have escaped to any greater extent than it would have escaped if he had complied with the notice. The owner would attract the continuing penalty only if it could be proved that he failed to do what the Minister had instructed him to do. These are some of the matters which it might be possible for the Minister to clear up now. 
Docs the provision mean what we think it means? If the Minister requires the owner to shift the 'Oceanic Grandeur' or requires him to remove the oil from the ship and he fails to do so, will he be liable for a penalty? It seems to us that this legislation has been introduced because the Government cannot get an assurance from the owner of the vessel that it will be shifted or unloaded. That is what the Minister has said in his second reading speech. If that is the situation, is $2,000 the only penalty that can be applied against the owner or master of the vessel? As  Senator O'Byrne  has said, for as long as the vessel remains in its present position it will present a hazard which might cost Australia millions of dollars. If the Minister serves a notice requiring the owner, agent or master of a ship to take action to prevent the discharge of oil, is there open to the owner, agent or master a qualitative argument which would limit the power to apply a continuing penalty? 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the PostmasterGeneral. Is the Minister aware that the South Australian Government has placed a complete ban on the Australian Broadcasting Commission in that State and has refused ministerial contact with the ABC staffs and the issuing to them of Government Press releases? As this action greatly inhibits the Commission in its work of presenting a balanced reporting of public events and also upsets the traditional role of the ABC in connection with Government policy, will the Minister take some action to ensure that the ABC will be able to carry on its normal function as, in fact, has been agreed upon by the PostmasterGeneral? 
My question is direc  ted to the Minister representing the Minister for Repatriation. Does the Government intend to implement the decision of the Senate in respect of an investigation into repatriation matters, including a recommendation that free hospitalisation should apply to veterans of the Boer War and of the First World War and resolutions which closely follow the current Returned Services League campaign? 
My question to the 
Leader of the Government in the Senate concerns what appears to be a conflict between a statement made by the Prime Minister and a statement made by the Minister for Defence in relation to withdrawals from Vietnam. As the Leader of the Government will remember, the Prime Minister said as far back as December last that Australian withdrawals would accompany the next withdrawals by United Stales troops, and that more recently the Minister for Defence was reported from Vietnam as having placed some restrictions on that proposition. Can the Leader of the Government tell the Senate the Government's policy in relation to withdrawing Australian troops from Vietnam? 
My question is  directed to the Minister for Civil Aviation. I ask the Minister has he, as the Minister responsible for the policies pronounced by the Government in relation to the reequipping of domestic airlines, ever advocated or supported the principle of offset orders for Australian industry in respect of purchases being made by those airlines? 
My question is directed to the Minister for Supply and it relates to the report that 28 technicians and 8 other skilled workers will be retrenched at the Tidbinbilla tracking station. At the same time the Department of Supply has reported that it is proposed to increase the work force at the end of next year to cope with a project in 1972. In view of the great loss to the Department and the specialised space tracking project which would occur if these men were retrenched, will the Minister cause these retrenchment notices to be withdrawn until some employment in the Commonwealth service is found at equivalent pay rates and service conditions to ensure, firstly, that they will have continuity of employment and. secondly, that their services will nor be lost to the Department? 
I should like to indicate that I think it is the intention of a number of honourable senators to study this document and to speak to it in relation to some important matters which are proposed by the 
Government. I thank the Minister for Supply  (Senator Anderson)  for introducing this comprehensive statement on an important matter in respect of which we have for a long time sought a blueprint. Although I have not had an opportunity to study the paper, in moving that the debate be adjourned I should like to mention that the aspect of rationalisation mentioned by the Minister causes me some concern. We of the Opposition would rather see a policy in which the Government insisted upon external orders being related to our defence productive capacity. I ask for leave to continue my remarks at a later date. 
Leave granted; debate adjourned. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Shipping and Transport, upon notice: 
In view of the well-established international hazards created by the operation of oil tankers, and the Minister's own admission that it will be 2 or 3 years before effective legislation might be introduced with respect to effective compensation, will he ask the Department of Shipping and Transport to consider the establishment ofa special maritime unit with mechanical and other devices which could be applied in instances such as that which occurred in Torres Strait, so as to effect repairs, prevent discharge of oil, or otherwise control the oil, to prevent pollution, with the costs of the operation of such units to be negotiated with the operators of tankers using Australian waters. 
I wish to support the remarks which have  been made by  my  colleagues in the Australian Labor Party. I remind the Senate that on two occasions in this chamber the Opposition has initiated debates on the question of the future of the Chowilla project, but its purpose has been mainly to obtain a review of the situation by the Commonwealth Government and the River Murray Commission. At the time when the Chowilla proposal was deferred the Opposition considered that two very influential sections were working to prevent the completion of the Chowilla project. Pressure was being placed upon the States to undermine the scheme, which was agreed upon by the Commonwealth Government and the South Australian Government at a time when  Sir Thomas  Playford was Premier of South Australia. As  Senator Donald  Cameron and  Senator Drury  have pointed out, State and Commonwealth Ministers told the people that the scheme was worthy. They said that evaluations had been correctly conducted and consultants were to be brought in from overseas. 

 Senator Davidson referred tonight to the current report of the River Murray Commission. The same sort of report was made about the original Chowilla proposal. The same evaluations were made. At that time everybody applauded the scheme. The Liberal Party in South Australia referred to it as 'Playford's pride'; it is now referred to as 'Playford's folly'. There has been a strange change of opinion. I remind the Senate also that unanimous resolutions were carried in the South Australian Parliament during the times when the Liberal Party and the Labor Party were in office in support of the proposal or, as  Senator Donald  Cameron referred to it, the legal agreement concerning Chowilla. Everybody in South Australia was firmly of the opinion that a dam should be constructed at Chowilla. 
It was argued that the deferment was due to some technical problem, but largely to an escalation in costs. Of course there was an escalation in the costs, but I remind the Senate that there have been similar escalations in costs in other fields. If honourable senators were to look at the AuditorGeneral's report in relation to the escalation of costs in, say, railway gauge standardisation work they would not be surprised if an escalation in the costs of such a great project also occurred. As  Senator Little  mentioned, to some extent the Chowilla project had some unique features. When preliminary work- on the dam at Chowilla was embarked upon the Commission knew that it would have some unique features. It was an unusual type of dam. But the Commission supported the proposed storage. Because of the unique features the cost increased. At this time, of course, §6m had been already spent on works at the site. Seventeen homes were constructed for the employees of the associated engineering works. Sixty members of the Engineering and Water Supply Department were working on the construction of a dam. 
Honourable senators will recall that during the debates on this subject Opposition senators said that a dam at Chowilla would provide better water for South Australia. The same thing was said in the South Australian Parliament by supporters of the Labor Party and the supporters of the Liberal Party agreed. The proposal was also supported by people such as  Mr Dridan  who, as the engineer-in-chief in South Australia, was a man of some note in the engineering world. He still supports the proposal. It was also agreed by  Sir Thomas  Playford that a dam at Chowilla would provide South Australia with adequate water. It was a better scheme at the time than the Dartmouth project. I am not saying that the Opposition is against the Dartmouth project. The Opposition does not deny that extra dams are needed on the Murray complex, but it is of the opinion that, regardless of what may happen, the agreement which obtains between the Commonwealth Government and the South Australian Government should be honoured. 
I remind  Senator Little  that we are not considering any abstract situation where there is no agreement. South Australia has an agreement with the Commonwealth Government and the other contracting governments to build a dam at Chowilla. If a vote is taken on this legislation tonight, the Opposition will endeavour to ensure that whatever provisions are necessary to ensure that a dam is built at Chowilla are included in the legislation. The Opposition initiated debates in this place on this subject because it wanted the Commonwealth Government and the other contracting governments to review the stand which they had taken to defer the Chowilla project and to adopt another project. 
The other course which was taken was a very significant one. It was promoted largely by the honourable member for Farrer  (Mr Fairbairn)  who was the Minister for National Development at the time but who now sits in the other place as an ordinary backbencher. I have no doubt that the Ministers statements had a great influence on the matter. 1 repeat that whilst studies were being carried out in respect of the prospects of a dam at Chowilla as against one at Dartmouth the then Minister for National Development in the Commonwealth Parliament made a number of damaging statements as a result of which one of his own Liberal colleagues,  Mr Hall,  who was the Premier of South Australia al the time, wrote a letter to him pointing out what he was doing. I wish to quote an extract from the Adelaide 'Advertiser' of 8th November 1968, which states: 
The Minister for National Development,  Mr Fairbairn,  had sent an apology for his published statement 'prejudging' the investigation into the Dartmouth site as an alternative to the Chowilla Dam, the Premier  (Mr Hall),  said in the Assembly yesterday in reply to  Mr Hudson  (ALP). 
In addition, and this is well known because it has been publicly reported, the Chowilla Promotion Committee, of which 1 am a member as well as  Senator Laucke, Sir Thomas  Playford,  Mr G.  O'Halloran Giles, who is a member of the other place.  Mr Dridan  and a number of other people, who had some special views about this matter, also sent a letter to the Minister for National Development complaining about what was then considered to be his prejudging of the issues. In fact, there was a legal agreement in existence between South Australia and the Commonwealth Government as well as the New South Wales and Victorian Governments. Our purpose at the time the deferment took place - and  Mr Dunstan  supported us when he was Premier of South Australia - was to ensure that South Australia would be assured of receiving its proper entitlement.  Mr Dunstan  proposed to the then Minister for National Development.  Mr Fairbairn,  that a ministerial meeting be held. Obviously it was a very sensible suggestion because at that stage anything could have happened, but the Ministers of the respective governments should have been in a position to say whether another course could bc: steered on political grounds. The sort of political change which has now taken place could have been evalued. 
The Premiers of the respective Slates could have had something to say about the matter, but the Commonwealth Minister for National Development refused to do anything. Instead, he criticised  Mr Dunstan.  He said that in his opinion it was ridiculous to request such a ministerial meeting. Certainly he strongly opposed any consultations between the Ministers.  Mr Dunstan  had to come to Canberra and privately meet the Minister for National Development, as a result of which some agreement was reached between the two of them and then  Mr Dunstan  had to go to Victoria and New South Wales to obtain agreement. Opposition senators have initiated debates in this chamber on this subject Ibr the specific purpose of ensuring that South Australia's rights in this important issue would not be lost. But the situation has been reached tonight whereby it seems that the agreement, which is still in existence between the various governments and which provides South Australia with some assurances in regard to its water supply, will be completely undermined. 1 wish to quote an extract from the minutes of the River Murray Commission of 21st April 1968. The document is now a public document because the report had been made to the South Australian Parliament. The minutes state: 
In opening the discussion the  President- 
The former Minister for National Development -  referred to the decision ' which would have to be made regarding the selection of the next dam site for Ihe further development of the River Murray, which was both a political and technical question. 
He quoted both major political parties in South Australia as having undertaken to proceed with the construction of Chowilla but felt that the Government of South Australia should be persuaded that storages at sites other than Chowilla could have the same effect as Chowilla and provide the same advantages to South Australia. This would fit in with the requirements for the studies by the River Murray Commission. The  President  expressed his concern at any further delay in making a  decision on  a  site for the next reservoir, when irrigators were agitating for more storages. 

 Mr Horsfall said he hoped to informally convince  Mr Beaney  at  this meeting that an upper Murray storage would be best for South Australia. This would allow  a  space of  6  months for him to convince his Government. 
I put it to the Senate that escalating costs still constitute a very pertinent issue. The 
Agreement now before us provides that in the event of cost of construction increasing by a factor of 10% the Commission shall advise the contract authority to suspend the work and refer the matter to the governments. They may again defer the work until they negotiate further and satisfy themselves that they should proceed. This is the sort of situation that might arise in connection with the Dartmouth project, because whereas previously the River Murray Commission had the right to tackle these problems and to ensure that action was taken to continue work, in this case further arrangements are provided under which the contracting governments will consider what is to be done. This applies to the work at Lake Victoria which has been stated as being necessary to make the Dartmouth project effective. A number of works would be required at Lake Victoria. These will cost about S7m or even as much as Sl Om. These works are written into the Agreement. Yet we find that in another place peopl'e are saying that this project is still being studied. The relevant Minister in the Victorian Government made a point about this when speaking in the Victorian Parliament. 
Here we have a situation in which we are asked to discard a legal agreement about which we feel very strongly. 1 know that many honourable senators are saying: 'Here are the South Australians again talking about Chowilla', but the fact is that we think it is scandalous that an agreement which was negotiated in the way I have outlined and which received the plaudits of everybody concerned should now be thrown aside. Certainly the studies which led up to that Agreement were based upon slower methods of making computations than the methods which are available now. It is true that computers can do this kind of work much more quickly than it can be done manually. But the only difference is that the studies have been carried out more quickly. In the old days the studies were made just as thoroughly but they took more time. In our opinion the whole of the present scheme has been fashioned from a different standpoint than the earlier scheme. In the original context the Chowilla scheme was fashioned to fit the South Australian position. There is no doubt about that. The new concept has been fashioned to maximise the yield for New South Wales and Victoria. Apparently there are to be no controls to ensure, having in mind the extra water that the other States will get, that South Australia will be protected in any way. 
I was rather amused to hear  Senator Davidson  make a point about good quality water. Everybody has spoken about the technical report but nobody has mentioned what the report said in relation to salinity. This is one of the aspects about which South Australia is particularly concerned. The technical report of January 1969 said: 
The large body of water held in the reservoir will have the effect of reducing peak salinities of the inflow. 
The report continues in paragraph 2a of its general conclusions: 
A storage at Chowilla will have a 'smoothing' effect on salinities, and except for a few occasions would maintain an average salinity below Lock 6 about 20 parts per million below the average that would pertain with a storage at Dartmouth. 
That is shortening what was said. They made the point which I think is very clear that the technical experts said that the quality of water coming from Chowilla would be better than that coming down from Dartmouth. Reverting to the Lake Victoria matter I mention what' was said by the relevant Minister in the Victorian Government: 
All parties accept the responsibility of meeting their share of the cost of any future works which may be constructed by the River Murray Commission. Works other than Dartmouth which are covered in the amending agreement are - 
possible enlargement of the large channel from the River Murray below Mildura to Lake Victoria storage and also the channel by which water is returned as required from this storage to the river. 
River channel improvement works between Hume reservoir and the Yarrawonga weir pool. 
Provision is made in both these cases for appropriate action without further amendment of the Agreement. However, in the case of the Lake Victoria works which might involve each government in an expenditure of perhaps  $2m,  the extent of the enlargement will be subject to individual approval by each of the 4 governments. In other words, all those concerned with financing the work must be satisfied it is fully justified. 
The work at Lake Victoria is an essential part of the scheme. This is obvious from the reports that have been presented in another place and also from the remarks of the Minister in the Victorian Government which I have quoted. The whole of the works on this site will be under review, but if the extra $10m is spent on the Lake 
Victoria project and it is decided later to proceed with Chowilla, those works would be completely flooded. We are still hearing people on the other side saying that they agree that the Chowilla Dam should be built, but if they agree with the Chowilla concept they cannot accept the document that is now before us. If this new scheme is proceeded with it will mean the end of the Chowilla dam. The Premier of South Australia has made some calculations and has said that he can save money in this direction. He has said that even though the $2m to $4m will have to be spent, it will be worthwhile because of some extra water that South Australia will get. We think the whole arrangement has been a sell-out resulting from an attitude developed largely by the Commonwealth Government in an attempt to persuade the South Austraiian Government to adopt something different from the original agreement. 
Yes, they sold us a pup. Everybody knows that because it has been mentioned before. When the project was first deferred the South Australian Premier sent everybody in the South Australian Parliament and all members of the Commonwealth Parliament from South Australia a document headed 'Fourteen Facts about Chowilla'. He wrote to each of us and said: 'Do what you can to support the Chowilla project'. The State Premier of South Australia- 
Yes. In addition, the State Parliament on several occasions voted unanimously in support of the Chowilla project. Now what has happened? At the present time we hear some Liberal members whispering that we will get Chowilla some time. Previously they said this in loud voices. When we debated this matter on earlier occasions they all said: 'We are not going to give Chowilla away', but as time has gone on and months have been wasted during which negotiations could have been carried out to provide a better Agreement they have become much more quiet. In the early days a good deal of work was done at the Chowilla site, and much of the equipment that was used is now to be sold. Only last Monday an advertisement appeared in South Australian newspapers. It was inserted by the South Australian Supply and Tender Board and it advertised for sale a large number of skips which had cost a lot of money and were to be used to build the Chowilla Dam. So even before the present legislation is changed they are selling what remains of the dam. 
During the 2 years that we have been discussing this matter other States have received very valuable assistance. While we were debating this very question in the Parliament there was a non-repayable grant to Western Australia of $48m for the construction of the Ord River Dam; there was a grant of $20m to New South Wales for the construction of the Copeton Dam and there was a grant of $20m for the construction of what was called the 'Fairbairn Dam' in Queensland. For the 2 years to the end of 1968 during which this matter was under review the Minister made great play on the fact that $4,530m had been spent on major developmental projects yet the Government could not meet the request of a State Premier who wanted to consider with the Federal Government, in concert with other State governments, what might be done to solve the problem which had arisen in the construction of a dam which was to cost something more than what was first speculated because some constructional difficulties had arisen. 
It is obvious that the Government is putting before the Parliament something which the Government itself has played a great part in bringing about to the detriment of South Australia. The amendment which  Senator Drury  moved to the motion for the second reading of the Bill aims at something with which everyone surely must agree. That is the establishment, after negotiation with the States, of a national water conservation and contraction authority embracing the Snowy Mountains Authority. I do not disown the Snowy Mountains Authority. We have accepted that the Authority is a very important body. We have argued in the past - many people have supported us - that it should have maintained its role of a constructing authority as well as providing technical services. In the motion which  Senator Drury  moved we simply say that this is an objective with which everyone should agree. It certainly will not hold up the provision of water to South Australia because there is an agreement anyway. Our amendment to the motion for the second reading of the Bill is related io the amendment that we will move when we reach the Committee stage of the debate - the most important stage. 
There have been suggestions already from the Government side that studies have been made into the proposal for the construction of the 2 dams. To our knowledge a study has never been made which took into account the construction of the 2 dams at the same time. In view of the long and protracted arguments and the lack of support for South Australia from the Commonwealth Government, not only in relation to water but in relation to other matters as well, it seems to us that we are taking up a very reasonable position. We are saying that there should be such a study. If someone in the other place has said that these studies are being made or have been made, why have they not been revealed? If the studies are being made at the present time, why not support the amendment which we will propose? We can see no reason why anyone who is reasonable about the position should not support us in this matter. It is logical that the studies should be made. We should be hammering at the gates of the Commonwealth Government and everyone else concerned to insist upon the construction of the Chowilla Dam irrespective of what the Government proposes to do about Dartmouth. 
I come back to the argument which we have stated quite clearly: We are not opposed to more water being provided to other States and we can agree that the Dartmouth Dam might be necessary, but we are against the position which is now being developed which really destroys the present Agreement and which will make Chowilla impossible. If the Government had designed its amendment to the present legislation to show that Chowilla was technically possible under the Agreement, we would not feel so concerned about it but the more one studies the Bill before the House and looks at the proposed amendments the more certain one becomes that the Chowilla Dam will never be built. If the Senate puts the final seal on it tonight, that is the end of South Australia's claims. 
Some quite sound arguments as to cost have been advanced. The question of cost is still a substantial question. The 10% escalation component is still there. When that appears the River Murray Commission does not just say: 'Yes, we will make some modifications to the scheme but we will go ahead with it'. When this escalation of cost occurs it is possible that the contracting governments might back off again from the scheme and leave us with an Act - it will be an Act by then because it appears that it will be passed - which makes impossible the construction of a dam at Chowilla and makes it impossible to provide the so-called benefits in relation to Dartmouth. 
The other important point is that we do not have any guarantees about the quality of the water which will  come to South Australia because, as I have said, the studies were designed mainly to provide this flow at Mildura and to provide increased water to New South Wales and Victoria. That water will be used. 
 I have said before that if you read the Agreement you will see that all sorts of reservations have been prescribed, and once you vote on them you provide the opportunity to the contracting governments - not only the South Australian Government but also those which are more concerned about their own areas - to change their minds about the project, and by that time you have given Chowilla away. In almost every respect the important prescriptions which appear in the present law will be taken out this evening. That is a bad thing. It is a very poor argument to say: Because we have reached this situation we cannot do much more than accept a piece of legislation'. As I have pointed out, we already have an agreement which is the law of the land, an agreement which is not improved, in our view, by something which will supplant it because it takes away from us for all time the construction of the Chowilla Dam, a dam about which we already have talked a lot and on which we have spent a lot of money. If we start the new project that money will be lost. If we do as the Labor Party proposes and get an evaluation, and if the evaluation encompasses a reasonable cost and provides for the construction of the 2 dams, the money we have spent to date on Chowilla will be saved. 
As  Senator Toohey  has said, we will also save the money that will be spent on Lake Victoria. If you spend money on Lake Victoria you get a duplication of cost which cannot be recovered. I put to the Senate that the argument of the South Australian Labor senators is very constructive. We have complained a lot about the attitude of the Federal Government. We are sure that we are entitled to complain about it. We feel that we have been supported in South Australia, not only by members of the Labor Party, but by many ordinary members of the Liberal Party as well. Some notable people have said that what we are arguing is in substance correct. It is not too late to do what we are proposing, that is to ensure that the 2 dams will be built. We are not against Dartmouth. We are out to make sure that the Chowilla dam will not be lost for all time and the money that has been spent on it wasted. 
My question is directed to the Leader of the Government in the Senate. Is there any truth in this morning's Press and radio reports that the Government has decided to withdraw the Sth Battalion from Vietnam in August or earlier and also that the present Army training team will be reorganised into a composite unit and used for training South Vietnamese men in one locality? 
My question is directed to the Minister for Air and is related to the organisation within Australia in respect of the Fill aircraft. To what extent has the programme of capital works and ground support equipment necessary to operate the Fill been developed within Australia? What quantities of the necessary spare parts and associated equipment have been imported to date? Is this equipment already stored at Royal Australian Air Force installations? Will the Minister state the value of these items in relation to the total cost of the FI 1 1 aircraft? 
My question is directed to the Minister for Air and relates to the financial arrangements between Australia and the United States of America in connection with the F1ll aircraft. Can the Minister advise the Senate of the current position in relation to the payments which are due to the United States in connection with the project? What are Australia's further commitments? What temporary arrangements have been made in connection with Australia's further commitments? 
My question is directed to the Minister for Civil Aviation. What are the current developments in connection with the entry rights into Australia of the two American airlines, Pan American Airways and American Airlines? Is it a fact that both these airline operators will be allowed entry into Australia at the same time? Is it a fact also that Pan American Airways is likely to operate Boeing 747s on this service many months before Qantas Airways Ltd is equipped with this new aircraft? 
I support the amendment moved by  Senator Drury.  I shall deal with the matters raised by the Minister. I noticed that what the Minister said was something like what Government senators had said. He said that Chowilla was not dead or that the time may come when the commitment to build Chowilla will be surveyed positively. We have argued that, to us, the alterations proposed to the Agreement give very clear indications that Chowilla is dead. 
We have argued that with the adoption of this legislation - with the carriage of the Bill tonight - the possibility of building Chowilla will have gone for all time. It will have gone for all time because the Federal Government, in our opinion, has brain washed the States, particularly South Australia, into accepting a review of the Chowilla construction because the estimated costs had increased. As  Senator Ridley  said, the Commonwealth Government devised a formula which would maximise the water available to the larger States and which would minimise the water available to South Australia at a stage when $6m had been spent on the Chowilla project. 
It is true that the Chowilla reservoir, when built, would not be a South Australian reservoir. We have pointed out that most of the money spent on the project has been spent on works awarded to South Australian contractors or on works carried out by the South Australian Commissioner for Railways. The money was spent at a time when South Australia was in need of a substantial public works programme. In the State Parliament at the time constant criticism of the scheme was levelled at the Commonwealth Government. The continued construction of Chowilla in South Australia would have been a great asset. While we do not deny that the Chowilla reservoir would be administered not by the State Government, but by the River Murray Commission, we say that its construction would provide something for the State. As  Senator Ridley  said, the alarming thing about all the tests devised by the Commission is that all of a sudden, out of the air, came the proposition that there had to be a flow of 900 cusecs past Mildura and as a result a number of computer evaluations would have to be carried out. lt was said that the evaluations were necessary because the cost of the dam rose from $23m to $43m and then to $57m because of some alterations to the site. 
When faced with the rising costs of the dam, I put the proposition to the Senate that the escalation of costs was not too great. The consolidation of the dam had been raised. The real position about costs was not the main reason for the suggestion to carry out further studies. At the time I referred to the railway standardisation costs having risen by about the same amount. Nobody quibbled about these works being necessary. The debate at that time gave rise to a suggestion by the then South Australian Labor Premier,  Mr Dunstan,  that consideration ought to be given to evaluating the possibility of getting the 2 dams constructed concurrently and to getting finance from the Commonwealth Government to build the 2 dams concurrently. That suggestion has been raised since not only by the Labor Party but also, as the Liberal senators from South Australia know, by the Liberal Minister and the Liberal Premier of South Australia who have changed their minds about the scheme. In Parliament and also at meetings of organisations the State Premier and the then Minister for Works and Marine,  Mr Coumbe,  supported the proposition that I have mentioned. Some other members of the Liberal Party, including  Senator Laucke,  supported a proposition that we should put to the Federal Government 4 points. This was at the time when the South Australian legislature had carried a unanimous resolution to support the Chowilla project. The strange thing about all the propositions is that they completely supported Chowilla. At the time nobody said that Dartmouth was not necessary. Right through everybody has said that mere and more dams would be required. The propositions that Liberal members, now Ministers of the Liberal Government in South Australia, and Liberal  Senator Laucke  and myself agreed to were these: 
That the Commonwealth and respective State government); be requested to build a dam at Chowilla and Dartmouth concurrently and this proposal be classed as a National Development plan. 
That the Chowilla dam plan be modified to a capacity of 3 million acre feet. 
That was the capacity upon which the computer evaluations were made. The propositions continued: 
That the Snowy Mountains Authority construct the two dams, and to be completed in 4 years. 
The Commonwealth Government to provide 50% of the cost of building both dams and the remaining 50% be provided equally between the Governments of South Australia, New South Wales and Victoria. 
Those were the 4 points which everybody in the South Australian Parliament and everybody on this side of the Senate supported. In addition,  Senator Laucke  supported them. We had this continual campaign to ensure that Chowilla was not forgotten. In our opinion, the present legislation finished Chowilla.  Mr Beaney's  name has been mentioned in the debate. I do not want to say very much about the head of a South Australian Government department. I make my comments only because recently the State Premier used his name to make various statements in support of what the present -Government proposes to do. It proposes to give away Chowilla and to support the Dartmouth proposal.  Mr Beaney,  on radio and by other public statements, has supported what the State Premier wants. But on 23rd March 1968, when the matter was under examination and the then Minister for National Development was critical of Chowilla even before the studies had been completed, a statement by  Mr Beaney  was reported in the 'Advertiser' in these terms: 
It was not accepted that the Chowilla Dam project was  'overdesigned  and uneconomical', the Engineer-in-Chief of the Engineering and Water Supply Department  (Mr H. L. Beaney)  said yesterday. 
He was replying to criticism of the project in Adelaide, on Friday, by the Minister for National Development  (Mr Fairbairn). 
The Minister, as well as describing the project as 'overdesigned and uneconomical', had said the SA site did not have the highest priority for the River Murray Commission's new major water storage area. 
Sites further up the river were preferable. 

 Mr Beaney said  Mr Fairbairn's  view was not shared by the River Murray Commission, the SA Government or himself. 
He described the Minister's views as assumptions'. 
We do not accept that the upper river sites will provide sufficient protection against salinity,'  Mr Beaney  said. 
They may even worsen it. 
The problems of the upper river sites have by no means been resolved, and it is too early to give a definite answer'. 

 Mr Beaney said  Mr Fairbairn  had suggested that the problem could be simply resolved, but it was a very difficult situation. 
Three Stales with diverse interests were involved, and the commission was looking for the maximum amount of benefit for all. 
The Chowilla project would be discussed by the River Murray Commission at its next meeting . . . 
That statement was made by  Mr Beaney  at that time. Now  Mr Beaney,  serving under a Liberal Premier, is advocating the viewpoint of the present Government, it seems to me, to an extent not normally required by the Premier of a State. 
 Mr Beaney  has made public statements. He has accompanied the Premier. In addition, recently on radio and television programmes he has put points of view which are quite different from those he put when the Chowilla Dam was a positive construction project. In addition,  Mr Dridan,  the former Engineer-in-Chief of the Engineering and Water Supply Department, has referred to the superiority of Chowilla over Dartmouth. He is an authority and a very important man. I quote the following extract from a report of a statement by him: 
In referring to the superiority of Chowilla as compared with Dartmouth,  Mr Dridan  pointed out that the Mitta Mitta River has only oneseventh the flow of the Murray-Darling system, whereas Chowilla controls the whole flow of the system. 
With Chowilla virtually being at our back door, it would only take as little as 2 days to rectify any saline problems, whereas if Dartmouth were the controlling influence this could take at least 7 weeks. 
We cannot see any reason why at this stage we should not be attempting to obtain from the Federal Government agreement to an arrangement under which the 2 dams would be built. As I have said before and affirm now, we are not against Dartmouth, but we are against a proposition which, in our opinion, destroys any possibility of Chowilla being constructed. I challenge anybody who goes through the reports on the studies and the alterations to the Agreement to say that that is not the end result. 
In regard to estimates of the amounts of money required, we have not the same situation with Dartmouth as we had with Chowilla, but we have a growing situation. We have the Ministers in this place and in the other place saying that studies are being made of what is required at Lake Victoria and making the off-handed statement that the Dartmouth Dam will take only 5 years to build. But it is agreed that when the works are carried out at Lake Victoria the money could be wasted. The amount involved has been estimated at between $7m and Si Om. That is in addition to the S6m which has already been spent on the project. 
For these reasons we members of the Opposition do not see any reason at ali not to affirm our position as it was in the past. We believe that the South Australian people will do exactly as we are doing here, namely, attempt to prevent the end of Chowilla and endeavour to obtain from the Federal Government agreement to an arrangement under which Chowilla will be built. The Federal Government has the power to initiate action for an arrangement to ensure that Chowilla will be built. For these reasons 1 support the amendment moved by  Senator Drury. 
My question is directed to the Minister for Supply, ls it a fact that representatives of the Boeing Vertol organisation - a division of the Boeing company that manufactures military helicopters - are visiting Australian aircraft factories, including the Government Aircraft Factories, to examine Australia's ability lo produce parts for the Chinook heavy lift helicopter? If so, is this subcontracting work within the productive ability of the existing staffs, particularly the presently employed staff at the Government Aircraft Factories? Do the proposals for Australian manufacture depend largely upon Australian purchases of the aircraft? 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Shipping and Transport. I refer to rail standardisation in South Australia and the statement of the Minister for Shipping and Transport that the report of the consultants is being studied by himself and his Department. I ask Will the Minister ensure that the 1966 economic studies which were undertaken by the South Australian Railways Commissioner and submitted to the Commonwealth Commissioner of Railways for consideration by the Minister for Shipping and Transport and his Department are included in any report of the present consultants which is tabled in the Parliament? 
1 want to put to  Senator Greenwood  that the good reason for delaying the implementation of the Bill is because of the present position in South Australia. What has happened is that the South Australian Parliament, by two resolutions which defined its policy, declared that it will not give up Chowilla; it insisted upon the continuation of the agreement relating to Chowilla, which we are now about to amend. 
The resolutions were carried unanimously. Since that time the Premier of South Australia, following negotiations between the governments and his representative on the River Murray Commission, has taken a new position which is now to be debated by the South Australian Parliament. From public information, it appears more than likely that the South Australian Parliament will reject the Agreement. These matters have been raised during this debate; we have raised them and honourable senators opposite have raised them. It is obvious that this question will be debated in the South Austraiian Parliament next week and, from what we know, it is very likely that an election will follow closely upon the parliamentary debate. Unless something strange and new happens next week, the South Australian Parliament will reject the Agreement which this Government is seeking now to confirm. 
The general procedure is that all negotiating governments have to confirm their positions before an agreement such as this comes before the Commonwealth Parliament. This happened with the original Agreement which the Government is seeking to amend. We have argued about the background to this question for a long time, and I do not suppose that there is anything about it which has not been stated. We have said that for the reasons which we have submitted, in our opinion, and in the opinion once held by people who now speak against it, the Chowilla project should continue. This has been the opinion of State Premiers, Liberal Ministers, Labor Ministers, the present Head of the Engineering and Water Supply Department in South Australia,  Mr Beaney,  and  Mr Dridan,  who has now left the Department. All of these people affirmed that the Chowilla project was the best one for South Australia. But as a result of increased coS ls there was a need ro reconsider the situation. As a result of this reconsideration, a new formula was devised and  Mr Beaney  told the South Australian Government - and this was confirmed in public - that computer studies were no better than the old manual studies. The only advantage was that computer studies could be made more quickly than manual studies. But as Senators Ridley, Cavanagh and Drury have pointed out, the larger States made a new demand and said that something more ought to be got out of the system for those larger States. 
That is the present position. So we say there is a very good reason why the Commonwealth Parliament should not act now to implement the Bill: it is because of the present situation in South Australia. The sensible thing for the Minister to do would be to defer this legislation until the position in South Australia has been clarified, unless in the meantime he accepts the proposal which was put up by  Mr Dunstan  as long ago as 1968 for the Commonwealth Government to consider a proposition which might lead to the construction of the 2 dams at the one time.  Mr Dunstan  has said that he is nol opposed to Dartmouth. I suggest that  Senator Young  has misrepresented what  Mr Dunstan  said, and to substantiate this view I shall read only I paragraph from a statement on Labor Party policy which  Mr Dunstan  made last week. He said: 
The Labor Parly is nol opposed lo the construction of the Dartmouth Dam. But it is opposed to attaching conditions to ihe construction of Dartmouth which would mean Chowilla is lost to South Australia permanently. 
That is in essence the policy of the Labor Party. We believe that the Agreement, which the Liberal-Country League Government in South Australia wants this Parliament to ratify, is a sell-out of the State's legal rights and the protection which Chowilla offers South Australia in water, both as regards quantity and quality. 
Finally, I make the point that we have made previously: There is really no firm proposal. There is an Agreement, but some studies are still being carried out in relation to the details of the construction of Dartmouth. This was the point made in another place by the former Minister for National Development. A Victorian Minister made the same point. Although an allocation of $10m has been made for works at Lake Victoria, it has been argued that studies are still being carried out and the whole matter is under review. The question of Chowilla storage is under review. In my opinion, it is sheer nonsense to say that Dartmouth will be completed in 1975. This statement is being made only to catch voles. Honourable senators opposite say we are playing politics. We are not playing politics. The position is that we have an Agreement which today is almost on the verge of being cut up. In my opinion, this would mean the end of Chowilla. The passing of the Bill should be stayed. The Minister ought to defer the Bill until the South Australian Parliament determines its position. After that is done there might be some sense in the Commonwealth Government proceeding with the Bill. 
My question is directed to the Minister for Air. It relates to the continuing reports from the United States of America about the progress of tests of Fill components which are subject to fatigue cracks and other failures. 1 ask the Minister whether the specialist air force and defence teams presently in the United States are continuing their investigations into these matters or have their investigations been suspended? Is the Minister in a position to say when the Senate may be told the facts about these inquiries and also Government policy in relation to this aircraft? 
My question to the Minister for Works refers to the need to build a Commonwealth centre in South Australia and also to the present locations of some 23 Commonwealth departments in privately owned buildings in Adelaide. Has the Minister any further information to that which he gave me previously, to the effect that this project is under consideration? 
My question, which is directed to the Minister for Civil Aviation, refers to the comments made in Sydney yesterday by the Director-General of the International Air Transport Association,  Mr Hammarskjoeld,  about anti-hijacking devices which have been developed to detect metals in airline passengers' baggage, etc. Are any such devices under investigation by officers of the Department of Civil Aviation or have discussions been held with any of the airline operators about the permanent or experimental use of these devices? 
asked the Minister for Works, upon notice: 
In each of the financial years 1967-68, 1968-69 and 1969-70, what Commonwealth works were approved for construction, under course of construction, or completed in South Australia. 
What was the respective cost of each project, and which projects are completed or under course of construction. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for External Territories, upon notice: 
Has the Minister investigated methods of promoting tourism to Norfolk Island. 
Have any discussions taken place between the Administrator of Norfolk Island, the Council, and the Minister, his officers or officers of Commonwealth Departments involved. 
Has any consideration been given to upgrading airport facilities at Norfolk Island, including the airstrip, which would allow air operators to use large modern jet aircraft. 
How does the Leader of the Government in the Senate justify parliamentary democracy when he uses Dorothy Dix questions at question time as a means of attacking the Moratorium and peaceful students who want to demonstrate against the Vietnam war? Yet he denies to the Senate a debate on a Government initiated motion which gives honourable senators an opportunity to discuss an important matter. Many honourable senators like myself were stopped from making a contribution to the debate. Will the Leader of the Government ensure that when public discussion of information is necessary senators will be given the opportunity to discuss these matters properly in the Senate? 
My question is directed to the Minister for Civil Aviation and refers to occasions, I as recently as last Tuesday morning, when aircraft not cleared to land at Canberra because of fog conditions were held in the area for several hours. What are the reasons for the commencement of these flights from the various capitals, in view of the existing conditions over Canberra at the time? Will the Minister investigate this matter with a view to ascertaining whether improvements to the various control systems are necessary or whether arrangements should be made with the airline operators so that inconvenience to passengers can be avoided? 
That is the very point that I am making.  Senator Greenwood  has corrected Hansard, so we know at least from tonight's record what was really moved. The records shown in the Journals of the Senate have been described fairly fully. I do not agree wilh what  Senator Wright  and  Senator Withers  have said, that is. that the  Clerk  is entitled to translate or interpret or shorten or to put what happened into his own words. That should not be so at all. If this is right generally, it is not right in this particular case. As a result of the debate today - and honourable senators on the Government side have agreed wilh us - standing order 64 ought to be considered. There are arguments as to what practice ought to be applied. If this is to be evaluated by the Standing Orders, Committee, as is in fact the case, the Standing Orders Committee ought to have a correct record, and surely the Senate ought to have the most complete record of the proceedings of the Senate. If we have to rely, as we do have to rely, mainly upon the Journals of the Senate, those Journals should accurately describe, as they have done broadly in the past, the proceedings of the Senate. 
My question is directed to the Minister for Supply, lt refers to the future of Woomera, ls it now certain that the European Launcher Development Organisation will withdraw from Woomera and transfer equipment and staff to French Guiana at the end of the year? To what extent will staff and technical equipment at Woomera and the Weapons Research Establishment at Salisbury be redundant following the withdrawal? Has the Commonwealth Government proposed to ELDO members any plan which would ensure the use of Woomera and associated Weapons Research Establishment facilities or are any other arrangements likely which would continue this activity? Finally, in the event of the transfer to French Guiana will Australia continue ELDO membership? 
1 will get to that. Government senators in the debate said that everybody in the country - students, unionists, middle class people and professional people - had the right to go on the streets and demonstrate which they did. Government senators were concerned as we all were, that the demonstrations should be peaceful. Well, they were peaceful in all cases. 
I think they were peaceful because the convenors of the demonstrations were conscious of the need for peaceful demonstration and because they realised, as 1 accept, that if you want to influence public opinion you certainly have to show that you are responsible. 1 think with very few exceptions the demonstrations did exactly that. 
I will come to that. Do not put words in my mouth. Everyone must have been impressed because, from what I saw in .South Australia, the police deserve great credit for the way in which they conducted themselves and assisted the convenors of the demonstration. I understand that there were discussions between the police and the organisers. 
Yes. I agree with that. I am more concerned about, an incident in which people who did not agree with the demonstration and felt very conscious about some flags took it upon themselves to do something other than what their administrators wanted them to do. The whole thing would have been better without them. That is the important thing. The fact is that the Moratorium- 
Let me come to it. The Moratorium was a demonstration by a large group of Australian people, not just members of the Communist Party or a small percentage of people who support the Vietcong. I accept that in Australia there are some who support the Vietcong but the fact is, as  Senator Georges  has said, that the carrying of a Vietcong flag in Australia is not an illegal act. If it is, the Government should do as  Senator Webster  has challenged the Government to do. 
Let me develop my argument and then see whether it makes sense. I do not like seeing demonstrations and I would not take part in a peace demonstration willingly when there was a Vietcong flag ahead of me, but if someone ahead of me in a peace procession hoisted a National Liberation Front flag I would not take any action to get him out because I could not and 1 would not use force. The convenors of the Moratorium decided that the demonstrations should be peaceful. They were. Unlike last week, the issue in the Senate today is not the Moratorium, the withdrawal of troops from Vietnam and from Indo-China or the repeal of the National Service Act. The issue that honourable senators opposite have raised today is that in some cases people hoisted Vietcong flags in the processions and some action should be taken. If honourable senators opposite want to take action, let them do what  Senator Webster  hits done - consider the position properly. 
The Moratorium has started, lt will not lessen, lt will grow as it has grown in America. Any belief that a military solution in Vietnam is possible is based on false premises, lt will not succeed. ! think everyone recognises that it has been proved conclusively day after day that that will not happen. If there is to be any stability in Vietnam or in Cambodia it will have to come from the people themselves through political stability. Let me remind the Senate, because we all forget this in the heat of argument, that basically the Geneva Accords of 1954 proposed elections over the whole of Vietnam in 1956. Unfortunately the  position  politically was never canvassed properly and it reached the stage at which military intervention became the way to strengthen the position of North Vietnam and of South Vietnam. The fact is that we have a great military intervention which, instead of succeeding, is becoming larger and larger and more dangerous. 
In Australia today our Government is speaking with 2 voices. On the one hand it applauds the intervention by America in Cambodia an action which, incidentally, has been condemned by the United States Senate Committee as recently as yesterday; and on the other hand, the Minister for External Affairs  (Mr McMahon)  is urging upon the countries which will attend the conference in Indonesia the need to set up inspection in Cambodia and Vietnam if that is found to be necessary. So we have 2 movements. We are saying, on the one hand, that military expansion is a good thing and, on the other hand, we are trying to temper that by saying that the real solution lies in inspection to restrain escalation of the war and so on. Sooner or later we in this country must ask ourselves whether we can expect peace to be established in Vietnam and in Indo-China in the way in which we are supporting it. All of the evidence points to the fact that no military solution is possible. The real solution will be found by the Australian Government doing what the people are doing today - urging that it be realised that peace is the major question and that governments in South Vietnam and elsewhere should be commissioned to think about establishing peace by largely political means. 
My position is the same as it was when I visited Vietnam in 1964. At that time the then Government of South Vietnam certainly was not even a partly elected government; it was a government of changing military juntas. The Government of South Vietnam still has basically the same defects as it had then. It does not represent all the people in South Vietnam. It has not the stability that would be required for it to take any competent national action. For that reason and because of the interest of the Vietnamese people in the National Liberation Front in areas of South Vietnam that the NLF has controlled for up to 15 years, the Government cannot cope with the situation and is relying on its friends - the United States and ourselves - to hold the position by military means, which finally we will find will be incomplete and unsatisfactory. 
So the mission of the people who demonstrated in Australia over the weekend was to raise this very important question and the associated- 
I do not disown that proposition. It may be true, as somebody said, that the demonstrators included members of the Australian Nazi party who are now becoming active in some of the demonstrations. Among the demonstrators were people who said that they did not support the National Liberation Front. There were also people who said: 'We are against the Moratorium'. But broadly speaking, as everybody knows, the great mass of the people who went along were concerned about the issues about which I am talking now; that is, the real issues about peace. 
If any lesson is to be learnt from the Moratorium, surely it is that a large body of Australian people are now most concerned about this matter and intend to take peaceful measures to persuade the Government to change its orientation and its fixation on military solutions. In my view those things will never prove successful. In addition, the demonstrators included many people who object to the method of raising the armies of Australia. That is the lesson. It is not the sidetracking arguments that some people- 
That is purely a sidetracking argument. I have already told the Senate what I think about that. I have referred to what the honourable senator said. If the Government believes that this is improper, let it do what he suggested. Let it take the action that is necessary. But I hold the opinion that  Senator Georges  expressed. I do not see how the Government can take action. As far as I can see, this is not an unlawful act. If it is, let the Government act. In my view the demonstrations comprised a majority of persons who are trying to maintain peace. That is the important message of the Moratorium. We should accept that. Members of the Government parties and the 
Democratic Labor Party said ail last week: lt will not be a peaceful demonstration. It will not be a success'. 
I would have been more impressed if the people who said those things last week had stood up today and said: "We agree that there was a large body of demonstrators and that a clear opinion was expressed by Australians for peace'. 
They were very big demonstrations. I do not think people are being real if they say that they were not impressed with the body of people about whom 1 am talking. I have referred to the real issue. This issue will continue to arise until we find a real solution and until we use the proper means that we have at our disposal to establish peace in the area. Other honourable senators know as well as I do that war is no solution of these problems. We have learnt that by hard experience. Finally, war is never a solution: peaceful means must be used. 
My question is directed to the Minister for Air and relates to the Fill contracts. What is the current position in relation to accommodation charges for each of the Fill aircraft in the United States of America, a storage charge having been struck at the time when the aircraft was found to be faulty? Were these amounts included in the statement al' the Minister for Defence? What will bc the future in relation to these charges? What has been the cost to Austrafia of the various specialist and scientific parties which either visited the United States or had to attend investigations into particular failures of the aircraft? Are these costs likely to continue? Are they to be offset against the future charges announced by the Minister for Defence? 
My question which is directed to the Minister for Air follows on from my previous question. I ask again: Is the United States insisting upon the payment by Australia of charges for storing 
Fill aircraft in circumstances where they were defective? Will these charges continue to apply in the years to come? Do the costs which the Minister has mentioned include amounts for the storage of the aircraft? Do these amounts which the Minister has mentioned include also the cost of the special visits to the United States of scientific and specialist teams which were investigating the aircraft or are they separate payments charged to the Department? 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Shipping and Transport, upon notice: 
Is it a fact that, in 1966, the South Australian Railways Commissioner submitted to the 
Commonwealth Railways Commissioner economic studies relating to a number of alternatives for connecting the South Australian railways system to the new standard gauge system, and including a link with that system to Adelaide; if so, what were the alternatives, and the costs of the proposals, including the cost of each proposed connection. 
What figures are available, including those arising from the abovementioned studies, relating to the economics and operating costs of the various proposals. 
My question is directed to the Leader of the Government in the Senate. It refers to the French nuclear tests which are to be held in the Pacific area. I ask the Minister what special precautions against fall-out or what programme for recording fall-out over Australia have been recommended by the Government during this week. I also ask the Minister which of the committees have responsibily in this matter. Is it the National Radiation Advisory Committee or the Atomic Weapons Tests Safety Committee? Have only these 2 committees been asked to make the survey or has the Government taken some other action to ensure the safety of the Australian people? 
My question is directed to the Minister for Air. Is it a fact that, in the event of the Phantom aircraft being accepted by the Government, further extensions at the Amberley airstrip and also at a number of other operational airstrips throughout the country will be necessary? Is the Minister able to advise to what extent this statement is true? What other works or equipment will be required in addition to the extensions to the airstrips? 
My question is directed to the Minister for Supply. It refers to the Minister's announcement on 17th May that 3 sub-contracts in relation io the jumbo jet aircraft have been obtained by the Australian aircraft industry to a total value of $A500,000. I ask: Are these orders related only to the orders placed by Australian operators with the Boeing company? Do they comprise a final allotment to Australia of sub-contracting work? Can the Minister explain why the Government Aircraft Factories have been given the smallest sub-contracting order of the three? 
-I wish to ask a question in relation to the additional appropriation for the Department of Shipping and Transport. I refer to Division 891  -  Payments to or for the States. 1 refer in particular to the expenditure under the Railway Standardisation (South Australia) Agreement Act. The construction of a link between Adelaide and the east-west standard gauge system is being held up at present because of the Government's decision to have private consultants investigate the proposal to link South Australia with the standard gauge system, which successive South Australian governments have said should be accepted as a Commonwealth commitment regardless of consultants' advice. 
Following upon the representations of 2 governments the Commonwealth agreed to have the matter investigated by private consultants. We have been told that the report of the consultants is available, but no decision has been made. I would like to know whether, firstly, the responsible Minister can inform me what expenditure has been incurred on obtaining the opinion of the private consultants concerning this work. ls it a fact that the South Australian Hailways Commissioner and the Commonwealth Railways Commissioner proposed certain standardisation work which could have formed the basis of a link with Adelaide? When will the report be made to Ministers, and members of Parliament for them to consider? Does the report plan the conversion of the northern part of the South Australian system, as was agreed upon in 1949? 
1 refer to Division 810, which provides for $5,200,000 to be spent by the Department of Civil Aviation on capital works and services. The Minister for Supply  (Senator Anderson)  may say that I am relating something to the programme which is not strictly relevant but I raise the question of the amount which we intend to spend as an incidental part of the programme for civil aviation communications and other aids in relation to our programme of ordering aircraft from overseas. I have raised with the Minister the matter of offset and coproduction orders. In March the Minister for Civil Aviation  (Senator Cotton)  announced that he agreed with the orders upon overseas suppliers of $80m worth of aircraft - a total of 14 aircraft - to meet the requirements of Trans-Australia Airlines and Ansett Airlines of Australia for several years. Although I appreciate what the Minister said in relation to a number of my questions about the now recognised efforts to get work from overseas, up to the present time we have orders from all of these people for only $500,000 worth of sub-contracts. I wonder whether in these circumstances any real positional policy by the Government ought to be related to the amount of orders which we place with overseas suppliers of aircraft. While the Minister has mentioned that we are making a modest stand in this regard is there any chance of relating whatever we might get back to the orders we place overseas? 
Has the Minister for Air received any reports from the team of specialists and other officers presently in the United States of America investigating the proposal relating to Phantom aircraft and the failures of the F111 aricraft? Have they resolved in part any of the issues which remain between the Australian and United States Governments including the. question of storage charges for the F111 aircraft? If not, when does the Government expect these reports to be made available to it? 
My question, which is directed to the Minister for Civil Aviation, follows upon the question asked by  Senator McManus.  I ask: Is it a fact that the current dispute has arisen because at the present time many pilots are working minimal hours while Qantas Airways Ltd is recruiting actively for more pilots7 Is it a fact that the real issue in the dispute is the question of maintaining some sort of stability for Qantas pilots in the future? Did I understand the Minister to say that he intends to help to resolve the dispute? 
1 support the members of the Regulations and Ordinances Committee. Primarily I think it is clear that what they propose is correct. The regulations should be disallowed. The situation which has developed during the debate and which has been widened to some extent by what  Senator McManus  has said highlights the irresponsibility of the Government in advancing an amendment to the Commonwealth Conciliation and Arbitration Act to provide for the Flight Crew Officers Industrial Tribunal without taking proper procedures to ensure that the  Chairman  of the tribunal and others associated with it would be properly paid for their services. As  Senator Greenwood  has correctly pointed out. the amendments were made in 1967. Surely the Government is aware that since 1967 there have been a number of debates in the Senate concerning the principle of the Parliament having the right to ensure that moneys are correctly paid. I believe that it should be the responsibility of an officer appointed by the responsible Minister to ensure that a similar position does not occur again. 
It is unfortunate that the issues involved in the dispute between the pilots, Qantas Airways Ltd and the Government have been raised in this debate. The first thing 1 want to say about this is that the setting up of the Flight Crew Officers Tribunal was a recourse by the Government to settle the disputations which had occurred prior to 1967 between the Australian Federation of Airline Pilots and the Government. At that time the Government threatened the pilots that it would bring them under the penal provisions of the Conciliation and Arbitration Act. Recourse was had to the Flight Crew Officers Tribunal because it was thought that it would prove to be a conciliatory body. I understand that by agreement between the Department of Labour and National Service, which is - or should be - a specialist in the industrial field, the air pilots and the Government it was agreed to appoint Professor Isaac as the Tribunal. I think it is unfortunate that  Senator McManus  saw fit to attack Professor Isaac this morning without having substantive evidence to. the effect that Professor Isaac has not performed his duties.  Senator McManus  said that the Tribunal and the industry might be better served if a decision were taken to appoint to the Tribunal one of the conciliators now employed by the Commonwealth Conciliation and Arbitration Commission. The only way in which this proposition could be proved would be to test whether one of the experienced conciliators would do a better job than Professor Isaac. 
I wish to make the point that this morning the Minister for Civil Aviation  (Senator Cotton)  would not answer questions asked by honourable senators on this side of the chamber, including myself, about this matter. He said that it is under consideration. 1 believe that it is improper to accuse Professor Isaac of not being able to perform his duties. To my knowledge - and I stand to be corrected by those people in the industry who have had more experience in negotiations with Professor Isaac than 1 have - he has done a good job taking into account that this is a unique industry. The aviation industry is a most unusual one, and I believe that whatever remuneration pilots receive they deserve. Let us face it, they have a great responsibility. If the conciliation and arbitration facilities which are available in Australia at present are not adequate to solve the disputes which are occurring in the industry these facilities should be improved. Any improvements would have to be considered by the people who are involved in the industry and not by this Parliament, except in retrospect in order to determine whether the improved facilities are performing efficiently. However, I think it is unfortunate that this matter has been debated in the Senate today. 
The only other thing J want to say, without extending the argument, is that, as I understand the situation, the current dispute - about which the Minister said little this morning - is based on strong grounds. The Federation of Airline Pilots claims that although many of its members are working minimal hours Qantas intends to employ a number of British pilots to fly aircraft which will be chartered to perform a job which Qantas has to do for the Commonwealth Government. 
I do not know about that. I have been a member of this chamber for some years. I have also been a member of the Regulations and Ordinances Committee, of which  Senator Wood  is  Chairman.  I have noticed that whenever the aviation industry is discussed  Senator Wood  is always prone to be critical of the pilots. I think he is adopting an attitude which is similar to the attitude adopted by people who always condemn strikers. 
 I may be wrong, but as far as I can remember  Senator Wood  has been consistently opposed to the Qantas pilots whenever the aviation industry has been debated in this chamber. That is my impression. I do not know whether I am being unfair to him. All 1 am saying is that the aviation industry is an industry which has a number of unusual characteristics. Pilots have great responsibilities. Therefore the industry feels that specialists should handle its industrial matters. 
When the Senate discussed the pilots dispute in 1967 it became very evident at that time - 1 remember the arguments which were advanced because ] discussed the matter with the pilots and took part in the debate - that the management of Qantas which discussed these matters with the pilots failed to discharge its duties in relation to the normal settling of industrial disputes. I do not think that it is the right approach for anybody to stand up and say that the pilots are in the wrong because they are holding up an important industry. That is all I wish to say on this aspect. I have tried to state a case for Professor Isaac who, as far as 1 am aware, was selected with great care. I. believe that he has performed his duties as well as might be expected having regard to the circumstances of the industry. 
I come back to the point I made earlier, and I hope that the Minister will take note of it, that on too many occasions we see important proposals introduced into the Parliament - in this case it was introduced to meet an industrial situation - in the hope that the proposals will correct the disruption in the industry to which the Minister for Civil Aviation has referred, and then for some reason the department which originates the proposals fails to carry on its interest in the mission by way of suggesting to the draftsman that legislation ought to follow up the proposals as soon as possible to ensure that the responsibility to the Parliament is properly met. I do not wish to say anything further,  Mr Chairman.  1 hope that this debate does not turn into a debate on industrial relations. 
1 ask the MinisterinCharge of Tourist Activities: In view of the strong connection between the completion of the last section of the Eyre Highway and the tourist industry, and having regard to the support by the Australian National Travel Association for the bituminising of the highway, will the Minister investigate to what extent this road is now used by Australian tourists and do what he can to support the early completion of the project area? 
Can the Minister for Air advise when the evaluation team which is investigating the Phantom and F111 aircraft proposals will be returning to Australia? Is it presumed that when it returns it will report upon both proposals? After its return to Australia how long does the Minister expect it will be before the report will be available to the Parliament? 
I ask the Min:ster for Air: ls it a fact that the Royal Australian Air Force evaluation team has returned to Australia and recommended that the Phantom aircraft be accepted by the Australian Government pending the determination of the Fill aircraft contract? In this event, is it clear that the exist ng operational air strips will be satisfactory for the operation of this aircraft when received? 
My question, which is addressed to the Minister for Supply, refers to Woomera. In view of the ELDO commitment and the new United States and Australian upper atmosphere research activities, is the Minister able to say at this stage whether the existing skilled staff at Woomera and at the Department of Supply's Weapons Research Establishment will be maintained at the present level in the immediate future? 
My question is directed to the Minister for Air or to the Minister representing the Minister for Defence. Is it a fact that Australia is considering the purchase of the new Mirage FI aircraft to replace the current series of Mirage aircraft now being produced under licence in Australia, and that the 
French manufacturer has made Australia a firm offer? Does this firm offer include - and does the Government insist upon - any such purchases being produced under licence, as at present, in the Australian aircraft factories? 
My question is directed to the Minister in Charge of Tourist Activities. It relates lo the invaluable aviation collection on display at present in King's Hall, which was officially opened by the Minister for Civil Aviation in the absence of the Minister in Charge of Tourist Activities and which 1 commend to honourable senators. I ask: ls it a  fact  that the Government has refused to accept this collection? Does this mean that the Government does not regard it as being invaluable or irreplaceable? Is the matter under review at present by the Minister or the Government? 
in reply- I shall be brief. All I want to say is that I think the Opposition has proved the case it has put forward. The Government has allowed the aircraft industry to run down. No doubt, as a result of the opportunity to debate this issue in the Senate, the problem will be better understood in the future. I suggest that the question be now put to a vote. 
Question put: 
That the Senate, at its rising, adjourn till Tuesday next at 1.45 p.m. 
asked the Minister  representing the Minister for Shipping and Transport, upon notice: 
Has the Australian Transport Advisory Council recently approved changes to the design bodies responsible for setting safety standards for motor vehicles; if so, do these changes reduce the number of academic or specialist representatives and increase the number of industry representatives serving on these bodies. 
Were the main reasons for the altered representation motivated by meeting the demands of the automobile industry, and are these changes likely to result in a slowing down in the introduction of safety devices and safer manufacturing designs. 
I move: 
That the Senate, at its rising, adjourn until Tuesday next at 1.45 p.m. 
I do so for the purpose of debating a matter of urgency, namely: 
The failure of the Government to promote design and construction of Australian aircraft and helicopters for defence and commercial purposes. 
One of the purposes of my moving this motion is to bring before the Senate and the Australian people the crisis which is developing in the Australian aircraft industry. As honourable senators will remember, this has been the subject of discussion in the Senate. The Leader of the Government  (Senator Anderson)  will be aware that this matter is being debated in another place at present. This is not a new subject. It is a matter to which the Leader of the Government has given a great deal of attention in the Senate. He has supplied honourable senators with a great number of answers to questions that have come from this side of the chamber. Most of the questions have dealt with the matter that I am now putting forward. There is a crisis in the Australian aircraft manufacturing industry which applies not only to the private sector but also to the Government Aircraft Factories. Most of the problem arises from the inability of the Government to give a positive lead to the industry, to plan ahead to ensure that the various skills which have been built up in the industry will not be lost, that the industry will be stabilised and the work force maintained in its specialised task.- All that we have from the Government at present is simply a statement that it intends to recommend the rationalisation of the industry. 
Although not many people will dispute the competence of the Australian aircraft industry, there are some who believe that it is not competent. If anybody reads the reports of the Department of Supply he will find records of the long standing ability of the Government Aircraft Factories and the private factory to produce the Mirage aircraft and a number of associated parts which go to make up a first class aircraft. 
 As  Senator Toohey  has just reminded me, this ability to produce aircraft goes back to before the last World War. During the middle of the Second World War we were mass producing our own aircraft. Annexes were built onto various railway workshops to allow skilled workers to apply themselves to the task of producing aircraft. The experience which was gained then was used as a foundation for the establishment of an Australian aircraft industry. There is no question that we have the competence to manufacture our own aircraft. This is not surprising, because Australian manufacturing industry was largely the base upon which the modern aircraft industry developed. The competence in the light and heavy engineering and manufacturing industries is as good as that in similar industries throughout the world, and these industries could be used as a base to co-ordinate the work of the aircraft industry. While it may be true that many of the skilled and key persons who are now being displaced in the aircraft industry find their way back into profitable employment in the light and heavy manufacturing industries, the work in the aircraft industry is so specialised that positive action ought to be taken by the Government to ensure that the aircraft industry is maintained at the level which it reached when we were manufacturing the Mirage fighter. 
What aircraft have we produced in Australia? Through a combination of work as between the Government Aircraft Factories and the Commonwealth Aircraft Corporation, as was illustrated in a reply to a question asked by  Senator Keeffe  this morning, we have produced under licence in Australia Mirage aircraft of various types. We have produced 48 Mirage fighter aircraft, 52 HOA Mirage attack aircraft and 10 HD dual trainer aircraft. We have built, under licence, Macchi trainer aircraft. Of course, the Department of Supply has manufactured Jindivik aircraft. We have produced a number of anti-submarine systems and devices, including the Ikara missile. All of this indicates that the Department of Supply is most expert in this field. 
What is happening in the aircraft industry today is happening also at the weapons research establishments. Only recently - the Minister knows this as well as I do - there has been a down-turn at the Weapons Research Establishment at Woomera and at Salisbury. Now there has been a down-turn in the aircraft industry. These matters have been well known to the Government for a long time. Not only have they been raised in this Parliament, but the managers of the various factories about which I have spoken have also referred to them. For a long time now the Commonwealth Aircraft Corporation has been putting to the Government the need to produce some sort of alternative aircraft within Australia. But the Government says: 'We have to make sure that we can market the aircraft.' But while this down-turn in the aircraft industry has been taking place - figures show that employment in the various aircraft factories has dropped - our imports of aircraft and war stores and supplies have been substantial. The Government needs to consider to what extent these imports should be curbed. There is a need to consider to what extent the Government should take action to ensure that our policies concerning offsetting arrangements and coproduction ought to be enforced by the Government. 
If we look at the employment figures for the Government Aircraft Factories, we find that in June 1965, 2,750 skilled workers were employed on the Mirage project, the Jindivik project and the anti-submarine weapons system project. In June 1968 the figure had fallen to 2,300. In June 1969 it had fallen to 2,000 workers. Last year - and the Minister noted this because we brought it to his attention in the Parliament - Ill skilled workers were retrenched. In the Commonwealth Aircraft Corporation in 1965, which was then manufacturing the Atar engine for the Mirage aircraft, there were 3,100 workers. Now in 1970 there are 2,750. In the last 12 months the Commonwealth Aircraft Corporation has lost 270 skilled workers, they may be lost to the industry for all time. They will be lost to the industry for all time unless the Government adopts a firm policy of encouraging within private and government factories a- positive plan for aircraft and other related parts which could give stability to the industry. In South Australia last year the Parafield airframe repair workshops were closed down. In the estimates which followed the Budget last year for the Minister's own Department in regard to the Weapons Research Establishment at Woomera and Salisbury the appropriation for technical and developmental services was reduced by $1.25m. A number of other points have been made by representatives of the aircraft industry. Recently,  Mr Jones,  the factory manager of the Commonwealth Aircraft Corporation, said: 
The industry is again running down and experienced men are being lost to the industry. A positive policy decision is urgently required. 
The new manager of the Commonwealth Aircraft Corporation has said that in the next 18 months, unless there is such a policy and unless there is such a programme of works his own enterprise will be in a state of crisis. Even if that does not happen, what we are losing in the industry are those follow-up techniques and new developments which arise from developments in America, the results of the space age and the use of new materials. Unless we can maintain an interest and an activity in this production Australia will fall behind. It has been mentioned, of course, that the Government did attempt to do a feasibility study in respect of a BAC-CAC aircraft, the AA107. Recently in this place the Minister brought down a report which stated: 
In the event, we have not been able to obtain sufficient assurances of overseas sales. Furthermore, there has been a rethinking of the Australian requirements for close air support and defence training and as a result it has been decided that continuation of work on the project cannot be justified. 
Now, the people in the industry do not agree with this because  Mr Rice,  who is the chief engineer of the Commonwealth Aircraft Corporation, said that he thought that the Government authorities tended to suffer from an Fill phobia when contemplating a project like the AA107. He criticised  Mr Malcolm  Fraser's statement that there was virtually no prospect of sales of the 107 to the Royal Air Force. He said his information was that the Royal Air Force was very interested in the aircraft. Briefly, he said that there was a positive need for some sort of marketing endeavour so that in projects such as this the Government should not quickly terminate the research or activities but attempt to market this sort of aircraft. That, of course, has been followed by criticism by the general manager of the Commonwealth Aircraft Corporation who stated in round terms the same thing. The Minister recently made a statement on the defence aircraft industry in which he referred to the problems which I am talking about and I accept that the statements were fairly accurate. He mentioned the need to do the sort of thing I am talking about. He said there was a need to maintain basic defence capability and a need to continue with developing technologies. He talked about the need to have local design and this has already failed, as honourable senators can see. He talked about the need to manufacture aircraft engines and guided missiles under licence and I have explained to honourable senators how in fact mis activity is dropping. He spoke about the need for the manufacture of spare parts, for coproduction and offset work and commercial work, but we still are in such a situation in relation to our orders from overseas - as 1 have said, we are still importing massive quantities - that I must ask: Is there a strong intention by the Government to insist upon co-production when we place our orders overseas? The same thing applies to commercial aircraft.  Mr Waghorne  production director of Hawker De Havilland, is reported in a recent publication as follows: 
The industry in the US was surprised at the lack of interest shown in what the military called offset orders. 
In the civil field, he said, these were known as quid pro quo' or QpQ orders. 
One instance where they were not sought, he said was in the selection of the Douglas DC9 for the Australian domestic airlines over the competing Boeing 737 and BACIII. Douglas engineers, he said, clearly expected Australian insistence on some degree of local manufacture as a condition of the order and were surprised there was no QPQ factor. 
We want to know what the Government is really doing about this. Let me point out that in criticising the policies which have been announced by the Minister I am not criticising him because I know that he takes an interest in his Department. He has a very good department. I say only that the Government's policies are not strong enough to ensure that our factories will continue to do the work which they have proved themselves able to do. 
Early this year the Minister for Civil Aviation  (Senator Cotton)  announced that permission had been given by the Federal Government for a $80m aircraft reequipment order for Trans-Australia Airlines and Ansett Airlines of Australia. Following closely on that announcement the Minister for Supply,  Senator Anderson,  said mat he had been gratified to learn that we had obtained subcontract and offset orders to the value of $500,000. We want to know why the Government is not taking a stronger stand. 
Debate interrupted. 
I suggest that this is not only the attitude of the Opposition but also the view of the Australian industry. The aircraft manufacturing capacity in Australia is good. The services which back up the industry are specialised and fairly sophisticated. The activities of the Minister's own Department are evidence that we are keeping up with the times and with the best technological developments overseas. But because of the lack of a Government plan the whole of the aircraft industry and the industries associated with the other more sophisticated developments in weapons research are running down. The explanations given by the Minister in this place, and by the Minister for Defence in the other place, indicate that the Government has no positive policy to ensure that a sufficient work load will be given to these enterprises so that Australia will not lose its ability to produce aircraft, to produce equipment for all of the Services and to produce parts for aircraft and other items which we are importing from overseas. Instead we have become snowed under by a very expensive project - the purchase of the Fill aircraft. As I have mentioned, an important representative of the industry claims that the Government is suffering from an Fill phobia. It is said that we cannot afford to do this work because of a lack of continuity of orders for the industry. It is said that if we make these aircraft we will not be able to sell them overseas. Yet the Government persists with its elaborate scheme to import into Australia machines which will not fly. The history of those aircraft dates back to 1963. Agitation by the Australian aircraft industry goes back to long before that. 
The Minister puts the Government's point of view. He has said that there is a need to rationalise. He has pointed out in his report, which refers to rationalisation, some of the things to which I have referred. He refers to fluctuation of the workload and the need to maintain low costs of production through continuity of orders in the industry. The industry has said the same thing. The industry has claimed: 'Unless you can stabilise and maintain orders for the industry it will be more costly. It will go broke. In addition, the skilled key personnel you are training will move elsewhere.' These people will come back into the industry if there is work for them. The managers of the factories say that while they have lost people because of lack of orders and stability, if the Government produces a constructive policy there is no doubt that the key people will return to the industry. 
The Minister in his statement referred to a buildup of new projects, accompanied by major recruitment problems and inefficiency during learning periods. The only area in which we have picked up, it seems, is in the production of spares. A series of stops and starts has developed in the aircraft industry. We have the ability to produce these important aircraft. Not only do we have the basic ability which has been developed since World War II but also we have a large number of specialists in the industry and in the Minister's own Department. Nevertheless, we are importing large quantities of war stores and munitions into Australia. In 1967-68 we imported such material to the value of $158.5m; 1968-69 $174m and from July 1969 to March 1970 $84.5m. Much of this equipment includes bits and pieces for aircraft which the Government should insist upon producing in Australia. 
I have the figures relating to the importation of aircraft, including jet aircraft and gliders, non-powered aircraft and parts of flying machines. In 1967-68 we imported such material to a value of $136m. 
Yes. I am submitting that commercial requirements and defence requirements are obviously related and the industries ought to be dovetailed, particularly in respect of the manufacture of parts within Australia. It seems that the Government has started to recognise the problem but there is no strong Government policy which would insist upon production of this material in Australia. We are importing this equipment and failing to insist that Australia share in its production. I have said that in 1967-68 we imported $136m worth of this equipment. Although the Government has said that we are now doing more in this field, in 1968-69 we imported Si 31m worth of this equipment. For the period of 6 months from July to December 1969 importations totalled nearly $83m. Importations of parts for aircraft for the period July to December 1969 amounted to $54m, while the value of imported heavier than air, nonpowered aircraft was $66,000. These aircraft are coming from Canada, France, the Netherlands, United Kingdom and the United States of America. If honourable senators saw the figures from which I have quoted, they would be amazed to find that while our own technical capacity is running down we are still importing. 
Men who know the industry - not just skilled workers but management and men with production and specialist techniques - say that the Government does not seem to be insisting upon our industry getting its share of the production necessary to meet our requirements. To summarise our position, we suggest that the Government should take a positive stand. That is what is lacking in Australia today. 
As  Senator Toohey  said, there should be a sense of purpose and not just a recognition of the problems as we have stated them. Whereas 'the Government is making contracts with overseas suppliers, it should ensure that the maximum amount of work is done in our factories. Nobody can say that Australia has not the competence to manufacture aircraft components. Our progress has been related to the competence which has been built up in the light and heavy engineering manufacturing industries since the war years. There is no reason why contracts should not be let to Australian manufacturers. There is every reason why we should try to do the things that the industry wants. 
I suggest that the Government should not rely too much on getting from overseas suppliers, including the United States of America, large machines, parts for those machines, smaller machines and various types of aircraft which we could manufacture in Australia. It should be making a positive plan to let the Australian industry do this kind of work. As the Minister well knows, unless our manufacturers do this, the specialist techniques which we have produced and built up in our factories will be lost forever. There is no reason why the Government should not try to find markets in our surrounding areas. The Government talks about the aircraft that we will manufacture and sell to Great Britain. What is wrong with a strong policy of selling war needs, aircraft and other manufactured equipment to our near neighbours in SouthEast Asia? 
Its efforts are puny efforts. I refer the honourable senator to the figures I cited. The Government announced earlier this year that orders had been approved to import aircraft worth $80m, for which we will manufacture parts worth $500,000. Can anybody tell me that that is a reasonable proposition? What is the Government doing about that? I mentioned the war stores that we are importing. We are importing parts for tractors, things we make in Australia, pieces of machinery and metals that are produced overseas. Why are we importing them? Does the Government insist, when making con tracts with the overseas suppliers, that the Australian manufacturers should get a turn at the wheel? The Government is talking about taking steps, but it is not doing enough positively. That is not only my point of view but it is also the point of view of leaders of the industry. I suggest that the Government should follow up what we say and should explain more fully what it proposes to do. 
To me, this talk of rationalisation is frightening. When the men working in the industry heard the statement made by the Leader of the Government, they were frightened because they thought it sounded like a depression technique. Rationalisation is good only if the component parts of the Australian capacity - the Government aircraft factories and the private manufacturers - get together and work to a studied plan. In my opinion, the Government does not have a plan. I have asked questions. The answers have not been satisfactory. The Government does not insist upon an Australian share in this manufacturing. It should insist upon that. Industry says that it should. We say that it should. We would be interested to find out from the Government what it proposes to do in future to maintain the skilled sections of the work force in constant work, to the benefit of the country and certainly to help the defence industries. 
I shall be brief in my remarks,  Mr Deputy President.  I intend to speak only about the urgency motion to which  Senator Branson  referred. He said that the Opposition had delayed the business of the Senate in raising the matter of urgency which was debated earlier today. In addition, he said that he did not consider that the issue which was raised was important. 
 Senator Branson  is entitled to his own view and we are entitled to our own. The Opposition believes, and the 8,000 employees of the aircraft industry in Australia believe, that this matter is of great importance. If the Opposition considers an issue is of great importance it is entitled to discuss it. An opportunity for such a discussion arose early today. The workers in the industry  want  better working conditions. This is an important matter which is deserving of consideration too. but the real issue is the future of the aircraft industry in Australia. The Opposition offers no apologies for having taken time today to discuss this issue. If  Senator Branson  had been in the chamber- 
 As  Senator Branson  was present, I am sure that he will agree wilh me that a lot of good will come out of the discussion of this matter of great importance. I believe that the other mailer raided by  Senator Branson  might be better handled by  Senator Willesee.  However, I believe that the Opposition had every right to initiate the debate on the aircraft industry this morning. My colleagues and I have seen men in the industry out of work. We know that lots of skilled men are doing work which they should not bc doing. The jobs they are doing are fiddling jobs. 
I will not. All I am saying is that these men are doing little jobs to keep the place going when they should be doing skilled work. 

 Senator BRANSON (Western Australia) - I wish to make a personal explanation,  Mr Deputy President. 
The  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Bull)  - Does the honourable senator claim to have been misrepresented? 

 Senator POYSER  (Victoria) 14.9]  -  I rise in this debate to refute what was said by  Senator Branson  in relation to the urgency motion which was moved on behalf of the Opposition. The Senate will recall that some weeks ago the Minister for Supply  (Senator Anderson),  who is the Leader of the Government in the Senate, made a statement in relation to the aircraft industry. In consultation with  Senator Bishop,  I approached the Leader of the Government and asked him to allow the statement to be debated. He gave an undertaking to me personally that he would allow at least 30 minutes in the next week of the sitting for this statement to be debated. 
My question is directed to the Minister for Air. In view of the uncertainty which has been shared by this Parliament and by members of the Minister's own Service, the Royal Australian Air Force, about the question of whether we will get the Phantom aircraft and the final decision about the Fill, when does the Minister consider he can tell the Parliament the final decision in regard to this mailer? 
My question to the Minister for Supply relates to the GAC100 aircraft. Since his announcement some months ago that parts of this aircraft were to be made in Australia has the Government received representations to the effect that the aircraft may be built jointly, Australia participating? If so, how current are these proposals? Is it possible that this matter is now under consideration by the Government or by his Department? 
My question is directed to the Minister for Works and refers to the Minister's replies to a number of questions asked by honourable senators on both sides about the possibility of constructing a Commonwealth Centre in South Australia to house some of the Commonwealth departments in that Stale. As the Minister has said previously that the matter was under active consideration, could he examine the possibility of giving a constructive report on any progress which has been made in relation to plans or prospects for building such a centre in Adelaide? 
In addressing my question to the Minister representing the Minister for the Army, I refer to the report made in April that the Federal Government was to consider recommendations from the joint Department of the Army and Department of Defence survey about new establishments on the Australian mainland to accommodate troops, being mainly troops withdrawn from Vietnam. Have these recommendations been made to the Government? I point out that the recommendations were promised within 2 months of that time. Is South Australia envisaged for any new Army establishment? 
My question, which I direct to the Leader of the Government, in the Senate, follows on the questions asked by  Senator Murphy  and  Senator Buttfield. 

 I ask: In the event that the South Australian motor car industry and the South Australian consumer durables industries suffer a downturn because of the increased interest rates which are prevailing in Australia, will the Government consider taking some action to support those industries? 
Whilst it is unusual for the Minister for Civil Aviation  (Senator Cotton)  to place a Bill before the Senate in this fashion, the Australian Labor Party has no objection to dealing with the legislation at this stage. As he mentioned, the Bi;i provides for the construction of a railway line between Port August and Whyalla. I remind the Senate that in 1964 the then Premier of South Australia made to the Commonwealth Government an application which was related to the demand by South Australia for rail gauge standardisation work. It took many years for the Federal Government to approve the project. Early refusals were based upon the argument that such a line would not be economic. Despite representations which were made by the South Australian Government and by honourable senators on both sides of this chamber it was not until the Governor-General's Speech was delivered that the Government announced it intended to build the line. On 26th February we were notified by the Prime Minister  (Mr Gorton)  .that an agreement had been signed between the South Australian Government and the Commonwealth Government to affirm the proposition that this line should be built. 
The delay in deciding to build the Whyalla railway line is characteristic of the Government. Delays have occurred. Representations have been made by the government's of South Australia, both Labor and Liberal, and by honourable senators from both sides of this chamber about the need to carry out the Commonwealth's obligation to standardise the South Australian system and to link Adelaide with Port Pirie. The Minister has given many reasons for the delay, lt ought to be clearly understood that the Commonwealth Government has an obligation to carry out the agreement made in 1949 between the then State Premier,  Sir Thomas  Playford, and the Commonwealth Government. The agreement provided that standardisation work in the State should be carried out. It provided for the conversion of the northern parts of the South Australian railway system. 
At present all we can get from the Commonwealth Government is an indication that the report made by the private consultants is available and is being discussed by the State Government, the Commonwealth Railways Commissioner, and the Commonwealth Government. The Commonwealth insisted that private consultants be engaged to make surveys on the proposed link between Adelaide and the standard gauge system. The delay in relation to this obligation has been too long. As soon as the 1949 agreement was signed the Commonwealth Government should have proceeded to have surveys made. I do not agree that private consultants are necessary to carry out such surveys. The Commonwealth Railways Commissioner and the South Australian Railways Commissioner are competent authorities in railway organisation and track laying. All that the Commonwealth Minister had to do was to instruct the 2 railway authorities to set about programming the conversion of the system, as was promised in 1949. 
Prior to the signing of the  1949  agreement,  Sir Harold  Clapp, in  1946,  developed a standardisation project which would have committed South Australia, New South Wales and the Commonwealth. After long negotiations the New South Wales Government backed out of the project. On the initiation of the then South Australian Premier it was decided to pronounce the  1949  agreement about which I am speaking. As a result of the  1949  agreement there was an obligation to convert the south eastern part of South Australia's railway system to  5  feet  3  inch gauge. At the stage when these further standardisation works were to be carried out the South Australian Government was to convert them to standard gauge. The State Government accepted this proposition but, in turn, it understood that the responsibilities to convert the northern part of the South Australian railway system would be accepted by the Commonwealth Government. The argument was a legal one. Legislation was introduced into the parliaments, but nothing was done till now. The net result of all the delays has been that Adelaide is isolated completely from the east-west system. It should not be. 
Over the years Ministers have said that examinations had to be made. Now the consultants have made their reports. I am guessing as to what happened, but I suggest that the reports from the consultants are not suitable and do not meet the request of the South Australian Government. I suggest that the recommendations of the consultants are such that they do not provide for the conversion of the northern parts of the narrow gauge system of South Australia, which were part of the  1949  agreement. The Commonwealth Government should proceed with the link between Adelaide and Port Pirie, although it has been long delayed. I remind the Commonwealth Government that many months ago the then Liberal Premier of South Australia and before him the Labor Premier of South Australia stated that the Commonwealth Government should agree to the programme I have mentioned. Although these matters were put before the Commonwealth Government, it said that it would have a survey made by the consultants. The Prime Minister said to the South Australian Premier: T want to make it very clear that the consultants will not consider the conversion of the narrow gauge section which was a part of the  1949  agreement and a part of the State Government's request'. 
Accepting that the Port August-Whyalla connection is a good thing, in South Australia about  250  miles of narrow gauge tracks in the northern part ought to be converted to standard gauge, lt ought to be converted on the basis of the agreement between the South Australian Government and the Commonwealth Government. The Eyre peninsula has quite an extensive railway network.  1  know the conversion of this network is not part of the project, but we have to bear in mind that in Australia large sections of railways still are not uniform. The Commonwealth Government ought to be considering a plan to meet the commitments of  1949  and to assist the States in converting large sections of narrow gauge systems. If the system in the northern part of the State is converted, the great old problem of having  2  different railway gauges merging at terminal points will be repeated. This will mean very heavy transportation expenses, which add to the final cost of transportation in Australia. This is quite contrary to the expressions and the legal arrangements which were part of the  1949  Bill. 
In relation to the works that are to be carried out on the Port August-Whyalla line, I hope that the Commonwealth Railways Department and the South Australian Railways Department will have the opportunity of doing what they have always done, and that is to carry out most of the engineering works. I trust that the representations made by the South Australian State Government in connection with the urgency of linking Adelaide with the eastwest standardised system will be considered with a great deal of respect by the Commonwealth Government because the representations have been made for many years. Other honourable senators and I have raised this matter frequently. We have pointed out that in the first place there should not have been a diversion to have private consultants examine the standardisation project but that the Commonwealth Government should have accepted an obligation to standardise this system and to link Adelaide. The criticism about the long delay comes not only from Labor members but also from the State Liberal 
Party, from business people, from the South Australian Chamber of Commerce and the South Australian Chamber of Manufactures. 
South Australia has many basic disadvantages. lt rs isolated from the rest of Australia and from markets. The products that South Australia makes and the technical knowledge it has available to make these products are well known. 1 mention motor cars and consumer durables. Every month that the connections between Adelaide and the great markets of the east and Western Australia are delayed means millions of dollars lost to South Australian producers. That is not a fair proposition. The position ought to be changed. I urge the Minister in this place to make representations to the Minister for Shipping and Transport  (Mr Sinclair)  insisting that the report by the private consultants, which has been made available to the Government, be made available to Parliament. At least it lays down the premise of some connection between Adelaide and the standardised system. I urge that the representations of the South Australian Premier be considered because the matter is one of urgency. 
We are pleased to see a belated agreement by the Commonwealth Goverment to build the Port Augusta-Whyalla railway line. Months ago we said that such a line would be a paying proposition. Honourable senators will probably know that in another -place the Minister produced an examination or a budget of the programme which proves conclusively that the line will pay. 1 will not delay the Senate at this stage by giving the figures, but it is very clear that this line will be an economic proposition. There is no doubt that a standardised system connecting Adelaide and the new IndianPacific railway system will be a very profitable system. It will serve to ensure that Adelaide and the industries of South Australia are not isolated from the rest of Australia, which they should not be. I cannot understand why, over all these years, the Commonwealth Government has not agreed to meet its commitment, lt was part of the 1949 agreement, which is in writing. I trust the Minister will do all he can to speed up the implementation of the report and the commencement of work on the line connecting Adelaide with Port Pirie. 
Debate interrupted. 
 I wish to pinpoint one of the matters concerning the study by consultants and a matter which has always gravely concerned South Australia. The 1949 agreement provided: 
Conversion to standard gauge of the 3 feet  6  inches gauge lines of the Peterborough Division of the South Australian railways, the conversion to standard gauge of existing locomotives and rolling stock- 
There is the obligation in 1949. Representations by the Premier of South Australia to the Prime Minister  (Mr Gorton)  in 1968 resulted in a letter being sent by the Prime Minister, in which he said: 
We propose that a firm of independent expert consultants be appointed to undertake the feasibility study embracing the matters I have mentioned, following which the Commonwealth would be prepared to consider the matter further. The consultants would, of course, need to confer with and obtain detailed' information from the South Australian Railways Commissioner, and I would be glad to learn whether you are agreeable to this. If so, our officers could proceed to draw up suitable terms of reference for the study of our consideration. I must stress, however, that we see the study as being confined to the question of the most efficient way of achieving rail standardisation between Adelaide and the interstate railway, and while it would embrace the matters I have mentioned (including the question of the most efficient way of dealing with traffic on branch lines), v/e are not prepared to expand it into a general study of the broad and narrow gauge systems north of Adelaide. 
I hope that the Commonwealth Government will not apply that principle to the South Australian conversion and that it will accept the basic 1949 agreement to convert the whole of the system. This would avoid very heavy expense through waste of time and transportation costs. 
My question, which is directed to the Leader of the Government, refers to the answer given to  Senator McManus.  I ask the Minister whether his answer to the honourable senator in relation to withdrawals and the threat about the activities in Laos indicates some change of opinion by the Government; that it may not withdraw its promised quota of Australian troops from Vietnam, having regard to the announcement by the  President  of the United States of America that, despite the military difficulties, there will be a recognised withdrawal of United States troops. 
But I am querying it because the honourable senator did not say that he supported  Senator Murphy's  proposals in relation to areas of departmental administration, nor did he say that he would support what was proposed by  Mr Odgers.  The honourable senator referred to various areas of departmental administration. If we look al the Estimates we find that 27 departments are involved. So my first criticism is of the failure by the Democratic Labor Party to define exactly what its objective is in relation to the committees to be established. In that respect the proposal is obscure. Clause 3 of the motion has been amended to provide for 2 committees instead of 3 committees as was first proposed. This clause contains an important statement. I agree with  Senator Woods.  It seems thai the whole proposition qualifies the concept of permanent committees because it states: 
The actual establishment of the total number of Committees, pursuant to that recommendation, be done over a period of not less than twelve months and not before two of the said Committees selected by the Senate for first establishment have actually operated and report of the operation of these committees has been presented to the Senate by the  President. 
I suggest, that such a proposition qualifies the whole concept of the committees. The Senate has affirmed that standing committees are possible and should be firmly established. In that regard the motion contains a qualification. Then if we consider the 2 committees which are proposed, we see that the first one mentioned is a standing committee of trade, industry and labour. Each of those is a very important subject and should be dealt with separately. The 4 subjects mentioned for the second committee proposed should also be dealt with by special committees. For those reasons I suggest that what  Senator Murphy  has proposed is correct. 
My question is directed to the Minister for Supply and relates to the Government Aircraft Factory at Avalon. Reports have been given to me and to the local member,  Mr Scholes,  of rumours current in the area that some part of the plant is to be leased to commercial enterprise. Is the Minister in a position to confirm or deny this report? If the report is true, can he guarantee that the present staff will be maintained? 

 I have already made statements about the aircraft industry. In those statements I made reference to the need to keep a viable work force in the industry and to the efforts being made to ensure that the work force is maintained. 1 would not like to make a definite statement in reply to the honourable, senator's question until I checked out the information in relation to Avalon. As the honourable senator knows and as the Senate generally knows, there is a shift of the work load at Avalon to some extent. But when he projects the possibility of part of the plant being leased to commercial enterprise I caution myself to get the facts from the Department of Supply before replying. I will do that tomorrow. 
hi directing a question to the Minister for Air I refer to the absence of any statement by the Government concerning the Phantom aircraft and the future of the Fill aircraft, although the Senate is likely to rise tomorrow or the next day for the winter recess. I ask: Will any statement be made to the Senate before we rise for the winter recess on what the Government proposes to do concerning these aircraft? If the Minister will not make a statement before we rise, does the Government propose to announce its decision on this matter during the recess'' 
I just want to make 2 quick points. I appreciate what the Leader of the Government in the Senate  (Senator Sir Kenneth Anderson)  said about consultation with the unions. He will remember that I referred earlier also to the time when the Bill was prepared. We were told it was available in November last. 
The purpose of this Bill is to increase the rates payable under the Commonwealth Employees Compensation Act 1930-1969 and it must be related to the decision of the Government when it brought down the socalled new code in March and at the same time brought down amendments to the Commonwealth Employees Compensation Act. The Opposition is very concerned about the low standards of compensation which are provided under the Commonwealth Employees Compensation Act. We are also very concerned about the great delays that have occurred in bringing down an improved Act. In 1964 the then Prime Minister,  Mr Harold  Holt, promised to bring down a model compensation Bill. In 1967 the then Treasurer stated that the new Bill was almost ready to present to Parliament at the end of the year. In June 1968 the Treasurer announced the terms of the comprehensive Bill which largely represents the new code introduced in March this year, lt was then argued by the Government that the Parliament was unable to proceed with the new code. 
Let me say firstly that the new code incorporated some novel features and some increase in the rates but it generally sustained the same sort of principles of the old code, lt was less generous than the compensation Acts of all the States. As can be seen from the times at which improvements to the legislation were announced, great advances have been made by the States almost annually. On most occasions compensation Acts have been improved over a 2-year period. When these Bills were introduced the trade unions - and I refer to the Australian Council of Trade Unions, the Council of Commonwealth Public Service Associations and the Australian Council of Salaried and Professional Associations - took the time to analyse the code and they very shortly came down with very strong criticism of what it contained. The Minister decided that the easy way to deal with the legislation was to bring down new rales. The new rates which have been brought down have not been greatly increased. They certainly do not go ahead of the pattern of all the States. They are greater than in some States and less than in others. If there was to be a partial recognition in the Commonwealth Employees Compensation Bill of the improvements that are necessary one would have thought that the Government would introduce some new and improved provisions which would be better than those obtaining in most of the States. The Government has not done this. What we have now is a partial improvement of the rates. The Bill provides some improvements but they are generally not as good as they might have been. 
The Government promised that it would bring in a new code. The Opposition has argued, and in recent years the Government has largely accepted, that what ought to be done is that the Commonwealth should bring down a model code for all the States and provide a basis of compensation to clear up a lot of the litigation that takes place and to provide a pattern for people in industry. Nearly 400,000 workers are employed by the Commonwealth. If one takes into consideration families of the great number of those workers who are married one finds that a lot of people are dependent upon compensation. I do not want to discuss the old code in great detail, but some important measures ought to be considered. It would be a very sensible thing if at this stage the Government decided to consolidate the Commonwealth Employees Compensation Act and the Seamen's Compensation Act. A number of amendments to both Acts have been passed over the years; they are very antiquated in a lot of respects. 
Whilst we do not oppose this' Bill we put it to the Government that it should not have relied, as it is purposed to have done, on letters from the Australian Council of Trade Unions, the Council of Commonwealth Public Service Organisations, the Australian Council of Salaried and Professional Associations and other unions. It should have consulted them and there should have been conferences between the bodies concerned. The members of those organisations represent the bulk of Commonwealth employees. A lot of the arguments which will again be canvassed when Parliament meets for the August session and a lot of work in drafting the Bill could have been saved. I want to commend the honourable member for Hindmarsh  (Mr Clyde Cameron)  who is the shadow Minister for Labour for his work on a model Bill. Because of the urgency of drafting a model compensation Bill, which we thought would have been done by the Government, he had to get to work as soon as this Bill was presented to the Parliament and compose a model Bill, copies of which have now been sent to most members. The Government has undertaken to consider this proposal in the next session. 
As  Senator Murphy  has reminded me more than once, the Seamen's Compensation Bill and the Commonwealth Employees' Compensation Bill are shocking pieces of legislation. He is confident that if any group of lawyers, including Government lawyers, sat down as a special committee such as one of the committees we are now proposing to set up they would soon modify and improve the Bill and bring down a measure much better than the one which is presented to the Parliament. The proposed code is certainly not much better than that which exists at the present time. In the time from now until the Parliament meets again the Government ought to call into conference the people I have mentioned. They are very dissatisfied with the Bill. As one would recognise from looking at the Bill, which makes very complicated prescriptions, it is obviously necessary to consult lawyers and specialists in workers' compensation, which is what the Australian Council of Trade Unions and the Commonwealth Council of Public Service Organisations have done to a large extern. But their work is not finished. If the Bill was ready, as we have been told by the Minister, towards the end of last year, copies could easily have been sent to members of the Opposition and to the parties concerned and they could have considered possible amendments. At the present time the only promise we have is that when the Parliament resumes the Government will not shut its mind to suggestions. lt would have been better to have held such discussions between November of last year and March of this year when spokesmen for the bodies representing employees could have put their points of view to the Government. Even at this late stage it would be better for the Government to engage in direct consultations with the people who are suggesting modifications. Most of the statements of the Commonwealth Public Service organisations have been placed in the boxes of all members of Parliament. I do not want to deal with them except to say that there is a practical way of solving the issue, and it is not yet too late to do it. As honourable senators have no doubt read in the daily Press, the Australian Council of Trade Unions and the Commonwealth Council of Public Service Organisations have publicised strong criticism of the code and the proposed increased rates. They have also publicly complained about the procedure followed by the Government. The Government should realise what I am saying and do what I have suggested, that is, to engage in direct consultations before the August session. The Government should take note of the proposal carried by the Australian Council of Trade Unions. I have a communication from the Secretary of the Australian Council of Trade Unions dated 30th April 1970, which reads: 
The ACTU affiliated unions with members affected by the Commonwealth Workers' Compensation Acts, met in Sydney on 23rd April 1970, and the decision of the unions is as follows: 
This meeting of unions representing a great proportion of workers and dependants affected  by the Commonwealth Compensation Acts expresses its strongest opposition lo the pernicious proposals in the Bills for new Commonwealth Acts as submitted by the Commonwealth Government and we urge the ACTU Officers to call on the Federal Parliamentary Labor Committee to co-ordinate wilh the ACTU to secure trade union objectives for adequate workers compensation. 
We reject the specious attempt by the Government to deny or nullify inherent rights for the protection of workers by compensatory provisions when unable to perform ordinary duties. also the Government's miserable approach for provision of compensation payments. We urge that the ACTU Executive set up a composite committee based on the ACTU Congress decisions to review the whole of the compensation area and the social aspects affecting me loss of workers earning power. Further, that a joint campaign in conjunction with the CCPSO and ACSPA including pamphlets and publicity be initiated . . 
The Federal Secretary of the Council of Commonwealth Public Service Organisations, in a letter dated 16th April 1970, said: 
Upon close examination the Bill, in its present form, in a number of respects manifestly fails to accord lo Commonwealth employees the level of benefits and standards of equity which prevail, and should prevail, in the Australian community. The enclosed analysis sets out in detail the grounds upon which my Council has reached thai conclusion.  1 shall not read the whole letter, lt goes on to express the concern of those people. At ne present time they are conferring with the Labor Party and the Australian Council of Trade Unions. In the parliamentary recess the Government should suggest to those people for consideration the sort of amendments which might be proposed. 
If one compares the old and new codes one would expect he 1 payments to dependants on the death of an employee to be extremely good. In the Bill the Government proposes to make the amount payable on death $12,000. In South Australia that has been the amount for some years. The South Australian Government has promised to introduce new legislation to improve the Workmen's Compensation Act. I am advised that many other States are going to do the same thing. Under the present increase in the Commonwealth Employees' Compensation Act the amount received by a dependent wife for the incapacity of her husband has been increased from S6.80 to S7.70. In Queensland for a long time the amount has been S8.05. In South Australia the amount is S9. For a dependent child it is proposed to increase the amount from $2.50 to $2.80. In Queensland the amount for a dependent child has been $2.55 for a long time. In South Australia, when a Labor Government was returned to office a few years ago, the amount was increased to S3.50. 
The measure before us proposes to leave the allowance for funeral expenses at SI 20. In New South Wales for a long time the amount for funeral expenses has been $250; in Victoria it has been the reasonable cost of a funeral: in South Australia for some years it has been $200; in Western Australia it is SI 63; and in Tasmania it is the reasonable cost of burial. The proposed weekly rate of compensation in the First Schedule for an employee without dependants - which would be the basis for the payment allowed for a married man - is to be increased to S3 1.80. A wife is to receive $7.70 and the amount for a dependent child will be increased to $2.80, making a total of $42.30 for a man, wife and I child. In the quarter ended December 1969 the average weekly earnings for the 6 capital cities amounted to $77.50. The proposal by the Commonwealth is thus extremely low. A worker may be incapacitated for 10 weeks as a result of an accident at work. He could lose as much as $30 a week over a period of 10 weeks - and that would not be an unusually long lime - making a total loss of S300. In that time he would have to meet his usual commitments. lt is not unusual for people to take sick leave in cases where the compensation payments are low. The Australian Council of Trade Unions has said for many years - and in one or two States the principle has been applied - that a man who is injured at work should receive what he was earning before the accident. Action to establish that principle in all States should be taken very quickly. A conspectus has been issued by the Department of Labour and National Service containing details formerly published by the Department of Works. It contains a simple table from which any group of officers could draw up a Bill which would give fairly important increases to Commonwealth employees without any delays. We are just not satisfied that over the years the Commonwealth Employees Compensation Act has been dealt with  properly. Its provisions apply, of course, not only to public servants but also to seamen and, perhaps most important of all. to national servicemen. Members of the Regular Army will be subject to the Act and consequently something should be done about its provisions. 
One of the most important provisions of this measure is its effect on members of the defence forces. This very bad provision has remained in the Act over the years. I refer particularly to paragraph (1a.) (b) (ii) of the First Schedule, which states:  the Commissioner shall lake into account any payment, allowance or benefit (except child endowment under Part VI. of the Social Services Consolidation Act 1947-1948, any pension or allowance in respect of a child dependent upon the earnings of the employee, any payment other than a pension under the Superannuation Aci 1922- 1948 or the Defence Forces Retirements Benefits Act 1948. deferred pay payable to the employee, any payment under section seventy-four of the Commonwealth Public Service Act 1922-1948 or under section eight of the Commonwealth Employees' Furlough Act 1943-1944) which the employee receives from the Commonwealth during the period of his incapacity and shall reduce the amount of the weekly payment otherwise payable under sub-paragraph (b) or sub-paragraph (c) of paragraph (I.) of this Schedule to such amount (if any) as he thinks just and proper; 
That provision relates to an employee who is totally or partially incapacitated for work as a result of injury. In recent years 1 addressed a question on this subject to the Minister for Supply  (Senator Sir Kenneth Anderson),  who represents the Treasurer  (Mr Bury)  in this chamber. I asked: 
Would a Commonwealth employee totally or permanently incapacitated for work by injury be subject, under the First Schedule of the Commonwealth Employees' Compensation Act, to a reduction in the amount of compensation or injury payment on account of an entitlement to superannuation or extended leave benefits. 
ls the Treasurer aware that in similar State legislation no such provision applies and that State employees would be entitled to compensation payments in addition to superannuation and/or leave benefits. 
Have any claims arising from the HMAS Voyager' mishap been adjusted to take into account superannuation, deferred pay, or extended leave payments under the provisions of the Act. 
Does the Government propose to review this Act. 
I asked that question some months after the HMAS 'Voyager' mishap. The answer I received stated: 
Under the provisions of paragraph (1 A) (b) (ii) of the First Schedule of the Commonwealth Employees' Compensation Act the consolidated revenue portion of pensions grunted under the Superannuation Act and the Defence Forces Retirement Benefits Act are taken into account in determining weekly compensation payments Any benefits due by way of extended leave or furlough are independent of. and nol affected by, compensation provisions. 
Yes; in the legislation of some States superannuation type benefits are excluded from adjustment. However. State Compensation legislation differs from that of the Commonwealth in a number of respects and varies front State to State. Overall Commonwealth provisions arc nol regarded as being less appropriate than those of the Slates. 
No. As indicated in (1) above extended leave benefits are not affected by compensation provisions. Likewise deferred pay is independent of compensation benefits. Should any case arise of the termination of the engagement of a survivor of the Voyager tragedy on medical grounds attributable to that event, and the serviceman concerned is in consequence granted a Defence Forces Retirement Benefits Fund pension, paragraph (IA) (b) (ii) of the First Schedule of the Commonwealth Employees' Compensation Act would be applicable. 
have outlined the important points which the Opposition contends should have been examined quickly. The Government has had every opportunity to do so. The Government was not able to say or did not want to say to the Opposition that it would confer with the people concerned, and we ask that that action be taken now. 
One of the basic faults of this legislation which is supposed to reform the present Act is in the definition of personal injury by accident, arising out of or in the course of employment. The principal Act has been amended but the proposed new code retains the old prescription which has been discarded in New South Wales, Victoria, Queensland and South Australia because it is most antiquated, lt is time that it was altered. If the general benefits of the new code are not to be advanced this should not bc called a new code and the provision ought to be altered. In view of the urgency attached to this measure I wish to say that whilst we do not oppose it we are greatly critical of the delays which have occurred in instituting the reforms promised by the Government. We are not now opposing the measure because, in the dying stages of this session, it would be unfair to some people to deny them the small increases contained in the proposed legislation. While we will not vote against the legislation we are putting to the Government - and I am quite sure thai it is aware of this situation - that the matter is most urgent. I trust that the comments  1 have made about conferences with the unions who represent about 400,000 employees will take place soon and that the Government will not rely only upon representations made to it in the form of letters. It should hold a conference with the unions to consider the sorts of problems which will arise. If that is not done, when we come back next session we will be discussing, as the Government promised an opportunity to discuss, a model Bill which will be presented to the Parliament at that time and although the Bill will be much clearer in establishing a code, unless the Government code is greatly improved a very long debate will be necessary. The Government has an opportunity to present important measures of reform. In the light of the comments that I have made on behalf of the trade union movement I suggest that it is most urgent that the Government introduce those reforms. 
 We intend to oppose clause 6 because it provides for a new section 33a which in fact allows the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission the power to apply a bans clause. Consistent with what has been said in speeches made by honourable senators on this side of the chamber, we are very much opposed to this clause and we intend to divide on the question. 
Question put: 
That clause 6 stand as printed. 
 Mr Temporary  Chairman,I wish to refer to the definition which appears in clause 3 of the Bill which amends section 4 of the principal Act. We are very much opposed to this definition. Not only does it lay a basis for actions under the proposed new bans clause which is section 33a but also, as you will see, the prescription is very wide. Clause 3 (b) seeks to insert the following new sub-section:  (3.) A reference in this Act to engaging in conduct includes a reference to being, whether directly or indirectly, a party to or concerned in the doing of any Act or thing. 
It semes to me that this is a rather retrograde prescription. If it was prescribed as being concerned directly with conduct, we might be prepared to accept it. But we oppose this definition. We intend to divide the Senate on this clause. 
My question is directed to the Minister for Supply in his capacity as Minister representing the Minister for Defence. I ask: What action is the Government taking to place orders upon Australian industry for the supply of the 3 Services of ships, helicopters, landing craft and other requirements outlined by the Minister for Defence in March last? Have any contracts been let for this work, or is it contemplated by the Government that such orders may not be placed in Australia? 
Is there any change of policy in respect of the placement of these orders largely in Australia? 
This is a straightforward piece of legislation which the Opposition does not intend to oppose. The arrangements proposed by the Bill, as outlined by the Minister for Works  (Senator Wright)  in his second reading speech, are the result of the necessity to maintain the system of permanency of employment which has been accepted in the waterfront industry. This legislation makes possible the extension of the system for a further 2 years. The Opposition agrees with the sentiments expressed by the Minister when he pointed to the advantages of the system. 
I put forward a proposition from the Opposition that in deciding the new functions of the directorate of the Australian Stevedoring Industry Authority the Government might have considered something other than appointing a full time director. This Bill proposes to change the present arrangement of 3 full time members, the reason being that the situation has so developed with the establishment of permanency that many of the functions of the Australian Stevedoring Industry Authority have now changed. As a result the Government has forecast that it will be necessary to have only I full time director. One of the views of the union which is largely concerned wilh the innovation is that the Government should at some stage consider whether instead of having only a full time director it could appoint a directorship consisting of representatives from the Waterside Workers Federation and the waterfront employers. That does not mean that we arc pressing any point in this respect. 
The other arrangement we agree with is the statutory basis for the National Stevedoring Industry Conference. Honourable senators will remember that in 1967 the Parliament had before it a report from the National Conference. The Conference was chaired by  Mr Woodward,  Q. C. The members of that Conference put out a comprehensive report in which they set out the terms of the scheme which would give to the waterfront industry nol only permanency but a new sort of organisation to match the changing systems of employment of waterfront labour. The system of permanency was not only a necessity to cut out the defects of the old casual hire system but it was a necessity in the interests of the economy, in that there needed to be some new system which would face up to the changes which have now largely taken place. 
I want to echo again the sentiments of the Minister and the sentiments of those who in the 1967 debate on the Conference report applauded the people who took part in the Conference. They were the representatives of the Government,  Mr Woodward,  and representatives of the Australian Council of Trade Unions, the Waterside Workers Federation and the Department of Labour and National Service. I want to make this point because it is often forgotten. Some people say that the National Stevedoring Industry Conference simply brought down a recommendation to suit the unions, but it did more than that. It suggested a scheme which met the changes in the industry. At that time there was pending the introduction of containerisation, new types of loading and new types of ships. The scheme was also designed to cope with the problems of the industry. Paragraph 14 of the report of the Conference in 1967 stated: 
Furthermore, with the increasing use of containers, and the general tendency to handle cargoes in larger units by means, for example, of pallets or pre-slinging, much complex and expensive mechanical equipment is appearing on ships and wharves. This creates an obvious need for regular employees to control and work with such equipment. 
Paragraph 15 stated: 
Thus the needs both for better industrial relations and for efficient introduction of new handling techniques gave incentive to the search for a practicable scheme of permanent employment. 
I think that the objectives of the Conference have been largely met. They have been worthwhile. The report was a wonderful report in view of the changes then taking place. The Minister echoed the same sort of sentiments, but only in passing, and in reporting upon the future of the industry he made mention of the loss of time on the waterfront through industrial disputes. What we have to realise is that while the waterside workers certainly gol a scheme of permanency which was better than the old system of casual hire, and while they knew what they were doing day after day, the fact is that in any economy any section of the work force has to have some consideration when in outside industry wage scales and wage standards are being improved. 
So a large part of the current problem in the industry has been due to this basic movement in the economy.  Mr Woodward,  Q.C., said something about this in a report to the July meeting of the Industrial Relations Society. Although he said he was concerned about the loss of time and stoppages in the industry he pointed to the fact that a large proportion of them were due to incidental matters. He mentioned such things as poor relationships between the employees and the employers, the very hot conditions that existed in the early part of the year in Melbourne and union problems at the time. 1 do not want to delay the Senate. In our view the worth of the system of permanency has been proven. Something may be said about the great changes in technology and in shipping. At this time of the evening, in view of the amount of work we have to do, I do not think very much will be gained i." I expand on this beyond saying that great changes are still taking place. We know that the container system has pretty well established itself in Australia. As a result the work force can see large and specialised ships coming in. The people who work the ships have to be highly skilled in their operations. While these highly specialised ships are operating a number of changes are necessary in port construction and services. Thrusting into this matter is the question of what might happen to conventional ships. One of the concerns of the industry at the present time - and I share the same concern as the Government - is the extent of future charges. Authorities in the shipping world have forecast that in the next 5 years some 170 conventional ships will drop out. That does not determine that throughout Australia the system of containerisation will largely operate because there will continue to be a need which has largely been met by some of the shipping interests to supply the sort of vessel which can go into smaller ports. 
The Minister has indicated that 80% of waterside labour is on a permanent basis and, in the future, more ports will be placed on a permanent basis. I am concerned about the smaller ports. It would be strange if I did not mention the future of Port Adelaide. But Port Adelaide is not the only port concerned. With the container system a number of important ports which in the past have had a fairly big establishment of waterside labour, and a fairly good record of activity and of loading and unloading, will become almost redundant in the future. Unfortunately in some cases the ancillary services to those ports will not be provided. At the present time some of them are serviced by road and rail. It is a sad reflection that places like Port Adelaide will not be directly connected with the overseas services. It may be said that some of the traffic is going to the railways. But employer and employee interests in South Australia are concerned that in the long run Adelaide might be left out of the great international trade routes. As has already been argued for South Australia, we are not only concerned about that. We are concerned also about the associated problem of rail connection to the standard gauge system. 
These are the broad principles. We have no reason to disagree with what the Minister has said about changes. We can see the need for some caution in adopting on a  fun lime basis the son oi scheme which will meet the future because of these great changes. In my opinion - as I said during the debate when the first changes arose from the  National  Stevedoring Conference Report- I think the scheme is a good scheme, lt has produced a great deal of stability which was not previously known in the industry. In the interim, I think, it has proved its value. 1 commend the legislation to the Senate. 
The Australian Labor Party is very concerned that such an important piece of legislation as the Conciliation and Arbitration Bill should be dealt with in the dying hours of a session of the Parliament, lt is of very great importance to the economy and the unions, and it is of great concern to the employers. I think it is of most concern to people who work in industry and who are covered by the Commonwealth 
Conciliation and Arbitration Act. Because of the protest made about the legislation when it was debated in the other place the Australian Labor Party hoped that the Government might withdraw the legislation and convert the proposal lo a tripartite discussion with employers and the Austraiian Council of Trade Unions to evaluate the recommendations which the Government had proposed. We do not consider the proposals will provide the type of improvements which the Minister for Works  (Senator Wright)  who in this chamber represents the Minister for Labour and National Service  (Mr Snedden)  has mentioned. 
To some extent the recommendations and proposals are similar to t he 1965 legislation which was introduced by the then Minister for Labour and National Service,  Mr  McMahon,  as the result of a number of conferences with the ACTU. In 1964 it was proposed by the ACTU - as the Senate will remember it was proposed for many years - that the sanction provisions be abolished. The reasons are nol much different now. The Government has said that sanctions, in one form or another, are essentially part of the Australian arbitration system. The Australian Labor Party has never accepted thai. It thinks that when the Austraiian system was first designed it was a good system. The changes in industry in modern times ought to have caused the Government to rely upon a system which was based more on conciliation and less on arbitration. The Senate will remember it was forecast thai the 1965 legislation would provide a cooling off period before employers took action under the contempt or injunction clause. The Australian Labor Parly feels that the legislation will not be satisfactory in providing the cure which the unions want. Consequently 1 put it to the Senate that this legislation is not wanted by the ACTU or the employers. In fact, the Government is saying: 'Lcl us have a go at establishing some modifications which might work.' The 1965 amendments to the Aci did not work. I do not think this legislation will work either. It would have been more sensible to have done what I suggested. I thought that the Government might have proposed to do what 1 had in mind. 
Another very  important  point is that if the Government proposal to amend section 109 is carried, a presidential member  of the Commission  will  have the opportunity of considering whether he should certify that some action should be taken against unions. While  it  may be presumed that a presidential member of the Commission might take the necessary steps to bring about arbitration or conciliation, we generally think that this will not be the result. In our opinion this  will  occur generally in a situation where the presidential member acts more in a judicial capacity than in a capacity similar lo a commissioner. The commissioner, for example, knows the industries, labour relations, management and employee relations better and is more specialised than a presidential member. I say that without in any way criticising the ability of the presidential members. We do not think this legislation will provide the sort of condition which will bring about change, lt could be thai in most circumstances where a party reports lo the Commission there is occasion for the Commission to come into the picture. 
We think this would occur largely in areas where there may be disputes about mailers which the management considers are its responsiblity. For example, there are a large number of disputes in industry which are related to conditions affecting noi the award but the immediate relationship between the workers and  the  management. lt might be a question of travelling time. lt night be a question of safely al the plant, lt might be a question of status or conditions which have obtained in the plant for many years. In such circumstances  the  tendency has been for all arbitrators in the past, even commissioners, to say: 'These are matters outside our jurisdiction. They do noi concern the award.' Consequently, in our opinion, the employer would generally he right in the view of the authority. Consequently, it might be thai certificates would bc issued more readily than would ordinarily be the case if it were a matter of conciliation or determination across the conference table. 
All of us have had a good deal of experience in industrial relations. I have had many years of experience in this field. I know thai most of the important disputes have  been  solved in thai way. Very few of the disputes that  we  know have irritated the nation have  been  solved in the first instance or in a complete sense in the arbitration courts of the land. Mostly mailers have been solved by direct negotiation between the parties. To  some  extent the groundwork of a settlement has been laid before the matter has reached the courts. So while it might be presumed that it is a midway course to provide some change or some restriction of the sanctions application, we feel they are the son of matters in which the system is fault) on its own account. While the intention of the Government is to establish  such  a system and to change sections of the Act to do so, and while it lakes certain penal powers out of the Act, it restores the ability of the Commission to apply the bans clauses. When the legislation is passed it will noi he possible for a commissioner to apply the bans clauses in the award, but it will be possible for a presidential member to do so. So we have a situation where in fact the  bans  clauses remain. They can be applied, as I have mentioned to honourable senators, in circumstances where the presidential  member  may not be the best person to consider settlement of disputes. That is what is proposed by the legislation. That is the first point 1 make: the bans clauses will still obtain in the system. 
Sanctions will also still obtain. The Government says that it believes in sanctions. In addition, of course, the penalties will remain. For many years the trade  union  movement has been complaining about very severe penalties. I will briefly relate lo honourable senators some of the fines which have been imposed in the past. We do not think this system ought to operate in Australia. There ought to bc a review in the form I suggested. The only way to solve labour problems in a developing economy is for the parties concerned to gel together and work out a pact or a system of reform which will apply to the relevant conditions. If we look at the changes which are proposed in one important section of the Act  we  will see that in some cases the penalties are increased. The Government proposes the important modification that the presidential member may take into account more than one breach as being one breach, whereas formerly every breach of  nonobservance  of the award attracted a  fine.  Many unions have been fined heavily in lhe.se circumstances. That is one modification of the principle. While we have that modification, in many cases there have been increases in the penalties. For example section 41 of the Act reads:  (1.) The Commission may, in relation to an industrial dispute - 
fix maximum penalties for a breach or nonobservance of any term of an award, not exceeding $200 in the case of an organisation or an employer who is not a member of an organisation bound by the award or $20 in the case of a member of an organisation. 
Proposed new section 119 (Id.) states: 
The maximum penalty that may bc imposed under sub-section (lj of this section in respect of a breach of a term of an order or award is - 
where the penalty is imposed by the Court - 
in a case to which the next succeeding sub-paragraph does not apply - One thousand dollars; or 
if the breach is a separate breach by virtue of a provision included in an order or award in accordance with paragraph (c) of sub-section (1.) of section forty-one of this Act - Five hundred dollars; or 
in any other case - Two hundred and fifty dollars. 
So we have a situation where those penalties obviously have been improved. But it may be possible that in some cases, because of the taking together of breaches, the final penalty might not be so high. There is the the circumstances where in fact the provisions which have been introduced increase the penalties rather than ease them. I quoted part of proposed new section 119. This is the section which will give the Commission power to do what 1 am talking about. 1 refer to section 119(1.) which states: 
Where any organisation or person bound by an order or award has committed a breach or nonobservance of a term of the order or award, a penalty may be imposed by the Court. . . . 
There are a number of qualifications under which the Commission may or may not take breaches together. But the fact is that penalties are still higher than they were before. Apart from making the changes proposed, the Government has enacted a provision whereby existing fines will have to be met. Honourable senators will remember that a large part of the modern examination of the sanctions provisions arises from the fines which were imposed upon the Tramways Union and in the so-called O'Shea case as a result of which some S68.O0O in fines has not yet been paid by a number of unions for offences under the Act. To be quite frank, 1 do not think the unions will ever pay the fines. But the Government is including in the legislation a provision for these fines to stand. At some time it may take action to collect them and then we will have a major conflict between the Government and the union movement. I wish to read a statement which to some extent illustrates the point of view of the Opposition. It appeared in the leading article of the 'Australian' on 2nd June 1970 under the heading: 'New rules but old attitudes'. The statement reads: 
There could hardly have been a less appropriate time for the Government's decision to set about collecting the $37,000 outstanding in fines for breaches of the penal clauses in the Arbitration Act. The level of industrial unrest is high and rising and the ACTU is totally committed, by decision of its congress last September, to fight such an action. 
Then the article goes on to develop an argument which the Opposition has often put in this Parliament; that is, that a large number of the disputes in the industrial movement arise because of bad relations created by economic changes which the Government establishes. The Government is the power which sets the economic climate and if the Government, for example, decides to have stop and go economic policies or if it decides to bring about an escalation or a de-escalation of costs the people who get the worst end of the stick are the workers. They are the people who in some way have to achieve the standards determined by the courts. They have to improve their wage rates to cope with changes in the economy. This article in the 'Australian' certainly makes the point the Opposition has often made. It continues: 
If the economy were restored to an even keel and kept that way, instead of lurching between extremes, many of the changing stresses in industrial relations would be removed. The employers and unions have shown, through the new agreements between them, a willingness to avoid trouble. This is more important than Government face-saving. It will not survive the sort of collision now threatening between the Government and the ACTU. 
It is the leading article in the 'Australian' of 2nd June 1970. 
No, but J have heard  Senator McManus  say similar things to that which I have just said. Following the rejection by the Commission of the ACTU claim for an increase in the basicwage and an increase in the margins, and when the court decided to establish a total wage, I heard the honourable senator in this Parliament say that such a decision would mean an end to a great deal of industrial peace in Australia because it disrupted the traditional basis of decisions by the Commission. He said that from that time on - 1 agreed with him at the time - we would have a situation where relations between the employers and unions would worsen. 
If  Senator Gair  has a point to make he should make it. 
 If  Senator Gair  is nol listening to the debate I suggest he might be quiet, lt disturbs me greatly to hear him interjecting. 
 Well, I hear  Senator Gair  coughing and coughing and talking. lt is not very easy to develop an argument in such circumstances. I suggest that he listen to the argument because this is an important matter. In 1967 we put to the Senate an argument that from then onwards Australia could expect processes in the settlement of disputes related very closely to a system of collective bargaining. That is largely what has happened in Australia in recent years. As a result there have been more disputes and more time lost. There have been fewer satisfactory decisions by the Commission and greater confrontation between the national trade union centre and the Government than ever before. I should have expected that in these circumstances the Government might have said: Well, if we cannot ease the sanctions provisions in the way in which the trade union movement wants, at least we will wait and confer with it until we can'. We cannot  see  that the provisions that have been introduced will make the relationships any better. As  J  have pointed out, while bans clauses cannot be applied by commissioners they will be applied by presidential members of the Commission and that seems to  nic-  to be a great defect. 1 want to mention along the same lines that even in the last few days in the Senate we have seen  Senator Scott,  who was until recently a Minister in the Government, present from 31 electors of the Divisions of Banks, Blaxland. Cook and Mitchell in the State of New South Wales the following petition:   . . that in the national interest, it is essential thai there be an effective and respected Commonwealth Conciliation and Arbitration system: that the decision given by the Commonwealth Conciliation and Arbitration Commission in the professional engineers case on 3rd December 1969, which has followed lo the letter in both magnitude and dale of operation the salary  increases for  engineers employed in the Commonwealth Public Service which were announced before £he arbitration hearing had concluded, has given rise lo imer dismay and has indicated a lack of independent assessment;  that  recent statements made al the Australian Workers Union Conference and by  the  President of the Australian Council of Trade Unions have indicated disillusionment with the federal arbitration system and have particularly referred lo the professional engineers case: that an unacceptable arbitration system must inevitably lead lo industrial unrest throughout Australia. 
The petitioners pray thai the Australian Government lake positive action us soon as possible lo reestablish confidence in the Commonwealth arbitration system. 
That is not unusual because in the Senate we have seen presented a number of petitions complaining about the decisions of the arbitration authorities. It seems very apparent to us that the economic policies of the Government to a large extent determine the kind of labour relations we will have in the economy. If the economy is unbalanced, if the thrust is upon workers in relation to COWS then there will be much more activity from the unions to establish a system which will give them belter conditions. 
This legislation has been developed following very closely upon the conference which took place over many months between the ACTU, the national employers organisation and the Government in relation to new procedures for dealing with industrial disputes. On 6th May 1970 the Minister for Labour and National Service presented to the Parliament a report which referred to the new system of settling disputes. The Government considered it an advance because all the parties had agreed with it and as a result it might mean that a number of disputes would be avoided. In view of this basic agreement between the national employers, the trade union movement and the Government which established these principles for guidance in avoiding and settling industrial disputes, it was to be expected that the Government would go on to discuss with them the kind of alterations to the Conciliation and Arbitration Act that might be necessary to avoid the continuing complaints of unions about the punitive clauses in the Act. The trade union movement for many years has complained about section 109 and section 111 of the Conciliation and Arbitration Act On a number of occasions Ministers in this Senate have said that they consider that employers have had recourse too readily to the sanctions provisions of the Act. If honourable senators read the second reading speech delivered by the Minister for Works when introducing this Bill, they will notice that he said: 
The Bill gives expression to the Government's long-held policy that sanctions are an essential feature of the system of conciliation and arbitration in this country. 
The Minister stated further what was said many years ago: 
. that the sanctions provisions of the Act should be used as a last resort. 
The Minister said also - and this is the point that I have made:   . . the Bill will retain industrial sanctions but not without prior use being made of negotiation, conciliation and, where necessary, arbitration 
The proposals in the Bill will give a presidential member the chance to negotiate and to settle a dispute or to set in train some industrial machinery for this purpose. The procedure will probably be abortive. When disputes are reported to the Commission the presidential member will be required either to give a certificate against the union, which more often than not he will do, or to refuse it. As I have said, he is not a specialised officer in the settling of disputes between management and workers, and arbitral procedures will have to be canvassed. 
For many years the Opposition has argued that privileges should not be withdrawn. I remember a dispute in South Australia where an important employer withdrew a free bus service which had been provided for about 600 or 700 workers. Negotiations took place between the organisation and the union movement for a long time. The union movement was not able to obtain any improvements or compensation for the withdrawal of the free transport. The court took the view, as it often does, that such matters are outside the award and the management has the sole right to determine them. The same argument is applied to plant organisation, staff promotions and seniority. It also applies to the question of safety, which is covered by State legislation. In many circumstances such a device as proposed by the Minister would, in my opinion, be imperfect. The key to the proposal is whether the presidential member will occasion new negotiation, conciliation and settlement which is a better approach than that contained in the present section 109, which relates to enforcement, and the present section 111, which relates to action for contempt of court. Such actions in the past have been very savage. 
Proposed new section 32a seeks to give the Commission power in relation to the settlement of matters giving rise to conduct hindering the observance of an award. From my experience and my knowledge of the trouble within the union movement today I think that any sections of the Conciliation and Arbitration Act which make certain processes mandatory are generally unsatisfactory. Finally in all disputes it is necessary to get the opposing parties around a table and to have a qualified man, not necessarily to arbitrate but to bring parties together. In the arbitration system today there are a number of commissioners who have a great deal of experience and success in settling disputes. Most of those disputes have been settled not by applying the letter of the law but by having the parties brought together and widening the area of agreement about some matters which they considered to be matters of principle. 
We come back to the question as to whether or not the industrial system in Australia is going to be the system we have seen operating over the years, in which very savage penalties have been imposed on trade unions for taking action which was largely related to wages, margins and conditions. If one looks at most of the disruptions in the industrial scene one will find that most of them are related to such matters and rarely are they related to extraneous matters which do not concern the economy. Basically most disputes arise from problems in the economy. The arbitration system has not been able to match the problems which arise out of the developing economy, the growth of productivity and the general improvement of welfare in the state. So we have a system under which the courts have accepted that they prescribe only minimum wages and that employers and unions can argue about higher rates. It is in the latter area in recent years thai most of the disputes have taken place, lt is in the area of the total wage, as mentioned some years ago by  Senator McManus  and myself, that most of the trouble is coming today. More expert people are required to deal with industrial problems. 
The honourable senator picks out one aspect of the problems in the community and the work force. It would seem lo me that the most satisfactory way to deal with the people who are out to upset the economy or to create disputes in the work force is lo provide an arbitration system which will allow unions and workers to get the maximum from the economy. That system has not yet been devised. The unions are pushing for improved conditions in a situation where the economy is able to grant them. The courts fix the wages of workers, but manufacturers, commercial interests and employers can fix their own prices. We have this strange situation in a so-called free economy where prices are not fixed by any authority yet wages are fixed by the courts. In such circumstances sections of the working class movement w,im to take stronger action than that generally taken by the union movement. 
I return to the history of fines in Australia. If anything is more important than the amendments proposed by the Opposition it is the need lo amend section 116, which relates to costs.  Mr Woodward,  Q.C., in contributions to the 'Journal of Industrial Relations' midway through last yu1' estimated (he amounts of fines in 1968-69 to be over Si 00.000. A great deal of information has been issued by the Minister on behalf of the Government in answers to questions. Later on,  Mr Deputy 

 President, I shall seek leave to have the answers to questions asked by the honourable member for Hindmarsh  (Mr Clyde Cameron)  over a number of months in relation to actions under sections 109, 114 and 111, included in Hansard for record purposes. 
 No. they are the same tables. They contain the complete story which ought to be shown in the Senate Hansard. 
No. they are the same. 
 Because the Senate record ought to contain the same tables as have been included in the record of the  House of Representatives. But before we settle that point I would like to point out that in the period from 1 1th December 1956 lo 31st October 1968 applications for orders to comply with awards totalled 6.35. Of that number, only 68 were refused in whole or in part. A table which appeared in Hansard of 25th February 1969 shows the number of actions against employers taken under section 119 of the Act from 1943 to 1964. In most cases where penalties were imposed on employers the amount involved was SIO. This makes an interesting comparison with the penalties and costs initialed on the metal trades unions in February 1968 in actions which stemmed from attempts by those unions to gain some advantage from the conditions prevailing following the unfortunate decision of the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission to reject the application by the unions for a basic wage increase. 
The unions on which penalties were imposed included the major unions like the Amalgamated Engineering Union, Australasian Society of Engineers, Boilermakers and Blacksmiths Society of Australia. Sheet Metal Working, Agricultural Implement and Stove Making Industrial Union of Australia, Federated Ironworkers Association of Australia and many mining unions. The penalties had lo be paid by the metal workers and members of many unions who were only incidentally affected by the actions taken. The fines imposed on the group of unions totalled $26,680, plus costs of $15,892. These are amounts of fines which are massive.  Mr Woodward,  Q.C., in the July edition of 'Industrial Relations' said that during 1968-69 fines totalling about $100,000 were imposed on unions. I ask for leave to incorporate in Hansard answers given by the Minister for Labour and National Service to  Mr Cameron,  the honourable member for Hindmarsh. These answers already appear in the record of the House of Representatives. Included in the answers are details of penalties imposed under sections 109, 114 and 119. 
Yes, the same table. I have told you that 3 times. 
 Do you object to the incorporation of this material? 
 Senator Greenwood  is to make a contribution to this debate. In the dying hours of the session I have sought to develop my argument by the incorporation of this material. It ought to be included afresh in the Senate records and properly evaluated.  Senator Greenwood  is saying to me, in effect - although I do not think I need to do it - that I ought to read in full the Minister's answers, giving details of every occasion on which a penalty was imposed. If I were as bad mannered as  Senator Greenwood  I would do exactly that, but I have some regard for the Senate. 
If I were as ill mannered as you are I would waste the time of the Senate by reading out details of every application that has been made to the Commonwealth Industrial Court and of the penalties that have been imposed. But that would delay the Senate. The point has been made. Massive penalties have been imposed on the trade union movement under the present powers of the arbitration system. That ought not to be so.  Senator Devitt  has suggested to me that I should again ask for leave. I ask for leave to incorporate in Hansard the answers given by the Minister for Labour and National Service to questions asked by  Mr Cameron,  the honourable member for Hindmarsh. This information has been included in Hansard of the House of Representatives. 
The ACTING  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Laucke)  - Is leave granted? 
The ACTING DEPUTY PRESIDENT - Objection having been raised, leave is not granted. 
All1 1 can say is that if we are ever to solve our industrial problems in Australia it is to be hoped that  Senator Greenwood  does not become involved in industrial relations. 
That does not matter. I will not take up the time of the Senate by pursuing that matter. I think the point is now well recognised. The Minister for Labour and National Service said in his second reading speech - as  Mr McMahon  and  Mr Bury,  his predecessors in that position, have said - that sanctions are too often used by employers. I will come back to the matter we are discussing. We understand that this measure contains new proposals, lt has been suggested that the ability of a presidential member of the Arbitration Commission to deal with disputes is the key to a better system of conciliation within the country. We would have accepted that suggestion had it been left on that basis, but the Government has included in the Conciliation and Arbitration Act a number of new provisions which make it mandatory that penalties shall be imposed on unions in circumstances where a bans clause might be included in an award by a presidential member, and where an award already contains a bans clause. 
The penalties prescribed by this Bill are greater than the penalties now provided for in the Act. The only advantage that might accrue is that in a calculation in respect of breaches through non-observance of an award, rather than the imposition of a penalty which has been frequently fixed by the Commonwealth Industrial Court for each day that a union contravenes an award, in some circumstances single days might not be reckoned as single days but might be grouped together. 1 have put the basic objections of the Opposition to this legislation. We do not like it. We think it should be discussed by the people who are concerned. I do not se*- thai any advances will be made because it provides for increased penalties. We had hoped that this Bill would be withdrawn, at least. Consequently, the Opposition intends to move amendments to this legislation at the Committee stage. Wc oppose the Bill. 
I move: 
Leave out the clause, insert the following clause: 13.- (1.) Section 109 of the Principal Act is repealed. (2.) Upon the commencement of this Act, an order of the Commonwealth Industrial Court in force under section 109 of the Principal Act ceases to have effect.'. 

 Mr Temporary Chairman, as has been stated in speeches by myself and by members of the Opposition and as has been long stated by the trade union movement, the Australian Council of Trade Unions and by declarations of the Australian Labor Party we are opposed to section 109 of the Conciliation and Arbitration Act and we believe that this section should be repealed. Under this section of the Act very heavy penalties have been imposed upon the trade union movement. I shall read the section about which we are most concerned. Section 109 (1.) of the Act states: 
The Court is empowered - 
to order compliance with an award proved to the satisfaction of the Court to have been broken or not observed; 
to enjoin an organisation or person from committing or continuing a contravention of this Act or a breach of non-observance of an award; 
We do not accept the Government's amendment to section 109 of the principal Act. The Government proposes to amend section 109 by omitting paragraph (a) of subsection (1.) and by omitting the last line from paragraph (b) of sub-section (1.). The action we are taking on this occasion is consistent with what we have done over the years. In this place and in the other place we have moved amendments which were designed to delete sections 109 and 111 from the Act. These are the sections which cause most concern to the trade union movement. These are the sections under which the penalties to which 1 referred earlier are imposed. The Committee might recall that earlier I referred to the fact that  Mr Woodward  Q.C. had calculated that during 1968-69 fines totalling $100,000 were imposed under sections 109 and 111 of the Act. I sought leave of the Senate to have incorporated in Hansard a list of the penalties which had been imposed under these sections, which had been prepared by the honourable member for Hindmarsh  (Mr Clyde Cameron),  but leave was refused by  Senator Greenwood.  However, our position is quite clear. We are opposed to section 109 and we intend to divide the Committee on the question. We think that the section is against the best interests not only of the trade union movement but also of the Act. 
Friday, 19 June 1970 
 I think I should place on record the remarks of the Minister for External Affairs  (Mr McMahon)  when as Minister for Labour and National Service, he made a ministerial statement on sections 109 and 111 of the Conciliation and Arbitration Act. The position was not as the Minister for Works  (Senator Wright)  has pointed out. The Australian Council of Trade Unions requested that the penal provisions contained in sections 109 and 111 be  deleted. After lengthy consideration by the Government, the then Minister for Labour and National Service.  Mr McMahon,  made a ministerial statement on the subject. J shall quote his remarks in order to clear up the position in regard to this clause. I agree wilh the point which has been made by  Senator Murphy.  1 made the same point when I spoke on the issue. The Opposition argued that the so-called cooling off period which is provided under section 109a of the Act would be of no great benefit. The Opposition takes the same view about the proposals which the  Government has just introduced. Anyway, on 1 1 th November 1964,  Mr McMahon  said: 
For some months thc Government has been considering proposals made by the Australian Council of Trade Unions relating to the sanctions provisions contained in sections '09 and 1 1 1 of the Conciliation and Arbitration Aci. The ACTU has argued, amongst other things that employers and their organisations have resorted too readily lo the Commonwealth Industrial Court for orders to enforce bans clauses in awards and that they have loo freely employed legal representatives to build up the costs of proceedings. The National Employers Organisation has also pui its views lo the Government. In its opinion the penalty provisions are used only as a last resort and it has argued thai is should noi be deprived of the right lo use legal representation according to the needs of each case. 
I do not propose to deal in detail with these arguments and the many others we have heard. I make this one broad statement of principle: Sanctions, in one form or another, are an essential part of our arbitration system. The Government has no intention of removing them. The Government's attitude to this problem should bc seen against the background causes of a large number of recent industrial disputes, lt is deeply concerned with the irresponsible behaviour of unofficial groups in factories and plants which are usurping the legitimate functions of trade unions particularly on mailers concerning wage rales and conditions of employment covered by awards and agreements The ACTU is just as concerned about this problem. I have also frequently referred to the blatant attempts by some unions to exploit the severe labour shortage, especially the shortage of skilled workers. Unions have the right, even the duly, to seek lo improve the wages and conditions of employment of their members. Accepting this there must be a limit to the kind of industrial lawlessness a sophisticated community can be expected lo tolerate. This is particularly so in a community where there is highly developed machinery for the determination of wages and conditions of employment and where the unions use that system to secure the maximum benefits for their members. 

 Mr McMahon went on to say: 
The Government has given considerable thought to the cases presented by the ACTU and the National Employers Organisation. We again confirm our view that proceedings before the Commonwealth Industrial Court under sections 109 and 111 of the Conciliation and Arbitration Act should be used only as a last resort. More positively we want to encourage responsible discussions between the parties when claims are made and to encourage the parties lo take advantage of the conciliation machinery provided in the Conciliation and Arbitration Act. The objective is, of course, to reduce the risks of stoppages of work. The Government therefore proposes to introduce, in the next session, legislation which will provide, in clearly defined cases, where there is a threatened breach of an award, a 14-days cooling-0fT period before the sanctions provisions can be used. This cooling-off period will allow for private negotiations or negotiations under the jurisdiction of the Commonwealth Conciliation and Arbitration Commission. 
The Government has used almost the same sort of expression in relation to the provisions now before the Parliament.  Mr McMahon  then slated: 
Conciliation to prevent a stoppage of work may nol succeed. We want lo make sure thai the opportunities for negotiation are in fact used. 1 mentioned a moment ago that our proposals concerned threatened breaches. There will be no change in the law when advantage is nol taken of our legislation and a union resorts lo strike action to force concessions. 
On the matter of costs there arc grounds for some changes in the law. Again it is necessary to draw a distinction between the case where there is a threatened breach of an award and where there is an actual breach. Frequently unions have doubts about an employer's intentions and it is only when the employer resorts to section 109 procedures that the union realises thai the employer meant what he said. In general what is intended is, where action is taken under section 109 of the Act in respect of a threatened breach, and. the breach does noi take place, no costs of representation will be allowed lo the employer. We have also decided thai costs of representation in relation to proceedings under sections 109 and 111. should be limited to junior counsel, unless the Commonwealth Industrial Court considers that issues of such a nature are involved that the use of senior counsel is justified. 
That prescription has been repeated in this legislation.  Mr McMahon  continued: 
One other cause for concern has been the actual wording of a bans clause. The wording of the clause is. of course, a matter for the Commission and will depend on its understanding of the industrial problems involved. So a hans clause may be directed to a dispute in a particular plant or, where the circumstances require it, more widely. The clause is often expressed to apply lor a specified time. 
Complaints have been made that even where a clause contains a time limit, it has been extended by virtue of section 58 of the Conciliation and Arbitration Act which provides, in effect, that an award continues until a new award is made. The fact is that every bans clause need  not necessarily be caught up by section 58. My intention in referring to this is to point out that the operation of this section can be excluded by attention to the drafting of the bans clauses so as to ensure that the clause does not continue any longer than was intended. 
It is unfortunate that this great discussion should take place in circumstances such as these. We have said that the Bill is of such importance that it should have been properly debated. Of course we would have preferred - and it is not too late to do so yet - the Government to stand the legislation over. As I have just quoted,  Mr McMahon  in 1964 proposed a cooling-off period, which is now found to be of no great use. I come back to my first point. I think the Government would be well advised to leave this matter on the stocks. I think this Bill should not be discussed in the early hours of the morning. It should be debated further later in the morning. 
I move: 
Leave out the clause, insert the following clause: "15. Section 111 of the Principal Act is amended by omitting sub-section (4.)." 
If this amendment is carried, the next amendment that we propose will be consequential. The amendment involves the basic argument that we have advanced from the start of this debate. Section 111 of the Act provides the contempt of court powers. There is provision for the imposition of a penalty of $1,000 on an organisation, but not on a single employer. Provision is made for a penalty of $400 or gaol for 1 2 months foran official of a union. Sub-section (4) (c) provides for a penalty of $100 for an ordinary union member. As I pointed out before, some very stiff penalties are included in the new provisions. This section of the Act has been the subject of representations from the trade union movement for many years. It was one of the matters raised by the Australian Council of Trade Unions when it approached the Government in 1964 and asked for sections 111 and 114 to be repealed. As a result of representations on the matter the Government brought down modifications to section 109a. which has not proved successful. 1 quickly restate our argument by saying that under that section heavy penalties have been imposed on the trade unions, but at the same time very minor penalties have been imposed on employers. In addition to the fines of about 560,000 imposed on trade unions during the 1968 metal trades actions,  Mr Woodward  Q.C. has stated that in his opinion fines totalling $100,000 were imposed on the unions in 1968-69. But against that, let us consider some of the actions which have been taken against employers for breaches of awards. Honourable senators will be astounded to see how minor some of the penalties have been. I refer to a question by  Mr Clyde  Cameron on 25th February 1969 addressed to  Mr Bury  who was the Minister for Labour and National Service at that time.  Mr Clyde  Cameron asked: 
On what occasions has action been taken miller section 1 19 of the Conciliation and Arbitration Act against un organisation or person bound by an order or award for breach or non-observance of any term of the order or award? 
What were the dates of such proceedings, who were the parlies and what were the penalties imposed in each case? 
The Minister answered: 
Information is only readily accessible in relation lo action under section 119 of the Conciliation and Arbitration Act taken by inspectors, who were first appointed in 1934. During the period 1934 lo 1962 inclusive proceedings were taken by inspectors on seventy-nine occasions. Details since 1962 are set out in the following schedule. 
The schedule which then followed showed many cases of offences by employers, but the penalties were quite minor. 1 propose to cite a few examples. On 21st August 1964 Trenchermen Pty Ltd of Victoria was prosecuted for a breach of the Liquor Trades (Ho. els and Wine Saloons) Award for an underpayment of wages and nonpayment of pro rata annual leave. In the first case the penalty was £5 and in the second case the penalty was £5 plus total costs of £25 4s. On 12th November 1968 an employer was prosecuted for a breach of the Vehicle Industry (Long Service Leave) Award in that he failed to pay for long service leave and failed to retain time and wages records. In the first case there was no penalty and the charge concerning failure to retain time and wages records was withdrawn. 
On 12th November 1968 an employer in Queensland was prosecuted for a breach of the Metal Trades (Long Service Leave) Award in that he failed to pay for sick leave. That charge was withdrawn on payment of the debt. On 25th October 1968 an employer in Queensland was prosecuted for 67 breaches involving the under-payment of wages, failure to post rosters, failure to keep time and wages records, failure to maintain first aid kit and failure to post copy of award. These offences attracted the highest penalty in this group; it was $680 with $27.50 court costs plus $146.50 professional fees. On 3rd September 1968 an employer in Western Australia was charged with a breach of the Theatrical Employees (Drive-In Theatres) Award involving the under-payment of wages. In that case the penalty was $20 plus costs of SI 00. 
We are opposed to this clause because we think that all that is happening is that penaltiesare being imposed in a worse form than exists in the Act. While the Government is proposing to meet the complaints from the union movement by easing to some extent the penalties that are imposed as if each day was a new offence, penalties are still imposed under new section 119 (1d.). It reads: 
The maximum penalty that may be imposed under sub-section (1.) of this section in respect of a breach of a term of an order or award is - 
where the penalty is imposed by the Court - 
in a case to which the next succeeding sub-paragraph does not apply - One thousand dollars; or 
if the breach is a separate breach by virtue of a provision included in an order or award in accordance with paragraph (c) of sub-section (i.) of section forty-one of this Act - Five hundred dollars; or 
In any other case - Two hundred and fifty dollars. 
Section 41(l.)(c) of the Act as it was reads:   fix maximum penalties for a breach or non-observance of any term of an award, not exceeding Two hundred dollars in the case of an organisation or an employer who is not a member of an organisation bound by the award or Twenty dollars in the case of a member of an organisation. 
But the fact is that we do not agree, as has been said, with the penalties. We consider there is no need to include any penalties at all. Certainly there is no need for the very steep penalties which are imposed in this case  -$  1,000, $500 and $250. In our opinion, it is a retrograde step. 
Is the Minister for Air able to state definitely the expected date of delivery in Australia of the first Phantom F4E aircraft, and the date by which it is expected that all 24 Phantom aircraft will be delivered to the Royal Australian Air 
Force? ls it a fact that the Government has decided to purchase an additional 6 reconnaissance versions of the Phantom aircraft? 
My question is directed to the Minister for Supply. Is it a fact that executives of the McDonnellDouglas aircraft company, the manufacturer of the Phantom aircraft, have put to senior Australian officials in Washington a proposal which could lead to the production of its aircraft in Australia or a proposal for placing in Australia off-set orders relating to current Australian purchases or future requirements of the Australian Government? 
I was not sufficiently informed before question time of the proposals to which the honourable senator is alluding in order to give him a reply but 1 shall certainly process the matter immediately after question time so as to be better informed of the facts. Of course, it is true that the question of off-set orders being fulfilled in Australia, particularly within the aircraft industry, is a current topic of discussion. As the honourable senator knows, the Department of Supply and the Department of Trade and Industry have special officers in Washington looking into this matter. 1 have no doubt that discussions are going on in relation to possible off-set orders. I am not informed whether they are going on with this particular company but I will obtain the information and make it available to the honourable senator, I hope tomorrow. 
 1 ask the Minister for for Civil Aviation, ls it a fact that, resulting from the recent negotiations with 2 United States of America airlines for operating rights between Australia and the United States, Qantas Airways Limited will be forced to increase the number of its monthly nights to the United States of America to 13 and will stand to lose financially because of having to meet the new competition? If this is true, was this circumstance considered by the Minister during the negotiations? 
My question, which  is directed to the Leader of the Government in the Senate, follows questions asked by  Senator Murphy  and  Senator Cavanagh  about the rallies which have been held. The Leader of the Government in the Senate suggested that the Australian Council of Trade Unions should be criticised because the rallies had nothing to do with employment. I ask him whether he is aware that in South Australia the motor car industry, the consumer goods industry and the light manufacturing industry are responsible, to a large extent, for maintaining the economy of South Australia and that any sales tax imposed upon goods which are produced in South Australia and which have to be exported interstate certainly will result in some reduction in employment standards. In the face of this fact, does the Leader of the Government in the Senate still say that it is net the concern of people employed in industry to complain about these sorts of taxes? 
My question which I direct to the Minister for Supply refers to the proposed sale at the European 
Launcher Development Organisation tracking station at Gove, Northern Territory, on 20th October of various electronic devices, tracking, communication and motor transport equipment. I ask the Minister whether this equipment for auction is the property of the ELDO member countries or is it the property of the Department of Supply? If it is the property of the Department of Supply cannot some of the equipment be used either at Gove or in some of the locations of the Department? Does the sale at Gove mean the end of the tracking facility or other communications facilities at Gove in the immediate future? 
Has the Minister for Supply any information about the auction sale of space tracking equipment, including communications and electronic equipment, and also motor transport equipment at Gove in the Northern Territory? Is this equipment to remain the property of members of the European Launcher Development Organisation or will some of it be used by Government departments? 
The European Launcher Development Organisation has the first option on any equipment it may wish to retain for the use of its establishment, which is moving to French Guiana. However it does not appear to want any of the equipment that is at Gove. The ELDO secretariat invited tenders from the European member states of ELDO for the disposal of this equipment and these tenders will close on 7th September. I have here a minute which answers some of the questions the honourable senator posed about the auctions. The surplus equipment at Gove will be auctioned on a set date, and 1 have some information on that. 
As to that part of the honourable senator's question which referred to Woomera, all the ELDO equipment will be disbanded in 2 stages. During the first stage the ELDO secretariat will assess the equipment, if any, it wishes to have sent to Guiana. The secretariat is still making that assessment. The balance of the equipment is to be offered at public auction in Adelaide at the ordinary Department of Supply auction. It is not expected that the ELDO secretariat will call for offers from the member states with respect to the equipment at Woomera. The honourable senator might ask why we are separating the two lots of equipment. The simple answer is that it is a matter of geography. In the Gove area the wet season is not a suitable time for disposal. 
Recently a question was asked about the use of certain equipment. An offer has been made to ELDO for the items of technical equipment that are of interest to Australia. The Department of the Interior has indicated that it has a requirement for the administrative-living complex and an offer is currently being forwarded to ELDO in relation to that. With regard to the disposal auction, a preliminary advertisement is expected to be published in all capital city newspapers, the 'Northern Territory News', the 'Centralian Advocate' and 'Farmer and Grazier' over the next few days. It will include a long list of the various items which will be offered. With the concurrence of honourable senators I incorporate that list in Hansard. 
Guidance  and  tracking equipment,  telemetry  equipment, communications equipment, telecommand equipment, ballistic camera equipment, electronic test equipment, vehicles - -Landrovers,  Minimokes,  Scooters,  Commer  Bus, Cranes  5-10  tons, Semi-Trailer, Tip-Truck, Compak Fork-Lift. 
My question, which is directed to the Minister for Air, refers to complaints by servicemen, including the current public complaint by Flight Lieutenant  Refeld,  that allowances paid to servicemen transferred from Melbourne to Canberra and other locations are less than those paid to members of the Commonwealth Public Service. I ask the Minister: As it is evident that members of the Royal Australian Air Force and of the other Services are being unfairly treated in respect of allowances, including rent allowances, and other payments as compared with people in private industry and that these  disabilities must be adding to the complaints of servicemen which are causing them to leave the Services, will the Minister take action in his own Department to correct the position and also to refer the complaints to the Ministers who are responsible for the other Services? 
My question is directed to the Minister for Supply. I refer to the work load at Woomera and at the Weapons Research Establishment at Salisbury and a report that there will be a British satellite launching sometime in September. I ask the Minister whether the redundant staffs from the operations of the European Launcher Development Organisation have been satisfactorily re-employed as a result of changes at both places. I also ask: What are the future prospects for similar launchings or activities both at Woomera and at Salisbury which would keep the present skilled and scientific staff maintained in employment? 
 I ask the Minister for Air whether it is a fact that effective operation of the Phantom aircraft to meet Australian defence requirements will depend upon in-flight refuelling and the use of tanker aircraft because of the Phantom's short range? I draw the attention of the Minister to a great deal of speculation and the views of a number of aviation writers who have put forward this proposition. Is it proposed, as rumoured, to lease or purchase the recommended manufacturers tanker aircraft or a substitute tanker aircraft? 
I support what has been proposed by  Senator Murphy.  I think the discussion which has taken place since the motion was moved by  Senator Sir Kenneth  Anderson proves the point he made. He did not advocate any reduction in the length of speaking times for honourable senators. This point has been raised by a number of honourable senators and they are entitled to fear, I suggest, that there could be some reduction in the activities of the Senate itself. I agree with honourable senators that this should not take place. I think it ought to be clear in everybody's mind that  Senator Murphy  did not propose this. He said it by interjection. I certainly would not support his amendment if he had proposed this. I think everybody who has spoken has subscribed to the idea of a 3 weeks cycle, but the inclusion by the Leader of the Government in the Senate  (Senator Sir Kenneth Anderson)  in the motion of the expression that the Senate should fix its own times - 1 do not suggest it was done [or this purpose - has raised the query in the minds of honourable senators that the proposal may be to shorten the time of Senate sittings. In fact, the length of sittings would be shortened by a small amount if we were to adopt the cycle that is proposed and retain our present sitting hours. As  Senator Condon  Byrne has pointed out we would, in fact, be devoting a shorter time to the sittings of the Senate than we are under present arrangements. 
1 have checked it, and the proposition is correct. Over a period of 16 weeks we are now sitting for 36 days and with the same sitting times in the 3 weeks cycle we would be sitting for 33 days. Obviously 1 would not be in accord with maintaining the same number of hours in the 3-week cycle. Nobody has said he is against the 3-week cycle because the advantages are so evident to everybody. If one has 2 weeks of work in the Parliament and a week in the electorate and this is co-ordinated with the sittings of the House of Representatives, there is no question that it is a lot better than the arrangement we have now. lt is clear everybody accepts that. The proposition ought to be dealt with separately because I, too, like other honourable senators, have some reservations about determining the hours of sitting of the Senate under the cycle and about the place of certain standing and other committees in the system if we widely adopt the system of committees which has been proposed by the Opposition and the Government. It concerns me that we may be reaching the position where there will be fewer sitting hours of the Senate and more meetings of the committees. The argument has been advanced that the work of the committees is just as important as the work of the Senate. I think honourable senators who are afraid about the limitation of the Senate sitting time have good reason for their concern. I agree with what has been proposed by the Leader of the Opposition and I suggest that we deal with the matter separately because it is a very complicated matter. 
Yes. If 'as the occasion arises' were taken out and the Senate determined the resolution, when the matter of a sitting came up for consideration it could be dealt with simply by the Senate fixing the dmes. The words 'as the occasion arises' suggest to some honourable senators that there might be some dickering with the hours. It seems to me to be evident that honourable senators support the principle of the 3 weeks cycle, but some honourable senators have expressed the fear that there may be fewer sitting hours for the Senate. I also have that fear. Nevertheless 1 think that is a matter to be resolved separately because there are other complicated issues related to it, including the one mentioned by  Senator Murphy  about not sitting on some nights. 
1 ask the Minister representing the Minister for Shipping and Transport whether it ls a fact that the 1949 Commonwealth Rail Standardisation Agreement to which the Commonwealth Government was a party undertook to convert the Adelaide to Port Pirie railway system and also the northern part of the South Australian railway system to standard gauge and. in fact, this meant an  obligation  upon the Commonwealth to do this work? Is it also a fact that 3 governments of South Australia - that is the Hall Government, the Walsh Government and the Dunstan Government - have put before the appropriate Commonwealth Minister a  proposal from the South Australian Railways Commissioner which meant that certain northern parts of the railway system should be converted? If this is the position why is the Minister and the Government now refusing to undertake conversion work except for the Adelaide to Port Pirie connection? 
In directing my question to the Minister for Supply I remind him that on 19th August I asked him a question about a report that executives of the McDonnell-Douglas aircraft company, manufacturers of the Phantom aircraft,  had met certain Australian officials in Washington and had discussed the question of the manufacture of Phantom aircraft or offset orders within Australia. Has the Minister any further information in connection with that report? 
My question to the Leader of the Government refers to a statement by  Mr Dunstan,  the Premier of South Australia, on Tuesday that the governments of New South Wales and Victoria are prepared to discuss the Dartmouth Dam agreement and matters related to the Chowilla Dam and that talks were likely to be held within the next 10 days, but that the Prime Minister had not yet replied to the South Australian representations. I mention also that apparently the Minister for National Development has not indicated whether he will be attending the conference. In view of the willingness of the 3 State governments to consider the agreement again, will the Minister confer with the Prime Minister with a view to facilitating such discussions? 

 Senator Sir KENNETH ANDERSONI think it would be singularly inappropriate for us to try to dictate the nature of discussions involving the Commonwealth and the States of Victoria, New South Wales and South Australia in relation to the Dartmouth Dam. The responsibility for this matter is at a very high level - the Prime Minister and State Premier level - and I would not like to be taking a message to the Prime Minister in relation to it at this point of time. I am rather surprised that the Premier of South Australia should be going into print on this subject when obviously there is some suggestion of an arrangement for discussions at the Prime Minister and Premier level. 1 shall try to ascertain the current position, but I would not want to be directing a question to the Prime Minister about it. 
 My question, which is directed to the Minister for Civil Aviation, refers to a previous question that I asked him about whether the use of detection devices which have been developed and which are used at overseas airports might be practicable in Australia. The devices could be directed to passengers, to luggage and to cargo as a means of preventing hijacking, fs the Minister at present able to advise whether such devices are practicable and whether they might be used in Australian aircraft? 
My question is directed to the Minister for Civil Aviation. It refers to a report that during July Trans-Australia Airlines modified the engines of Boeing 727 aircraft to eliminate smoke trails and the incomplete combustion of fuel as a contribution to the reduction of air pollution. I ask the Minister: Are the modifications consistent with Department of Civil Aviation standards and objectives or is this simply a programme initiated by the airline itself? What is the target date for completion of this work on these engines and the engines of aircraft operated by other Australian airlines? Finally, is the Minister or the Government promoting a policy to modify engines other than Pratt and Whitney engines to reduce air pollution, as is being done by TAA? 
 I take the opportunity to reply to 2 points raised by  Senator Bull.  Firstly, he spoke about the lack of interest by the Australian Labor Party in rural issues. I remind  Senator Bull  that in the other place in recent months 4 urgency motions have been initiated by the Labor Party related to rural problems. In the Senate,  Senator Murphy  was refused the right to proceed with an urgency motion to deal with matters affecting the rural industries. Secondly, I inform  Senator Bull  that his information in respect of the Press statement to which he referred is wrong. He knows that as a result of the Labor Party Caucus decision the motion proposed by the honourable member for Dawson  (Dr Patterson)  was put in the other place and that the Government voted against it. From reading yesterday's Hansard and from listening to  Senator Bull  last evening, I notice that he talked about the problems facing rural industries but that he did not pose, nor does he acknowledge that the Government has posed, any remedies. At page 578 of Hansard he is reported as having said: 
I am very glad that the Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Anthony)  announced just recently that the Government is making a detailed study pf the rural position and the need for rural reconstruction. 
How many times have we heard about studies? In this country we have had studies about everything - studies about rural problems, studies about standardisation of railways, a national study about education and studies on different subjects. But what has been done? The honourable senator continued: 
From what I know, New South Wales is the only State that has available at the present time the machinery for rural reconstruction. If this assistance is to be given to these producers, I think it will be necessary for it to be done through the machinery that is available in New South Wales. 
He talked, quite rightly, about the problems of local rural industries such as agricultural machinery manufacturers and small engineering works which, because of lack of sales, have had to retrench staff. This situation has been created by Government policies. Every year the Government sets out its economic policy through its Budget proposals. In every State industries have been forced to refashion their thinking and their expenditure. The industries have had to meet extra taxes and extra bills because of Government policies. 
The Treasurer  (Mr Bury)  in introducing the Budget said that the economy is threatened by disruptive inflation. We have a situation in which every producer and every worker is threatening to strike - and  Senator Bull  should talk about workers who threaten to strike in order to obtain an increase in wages. Let me take the case of the pensioner who, when the Social Services Bill is passed by the Parliament, will receive a miserly increase of 50c a week. But at the same time the Government proposes to make a handout of S200m mainly to income earners, and it proposes to do this in 1 year, not in 3 years as was previously forecast by the Prime Minister  (Mr Gorton). 
Although the Government is able to make this taxation concession to income earners, it cannot afford to grant a decent increase to pensioners. Pensioners have to face the problems which arise from rising inflation and increased costs caused by the Government's policies. After all, pensioners have no organisation to press their claims before the arbitration court. They cannot take strike action as the workers can. All I say to  Senator Bull  who talked about the effrontery shown by the trade union movement towards the arbitration court is that everybody knows that this Government admits that the present penal powers are not appropriate and that they ought to be modified. The Government has put proposals to the Australian Council of Trade Unions. So we have a situation in which the Party to which  Senator Bull  belongs has proposed a modification of the penal powers of the arbitration court in order to make them more consistent with the aims of ordinary arbitration. 
Reference has been made to mass demonstrations and to the law and order question. But what about all the farmers demonstrations? Do  Senator Bull  and other Government senators dissociate themselves from mass demonstrations which have been held by farmers in most States? I saw the great march in Adelaide which upset the whole of the community in the middle of the day. But the farmers were entitled to demonstrate, in the same way as the people who take part in the Moratorium are entitled to demonstrate. Many thousands, of farmers congregated at Elder Park. What were they doing? They were protesting against the Government's policies and against its inability to suggest remedies for the present situation which faces farmers. lt is of no use trying to divert attention away from these matters by saying that it is a law and order issue in the community. We have to recognise the fact that in our society the economic policies which the Federal Government applies yearly, particularly at Budget time, establish the climate in which everybody has to live. It could happen that the Government's policies create an economic climate which prejudices one State. This has happened with this Budget which has created difficulties for the motor car manufacturing industry and the wine industry in South Australia. When these things threaten a State, the State ought to be compensated for them because they arise from the Commonwealth Government's policies. 
It is true, as  Senator Mulvihill  says, that it is not only what we used to call the blue collar workers who are now concerned about this problem. Everybody is concerned about it. Professional people are concerned about what is happening to salaries. I want to deal with wider issues, but I take time to remind  Senator Bull  that the sorts of things that are occurring in the community are the result of the intentional policies of the Government. We may have moved away from the stop and go Budgets of the 1950s, when the Government applied economic sanctions to stop an industry and to shut down factories, to the more sophisticated policies which pass the burden on to the ordinary people in the community to pay for mistakes in economic planning. The Leader of the Opposition  (Senator Murphy)  has moved a very pertinent amendment which ought to be supported by every honourable senator. It is in these terms:  the Senate condemns this deceptive and negative Budget because it faits to meet the real needs of the Australian people, especially with respect to (a) standard of social service and war pensioners, (b) assistance to schools, hospital and urban authorities, and (c) restructuring of stricken primary industries, and because it introduces and increases taxes and charges of a regressive and inequitable nature. 
Some honourable senators have referred to what the Treasurer said in his Budget Speech. The Minister for Civil Aviation  (Senator Cotton)  referred to what the Treasurer said when he concluded his Budget Speech. This is what the Treasurer said:  . . we have made provisions which secure to the State Governments a larger and growing share of our gross national product. At the same time this Budget helps to achieve other great national objectives in important areas such as defence, social welfare and the economic welfare of industry - including our great woolgrowing industry that is currently beset by special problems. 
On the question of the Budget helping to achieve objectives in important areas such as defence, what was the planning that went into the purchase of the Fill aircraft? This involves the expenditure of approximately $300m on aircraft which we have not received, and we are not sure when we will receive them. In the meantime, while we are waiting for the Fill aircraft, we have been forced to take another type of aircraft and the bill for those aircraft will be between $30m and $50m. Australia is not receiving a share of any work involved in the manufacture of these aircraft, which one would think any government would demand. No offset arrangements have been made for us to share in the work necessary for the supply of any parts of the aircraft. This matter has been canvassed in the Senate. Daily the question is raised about our continuing to import war supplies and munitions which this country should be manufacturing itself. I will refer later to the aircraft industry in Australia. 
The same comment applies to the social objectives which the Budget seeks to achieve. When the present Prime Minister assumed office we used to hear talk about social welfare matters. We thought that the new Prime Minister would be a social welfare Prime Minister because he made a number of important statements on this matter. Let me refer to some of them. When he spoke during the debate on the Appropriation Bill (No. 1) in 1968, he said: 
No nation can be great unless it seeks npt only materially to progress but also to take care of the weaker within it, the aged within it and the  31  within it*. 
This, 1 believe, to be true, and my Government will make a continuing effort to achieve those ends. 
 How can  Senator Webster  say that in the face of the 50c increase in pensions which is proposed by this Government? If the Government had cut back on expenditure on a number of national projects, or if it had budgeted for * deficit Budget as it has done previously, and given the pensioners a decent increase, there might be some substance in  Senator Webster's  claim. 1 have often said in this Parliament that the Prime Minister made a number of important statements on social welfare, but 1 suggest that what has happened is that the conservative element in the Liberal Party is trying to stop him from doing what he wants to do. The Prime Minister said this - and it is in contrast to what is now proposed by the Government: 
Our aim is that those who have no other means are provided with enough to live in a modest self respecting way without requiring any other assistance from outside the pension. 
The Minister for Social Services  (Mr Wentworth)  made a long contribution to the Budget debate in the other place, in which he gave many figures in order to defend the Government's policy. . He referred to the fringe benefits which are provided by many local authorities and other State services, and he included these benefits in the overall benefits which this Government is providing to pensioners. But the great objectives for which the Prime Minister stated he was aiming have not been achieved. The Minister for Housing  (Senator Dame Annabelle Rankin),  who in this chamber represents the Minister for Social Services, said, when introducing the Social Services Bill 1970: 
In conformity with the United Nations principle just enunciated, the Government believes that the family is the cornerstone of our nation. We accept the responsibility of easing the economic and social pressures of modern day life. We will take what steps are necessary to promote the well being of the family. 
I ask the Government to tell us what it has done. In this economic climate of which I have spoken, although the Government has modified the tax scales to assist the middle income earners, it has also thrust the burden of indirect taxation on all people in the community. As a result the prices of petro) and distillate have been increased, air fares have risen on 2 occasions quite recently, road transport costs in most States have increased, and company tax has gone up, or will go up, and will be passed on as usual. 
The established wine industry, in which  Senator Laucke  is greatly interested and which . is just managing to get on its feet, will be imperilled by excise duty which the Government has decided to impose on wine. As a result of this, everybody in the wine industry has been complaining most strongly. Even the Liberal Party Opposition in the South Australian Parliament has moved that the South Australian Government should request the Commonwealth Government to remove the excise straight away. Postal charges are to be increased, and there is to be an increase in telegraph and telephone charges. There have been complaints about these increases, not only from people' in industry but also from organisations such as the New South Wales Chamber of Manufactures. I have just received a telegram which I suppose was sent also to other honourable Senators and which says that as a result of the new postal charges the mailing charges which will be paid by the Chamber for its registered publications will increase by 72 per cent. 
These are your people - not mine. This telegram was not from the trade unions but from the Chamber of Manufactures, an association of employers. Yet the honourable senator is always telling us how the Government looks after industry. But let me come back to what the Prime Minister said, after which perhaps Government supporters could tell us what the Government proposes to do about the situation. In a public address to the Western Australian Chamber of Manufactures in April 1970, the Prime Minister, referring to overseas investment, talked about the need to have some overseas capita) coming into Australia. I ask honourable senators to relate these remarks to the present rate of sales tax which is affecting the motor car industry in South Australia. The Prime Minister said: 
Having said that, 1 still think that we should bear these things in mind. Our motor vehicle industry in Australia today, important to our economy as you would agree, is 90 per cent owned and controlled by overseas capital. Our chemical industry in Australia today is 75 per cent owned and controlled by overseas capital. Out electrical and" electronic industry which will play an even more important part in all branches of industry in the future, is over 50 per cent owned and controlled by overseas capital . . . 
This could have been a statement made by a member of the Labor Party. He went on then to refer to factories and said: 
And again, for background and to keep in our minds, the factories with under 50 employees are 26 per cent, only 26 per cent owned by overseas capital. Over 50 employees - 34 per cent by overseas capital. Over 100 employees - 37 per cent. Over 500 employees - 43 per cent. 
What is the general position today? Despite the recognition of many of the claims made by the Australian Labor Party that Australia is getting into debt very quickly because of our inability to control ownership and overseas interests in this country, and in spite of the recognition obviously given to these matters by the Prime Minister, great burdens are being placed on the economy. Yet honourable senators opposite say that we- must accept this position and that because of the loads on the economy and our balance . of payments position the Government cannot afford to do the things which the Labor Party claims should be done. Among the loads on our economy are the purchase of the Fill, overseas ownership of many important industries, and the repatriation of profits to other countries. Australian defence industries, about which we have spoken in this place, have not really been started or been given the assistance which any government should give them. 
There is also the exploitation of our great mineral wealth and the dovetailing arrangements with Japan to do many things which we ought to be able to do in Australia.  Senator Mulvihill  had occasion to mention recently that the metal trades unions and manufacturers in New South Wales had complained to the Government about the amount of railway rolling stock which was being brought into Australia while the railway workshops and private manufacturers of heavy equipment were not being employed to the extent that they should be employed. I have agitated and have made representations to get the maximum amount of work for the Australian aircraft industry and for our manufacturers of war materials, and I have sought also to have more offset production in Australia; but progress in these areas has been very slow. I am not the only one who has complained about this situation. Other honourable senators and people outside also have complained. The September bulletin published by the Australian Industries Development Association referred to the aircraft industry and said: 
Despite occasional strong Ministerial statements, Government policy towards the industry seems to be one of scratching around for some defence work to keep the industry going. It certainly does not start with the positive intention that there will be a thriving and successful industry and that we will turn elsewhere only when the Australian industry genuinely, and for good reasons, cannot fit the bill. 
The issue should not be sidetracked by the old gag of asking whether Australia is to launch into building Phantoms, Fills and 747s. The question of patently uneconomic projects cannot be entertained. However, our aircraft requirement outside of such highly sophisticated areas provides an ample base for a thriving industry. 
We want to know why there are not some curbs on these things. I have drawn attention before to the great amount which is being spent and the great debt being created by Australia in purchasing various items overseas. These purchases provide part of the reason for the Government's present economic thinking. In 1966-67 we imported into . Australia munitions and war stores to the value of $118m; in 1967-68 our imports in this area amounted to $125m; for 11 months of 1968^69 they amounted to $158m and for the full .12 months of 1968-69 they amounted to $163m; and for I of 1969-70 they amounted to $84m. I mentioned earlier the importation of aircraft but, to restate the position quickly, in 1967-68 Australia's imports of aircraft amounted to $136m, in 1968-69 our imports were valued at $131m, and for 6 months of the current year their value has been $82m. The aircraft parts imported have been valued at almost $60m in each of those years. I have stated some of the reasons why the Government has decided to balance the Budget, using the sort of pro forma which it has decided that our economic policies require. 
J want now to refer quickly to some other matters. One matter which is of particular concern to South Australia is the impact that the Government's policies are having upon that State. Representations have been made to the Commonwealth Government about the serious position which is always occasioned when the Commonwealth Government applies savage charges in respect of articles produced by manufacturing industries in South Australia. It has been said that South Australia relies largely on markets in the eastern States - they are certainly national markets - to take the products which South Australia is most efficient in producing. 1 refer to motor vehicles, consumer durable goods, electrical goods, etc. 
Every time that the Government increases sales tax on motor cars - it has done so at least 8 times during the last 19 years - its action represents a savage attack on South Australia. 1 have mentioned already the impact on the wine industry, but in South Australia we are most concerned about the increased sales tax on motor vehicles. The director of the Federal Chamber of Automotive Industries,  Mr Daunt,  has said that the increase in sales tax on motor vehicles made it one of the highest vehicle taxes in the world. South Australia has a great number of people dependent on the motor vehicle industry. In fact 21,000 workers are employed in the industry, that number representing 16.8 per cent of the manufacturing work force in  South Australia. The value of production of the motor vehicle industry alone - not including the electrical or consumer goods industries - each year is worth $11 3m. Salaries paid in South Australia in respect of these industries amount to $62. 5m. As most honourable senators are aware, the salary bill of General Motors-Holden's Pty Ltd alone is about lima week. 
The imposition of an excise duty on wine and the increase in the sales tax on certain goods are having an adverse effect on South Australia. The Opposition is very concerned about this matter. It is of the opinion that urgent action should be taken by the Government to rectify the position in South Australia. South Australian senators have been requested to raise these matters in the Parliament. In a letter to me dated 2 1st August 1970, the  Speaker  of the House of Assembly in South Australia,  Mr Hurst,  said: 
On 19th and 20th August 1970, the House  of  Assembly passed the following resolution: 
That this House calls on the members of the Federal Parliament representing South Australia to take action in the Federal Parliament to protect employment and development in South Australia from the impost on the sale of wines of 50c per gallon and from an increase of 2J per cent in sales tax on motor vehicles and electrical goods which are proposed in the Federal Budget and which will adversely affect South Australia far more than any other Stale. 
I am also concerned about the failure of the Commonwealth Government to accede to the requests of consecutive South Australian governments - not only Labor governments but also Liberal governments - to honour the 1949 agreement in respect to rail standardisation. The South Australian Government has not received the agreement of the Commonwealth Government to the proposal to connect Adelaide to the standard gauge system. The recommendations of the consultants who were called in to examine the proposal have been considered by the Commonwealth and South Australian governments but no arrangement has been made in accordance with the 1949 agreement to standardise the South Australian railway system. Since the original agreement was agreed upon representations have been made over the years by South Australia in relation to this matter, including representations by  Sir Thomas  Playford when he was Premier. However, South Australia is still being bypassed by the Commonwealth Government in regard to the standardisation of its rail system. This has happened regardless of the fact that not only Labor governments but also Liberal governments in South Australia have been pushing for standardisation of the system. Strong resistance has been offered by the present Labor government in South Australia and by railways commissioners over the years to acceptance of a lesser deal than what is regarded as reasonable. I say this because in their report the consultants have* recommended simply a link between the capital itself and Port Pirie without making provision for any connections to industry itself in the metropolitan area or conversion of thenorthern railway system. Their proposals do not include undertaking the sort df work which was encompassed by the 1949 agreement. 
As my time is nearly up 1 shall not read at length, but I would refer honourable senators and the Government to the agreement which was made in 1949. which was to the effect that the northern lines of South Australia be converted as well as the construction of a link between Adelaide and the newly standardised system. If this link is not constructed the huge expense associated with the break in the gauge will continue. If a 2-gauge system is to operate in South Australia there is a possibility that a lot of business will be lost to private enterprise and the road transport services. The complicated and expensive method of having bogey exchanges should not be considered. When is the Commonwealth Government going to meet its commitments? Instead of criticising the South Australian Government's rail standardisation proposals the Commonwealth Government should sit down and work out with South Australia what should be done. Rail standardisation is vital to South Australia. However, I am pleased to note that Labor senators are not the only ones who are pushing this matter in this chamber.  Senator Laucke,  who is the occupant of the chair at the moment, has also advocated an early connection to the standard gauge system. 
The Commonwealth Government has attempted to suggest that the delay has been caused by the South Australian Government. The reasons for the delay are as I have explained. They are based on the objectives set out in the 1949 agreement concerning the railway system in South Australia. In fact, the south eastern division - the 5 feet 3 inches line - was converted under the 1949 arrangement. The only part of the State left out of the arrangement was, of course. Eyre Peninsula. Now we have a shandygaff consultants' report which says: 'We will give you this because it is the only deal which the Commonwealth Government is prepared to support'. The South Australian Railways Commissioner has rejected the proposals outlined in the consultants' report on the grounds that the Commonwealth Government should do more to meet its obligations under the rail standardisation agreement. I conclude by saying that I believe that the amendment which was moved by the Leader of the Opposition  (Senator Murphy)  is worthy of the support of all honourable senators. 
My question is  addressed to the Acting Minister for Shipping and Transport. Is it a fact that dependants of Commonwealth Railways employees performing national service are denied interstate passes which are available to them while their husbands are serving with the Railways? Is it a fact also that the Commonwealth Railways likewise denies concessions for travel on the Commonwealth Railways system to dependants of employees of State railway systems who are doing national service? Will the Minister consider allowing the standard travel concessions to continue just as though the railway employees were not doing national service? 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Defence. I ask: Is it a fact that Australia's defence planning is being impeded by a shortage in staff, a failure to recruit specialist staff or the application of new management or organisational procedures which have resulted in considerable delays in purchases amounting to millions of dollars? If so, what is being done to correct this situation? 
The honourable senator's question relates to the processing of purchases, which is a matter which could come within my own portfolio of Supply. I think we all recognise' that there have been some problems in relation to obtaining the highly specialised staff which we need in certain fields. As this question has an importance which relates to the Department of Defence it warrants a considered reply from the Minister for Defence, and it may well be that I shall wish to add a supplement to that reply insofar as my own Department is concerned. I shall set about getting the information for the honourable senator. 
 I want to take two or three minutes to make a couple of points which I think are important. The Leader of the Government  (Senator Sir Kenneth Anderson)  mentioned the matter of senators being advised of the sittings of the committees. I ask that particular attention be given to this point because it relates to the right of each senator to attend committee meetings. If he has that right of attendance then he should be told when the committees are meeting. This should be done not only by a formal notice if he is a member of the committee. He should know, for instance, that committee D is working in room 22 at 10 a.m. tomorrow and will be discussing estimates Nos so and so. 
Yes, and he should know what department is affected. A senator has to exercise his rights and privileges as a senator, just as he does in the committee of the whole. This is what  Senator Cavanagh  argued and I support him. In order to do this we would have to know what work is proposed for the next day. This will enable us to decide which committee to attend and what attention we should give to the subject under discussion. 
The next point relates to something which has already arisen in the committee with which I am associated. I appreciate that we are now developing procedures in the committees but I think there should be some pre-recognition of a standard of uni' formity. We do not want chairmen making different rulings about the way questions are to be asked or what procedures are to be adopted. Therefore I raise with the Leader of the Government a point about the conversations going on between the 2 leaders in the Senate- 
The leaders in the Senate then. There should be some uniform standard applied. If rules have not yet been formulated which are good enough to work on, then let us make sure that each chairman does the same thing and arranges matters in the same way so that we will not have an odd development which might spoil the system. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Sitting suspended from  3.43 to 8  p.m. 
General Business taking precedence of Government Business 
My question is directed to the Leader of the Government in the Senate, lt refers to two recent statements on arbitration by the Prime Minister - one made at a New South Wales Chamber of Manufactures dinner attended by the  President  of the Commonwealth Conciliation and Arbitration Commission and the other made during the weekend at a New South Wales Liberal Party Convention - which were related to the responsibilities of the Commission and widely interpreted as an attempt by the Government to influence the Commission. Has the Government departed from the concept of an independent Commission? If the Government accepts the view that the correct role of Government is to submit its views to the Commission during appropriate hearings of the Commission, will the Minister give consideration to clearing up these misunderstandings by making a policy statement or by asking the Prime Minister to make a policy statement? 
My question is directed to the Minister for Civil Aviation. I ask: Is there a clear indication at this stage from the meetings of the International Air Travel Association that the fares of air passengers are likely to be reduced and that the blackout provision for tourist passage fares is likely to be modified? Is it a fact that Qantas Airways Ltd is largely dependent upon reduced tourist fares to meet the highly competitive conditions which have been occasioned by the entry of a second airline of the United States of America onto the Australian scene? 
My question is directed to the Minister for Shipping and Transport, lt refers to the question of rail standardisation in South Australia and the linking of Adelaide with the east-west rail system and other necessary works which are now the subject of the Maunsell report. My question follows previous questions to the Minister. I now ask him whether he is in a position to say what progress has been made between this Government, the South Australian Government and the South Australian Railways Commissioner about this matter. Is the Commonwealth Government now prepared to talk to these 2 State authorities in view of the public statement by the South Australian Railways Commissioner that he is opposed to the Maunsell report because he asserts that the work recommended by it is more expensive than the work he could do? In view of this public statement by the South Australian Railways Commissioner which appeared in last night's Adelaide 'News' will the Minister again take up the matter to see whether a start can be made on negotiations to determine the matter? 
This Bill and the related Bill that the Minister for Air  (Senator DrakeBrockman)  who represents the Minister for Repatriation  (Mr Holten)  has just mentioned - the Seamen's War Pensions and Allowances Bill - carry into the repatriation field what has been provided in the Budget in the social services field. The Opposition takes up the same position as it did on the Budget and claims that the amounts are totally inadequate. We maintain this very strongly in relation to the Repatriation Act because over the years we have supported the argument put forward by the ex-service organisations namely, that what should have been done with repatriation pensions and the Repatriation Act itself was that some consideration should have been given to relating the pension increases each year to the last review made by the Government in 1950. 
In that year, following representations from the ex-service organisations, the Government decided to review pensions. It made a new review which has been used by the ex-service organisations and the Opposition to argue that pensions ought to be related to that base. But we can see no change in the Government's attitude on this matter over the years. Every time the Government talks about repatriation, all it does is fashion repatriation pensions to the general financial position that presents itself when the Budget comes along. If we ask Ministers in any year why repatriation pensions are not put on a proper compensation basis, they usually say: 'These are the amounts that we can afford this year'. But what the ex-service organisations have been saying for years and what we have been saying in supporting them - I refer honourable senators to the representations made in this place and in the other place by members of the Opposition - is that in. the repatriation field there ought to be a proper compensation basis for people who are disabled because of their war service and particularly for the widows and orphaned children of ex-servicemen. But this proper compensation basis has never been granted. 
As honourable senators will remember, the Opposition in this place has said consistently that there ought to be a committee of inquiry not only to discuss the adjustment of pensions but also to investigate all aspects of the Repatriation Act and to consider the anomalies and the grievances of the organisations. Tn fact, on 3 occasions this chamber has decided, by majority, to support what we have put up. So, primarily what we put to the Senate is that we are not satisfied with the routine treatment that ex-servicemen receive as a result of what the Government decides each year. It does not award proper con.pensation at all. Rather does it cheesepare in relation to what these people should receive. We are not satisfied with this treatment and, of course, the exservicemen are not satisfied with it. 
So, the first point I make is that, once and for all, there has to be some machinery that will ensure that a proper compensation basis is provided. We believe that in the immediate term what the Returned Services League and the Totally and Permanently Disabled Soldiers Association have asked for is good enough to give rough justice; that is, to use the 1950 review. In this way the pensions would be related to the minimum wage, or the basis wage as it then was, and also the average weekly earnings. If the Government did that on every occasion and restored the relativity of the pensions, at least it would be conferring progressive justice on the people who should receive it. 
In Australia we face not only an obligation to the ex-servicemen who served in the First World War and the Second World War but also one that arises from what this Government imposes upon the young people of Australia - not only those who volunteer for the Regular Army but also those who are conscripted under the national service scheme. We face an obligation to see that these young people receive something better than exservicemen of the other wars have received. 
I say that because, as honourable senators know perhaps more than members of the other place as a result of the Repatriation Act being canvassed very widely in this place, it has been proved without any question that the Act has a number of deficiencies. I need only mention the main one about which ex-servicemen complain; that is the onus of proof. Most of us, as senators, repeatedly receive complaints from ex-servicemen who go before the tribunals and cannot get satisfaction. Of course, many do get satisfaction. But each year applications for compensation for disabilities made by many thousands of people are rejected, and there is nothing that they can do about it. Whilst the Government keeps talking about the onus of proof being upon the Repatriation Commission, in fact it is upon the applicant who has to go and find fresh evidence. Many honourable senators on this side, who will speak later, can bring direct evidence to prove that. 
So, the point I want to make is that we are not satisfied. We believe that at some stage the Government ought to indicate that it is prepared to maintain the relativity of pensions generally. But we can see the attitude of the Government to people who are serving this country. Certainly most of the Ministers, including the Minister for Repatriation, are defending the actions of the Government in respect of Vietnam and other places. That is their policy. They are defending the obligation of the young people of Australia to service in those countries. But all the evidence of the injustices that arise from the Repatriation Act is never properly met. On 3 occasions the Senate has carried a demand that a select committee be set up. On each occasion the Government has refused to take any action in that regard. 
There is clear evidence that these things are necessary. There is clear evidence of a number of anomalies and a great deal of injustice. But the Government says: 'All we are prepared to do is, on each occasion on which the general economy and the financial position of the country are considered, to see what we can do in respect of the pensions for ex-servicemen disabled people, their widows and their orphaned children'. In the other place the Opposition moved this amendment: 
That all words after 'That' be omitted with a view to inserting the following words in place thereof: whilst not opposing the second reading of the Bill, the House is of the opinion that - 
the pension rate for the TPI ex-servicemen, the general rate pensioners and war widows should not have been allowed to decline notwithstanding the proposed increases, in relation to average weekly earnings. . . . 
The amendment contained a second part, which we do not propose to move in the Senate. It read: 
a joint select committee should be appointed to inquire into and make recommendations on all aspects of the provisions and operations of the Repatriation Act'. 
In general terms, the second part of that amendment was in accord with what the Senate carried on 3 occasions. Because it was defeated in the other place and because it proposed, as honourable senators will note, a joint select committee, we can see no good purpose in moving it at this stage. We do not give up the notion that a select committee should be appointed. We have made representations that what was carried by the Senate should have been put into effect. The Leader of the Opposition  (Senator Murphy)  has given notice already that tomorrow we intend to move a motion on the matter. It is on the business sheet of the Senate already. It is in the name of  Senator Murphy.  It reads: 
That there be referred to the Standing Committee on Health and Welfare the following matter - All aspects of Repatriation, including the operation of the Repatriation Act and of the War Service Land Settlement Agreements Act. 
I indicate that tomorrow we will take the opportunity to move that notice of motion proposed by  Senator Murphy.  We have not given up the intention of pressing for an inquiry. We have been supported in that intention, certainly by most ex-servicemen and generally speaking by ex-service organisations, although in recent years the RSL has supported what it calls a nonparliamentary committee. I will have something more to say about that directly. I indicate now that on behalf of the Opposition 1 shall move: 
At end of motion add: "but the Senate fs of opinion that the pension rate for the TPI ex-servicemen, the general rate pensioners and war widows should not have been allowed to decline notwithstanding the proposed increases, in relation to average weekly earnings.1 
I think all honourable senators would agree that over the years there have been long-standing complaints about repatriation pensions and about the operation of the Act. I refer the Senate to representations which were made by ex-service organisations in 1966, 1967, 1968. 1969 and this year. These representations were based on a widely supported plan for a general review of repatriation benefits. Apart from that plan, in recent years the issue of repatriation has been strongly contended not only in the Senate but outside in the public arena. Leaders of ex-service organisations have strongly criticised the Government for its policies. There should not be this kind of contention about something which should be a compensation for those who served their country. More than 20 years have elapsed since the review 1 mentioned took place. We are advancing and supporting what is a very moderate claim and that is that the 1950 review by the Government, which based certain pension rates upon the then accepted wage standards, should be followed. It is more than 20 years since the review was held. The last general inquiry into matters associated with the Repatriation Act was during the currency of a Labor government. In 1.943  Mr Pollard,  who was the then Minister for Repatriation, headed a committee of inquiry' which recommended a number of comprehensive alterations to the Act. Like all alterations to Acts, as the years go by they need modernising and bringing up to date. The Repatriation Act was last investigated in 1943. When repatriation has been debated in the Senate we have produced evidence of the great injustices which have been caused to many ex-servicemen because of the present wording of the Act. The Government has given the same old answer each time. It has stated that when it looks at the Budget each year it sees what it can do. 
A plan has been put forward by the RSL and by other ex-service organisations. I make it quite clear that we have supported the pension plans, the general approach to hospitalisation, the need for an improvement in the funeral benefits and the need for an inquiry by RSL and other ex-service organisations, because they have been supported by good and proper representations. The Opposition has come to agree with those representations. Those organisations are recognised generally by ex-servicemen. Like members of parliament, they hear of many injustices and of many complaints. We are prepared to support them because of that. The contention in 1968 and 1969 by the RSL has not appeared to the same extent this year, but this year the National President said: 
The new Budget increases for repatriation pensioners were 'totally unacceptable'. Why should ex-servicemen and women who had suffered disabilities through war service find the compensation they receive adversely affected by the need for allocation in other areas of Government expenditure? 
The present procedure for determining the level is outmoded and must be changed. 
The war compensation increases in the Budget fail to reflect the rise in cost of living which has occurred in recent years. 
That states simply what I have been saying. Benefits for people disabled in the service of their country ought to be related not to the economy, not to what the Government does each year, not to its financial commitments or to its decision as to whether there will be inflation or deflation but to a formula of compensation such as that applying in. the workers' compensation legislation in the various States and to some extent in the Commonwealth employees compensation legislation; that is, based on a formula of certain payments for certain disabilities. That is all that exservicemen are claiming and that is all we are asking at present. We are saying that the Government recognises no standards for providing compensation and that exservicemen and their widows and their dependants have to take their chances. The previous Minister for Repatriation was a member of the Senate. The present Minister is in the other place. However active or however persuasive the Minister may be, he is subject to what Cabinet says about the economy. Over the years we have supported the plan put by the RSL. In recent years its plan has been based on 4 points. The first point was this: 
That an independent non-parliamentary committee be set up to completely review the Repatriation Act and the Repatriation (Special Overseas Service) Act operations, and all their provisions and to make appropriate recommendations to the Government. 
We do not mind the setting up of an independent non-parliamentary committee. The Senate has carried certain motions. We have told the RSL that we think that what the Senate has carried ought to be supported vocally by the RSL. It has decided that it wants an independent committee. The second point was this: 
That there should be a general review of war and service pension rates. That in this review the special rate TPI pension should be increased to an amount equal to the present minimum wage, the 100 per cent general rate and war widows' pensions should be increased to an amount equal to SO per cent of the minimum wage, and that all other pensions and allowances should be increased proportionately. 
That is the kind of approach which the Opposition has advocated consistently since the 1950 review. The third point was this: 
That repatriation hospital, medical and pharmaceutical benefits should be extended to all returned ex-servicemen of the First World War and the Boer War without the necessity of establishing any connection between the disability or the illness and war service. 
Since 1966 we have been advocating that in this chamber. The fourth point was: 
That the funeral grant be increased from $50 to $150. 
When we first suggested the provision of free hospitalisation for war veterans the Government objected and said that at that time it would cost between Si Om and $12m. As the years have gone by the estimate of the cost has been reduced to about $4m. The Returned Services League has investigated the matter and has been able to prove that from the Boer War and World War I there are about 11,000 exservicemen who are at present not receiving repatriation benefits which would entitle them to free hospitalisation. Nobody has contested that figure. On that basis the cost of free hospitalisation for those men would be about only $1,783,000. It is only a small amount in view of the service that those men have given for their country. Surely they are entitled to free hospitalisation. 
It is a very simple proposal which would not cost a lot of money to implement, but the Government has refused to provide that money. When  Senator McKellar  was Minister for Repatriation the cost of free hospitalisation for those ex-servicemen was estimated at about $12m. The present Minister for Repatriation  (Mr Holten)  when asked by  Mr Whitlam  how much the proposal would cost said that the extension of repatriation hospital, medical and pharmaceutical benefits to all returned exservicemen of World War I and the Boer War, without the necessity of establishing any connection between the disability or the illness and war service, would cost about $4m. He went on to say that a precise estimate was not possible, f am prepared to say that the estimate put forward by the RSL is correct. It is a relatively small amount. 
The application for an increase in the funeral grant which has been made in this chamber since 1968 has been refused. We have checked the estimates prepared by the RSL and have found that they are certainly not too high. Some of our figures are much higher. According to the figures of the RSL the standard charges for funerals are in Queensland $179; New South Wales $186; Victoria $175; South Australia $226; Western Australia $228; and Tasmania $170. Ex-service organisations and the Government roughly agree on the cost of the proposal. Obviously it is necessary to increase the funeral benefit of $50. The figures I have cited illustrate that it is nonsense to say that it is enough. The cost of the proposed increase is estimated at $735,000. 
It may be argued that to restore relativity in accordance with the RSL's proposals and the plans put forward by the Opposition would cost a great deal of money. This might be true. Even if it cost $40m that is not a great amount of money in the context of a Budget which provides $1.403m for defence. I am not being critical of the defence expenditure. I am simply pointing out the scope of the Budget. To increase the pension of war widows to 50 per cent of the minimum wage would cost only $15m annually. I put to the Senate that obviously these projects are necessary in respect of legislation which is supposed to have been designed to compensate people who have served in wars, and their dependants. I am referring both to con scripts and volunteers, including national servicemen. The basic wage in 1950 was S13.80 a week. The present minimum wage is $42.40, which represents an increase of 207 per cent. In 1950 average weekly earnings were $21. The average weekly earnings in April 1970 were $72.80, an increase of 246.5 per cent. Since April 1970 average weekly earnings have increased slightly. 
In 1950 a soldier's pay was $1.80 a day. It is not $5.65 a day. Honourable senators will be aware that soldiers will receive an increase in their pay as soon as the complicated committees set up by the Defence Department and other departments get under way. Since 1950 a soldier's pay has increased by 230 per cent. The pay of a base grade clerk in the Commonwealth Public Service has increased in that period by 215 per cent and I understand that increases are coming forward. On the other hand, the special pension for totally and permanently incapacitated exservicemen has risen by only 157 per cent; the 100 per cent disability pension has increased by 143 per cent and the 70 per cent disability [pension has risen by only 71 per cent. ne great contrast between increases in the general standards of the community and increases in repatriation benefits illustrates the injustice of the position. The 100 per cent disability pension has been fixed at $12 a week since 1964. 
It seems to me that there is no proper answer to the approach to repatriation matters that the Opposition has supported over the years. In May the Minister for Repatriation was asked the following question by  Mr Turnbull: 
My question is addressed to the Minister for Repatriation. When Budget consideration is being given to repatriation benefits, will he give special attention to the urgent need for the funeral grant to be increased from $50, as it is at present, to at least SI SO? 
The Minister for Repatriation replied: 
The honourable member can rest assured that this matter will be receiving a top priority from myself and my Department when we are considering submissions for the Budget. 

 Senator Devitt and other honourable senators have asked similar questions. We have been told that the matter would receive top priority. But we have been given the same answer to questions on other matters. We have estimated that free hospitalisation for veterans of the Boer War and World War I would cost less than $2m. That is only peanuts in view of the magnitude of the sums being spent by the Government Only a small amount would be required to grant war widows a pension equal to SO per cent of the minimum wage. Only about $750,000 would be needed to increase the funeral benefit in accordance with our proposal. 
We have referred to many other matters contained in repatriation legislation over the years. We have referred to the lack of consideration shown for young people serving in Vietnam, particularly in respect of their entitlement to war service land settlement and war service homes. We have also highlighted the position of representatives of bodies like the Red Cross and the Salvation Army, who receive act of grace pensions but are disqualified from entitlement to war service homes, special tax deductions and the war zone allowance for Vietnam although they have served there. These people and the Opposition have made representations for them to be treated on the same basis as serving soldiers but the representations have been rejected. Somebody has to look after them. It seems to us that the only way to have their claims properly considered is to have them referred to a special committee. That is exactly what we are to get in this Parliament. All members of this Parliament are aware of extremely good claims of exservicemen for disability pensions. For some reason they cannot get them. The result is always that they have to bring back more evidence to the tribunal. The onus of proof as we know it has been completely twisted around. 
Let us examine the number of appeals which have been disallowed. The figures I have in front of me are not quite up to date. However, I should imagine that up to date figures would have been included in the most recent report of the Repatriation Commission. On 18th August  Mr Barnard  asked the Minister for Repatriation: 
How many appeals were heard by each of the War Pensions Entitlement Appeal Tribunals during the years 1968 and 1969? 
How many appeals were (a) allowed by each Tribunal, (b) disallowed and (c) referred to the Repatriation Commission for further consideration? 
How many cases were listed for hearing at the end of April 1970? 
The answer given by the Minister for Repatriation was to the effect that Tribunal No. 1 decided 2,386 appeals in 1967-68 and 2,311 appeals in 1968-69. A total of 313 appeals were allowed in 1967-68 and 303 in 1968-69. There were 2,073 appeals disallowed in 1967-68 and 2,008 in 1968- 69. A total of 102 appeals were referred to the Repatriation Commission in 1967-68 and 94 in 1968-69. In order to save the time of the Senate I shall, with the concurrence of honourable senators, incorporate the question and answer in Hansard: 
War Pensions Entitlement Appeal Tribunal!! (Question No. 857) 

 Mr Barnard asked the Minister for Repatriation, upon notice: 
How many appeals were heard by each of the War Pensions Entitlement Appeal Tribunals during the years 1968 and 1969. 
How many appeals were (a) allowed by each Tribunal, (b) disallowed and (c) referred to the Repatriation Commission for further consideration. 
How many cases were listed for hearing at the end of April 1970. 

 Mr Holten ; The answers to the honourable member's questions are as follows: 
and (2) The figures required by the honourable member are as follows: 

<graphic href="045232197009230_53_3.jpg"></graphic>

On the assumption that the figures required are of appeals lodged but not heard as at 30 April 1970, the position is as follows: 

<graphic href="045232197009230_54_0.jpg"></graphic>

The Opposition has felt, and it has been supported by a majority of the Senate, that there ought to be a parliamentary inquiry into repatriation. The Opposition would prefer it to be conducted by a select committee of both Houses of the Parliament. But the other place decided not to support the proposition which was put forward by the Australian Labor Party. However, J can say with a great deal of satisfaction that on 3 occasions a majority of the members of this chamber have supported proposals for such an inquiry. Three times a majority of honourdble senators have said that a select committee ought to be set up to inquire into all aspects of repatriation. On one occasion it was agreed that repatriation rates should be included in the inquiry. On a number of occasions honourable senators on this side of the House have asked when the Government proposed to give effect to the Senate's wish. On 7th April 1970 I received a letter from the Minister for Repatriation in the following terms: 
Dear  Senator Bishop, 

 Senator Drake-Brockman has referred to me your question concerning the appointment of a Senate select committee to investigate repatriation matters, which you directed to the Leader of the Government in the Senate on 11th March 1970.  Senator Anderson,  you will recall, mentioned in reply that he would invite  Senator DrakeBrockman  to take the matter up with me. 
The facts are, as you say, that the Senate has indicated on a number of occasions that there should be such a select committee and its recommendation to the Senate at the conclusion of the debate on the 1969 Repatriation Bill suggested that it commence its inquiry not earlier than 1st January 1970. However, the Senate, although it is within its own powers to do so, has not yet taken any formal action to establish the committee. 
The Government's attitude in the matter has been made quite clear and my predecessor went into some detail during the debate in 1967 on  Senator Murphy's  notice of motion that a Senate select committee be appointed, in explaining why the Government did not favour a committee. Its views then were that there was already a continuing opportunity for review both by the Parlia ment, by way of introduction of amending legislation, notices of motion and speaking on the adjournment, and by the Administration itself. 
There has been no change in the Government's attitude since that time and in the circumstances I can only say that for the reasons already given, the establishment of such a committee is not favoured by the Government. 
That is the attitude which the Government has adopted towards the opinion of a majority of the Senate and towards the problems which the Opposition and other organisations have put before the Government. It is the attitude which the Government has adopted in the face of a great deal of unfavourable criticism. I remember that the late  Senator McKellar  accepted in this chamber a suggestion which I made that serving soldiers should have entries made on their medical cards to ensure that if they have to go before a repatriation tribunal they will have some record of the disabilities they have suffered. It is very evident to honourable senators who have to deal with repatriation cases that a lot of servicemen are so eager to return to civilian life that they do not bother to record on their medical cards the disabilities, accidents and wounds they have suffered, although this should be done. As a result, when one makes representations on behalf of such a person one finds that there is no record of any disability having been suffered.  Senator Devitt, Senator O'Byrne  and other honourable senators, can confirm that this has happened often. As a result of representations by me, the late  Senator McKellar  took the opportunity of reminding servicemen that if they recorded the disabilities and illnesses that they suffered while serving they would ensure that they would get the benefits of the Repatriation Act. There is a clear case for doing the sort of things which I have said. 
As I have already indicated, tomorrow the Opposition will give notice of a motion it intends to move which will give expression to its idea that an inquiry should be conducted into repatriation by a Senate select committee. There is no argument against such a proposition. An inquiry of this nature should be held. One of the arguments that the Minister for Repatriation used in the other place was that such an inquiry took 4 years in Canada and that it might take 4 years in Australia. I put it to the Government that had it accepted the Senate's resolution in 1968 the chances are that the Senate select committee inquiry which was proposed at that stage would have been concluded and it would have made recommendations to the Government. If the Government had not accepted the proposed committee's recommendations I believe that it would have been challenged on the hustings by the people most concerned. If the Government were to say that it would accept the proposal of the Returned Services League for an inquiry by an independent committee the Opposition would not stand in its way, but it is obvious that the Government has refused to do so. 1 understand that it has already told the RSL and other organisations that it will not permit an inquiry of the nature proposed by either the RSL or the Australian Labor Party. The only excuse which the Minister offers is that the Department is making its own inquiry. This can only be an appeal from Caesar to Caesar. When the departmental committee makes its inquiry it will be guided largely by the attitude of the Government, which is that there should not be a substantial examination of the provisions of the Repatriation Act. For the reasons I have given, I move the following amendment: 
At the end of motion for the second reading add: but the Senate is of opinion that the pension rate for the TP I ex-servicemen, the general rate pensioners and war widows should not have been allowed to decline notwithstanding the proposed increases, in relation to average weekly earnings.' 
I hope that the Senate will support the amendment. 
The ACTING  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Lawrie)  - Is the amendment seconded? 
In addressing my question to the Minister-in-Charge of Tourist Activities I refer to Press statements following the receipt of the report of the Australian Tourist Commission and the comments of the  Chairman  of the Commission of the fact that if we were to take away the advantages gained from United States R and R travel arrangements in Australia the general advantages to the country by way of tourist earnings would not increase significantly. The  Chairman  also referred to other important matters including the need to advocate promotional and concessional fares and improved facilities within Australia. Finally he pointed to the fact that governments of other countries gave subsidies to promote travel. Has the Minister or the Government considered those matters, or at least come down with some positive recommendations in regard to promotional and concessional travel and subsidies along the lines granted by other governments? 
I move: 
That there be referred to the Standing Committee on Health and Welfare the following matter - All aspects of Repatriation, including the operation of the Repatriation Act. 
It is not necessary for me to debate this matter as the merits of the motion were canvassed in the debate on the Repatriation Bill. 
My question is directed to the Leader of the Government in the Senate. Despite the large number of questions on this subject, I ask: Is it a fact that the only government in Australia to establish an inquiry into all aspects of the Moratorium demonstrations is a 'Labor government - that led by Premier Dunstan - and that all authorities in South Australia, including the South Australian Police Association and spokesmen for the South Australian Police Department, have accepted the proposed royal commission and the terms of the inquiry. In the light of this information, will the Leader of the Government refute the sort of criticism which he has made of all members of the Labor Party, of having been concerned with only one aspect of the Moratorium demonstrations, and acknowledge that what is being done in South Australia is certainly the basis of a proper inquiry which will produce all the facts associated with the South Australian demonstration? 
No, it was not you; it was  Senator Wright. 
The honourable senator said it was me. 
by leave -  Mr Deputy President,  the intention of the Leader of the Opposition  (Senator Murphy)  is to short circuit the debate on the motion which is on the notice paper concerning reference of all aspects of repatriation to the Standing Committee on Health and Welfare. The Minister for Air  (Senator DrakeBrockman)  has indicated that a proposal for the appointment of a joint select committee was put forward in the other place but it was defeated. The Senate has on a previous occasion carried a resolution for the appointment of a Senate select committee. Therefore, the Opposition decided thai it would proceed on the basis of the notice of motion which is on the notice paper. The Leader of the Opposition has proposed a cognate debate, which would save a lot of time. I do not wish to debate the merits of his proposal now. It seems to me that the arguments for and against have been put. The Leader of the Opposition's proposal would be time saving. Anyway, it would bc open to an honourable senator during the course of the debate on the repatriation legislation to move a motion similar to the one which the Opposition has proposed. This would prolong debate. As I have said, the Leader of the Opposition's proposal would be time saving and I will not take up any more of the time of the Senate canvassing it. However, I suggest to the Leader of the Government in the Senate  (Senator Sir Kenneth Anderson)  that he accept it. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. . 
My question, which is directed to the Minister for Civil Aviation, refers to the increase in aircraft accidents over the last 2 years which appears to be related to the increase in private flying and the growth of charter aircraft operations. Has the Minister or his Department been able to identify and relate the growing accident rate since 1968-69 to any specific cause and to recommend new safety measures likely to reduce aircraft accidents and fatalities? 
My question to the Minister for Supply relates to a question that I asked him on 27th August in relation to the redundancy of staff which might occur as a result of European Launcher Development Organisation changes, whether the staff had been reemployed and also the future work load of specialists and the scientific staff at Woomera and at Salisbury. Is the Minister in a position to give further information? 
Does that deal with the work load? 
My question is to the Leader of the Government and it follows  Senator Murphy's  question. Is it true as reported in the Press that the Prime Minister's Secretary,  Mr Eggleton,  stated that this was the first occasion to his knowledge on which a request had gone from the Prime Minister to the News and Information Bureau to take photos of a demonstration? Is it true also, as Was reported in the Press, that  Mr Eggleton  has said that the negative of the photograph in question is in the hands of the Prime Minister's officials and that this negative had been enlarged in part? Is it a fact that normally a request to the News and Information Bureau would not come from the Prime Minister but from the Minister in charge of that Bureau,  Mr Nixon? 
My question is directed to the Leader of the Government in the Senate and refers to the public statements made by the former  Chairman  of the Defence Committee and Secretary of the Department of Defence,  Sir Henry  Bland, which strongly contest the present policies of the Government in defence procurement and organisation and question Australia's commitments to the purchase of sophisticated equipment dovetailed into United States policies, equipment and designs.  Sir Henry  Bland also recommended the priority of an Australian competence in less sophisticated weaponry and the Australian manufacture of equipment, including aircraft. 1 ask: Is it a fact that similar recommendations were made by  Sir Henry  Bland when he occupied the position of  Chairman  of the Defence Committee? Does the Government intend to take any notice of the recommendations or te consider what has DOW been stated publicly? 
Like the honourable senator I read what appeared in the  Press  in relation to a statement made by  Sir Henry  Bland who was formerly the head of the Department of Defence and prior to that was head of the Department of Labour and National Service. That was the only reference I have had to  Sir Henry's  statement. Some of the matters on which he expresses a view relate to the disposition of departments. For instance he suggested that instead of having the Department of Defence, 3 Service departments and the Department of Supply the number of departments should be reduced to, I think, 3. This is a matter of judgment.  I  am sure that none of us could be expected to make a comment about it on the basis of something that we read in the newspaper this morning. 
Some of the other matters referred to by  Senator Bishop  are consistent with my own knowledge of views expressed by  Sir Henry  Bland. He was moving towards implementing those views in the Department of Defence. They were consistent with my views and those of the Government. Wc were in agreement that there should be a far greater Australian component in the weaponry in our defence complex. As late as yesterday I issued a Press statement which indicated that Australia was entering upon the manufacture of certain types of bombs which previously we had to purchase. Likewise we had to acquire licences to manufacture in this country equipment connected with the fire power of the Mirage which previously we had to import. This is a continuing process. What  Sir Henry  has said, as I read it, as to what we are doing, is completely consistent with the Government's approach. 
With the aircraft industry there is a far more complex problem because as I indicated here earlier at some length there are certainly some fields in which we have, beyond a shadow of doubt, a capacity to manufacture. The capacity to manufacture is noi the issue; the problem is the filling of the order book. What 1 would like to do - and 1 am sure  Senator Bishop  will agree that it is essential that 1 do this - is to obtain a complete report of what  Sir Henry  Bland said. The Minister for Defence and I will have a good look at it and if we think it appropriate we will make some further comments about it. 
 I support the amendment moved by  Senator Willesee  which reads: 
The Bill be withdrawn and that in the opinion of the Senate a Joint Select Committee be appointed to inquire into the desirability and practicability of removing the Australian Post Office from the administrative influence of the Public Service Board and on establishing a public corporation to manage the business of the Post Office. 
We have almost come to the end of this debate and the matter will be decided shortly. The question that arises in this debate is whether we should move for the establishment of such a select committee and whether we should oppose, as stated by the Australian Labor Party in connection with the Budget, what arises from a budgetary proposition. 
The Australian Labor Party has made up its mind that it should oppose increased charges placed upon the community as part of a Government policy. After all this Bill is dovetailed into a Government design to place increased charges on the community as a result of its own financial arrangements. Every Government senator who has spoken in this debate has sup ported the increased charges. Other speakers have referred to the very savage charges imposed on the community. 
On this occasion, as happens always when attempts are made to put the Post Office on a more profitable basis, the increases fall on the small men in the community. What is being done on this occasion in connection with the Post Office is the same as what has been done in recent years. The action taken is in line with the policies of the Government relating to its budgetary considerations. The financial arrangements of the Post Office have been adapted to meet the policies of the Government. The payment of interest charges by the Post Office is dovetailed to meet the views of the Government. That is why the Opposition and other people have argued that consideration ought to be given to making the Post Office a statutory corporation. Unfortunately, during the occupancy by many people of the position of Director-General, Posts and Telegraphs we have not obtained support for this proposition. However we have found that after retiring from service with the Department they have frequently come out and spoken about the disabilities under which the Post Office operates. Therefore the Labor Opposition has no doubt about where it stands on this occasion. 
What will happen if our amendment is carried? It will mean .simply that the very steep charges imposed on this occasion in accordance with Government policy will not be carried into effect. This will not create a crisis. It could happen that as a result of the proposed inquiry it would be proper and feasible for a new administration or new corporation to determine to what extent progressive charges might be applied in order to make the burden on the community less- onerous and more equitable than is proposed on this occasion. As has been the case with other Government policy decisions, there is a tendency to make heavy charges on the community in  1  year. This has been widely resisted. Instances of this resistance have been cited already. The Opposition has been criticising this aspect of the Government's budgetary policy, in this place and in the other place, since  1967.  We have criticised the arrangements within the Post Office and its accounting system. In the other place in  1968 -  and since that time in this place - we moved a similar proposition to that which  Senator Willesee  has moved on this occasion with the exception, of course, that we did not finally vote against the legislation as we intend to do today. 
There has been a long period of difficulty in the Post Office. Many of these troubles are associated, I suggest, with the administration of the Post Office and its relationship with the Government. These matters have been referred to by  Mr O'Grady  who has since retired from the Post Office and by some other people, and I may say a word or two about this aspect later. References have been made in this debate to the absence of the annual report of the Postmaster-General's Department. An examination of the accounting of the Department would be sufficient today to defeat the legislation. Every honourable senator on the Opposition side has referred to the absence of the important details which are necessary for a senator or for a member of the Parliament to be able to say exactly where he stands in regard to the proposition before us relating to increased charges. That fact alone is sufficient for us to vote against this Bill.  Senator McClelland  referred to the strictures placed upon the Post Office and its officials by the Auditor-General.  His  remarks indicated the reservations we have about the administration of the Post Office. This long query about the Post Office and its administration results from the difficulties in the industrial field which have been going on for several years now. As everybody knows, there has been a great deal of industrial discontent in the Post Office. This discontent largely rests on the relationship of the Post Office to the Public Service Board. Hardly one of the unions represented in the Post Office has not complained about the relationship. The former Director-General, Posts and Telegraphs to whom I referred earlier has complained about this matter on several occasions since he retired but there has been no consideration by the Government of his statements. After  Mr 0'Grady's  retirement from the Post Office, the only reference made to his comments was by the late  Mr Harold  Holt who said, when Prime Minister, that the Government was considering whether to make the Post Office a corpora tion. I remind honourable senators of what  Mr O'Grady  said on 2 occasions. He said: 
The public ls wondering what ls wrong inside the Post Office. Many authorities who have worked close to the giant for  a  long time have already diagnosed its sickness. The Post Office hai been too long tied to the apron strings of the Commonwealth Government. 
That is what the Labor Party is saying.  Mr O'Grady  went on: 
As a Commonwealth Government department it is subject to control by Parliament and the Public Service in 2 vital fields - the fixing of charges and the determination of wage rates. Its growth is dependent on annual allocations by the Commonwealth Treasury. 
He went on to say that that was not enough, and then continued: 
The Post Office must be able to plan several years ahead. Under the present system of budgetary control it could safely plan for only 12 months. The Commonwealth Treasury could at any lime decide to cut the Post Office allocation for some other field. 

 Mr O'Grady referred, at too great a length to quote now, to difficulties in administration in setting up new and efficient methods of mail handling. He came down strongly on the side of people who feel that there ought to be a new relationship. If we establish no more today than that it is necessary to examine the increases in charges we will be doing a service to the community. Honourable senators will remember the increases in charges proposed by the Government in 1967 and applied in 1968 when it decided that it would place the Post Office on equal terms with private enterprise by imposing heavy interest charges. 
Why do you not oppose it today? The situation is not very different. 
We do not seek to disguise the position in 1967. On the second reading of the Bill the Democratic Labor Party voted against the increased charges and the Opposition did not. Today we are giving the DLP an opportunity to vote with us against the increased charges. What does the DLP have to lose? 
-The evidence is here.  Senator Willesee  will pledge on behalf of the Opposition and will give an assurance now that the Opposition intends to vote against the Bills. As I have said, we will not lose much. The Post Office might argue about a long attempt to recover losses incurred mostly on the mail handling side, while the technical side is paying a handsome profit in the face of the great impost of interest charges. Nobody other than Government supporters has defended the imposition of interest charges.  Senator Gair  has referred to the way in which this great impost on the Post Office has grown from $23m. to S60m, to $90m and now to $120m. 
The Post Office is commissioned by politicians to do all sorts of things. It is in much the same position and context as the railway services. Many hidden charges, which are in fact deterrents to progress, are decided upon by Parliament. How can organisations operate efficiently in" such a context? How can the Post Office be expected to operate efficiently in view of the close connection between the Government's industrial and financial policies and its effect on industrial behaviour within the Public Service? The Public Service is inhibited. Nobody can fairly argue that such a set-up, whether in private enterprise or as a Government instrumentality, does not suffer from great and wide dissatisfaction amongst the staff. That great and wide dissatisfaction amongst the Post Office staff in my view tends to weaken the efficiency of the organisation. lt is all part of a mistake which has been made by this Government because it has not been prepared to modify the organisation of the Post Office. It is not prepared to change the great pattern of influence exercised by the Public Service Board over several enterprises, even though the operations of. those enterprises are markedly different from those of other government departments. We do not have the advantage of having before us details of the current accounts of the Postal Department. We have no details of the hidden charges to which I have referred, or all the other imposts to be borne by the Post Office because of political consider ations. We have not had revealed to us the extent of the value of these charges and we do not know to what extent the Postmaster-General's Department ought to be recouped because of them. Politics continues to exercise an influence. 
On the occasion of each new Budget, at a time when the Treasurer usually refers to a period of threatening inflation, the Government makes no attempt to curb inflation but places new charges on the community.  Senator Willesee  tabled a list of charges to which  Senator Gair  has referred. They are worth repeating. The effect of the new charges will be the same as that felt in 1967 when large numbers of publications were cancelled.  Senator Willesee  referred to the extent of increased charges, including 100 per cent for the Australian Hardware Journal', 140 per cent for the 'Mingays Electrical News', and 110 per cent for 'Club Management in Australia'. I could go on to refer to great numbers of journals of associations and trade unions. The only defence offered by the Government is that some of the publications are unnecessary. But there are many Government activities that are unnecessary. As the champion of free enterprise, is the Government now saying that people in the commercial or publishing world are not allowed to distribute the sorts of periodicals that they wish to distribute? lt is strange that when the Government decided to apply interest charges to place the Post Office on a similar footing to private enterprise it went against all its previous statements on the subject. When  Sir Robert.  Menzies was Prime Minister he strongly opposed the move when it was suggested in the Parliament. In earlier debates he had strongly opposed the imposition of interest charges on the Post Office. In 1959 he said: 
The  proposition is that we charge ourselves interest. We therefore put into deficit a couple of  great  undertakings- that we have referred to  and  we then raise the wind in order to meet that deficit because it all comes back to us. Therefore charging interest is merely a complicated piece of bookkeeping and does not produce one pennyworth of financial result. 

 Sir Robert Menzies then described exactly what the Government is now doing and asking the community to pay for it. What will be the result? As a result of the  increased postal charges, in New South Wales from 1st October 1967, 210 periodicals cancelled their registration. I have a list of them and in order to save time, with the concurrence of honourable senators I incorporate that list in Hansard. 

<graphic href="045232197009300_29_1.jpg"></graphic>


<graphic href="045232197009300_29_2.jpg"></graphic>


<graphic href="045232197009300_29_1.jpg"></graphic>


<graphic href="045232197009300_29_2.jpg"></graphic>


<graphic href="045232197009300_30_3.jpg"></graphic>

I suggest that as a result of the increased charges now to be imposed by the Government many other worthwhile publications will be forced into the same situation. It has been suggested that trade union members ought to pay more for the services they obtain. It is all very well to talk about what will happen if the Opposition stops the increases in charges. All that will happen is that the present charges will continue and that will not be a very serious situation. In the meantime the Government could examine what should be done with the Post Office. The directors of the Post Office, while they are still employed, would be able to say what ought to be done with the Post Office. Everybody else would be allowed properly to consider the sort of methods that might be employed to make the Post Office an efficient, profitable and harmonious organisation. This afternoon  Senator Milliner  referred to a publication of Ambassador College, which forms part of the activities of the Church of Christ. 
Sitting suspended from 5.46 to 8 p.m. 
 Prior to the suspension of the sitting I had started to mention the fact that as a result of the heavy increases in postage charges in 1967 a number of organisations which were supplying publications to their members stopped doing so. A similar situation could arise as a result of the heavy increases outlined by the Government in the Budget. An example of what could happen was given this afternoon by  Senator Milliner,  who was an office bearer in the Printing Industry Employees Union of Australia.  Senator Milliner  said that an organisation which was attached to the Church of God; had, as a result of the extra expenditure on postage it would have to incur because of the Budget proposals, given consideration, as other organisations have done, to having its printing done in another country. In this case this organisation considered having its material printed and published in New Zealand, lt is likely tha* a number of other organisations which publish the type of material which is to be so heavily imposted under this legislation in this Bill will do the same.  Senator Milliner  pointed out that if the organisation to which he referred were to transfer its printing and publishing to New Zealand or to some other country it would mean a loss to Australian paper makers of $150,000 a year, to ink makers of $20,000 a year and to the printing houses of $500,000 a year. In 1967 there were 220 cancellations by various bodies in New South Wales alone because of the increased cost of sending out publications to their members. [ believe that there will be further cancellations as a result of these increased charges. This could affect the Australian economy. 
Why does the Government in its budgetary considerations place an obligation upon the Post Office to recoup the losses on its postal activities from its telecommunications activities? This could have an overall effect on the economy of its operations. The problems which the Post Officeis experiencing at present are the ones that it has been experiencing over the last few years. Although these problems were referred to in debates in 1967, 1968 and 1969, they have not been solved. Unless the Parliament decides to allow a special body to investigate the situation there is no doubt that the position will deteriorate. As a result of its accounting policy the Post Office is obliged to pay increasing amounts of interest. Even the Auditor-General has felt obliged to make some observations about the operations of the Post Office. Those honourable senators who have read the annual report of the Auditor-General will recall that he referred to the fact that one of the excuses given for not supplying him with the necessary details was the fact that the Postmaster-General's Department had to apply to the Public Service Board for additional staff. The details which are necessary to enable the Senate to consider properly the legislation which is before it have not been made available. The annual report of the Postmaster-General's Department has not been tabled. The Senate does not have details of the hidden charges which the Post Office has to meet. 
The only time the Senate has any information about the hidden charges is when the Public Accounts Committee reports to it on them. These details have not been revealed to the Parliament. I believe that they should be revealed to the Parliament, especially at a time when heavy increases in charges are to be imposed upon the public. As everybody knows, the burden of meeting increased charges falls upon the general public. Details of the nature to which I have referred have not been made available to the Parliament. I believe that, in the absence of these details, the Opposition is further strengthened in its objection tonight to the passage of this legislation through the Senate. The Opposition could argue with some conviction that it could hold up the passage of this legislation simply because the details to which I have refered have not been made available to the Parliament. 
It seems to me that it is all the more reason why the Opposition should do so. It should not place any great burden on the Post Office to provide these details. As I have pointed out before, one of the complaints of a former DirectorGeneral of the Post Office,  Mr O'Grady,  as well as of other people, is that the Post Office is permitted to make plans only year by year because Government policy determines to a large extent what will happen. One of the disabilities of the Post Office is this year by year bargaining. In fact, if the Government were to decide that there was an urgent matter which required the spending of a large amount of its revenue in a particular financial year - it might be upon defence - the Post Office could be restricted in its expansion. There is no doubt that this is true. Another factor is that, as with the railways organisations throughout Australia, a government fixes the charges. The railways commissioners in each of the States of Australia can do what they like in regard to running the railways but they cannot fix fares because the respective governments take it upon themselves to do that and, as is done in the Post Office, they determine the charges according to developmental and political factors. For example, assistance to the rural sector or pension concessions may be taken into consideration. The Commonwealth Government tells the Post Office what revenue it should derive in a financial year from the services it provides in much, the same way as the respective governments instruct their railways commissioners. 
One drawback suffered by the Post Office is the Government's policy of restricting its activities. Another important aspect ls the question of industrial harmony. The third point is the most important one. The Government insists that the Post Office has to conform to Commonwealth Public Service wage standards. As a result, it has taken away from the administrators of the Post Office whatever power they would want to exercise in order to establish complete industrial harmony and to get some extra effort from the workers in the industry. The history of the Post Office in the last 3 years has been one of industrial disturbance. I believe that this is a direct result of the last point I have made about the relationship of the Post Office to the Public Service. I believe that there are good reasons to change the system. 
I believe also that there are good reasons why the Parliament should seriously consider the Opposition's proposal at this stage. Previously the Senate carried a resolution to have a select committee set up. Like other decisions of the Senate, the select committee has not been set up. lt seems to me that at this stage we could give strength to that decision, set up the select committee and allow the people who administer the Post Office to feil the Committee of their problems. We do not hear about the problems until the directors and other high ranking officials have retired. When they are free of controls imposed by the Government and by the Post Office they say a number of things. 1 think  Senator Wiillesee's  proposition is a good one. We are satisfied that there is no strong reason why the heavy increases which are to be imposed by this legislation should not be stayed at this stage. If the Senate agrees with our proposition, it could well be that a properly organised select committee could examine the future of the Post Office. We think  our  proposition will solve the problem. Most of the salaried employees' organisations in the Public Service - not all,  I  agree - think that the Post Office ought to be a corporation. Perhaps the select committee could bring down a finding on that basis. Certainly the Post Office is tied to the Government's policies on wage standards and to Public Service operations which the Government thinks it proper to apply and which the Post Office has to follow like a tame cat. I cannot tell the Government to go to some other place, lt has to accept the general budgetary provisions of the Government, ft accepts them and makes the necessary changes. 
I think that, for the reasons I have outlined, the Senate ought to support the Opposition's amendment, lt is true that in almost every country - and statements about this have been made by a number of people, including the Postmaster-General - post offices are failing to recover the revenues required to run them. In this respect they are similar to all the great developmental agencies such as railways, which are necessary to run the country and to help develop the country. That is one of the main considerations which we have to remember. 1 suggest that the Senate should think about what  Senator Willesee  pro posed and should give support to it so that the burdens of the consumers about whom 1 have spoken might be eased even temporarily. 
My question to the Minister for Supply relates to 2 comments which the Auditor-General has made in his last 2 annual reports - no doubt they have been brought to the Ministers attention - about the purchase in the United States of 307 amplifiers. Because the amplifiers do not meet the specifications of the Australian Army they are presently stored in the United States Army Stores Depot. Can the equipment be modified to meet Army requirements? If so, why have the amplifiers been in the stores for over 12 months? Who is responsible for this situation? Does it result: from incorrect specifications being set down by Australian purchasing bodies, or from faulty manufacture in the United States? 
My question ls addressed to the Minister for Supply who represents in this chamber the Minister for Defence. Is it a fact that the Government has received a recommendation from the Royal Australian Air Force to import a number of Mirage HID jet trainers to complement its present 10 Mirage aircraft and that the new aircraft will be completely manufactured in France? Have any special arrangements yet been made with the Services to co-ordinate their purchases having regard to the requirements of the Australian aircraft manufacturing industry? If it is a fact that there is a recommendation to import additional aircraft will the Minister, before deciding on the matter, allow Australian aircraft manufacturers and the special committee which the Government has set up an opportunity to consider what should be done in respect of jet trainers for the Australian Services? 
I rather fancy that the honourable senator's question stems from an article in this morning's 'Australian Financial Review'. The article attracted my attention because it seemed to me to be born of a statement that I made in this place as long ago as May this year to the effect that studies had been going on for some time into the possibility of obtaining an advanced trainer for prospective Mirage pilots, and that for a variety of reasons which J do not need to canvass now it was decided not to go on with the project. This morning's article and  Senator Bishop's  question are based on what is stated to be an intention now to purchase some dual Mirage aircraft for advanced training purposes. The article stated almost categorically that the aircraft will be imported, not manufactured in Australia. That statement was made against the background knowledge that wc have that the Mirage, with some exceptions in relation to various parts, ls built almost entirely in Australia under licence. 
I sought some information on this matter because it concerned me as it obviously concerned  Senator Bishop.  I have been informed that some training for the Mirage aircraft has been done on the Winjeel, the Macchi, the Sabre, the Mirage HID, which is a dual aircraft, and the Mirage III O which is a single seater aircraft. But, for  a  variety of reasons, the Sabre has been eliminated and the Air Force; in fact, has been using the dual Mirage as an advanced trainer. 
To come to the real issues in the question asked by  Senator Bishop,  I can say that consideration is being given to the acquisition of a small number of additional Mirage HID aircraft. At the present time it is not certain whether any additional aircraft will be ordered - this is only a project or in concept - pending assessment of the utilisation of the existing ones. So, the matter is only under consideration in the first place. Then, having gone, past that stage of consideration, if it is decided that the Air Force needs additional dual Mirages for training purposes, or in the event of additional aircraft being required, consideration will be given to local manufacture. The proportion of local content would depend, as it does in all such cases, on the number of aircraft to be bought. It is possible that a small number of additional dual Mirages could be built on the same basis as the 10 that we are using at present. The proportion of local content in those aircraft is substantially lower than that in the single seat aircraft because of certain things in relation to the fuselage. 
So, the answer to the honourable senator's question is that no decision has been taken yet - the Air Force is examining whether it needs any additional dual Mirages for advanced trainer purposes - and, if such a decision was taken, at that point of time a decision would have to be taken on whether we could use our own facilities for that purpose. If and when we come to that issue, I have some pretty definite and firm views on it. 
Has the Minister for Civil Aviation seen the August edition of Aviation News' in which  Mr Robey  strongly criticises flying training methods in Australia and states that there are variations in the methods adopted by flying training schools, academies and Department of Civil Aviation examiners in different States? Is it a fact that such variations exist? Is it also true that Department of Civil Aviation examiners recently recruited from the Services often have ideas differing from those of departmental examiners with long experience? Will the Minister investigate the complaints by  Mr Robey?  If they are well founded, will the Minister ascertain whether the variations referred to could be the source of the recent increase in the number of aviation accidents? 
My question is directed to the Minister for Air. Has the Government determined the issue of the purchase or leasing of tanker aircraft to support the Phantom aircraft in their operational use? If so, what is to be the requirement and type of aircraft ordered? Does the Minister consider that the 24 Phantom aircraft which are at present in use are operationally effective under the conditions which exist in Australia at present where there is no tanker support? Also, is the Minister satisfied that the estimate of the safe mileage of the Phantom aircraft of 1,300 nautical miles which was given to  Senator Milliner  yesterday represents their operational performance? 
A good deal of the debate has been taken up by honourable senators arguing that because the charges involved in running all the aviation facilities in Australia are so heavy - they are heavy and growing heavier every year - any impost placed upon the operators by the Government would appear to be reasonable. The present position, following a similar increase on 1st January this year, is that an additional 10 per cent is to be applied to the charges from 1st January 1971. These 10 per cent increases have been part of the arrangements which the Government has made resulting from its airlines policy. I wish to make some comment on what  Senator Sim  said. He argued that at one time the Labor Party and the Labor Government agreed that the cost of operating the airlines policy within Australia ought to be met by the operators. 
There is a point in what the honourable senator said, but I atn trying to make a certain distinction which 1 think is accurate, that the Labor statements to which  Senator Sim  refers were made before the rationalisation policy was applied. I think 1 have raised this distinction already at a meeting of Estimates Committee D. People could give some support to a proposition based on the figures which the Minister for Civil Aviation  (Senator Cotton)  has mentioned of the operations last year. The cost of maintaining the various air strips and aerodrome facilities was $75m whereas income was only $20m. That poses the question whether, as Government senators have said tonight, the Government is justified in imposing the 10 per cent increase. We have something like a new position today because the Government has agreed that a working party, consisting of representatives from the airline operators. Treasury officials and representatives from the Department of Civil Aviation, should be set up. At present this Committee is examining to what extent charges might be debited to particular parts of the industry and to the economy. That suggestion has been made to the Government by the airline operators. 
In my opinion, a large part of the present trouble arises from the Government's rationalisation policy, in 1952 the Government decided to implement a policy which, to the Opposition anyway, to some extent limited competition. As part of that deal - this has been argued by the Government on many occasions in the Senate - a proposition was put to the airline operators that the increase in navigation charges in any one year would not be more than 10 per cent. A satisfactory result of such a rationalised policy is some kind of stability in the industry and a certain high standard, but a lowering of risk. As a result of thai arrangement, over many years the charges have been increased continually. The first year they were applied was 1952. A 10 per cent increase was imposed in 1960, 1961. 1962, 1964, 1965, 1966, 1967, 1968, 1969 and 1970. The Government now proposes to impose a 10 per cent increase in charges to operate from 1st January next year. We have a kind of hit and miss proposition by the Government aimed largely at recovering some part of the costs which the Government has to bear to supply the services. 
It is reported that because of pressure and complaints from operators and from people who are forced to pay extra to travel on the airlines, the Government has agreed to set up a committee. This committee has a certain commitment and certain terms of reference. The terms of reference are: 
To analyse Commonwealth civil aviation costs in Australia and Papua New Guinea with a view to showing these costs applicable to different categories of airports and facilities. 
To identify those costs separately as far as possible with all users of facilities. 3 (a). To examine civil aviation revenues with a view to relating those to expenditures. 3 (b). If considered appropriate to develop for consideration by the Government, a revised charge structure with separate charges for airport and group facilities. 

 Mr Holt, an officer of the Department of Civil Aviation, at a hearing of Estimates Committee D, said: 
The working group has completed its work on the analysis of costs and the identification of those costs with the users, lt has begun to examine the revenues willi a view to relating those to expenditures and as the Minister has. I think, told the Senate a report on those items has been prepared and submitted. The committee has to continue with its work on the last part of the third term of reference and on any other aspects of the first terms which you might wish to go over. 
That is the proposition that has been put to us by way of questions to the Committee. My first proposition, which 1 put lo the Minister previously, was to what extent the present Government's rationalisation policy brought in its train these regular increases of 10 per cent which we have always had to suffer in a period when the Government applies its general budgetary methods to recover revenues. The Minister fell back, on the argument - I do not blame him for doing so - that it was a Government policy long established, established before he became Minister. He could not really relate it at that stage to any practical purpose that resulted from this arrangement. It seems to me that this arrangement is just as important as the terms of reference of the present Committee. I must admit that the Minister in his usual co-operative way agreed that the matter might be worth inquiry and that he would give me a separate paper on the matter. 
So what we are saying in relation to the question is that there are no proper definitions. lt is probably at this stage that those definitions ought to be spelt out. If this is not done, with the long delays in determining these things by the sorts of committees which have been  set up,  we will be faced year after year with 10 per cent increases which do not meet the needs of the industry, nor do they provide satisfaction to the airline operators who feel that they are being presented with many accounts which they should not be. One of the most unsatisfactory features in this whole discussion - this applies to some extent to the matters raised by  Senator Byrne,  that they are all part of a general mix-up - is that questions asked of the Minister in the Senate have produced answers about the Committee's operations and most recently an admission that the Committee has completed one part of its work. But if we follow Press reports we can ascertain all the opinions and advice of the airline operators, although those opinions are not available to the Senate. It seems to mc that it is not satisfactory enough. 

 Senator Sim questioned whether anybody should contend that costs of rural development or costs of civil aviation facilities in Papua and New Guinea were worth arguing about. The airline operators are asking: Why should we pay for any part of the charges for national development? After all, these cost components will be determined by the Committee at some stage and, we hope, from the Senate. Why should they pay as part of their charges any part which is identified directly with rural development?  Senator Byrne  talked about the airlines being like the railways in developing certain areas. Why should they pay, for example, for all necessary aviation facilities and development in the Territories of Papua and New Guinea and Cocos Island.. Of course, when this is considered one wants to know why the Government does not establish guide lines for these matters. What we have been concerned about, of course, is that we can read in the Press the full contributions made by airline operators but we cannot get this information in the Senate. 
It seems to me that what the Minister ought to do even at this late stage is to consider whether the legislation itself might not be put aside so that we may examine the available parts of the report which are already completed, ft has been confirmed by his own officers that certain parts have been completed. I presume this means that it is now possible to say how much of the cost of facilities should be directly charged to defence and how much the facilities might be charged to community services, etc. If these sort of specifications are available an arrangement obviously could be worked out with the airline operators which would be quite good. Some days ago the 'Financial Review' stated: 
The report in fact has been complete for several months; the only problem is that it is in essence two separate reports. 
The main one, from the public servants, supports the charges. The other, printed as an addendum, is a sharp dissent on almost every point by the airlines. 
So for some time the Press has been publishing a number of points of information which we do not have and which, of course, ought to be available to enable us to have an informed debate on this matter. What we are saying again, as we said before, is that the procedures in discussing the annual allocation of 10 per cent in increased charges in this way without having some formula is simply a hit and miss method. As the Government itself has decided to set up the committee the Minister has a very good reason for saying that he will supply the completed parts of the committee's report. If he does not do that, of course, there will be this continued dissatisfaction on the part of the operators who believe, as they have said publicly, that charges in Australia are considerably heavier than in most parts of the world. In contrast to this we have some information given by  Senator Sim  that in some European cities the charges are greater that] in Australia. This information ought to be placed before the Senate. 
Let us consider what ought to be done at this stage if the legislation is passed. After all, the impost will bring in about $3,600,000, of which only about $850,000 flows directly from the domestic carrier charges. So the amount which is directly attributed to the 10 per cent charge is not too great. Most of it, of course, comes from the general growth of the operators. What, we want to know and what the Minister ought to be able to tell us now if the reports are available is this: What are the true costs of operation and how do they match navigation charges? If these true costs or evaluations are available as has been reported to the Estimates Committee, why cannot they be submitted to the Parliament? The Press has already said that they are available. Some comments have been made in submissions to the Committee by the airline operators. 
Another point which is important but which we do not know about because we have this 10 per cent rate of increase which was a primary part of the formula is this: What is the rate of depreciation of airstrip supplies, airport buildings and facilities? What is appropriate in ali the circumstances in different localities, and what transfers are made in relation to all the aspects of national development or defence commitments when depreciation is assessed? 1 presume, of course, these sorts of things are being examined at the present time. If they are being examined and if they have been determined they ought to be made available to the Senate. If this information was available to the Senate and if in addition we had some sort of calculation that I have spoken about in relation to the inhibiting factors that result from the rationalisation policy, the Senate and the Parliament would be able to say whether the charges are proper, whether they are fair on the airline operators. In that case we would not have this constant annual pressure which occurs every time this matter comes before the Parliament. 
In supporting what  Senator Cant  has said, I want to add to  Senator Sim's  remarks that the operators ought to pay a fair share of the cost of running our navigational aids. But. what I want to put to the Senate is that whatever questions are put either to the Estimates Committee or to the Minister, the sort of answers which ought to be made are not made. There ought to be some clear accounting in forms which are available, which are now being examined and, to some extent, have already been determined. I ask the Minister when he is replying to these matters to indicate whether the information given to the Estimates Committee is accurate or whether there have been any other developments since the Estimates Committee met a fortnight ago. The most important point of all is when the working group's recommendations will be made known. If it has completed its so-called cost analysis and has considered the recommendations and submissions from the domestic and international airline operators, there seems to be no reason why the report should not be brought before the Senate quickly. The charges are npt to be applied until 1st January 1971. They are based on a formula and follow the 6. 7 or  8  charges which have operated in the past. In my opinion there is no reason why the information should not be given to the Senate so that we will be aware of the general objectives of the Department, which are stated as being to recover as much as is economically possible in relation to the operations and responsibilities of domestic and international airline operators, but not to impose upon them an obligation to pay for something which is clearly a national responsibility, whether it be in relation to national development, the extension of rural aviation services or defence purposes. 
As T have mentioned already, it was admitted during the hearing by the Estimates Committee that this matter has already been examined by the working group. The broad approach of the Minister in this debate is the same as the approach that has been made on other occasions, whether it has been by the present Minister or his predecessors. When applying the new charges they have said: 
For this reason the Government reviews .ils charges each year, taking into account all pertinent factors, including the economic situation of the users of facilities and the contribution which air services make to the national economy. 
That is a very broad and blanket proposition. What the working group is now trying to do, as proposed by the Government after receiving many complaints from the operators, is to put these matters into special categories and to decide to what extent airports in various isolated parts of the country, for example, are more a defence or national development facility than a commuter or necessary community service. It is trying to decide to what extent intrastate services might be purely community services or to what extent certain airports are defence establishments. There was some talk about Cocos Island where the Department spends about Sim each year. Obviously it would not  be  reasonable to argue that this amount or any portion of it should be debited to domestic operators. We find the same situation in New Guinea where the amounts are very high - as much as S60m or S70m a year. Obviously matters of this kind have been submitted to the working group. There has been no Press leakage in respective matters of this kind, but we have seen in the Press much information which has come from the domestic and international operators but which has not been made known to the Senate. That is one matter about which I complain. If the information is available to the Press it should be available to the Senate. 
Whether the report from the working group is complete or not, it seems to me that in presenting his arguments to the Senate the Minister could quite usefully inform us of the matters that has-e been studied by the working group. For example, he could give us information about cost studies. If these studies have been finalised it would be competent for him to use them and it is information that should be made known to the Senate. That is the sort of problem that we meet in this debate. Obviously increased charges follow almost every year, but this year we expected to have the report from the working group so that we could examine it to ensure that the proposed charges were reasonable, that they were not unduly high compared with charges in other countries and that they truly represented the cost of an obligation which the operators should accept. We should know also what part of the charge should be within the responsibility of the Government and should clearly come from revenue. I do not propose to say more at this stage. No doubt further discussion will develop from the debate on the amendment. 
My question is directed to the Leader of the Government in the Senate. Do the recent statements by  Mr McEwen,  the Minister for Trade and Industry, that the Australia to Europe shipping conference has abandoned negotiations in respect to a 10 per cent increase in freight and the announcement that it remains up to the various shipper groups representing the meat, dairy and canned fruit industries to decide on the 10 per cent increase mean that the Government has given up any hope of using the Trade Practices Act to subvert this action or to use the Government's interests in the Australian Coastal Shipping Commission to resist such increases? 
I believe that the honourable senator's question should be directed to the Minister for Shipping and Transport to obtain a reply in the context of the Minister's statement and the conclusions which the honourable senator has drawn from it. Therefore. / would ask the honourable senator to put his question on notice. 
My question refers to the answer given by the Leader of the Government in the Senate in the first instance to the question asked by  Senator McManus.  I think his answer was taken by everybody to be a criticism of the United Kingdom representation in Peking and whether it is performing a useful function. I ask the Minister: Is it not a fact that the Australian Government and the Australian Department of Trade and Industry have frequently used United Kingdom representation in Peking to facilitate the present trading arrangements of the Australian Government with Red China, by which various officials of the Commonwealth Trading Bank and the Commonwealth Department of Trade and Industry have visited Red China, been welcomed there and arranged certain trade deals in respect of wheat and other commodities? Is it also a fact that most recently the Australian Government used the United Kingdom representation in Peking to ascertain the whereabouts of an Australian, Francis James, and sought the good offices of the United Kingdom for Australian purposes? 
That does not matter. 
My question, which is directed to the Minister for Civil Aviation, follows other questions on the subject of anti-hijacking devices and any other methods considered necessary to provide the maximum safeguards in Australia. Is the Minister now able to supply any information on devices which are under consideration or are now operating in Australian airports? 
The Excise Tariff Bill 1970 which the Senate is now debating brings before the Parliament a part of the Budget proposals which apply an impost on the people. A number of additional costs will affect not only the ordinary citizen, the pensioner and the worker but also will substantially effect the economic operations of industry, Items on which the rates will be increased will include manufactured tobacco, cigarettes, cigars, petrol, mineral turpentine, aviation turbine kerosene, diesel fuel and grape wine.  Mr Acting Deputy President,  as you will notice from the list of items the increases are not an impost just upon the community, the users of the airlines, of road transport and the operators but will also impose heavy duties on the wine industry, particularly in South Australia. The increase is of great concern to that industry and certainly to South 
Australian senators, although other Opposition senators will also be talking about this question. 
What we have complained about and what the general public has complained about is that the Government has. in order to get out of a threatened inflationary situation, applied, as usual. heavy additional taxation on the people. By its own efforts it has increased the inflationary trends which are important and which concern everybody. There is no guarantee., looking al the position from purely economic theory, that any of the so-called attempts at raising collections will be the associated effect which the Treasurer  (Mr Bury)  always puts up: that is that charges have to be increased to depress the market. But the Government has done these things. In relation to excise it seems to have perfected a 5-year cycle because in 1951 it increased excise on beer, spirits and tobacco. In 1956 the horror Budget imposed heavy charges not only in excise but also in industry generally. Honourable senators will remember the great concern of those in the South Australian motor vehicle industry when the Government imposed heavy sales tax on cars. There were other increases in 1965. Now, in 1970, there is another attempt to increase these charges, but something new has been added. The Government is imposing an excise on the wine industry. The Treasurer said in his Budget Speech: 
Along with tobacco, alcoholic beverages have been a traditional source of revenue both in Australia and in many other countries. In Australia,' however, there has been one type oE alcoholic beverage which, with a minor exception, has not been subject to excise duty at all. I refer here to wine. Consumption of wine has been rising strongly from year to year and, in the light of this trend,  the  evident profitability of wine production, and the heavy taxation levied on other forms of alcoholic beverage, we have decided that a moderate excise duty of 50c per gallon should be placed on locally produced wine . . . 
The approach of the Government seems to be that if it is able to collect revenue on one item of consumption it should put out the dragnet and also impose a charge on wine. The Treasurer estimated that the increased duties on cigarettes, cigars and manufactured tobacco will yeild $3 lm in a full year. It is estimated that the excise on wine will yield $15m a year. The Government also will extract $80m in the form of increased duties on motor and aviation fuel etc. This will come from the operators. However the imposition of these increased duties has no relationship with any scheme to return to the transport industry and the aviation industry part of these revenues. We have been, discussing the aviation industry in this Parliament for some days now. The Government has shown no concern for the future of the aviation industry in these matters which, in the words of the Minister for Civil Aviation  (Senator Cotton),  who is present in the chamber, is now being challenged by heavy competition. The Government has decided to impose a further burden of $5m on that industry by way of increased charges on fuel. 
So far as users of motor cars and the automobile industry are concerned the increased charge on petrol follows smartly upon the price increase on 1st June. We of the Opposition have commented upon the other great imposts by the Government. We are very concerned about the Government's policy as it affects users of vehicles, particularly those required necessarily to travel to and from their places of employment. lt also has a very severe effect on the economy of Australia in genera) and transportation in particular. It seems to us that this Government's budgets are based on erratic formulas. They are designed to recover huge sums from the people without relationship to the avenues from which the money comes. 
Let us consider the tax on diesel and other fuels. This certainly should be related to an expansion of the facilities that go to make up the industries using those fuels. Industry generally has argued for many years that this should be so but the Government has not done anything about it. The basic policy of the Government seems to be that because of threatening inflation it has to impose extra charges in order to depress consumer spending and to reduce the appetite of the people and of certain industries. The ultimate result is that it applies extra charges which in fact accelerate inflation and seriously impede many industries in the States. 
I am sure that honourable senators from South Australia will be referring to the wine industry. The impost on the wine industry will result in serious restrictions on its efficiency. It has only just reached a state of profitablity and its profitability is related to the general living standard of the community. If the Government's financial policy barms the living standards of the community, obviously it also affects industries such as the wine industry for a start. The Government's policy has two effects: Firstly, ils charges restrict the profitability, productivity and efficiency of the wine industry; secondly, it puts consumers in the position of not being able to buy as much as they could before. 
If  we  look more closely at what the fuel charges will do to the whole countryside we realise that the claims made for many years past by the transport operators, the Australian Automobile Association and the many people associated with transportation are true. They say that these vast sums of money, totalling millions of dollars, ought to be appointed, according to some formula, to the industry in the form of better development of road transportation and the reduction of traffic congestion and delays caused by railway crossings, bad intersections and poorly designed roads. Revenue raised from road and air transport services should be returned to those industries according to a general formula. Roads should be planned. Works should be dovetailed. We all know that accidents cost money and. that many of them come about as a result of poorly designed roads. National road planning is not kept up to date, and the money collected from the road transport industry is not returned to it. The vast sums collected go into consolidated revenue. 
The Government, adopts the stand that it returns to the States a reasonable amount of this money by means of such devices as the Commonwealth Aid Roads Grants. At the same time it imposes restrictions upon its own organisation, the Commonwealth Bureau of Roads. It asks the Department of Shipping and Transport to make necessary studies of transportation costs, urban transportation and decentralisation, but these studies are not dovetailed into a general national plan as they ought to be. No amount of argument by the Opposition or the statement that we would do something along these lines, by returning to the operators and the States a substantial share of this money, has resulted in this Government producing a formula aimed at returning to industry and the Australian people  a  reasonable share of this money. 
It has been estimated that these imposts Will result in $80m going into consolidated revenue in a full year. However, nothing has been announced by the Government about a programme of road safety and road construction. What are the Government's objectives in the field of decentralisation? I noticed in the last day or so that the Prime Minister  (Mr Gorton)  spoke about specific works started in the various States. He referred to the Woomera and Salisbury projects in South Australia as being decentralised works. These were not decentralisation projects as such but certainly they fulfil a national purpose. The  Government does not accept as a general principle the need to divert a proper proportion of the funds it collects from industry towards decentralisation and the rural industry. 
The Australian Automobile Association and other bodies have estimated that' in 5 recent years an excess of $500m has gone into the Treasury which as yet. the Government has not earmarked for any specific purpose. In my own State, as in the other States, we are always faced with important road needs that ought to be met. They are certainly national 'road needs. The first one that comes to mind ' is the Eyre Highway. For many years the State governments have been asking the Federal Government for resources to bituminise that road, lt is not a purely South Australian road now; it is a national road' used by a large number of national transportation operators and it is also closely related to the tourist industry. 
But, although the Minister for Shipping and Transport  (Mr Sinclair)  said on 12th  March,  on one of his frequent visits to South Australia, that he hoped that it would not be too long before there was a sealed road right around Australia, he was not prepared to say other than that it was the responsibility of the State Government to provide the money needed for this work out of the resources of the aid roads grants that are meted out to Stales by arrangement every year. 
We have another important road in South Australia. I refer to the road to Woomera, which is the site of a fairly important and useful national utility. We are all satisfied that that utility is doing a good job. lt is important to the country, lt is- important to South Australia, too, because we have many people working there. For many years the State Government has asked the Commonwealth Government to provide money to bituminise that road because at many times of the year it cannot be used by road users. The users of the road to Woomera are largely Commonwealth employees, either in Commonwealth vehicles or in private vehicles. In fact, the bulk of the transportation to Woomera is Commonwealth transportation, lt is cutting up the road. But the Federal Government says to the State Government: We cannot afford to give you money to bituminise that short road'. 
There are many similar examples in other parts of Australia. One that comes to mind is the almost annual isolation of Alice Springs by road due to rain. One could certainly expect the Government to consider a programme for' national roads which would provide roads of good consolidation and with an all-weather surface, where necessary. At the present time we are no nearer that objective than we were when the heavy charges on fuels were first applied. These charges have become progressively heavier. They are increasing to such an extent that the collections make it imperative, it seems to me, that the Government face up to the demands of the community. 
I have referred in particular to some aspects that concern me as a Stale representative. There is not only the wine industry but also manufacturing industries in South Australia. An impost such as this has a very serious effect on a State that relies largely upon an industry to make it go. Fortunately, South Australia, by great industry and ability, has been able to provide the various mechanical efficiencies (hat have made it the largest producer of  motor  vehicles and parts and accessories in Australia. But. of course, the State is greatly dependent on that industry. 
As the honourable senator knows, Honest Tom Playford, who has now become somewhat unpopular with the Liberal Party because of his support of the Chowila Dam, was often said to bc a good Labor man. He ruled largely as a result of a gerrymander, but he also ruled with the assistance of a well known but now deceased friend of the State, Mick O'Halloran. I am surprised at  Senator Young  bringing up this question because I have noticed in recent years that, whenever  Sir Thomas  Playford has said anything about national development or the dam in South Australia, members of the Liberal Party have been very keen to undermine him, whereas over many years the Labor Party recognised- 
The ACTING  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Sir 'Magnus Cormack)  - Order! I suggest that the honourable senator get back to the Bill. 
We were talking about State matters. They, of course, are important to the whole economy. Whilst the dam is an' aside, it is certainly a very important national question, as are the motor industry and the effect of the proposed increases about which we are talking. Already this year there have been great new imposts on the motor car industry, which have had some pressing effects. I refer, for example, to the credit squeeze. Whilst production in South Australia was able to cope with any demand, both internally and for export, the demand for cars within Australia settled down because of the increases in interest charges which the Government allowed and promoted. 
In addition, in June there was a further increase in the price of petro], I have no doubt that the price of petrol would have been increased much more than it was at that time - namely, by lc - had it not been for the existence of about the only remaining price control organisation in Australia. That is the organisation in South Australia which is still maintained by the Labor Government, although it has somewhat restricted control over prices. As a matter of fact, its operations provide a basis on which the Federal Government might make it an obligation to talk with the States on extending price control. In addition, in recent months the prices of oil and petrol have gone up and the prices of tyres have gone up. Of course, the biggest slug of all on the motoring public is insurance. Al! these extra charges strike at a very important industry. 
In the field of manufacturing industry, whether it is in South Australia or anywhere else, in recent years we in Australia have been able to demonstrate that we are becoming highly competent. Unfortunately, our secondary industry is largely influenced and owned by overseas interests, but at the present time it has some chance of getting out of the grip. That also applies to the aircraft industry. My comments on the efficiency and productivity of secondary industry apply to the consumer goods industry. If an impost is applied to them, it has a multiplier effect. Not only has it the effect of depressing a particular consumer market, but it adversely affects production, which we should not be doing at the present time. 
Everybody knows that Australia is now faced with a great challenge in relation to rural products, with demands by the Government to refashion rural production and with requests which over the years have been related largely to improving our manufacturing capacity. This has had the effect of making a competence which we should protect. What we should be doing on every occasion is making sure that when we impose duties we impose them in a way that will not affect our basic and potential capacity to enrich ourselves. The way to create wealth in Australia is the oldfashioned way of increasing production and making sure that the product is reasonable having regard to the market. This can be done. But it cannot be done if the Government places extra charges on every process of transportation or imposes extra charges that make each process of movement within the community dearer.  In  the field of manufacturing industry to which 1 have referred, every operation, every piece of raw material and completed product that is moved from the factory or carted from shop to shop or from place to place is affected by the charges imposed by the Government. 
Then there are the related matters that arise from the efficiencies of modern communities or modern industrialisation. 1 refer to the wide and far flung urban developments. The workers in manufacturing industries and the white collar workers in administration have to go into the outer areas of the cities and use privately owned motor vehicles, to a large extent, because public utilities also are faced with this problem of increasing costs. The people who produce all the wealth in industry are suffering additional charges. This means that their standards are reduced not only because they will pay more for tobacco and cigarettes and a bottle of wine but also because they will pay more to run their motor cars to work or to purchase motor cars. So, the whole system is compounded. What we are saying is that now is' the time - perhaps 4 or 5 years ago was the time - -for the Government to accept the formula that has been proposed frequently by the industry, namely,, that the moneys collected in these ways, which represent vast amounts, ought to be returned to the States and the operators under a proper programme. 
Sitting suspended from 12.45 to 2.15 p.m. 
 Prior to the suspension of the sitting I referred to the 4 Bills which impose heavy increases on the community and on industry. I referred to the disparity between the collections from automobile petrol and diesel fuels and what has been paid out under the Commonwealth Aid Roads Grants. ] have studied the figures for the past 6 years. If figures prior to that are taken, the relative position is still the same From 1965-66 to the current Estimates, the collections have increased from $2 17m to $373m. In 1965-66 the amount dispersed through Commonwealth Aid Roads Grants was $l40m. In the current year it will be $2 1 8m. Industry representatives, transport organisations and the Labor Party have argued for an equitable system of distribution of these huge collections which are part of the Government's annual budgetary considerations. 
I referred also to the parallel matter of traffic congestion due to the lack of proper road works. All of us know about the lack of national works. There has been a substantial development in industry. This has caused congestion because of bad roads and bad design. As a result a great deal of time is wasted and more, fuel is used. In a recent report the  President  of the Royal Automobile Club of Victoria pointed out some of the changes He mentioned that a particular metropolitan journey of 3 miles which 2 years ago took 10.1 minutes to travel in 1970 takes 17.5 minuts. Everybody is affected. We do not have to look at the figures to realise that. Often figures on these matters are not available. 
The other question which I wish to pose is whether the Government, in taking measures to stop what the Treasurer called threatened inflation', should take upon itself, as the Opposition has often claimed that it should, the task of introducing some kind of price control. The Government sits behind the constitutional aspect of that matter. Secondly, it has said that no good purpose would be served by meeting the States to arrange price control. Only yesterday the Leader of the Government in the Senate  (Senator Sir Kenneth Anderson)  in answering a question asked by  Senator O'Byrne,  stated that he considered that the New South Wales Labor Government had dropped price control because it was ineffective At the time that price control in New South Wales was dropped only 2 States were applying it. They could not get agreement with or promotion from the Commonwealth Government to apply any of the mechanics necessary to implement price control. Consequently the New South Wales Premier dropped it. I am pleased to say that in South Australia, although price control is fairly minimal, the State Labor Government has announced that it will continue to apply the organisation and methods necessary to keep prices down to a minimum and to investigate matters outside the control of the Prices Commissioner. 
In recent months in Australia there has been a great escalation of prices in a whole range of items necessary for sustenance. The prices of hundreds of grocery items have increased. Unfortunately, the consumer price index is not available for the period terminating in September. The results will not be out until next week. I am confident that the heavy increases imposed by the Government until now will be shown in very heavy increases in the consumer price index. There is absolutely no reason why the Commonwealth Government should not undertake to talk lo the States to make arrangements to control prices and to come to a uniform agreement about price rises. 
It seems to me that Australia is faced with another problem because the Government stands aside from controlling prices or controlling unfair increases. I refer to the recent statement made by the Minister for Trade and Industry  (Mr McEwen)  who. when admitting that the Trade Practices Act was defective because it could not enforce any action against the shipping conferences when they intended to increase the freight rates by 10 per cent, came back with the statement that it now appeared to be a matter for. the shippers to decide whether they would accept the increases. Something more than that is necessary at present in Australia. 
Que other matter which ought to be associated with discussions on these huge collections largely from industries which are advancing the economy of the country - I refer to transportation and aviation - Ls whether some part of the revenues collected ought to be devoted to purposes which the Senate, in its special committees, has said should be considered. 1 refer to the 2 Senate select committees on air pollution and water pollution. Some members of those committees are present. They could enter into the debate. The committees recommended that some assistance should be given to those industries which apply anti-pollution devices.  I  understand that there is a current application from the Australian Metal Trades Industries Association which is putting to the Government that it needs to be granted some kind of assistance or taxation benefits if the pollution aims recommended by the 2 committees are supported. 
The Opposition considers that the present legislation is unsatisfactory, lt is unfair to the people generally and particularly to people on low incomes including pensioners. It is also unfair to those unite of the economy which are doing a very good job in increasing production and in attempting to cope with a world of constantly changing and competitive conditions. All that legislation of this kind does is to place extra burdens on the community generally. The imposts which will apply will affect the satisfactory operations s&gt;f transport industries, particularly our airline operations. It has a multiplier effect throughout the whole community which should be resisted. Consequently, we intend to oppose the 4 Bills. I presume that the Minister is accepting that the 4 Bills are being dealt with in one debate. We intend to oppose the motions for the second readings of those 4 Bills.  
My question to the Minister for Civil Aviation relates to an accident yesterday between a helicopter and an air ambulance which resulted in 5 people being killed. In view of a statement that neither pilot had reported into Moorabbin airport control can the Minister say, in a preliminary way. whether the accident was due to the non-observance of aviation regulations? Has he examined the report given to him by  Mr Robey  who identifies aircraft accidents as being due partly to a lack of uniform standards of flying training in Australia? What special attention has his Department paid to that aspect in view of the recurring accidents in the light aircraft field? 
My question, which is directed to the Leader of the Government in the Senate or the Minister representing, the Minister for Shipping and Transport, concerns a statement that the Government has refused to accept an agreement between the Australian National Line and the waterside workers. Does the Government intend to persist with its objections to the agreement made between the industrial organisation covering waterside workers connected with the Australian National Line and the Australian National Line under which the hours are certainly not lower than those provided under the Stevedoring Industry Act? In view of the fact that the Government and. other organisations are urging upon the industrial community that there should be new industrial relations procedures and the consummation of agreements where possible, how does the Government justify its action in preventing the operation of an industrial agreement which has been approved by the operating body? 

 Senator Sir KENNETH ANDERSONIn truth, I believe that the question should be directed to the Minister for Labour and National Service because it deals with industrial relations. Having regard to the comprehensive nature of the number of points involved in the honourable senator's question, I suggest that he so direct it. I can do it for him if he so desires. On the other hand, he may have it directed to the Minister for Labour and National Service by placing it on the notice paper. 
 Perhaps  Senator Wright  could add to that. 
My question is directed to the Minister for Air. Is it a fact that the Royal Australian Air Force fighter base at Butterworth, which accommodates a substantial part of the Australian fighter capacity, at present has no air defence system and the minimum airfield defence complement? If this is the position, are the Minister and the RAAF satisfied with the security of the Australian unit stationed there? 
 I address a question to the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry. Has the Minister's attention been drawn to recent purchases by overseas interests of Australian wineries  and a recent statement by the  President  of the Federal Wine and Brandy Producers Council expressing concern at this development, pointing out that the companies located outside Australia have unlimited resources and suggesting that this constituted a threat to the Australian industry? Will the Minister consider to what extent the Government can aid Australian industry in this regard and ensure that no further foreign ownership of Australian industries will be allowed? 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Defence, lt refers to the discussions currently being held in Canberra between representatives of the United States of America Defence Department and representatives of the Australian Department of Defence, ls the Australian Government promoting a strong, positive policy that Australian industry, government and private, should have a greater share in coproduction or offset orders related to the heavy Australian purchases of the United States military equipment? If this is the position what results or new understandings have taken place between the 2 governments? 
At the present time I am not in a position to give any information. As a matter of fact, as late as half an hour ago 1 had one of the senior representatives with me in my office. I assure the honourable senator that Australia's express view in relation to offset orders is quite clearly being put. I do know that discussions were held this morning with the defence complex and they are continuing this afternoon. I am not in a position to give any further information beyond saying that there should be no fear that Australia's express views in relation to offset orders are not being put quite clearly in the context of the general and wide sweep of discussions which ate going on. 
asked the Minister  representing the Minister for the Interior, upon notice: 
How many Commonweatlh Departments located in South Australia occupy privately owned office accommodation. 
What ls the total annual amount paid in rents and other charges for this accommodation. 
My question addressed to the Minister representing the Minister for Defence relates to the current discontent amongst members of the Services with wages, allowances and housing and also to the fact that the Government is to conduct an inquiry into these matters. I ask the Minister: Will the Committee set up by the Government consider to what extent servicemen may benefit from the formation of a trade union or some other appropriate association, having in mind that the West 
German forces have for many years had such a union organisation which seems to have performed a useful role in settling differences between servicemen and defence heads? If no consideration has yet been given to this matter will the Minister refer the proposition to the Defence (Conditions of Service) Committee so as to find out to what extent such an organisation might provide a vehicle for settling differences and determining the reasons for the resignations which seem to be occurring in all the Services? 
For my own part, I see some difficulties within the proposal if it is the intention to set up a union within the Services and if that union were to operate in the normal way of union advocacy. All I can add is that no doubt the committee which is being set up would have regard to these proposals. I know only what I heard the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Barnard)  in another place expound yesterday at the annual federal convention of the Returned Services League and what he said in Canberra today. One would need to have a lot more particulars of this matter to give a purposeful comment. As I have said, I see many difficulties in introducing a proposal into the Services of which the law of command is an inherent part. If the honourable senator is thinking in terms of something on a lower level away from that aspect of Service functions, it may be a different matter. 
My question, which I direct to the Minister for Air, concerns the range of the Phantom bomber. Does the Minister recall that a fortnight ago  Senator Milliner  asked him for details of the approximate safe mileage that a Phantom bomber can fly without refuelling, and that the Minister replied that it is 1,300 nautical miles? Last week I asked the Minister whether he was satisfied that that estimate of the safe mileage represented operational performance but yesterday, when answering a question put by  Senator Keeffe,  the Minister declined to give any figures in this respect. Is the Minister at this stage able to identify the various ranges of the Phantom when carrying specific loads? If not, will the Minister supply the information so that senators can be fully informed as to the range of the Phantom? 
Has the Minister for Civil Aviation, his Department or Qantas Airways Ltd investigated the current controversy in the United States of America over the fact that Boeing jumbo jet engines are subject to overheating? Has his Department or Qantas had cause to note that on three occasions recently the engines of this type of aircraft have caught fire? If information is available, will the Minister make it available to the Senate? 
My question is directed to the Leader of the Government in the Senate. It refers to the answer that he gave to  Senator Young  about the 35-hour week. ls the Minister aware that a tripartite body appointed by the National Labour Advisory Council, which is a body set up by the Government, has recently sent out a study of the effects of automation and technological changes on workers? The study lists a number of changes which automation would bring to highly productive industries. They would perform the job of production much quicker than heretofore. The study recommends certain conferences between employers and employees in connection with these changes. If the Leader of the Government is aware of the changes, why did he not mention the fact that studies conducted by the Department of Labour and National Service indicate that mechanisation and automation necessitate consideration of a shorter working week? 
The honourable senator's question has no relationship to the question I was asked by  Senator Young. Senator Bishop  is trying to justify a 35-hour week. It is an interesting exercise in that context. However, the fact of the matter is that I was asked a question by  Senator Young  on a particular subject and I replied to it. I suggest to  Senator Bishop  that he be a little patient because more will be said on this subject later in the day. 
 I wish to speak briefly to the report presented by  Senator Marriott  and to refer to a section of one of the reports, Estimates Committee C, which impinges upon matters raised by honourable senators tonight. Paragraph 4 on page 3 of the report states: 
The Committee felt that consideration should be give in future to the number of committees which meet simultaneously, to the rotation of committees sitting simultaneously and to the general accommodation which is available for committee meetings. Consideration should also be given to increasing the time available for the sittings of the committees. 
Two indicators clearly emerge from the present experiment with the committee system. One* which has been discussed by senators, is that the present parliamentary accommodation is not satisfactory for the committee system, lt seems to me that in that situation we must give consideration to extensions of Parliament House if we are to adopt properly the committee system. I believe a study of the reports of the other Estimates Committees will contain similar comments. It is clear that extensions must be carried out if the experiment is to- be persevered with. Such extensions should include provision for the proper working of the committee system. 
The second indicator to be clearly observed is that the committee system that we have now embarked on contains a great many advantages. Most of the committees were able expertly to examine not only the Ministers but also the permanent heads of departments. All the information gained is now contained in the Hansard reports. That information is more thorough and detailed than the information we were able to get under the previous arrangement of the debate on the Estimates in the Committee of the Whole. That is a great advantage, but we have met with a certain amount of cramming which should not exist in ordinary circumstances. I notice that the Leader of the Government in the Senate,  (Senator Sir Kenneth Anderson)  is noting some of these points. 
I suggest that 2 or 3 days should be available for discussion of the Estimates by the Committee of the Whole. That time will be neceseary to examine the information obtained- from the Estimates Committees. We are now getting a lot of special information .which we did not get previously. The Estimates Committees are conducting the type of examination which has become a part of the United States Senate special committees. To some extent it involves the expert and specialised knowledge of senators who take part in discussions, and of the Ministers who supervise or correlate the Government's point of view. For that reason it seems to me that the time which will be available for consideration of this information by the Committee of the Whole will not be sufficient. 
Al) honourable senators are aware of the reason for that situation. 1 put it to the Leader of the Government in the Senate that when the Estimates Committees meet again next Budget session clear provision must be made by the Government for the committees to meet in freer conditions. Three or 4 committees should not meet at the same time. J hope we will have an opportunity when the Estimates come back to the Committee of the Whole properly to examine records and information obtained by the Estimates Committees and thus to be armed with extra information and details we have not had before. I support the report presented by  Senator Marriott.  I have outlined the indicators which have emerged and the reasons why I am a supporter of the committee system. But I strongly believe that provision has to be made for extension of the accommodation and of the time available for the Committee of the Whole to examine the information obtained by the Estimates Committees. 
I refer to the reply that the Minister representing the Minister for Shipping and Transport gave to  Senator Young  in relation to increased costs arising from the dispute at the Tilbury Docks in the United Kingdom. Is it a fact that despite the dispute which occurred the consortium finished that year with a profit of $40m? 
My question, which follows on those asked by  Senator Young  and  Senator Kennelly,  is directed to the Leader of the Government in the Senate. Is it a fact that a substantial section of the Commonwealth Public Service and the Commonwealth statutory offices have for many years been working a minimum of less than 40 hours and close to 35 hours a week, and that these conditions have been agreed upon between the agencies representing the Government which negotiate hours and working conditions with the unions and associations of the Public Service? In view of this situation, is the Government now altering its viewpoint in respect of shorter hours for its salaried staff? Does the Government intend to take any steps to increase the hours worked by its salaried staff in view of its criticisms of the Labor Party's proposal for a 35-hour week? 
In addressing my question to the Minister representing the Minister for Trade and Industry I refer to recent increases, to a maximum of 10 per cent, in overseas freight rates and to recent statements by the Minister for Trade and Industry that the Trade Practices Act in its present form is not available as a means of taking action in respect of those increases, and that shippers would have to negotiate with the Conference lines to set a fair freight rate. I ask: In the background of those statements does the Government propose to amend the Trade Practices Act so that Australian producers for export will have available to them fair freight rates? If not, does the Government intend to take some other action to assist the Australian National Line in getting not only a fair share of the trade but also operating conditions under which it can carry cargoes to and from Australia at reasonable freight rates? 
Certain aspects raised by the honourable senator would need to be answered by the Department of Shipping and Transport. The honourable senator will appreciate that in his basic question he is asking me to comment on policy and on the intentions of the Government in the field of policy. Therefore I am not in a position to answer those questions now. I am sure he appreciates that his question is in fact related to policy and the rules are that questions on policy are not answered at question time. 
My question is addressed to the Minister for Air. How long is it since the investigation team which is in the United States of America to take account of tests and other matters in relation to the Fill Aircraft has reported to the Government? What was the content of recommendations or opinions expressed by this investigation team in its last report to the Government? When is it expected that some firm report upon which the Government might decide its future policy in respect of this aircraft will be available for examination by the Department? 
My question is directed to the Minister for Civil Aviation and relates to the third light aircraft accident in a matter of weeks. The Minister has stated previously that the number of aircraft accidents is not as alarming as figures might show because of the growth in aircraft operations. 1 ask: Would these accidents be prevented if stronger aircraft operating regulations were in force, particularly in respect to single engine aircraft? Do some or all of the recent accidents show the need for increased or improved air control or navigational facilities in order to ensure greater safety? If so, what would be the approximate cost of these facilities? Has the Minister been able to assess the merit of the argument advanced by  Mr Robey  that there is a need for a more uniform system of training pilots within Australia? 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Shipping and Transport upon notice: 
Are dependants of Commonwealth Railways officers or employees who are performing National Service denied interstate passes, which would normally be available to them when the officers or employees are serving in the railways. 
Do the Commonwealth Railways also refuse concessions for travel on Commonwealth Railways to dependants of State railway employees who arc on National Service. 
Will the Minister extend the standard travel concessions available to dependants of railway workers to dependants of railway workers engaged in National Service, and thus ensure that there is no discrimination against these workers and their dependants. 
I want to say a few words about the answer that was given by the Minister for Housing  (Senator Dame Annabelle Rankin)  to  Senator Poyser  and also to support what  Senator Poyser  has said. I understood  Senator Poyser  to put forward an argument that the reply from the Minister was unsatisfactory, and I understood  Senator Little  from Victoria to substantially support that point of view. 
So do I. I suggest that this is where we should start. It is a very important matter. That is why 1 wish to say something about it. Firstly, I suggest that the Minister might send the answer that the Minister for Immigration  (Mr Lynch)  supplied this morning to question number 794 asked by  Senator Poyser  back to the Department because it is obviously inaccurate. The beginning of the answer points out that there are some circumstances under which this so-called general principle may not be applied. I know of some cases involving British subjects living in India who are of mixed origin and who are coloured people who have been assisted into Australia. An answer has been given to an important question asked by a senator. That senator has raised this matter in this debate to indicate that he certainly does not agree with any discrimination against coloured people, and he is entitled to do so. lt seems to me that if the Minister were looking after the policies of the Government she would say thai, if there is any misunderstanding in respect of this matter, the answer should be withdrawn and reviewed. We have 2 positions and if  Senator Greenwood  were here- 
The honourable senator is not sitting in his seat. I did not notice him. Let me refer to what he talked about. He talked about the Government's policy and the policy of the Australian Labor Party on immigration being the same. Then he suggested that  Senator Poyser  was attacking the Government. Both the Government and the Labor Party agree on allowing coloured people into this country. Whether it is to be on a regulated basis or on a quota basis is not the issue.  Senator Keeffe  has drawn to our attention that the Minister has already announced, in reply to a question asked by him. that selected people of Asian or coloured origins are entitled to come into this country but that they will not get assistance because they do not come under the arrangements which provide for assisted passages. On the other hand, of course, there are many people who are covered by the agreements for assistance who do not get assistance anyway. Senators have applied to get assisted passages for migrants but have failed because the intending migrants have not qualified under the criteria which the Government establishes. We have a situation in which Asian people or coloured people are allowed to enter the country if they are suitable. But the reply which the Minister gave to  Senator Poyser  tonight indicates obviously that unless they are of European descent they will not be entitled to assisted passages. Later on she used the words under normal circumstances'. 
If anybody is at fault in relation to the debate on this mutter, it is not  Senator Poyser.  If anybody is at fault in relation to a lack of clarification, it is the Government, and the Government should readily see that what has been started tonight is not the fault of the Labor Party or  Senator Poyser.  As a matter of fact,  Senator Poyser  should be commended for raising the matter in order that it might be cleared up. Some misunderstandings have arisen in this debate.  Senator Greenwood  has said that we can debar a coloured person or an Asian person from assistance simply because he is coloured, but we are told that the Government will allow such a person in if they have a qualification and if they pay their own way. Such a policy is a lot of nonsence and it should not be supported by this Parliament. Bui there are cases of coloured people of mixed origin who are British subjects getting assisted passages to this country, as they should, lt should be possible for people who are classified, under this Liberal Government or under a Labor Government, as acceptable citizens to get assisted passages irrespective of their colour. 
Let us clean the position up by the Minister for Housing making sure that the answers given in the debate on this matter are reviewed by the Department of Immigration and the Minister for Immigration. If this is the new ruling of the Department and if procedures have been misunderstood in the past, let us clean them up and let our policy be made known to the world at large. Recently the  President  of the Senate opened a successful Commonwealth Parliamentary Association Conference which was held in Australia. Hundreds of delegates attended the Conference, and many of them were coloured. A great number of them were British citizens, accomplished Ministers of governments and specialist people. It is a most retrograde step to talk about rulings along the lines which the Minister has mentioned in giving answers tonight. The rulings ought to be modified, if they are the rulings. 1 again appeal to the Minister to take counsel in respect of the interpretations of policy which she has given to the Committee. 

 Senator Dame ANNABELLE RANKIN (Queensland - Minister for Housing) (9.26) - I should like to correct a figure which I gave in my last reply. In relation to Division 330, subdivision 3, I gave a figure of $37m. I should have said $370,000. 
In dealing with Division 580 - Administrative -I support what  Senator Cavanagh  has said in relation to the proportion of Commonwealth works being carried out in South Australia. I particularly want to refer again to the subject I brought up at the Estimates Committee meetings which related to the question of when the Department will be commissioned to build a Commonwealth centre. The Minister will recall that his own support for such a proposition goes back to the time of the Adelaide Festival of Arts when he made the point in a newspaper comment that there obviously was a need for a Commonwealth centre in South Australia and that he was giving some consideration to this and other matters of expenditure in South Australia. Since that time a number of representations have been made and I admit that the Minister has considered them and given replies. Unfortunately, at this stage his replies indicate that there is not on the drawing board as yet a proposition for such a centre. We have found out recently that there are 26 Commonwealth departments in South Australia which are leasing premises. The Commonwealth is paying $2m a year in Adelaide in rental charges or in leasing arrangements. From memory the amount now being paid is almost double what was paid 5 years ago. While 1 accept what the Minister said in his replies in this place and what he and his officers said in the Estimates Committee that the Commonwealth is aware of the advantage in building its own accommodation where to do so is an economic proposition - that is one of the guiding principles - 1 would ask the Minister whether he can bring to finality the considerations which are being given to the building of a suitable Commonwealth centre in South Australia to house some of the 26 departments there and save the Commonwealth a considerable amount of the $2m that is now paid out to private people such as insurance companies. 
My question to the Leader of the Government in the Senate follows on his answer to  Senator Lawrie.  Is the Minister now saying that the Government intends to review arrangements made in the Australian coal mining industry for a 35-hour week, which is now operating? Is he also saying that in certain circumstances the Government might review its application of the 37-hour week principle for most of its own public servants? Or is the Government admitting that the questions of standard hours and the Australian economy are matters for determination by industrial tribunals or negotiation between particular interests, as has applied in respect of the stevedoring authority? 
35-HOUR WEEK 
1 ask the Leader of the Government: What does the Government propose to do about the current increases being applied in freight rates in relation to Australian exports to the United Kingdom and also about the now threatened increase by Overseas Containers Ltd that freight rates will be increased during the current year to a yet higher level  than the rates now applying, which have already been subject to recent increases of between 4 per cent and 10 per cent? Has the Minister rejected an Australian shippers' conference request to the Government that it intercede in this matter and attempt to get lower freight rates applied? I also ask: What will the Government do about the request by that body that the subject matter should be put to the Trade Practices Commission to see to what extent some control might be exercised, in view of the fact that now the Australian Shipping Commission is part of the AustralianUnited Kingdom conference, to see that Australian producers get a fair go? 

 Senator Sir KENNETH ANDERSONThe honourable senator has just asked me 6 questions, according to my tally. I think the proper thing to do, because it is an important matter, is to ask that the question be put on notice for submission in the first instance to the Minister for Shipping and Transport. I invite the honourable senator to put his question on notice. 
My question is directed to either the Minister for Civil Aviation or the Leader of the Government in the Senate. I refer to reported studies which have been made by the 2 domestic airlines in relation to their future requirements for aircraft and to the fact that Trans-Australia Airlines has said that it is studying the Tri-Star aircraft, the DC10 aircraft and the European Airbus. I ask the Minister: As he has been requested before to consider to what extent Australian industry might participate through co-production or offset orders in relation to our internal requirements for civil airlines, will he again consider, before approval is given to the airlines to make these purchases overseas, what arrangements might be made to have some amount of the work required in reequipment proposals done in Australia? 
 Without labouring the matter I would like to add a word in support of what was said by  Senator Greenwood.  Of course, what  Senator Greenwood  said has been answered by the Minister for Works  (Senator Wright).  But 1 would like to suggest something that might be considered by the Minister for Works and also by the Minister for Civil Aviation  (Senator Cotton)  who was also involved in the Estimates Committee hearings. Some of the Committees made a preamble to their report and picked out items such as that commented upon by  Senator Greenwood.  Committee D did this in respect of the Department of Works and suggested that consideration might be given to relating specific items from other departments to that department when they are dealt with but not to take them away from the group that is being considered by the Committee. My suggestion is that the Ministers might consider incorporating in the records oi today's proceedings the preliminary report of the Committee I do not mean that the whole voluminous report should be incorporated. I suggest that the comments which relate to particular suggestions from the Committee should be incorporated so that there is a record for those who were not able to attend the meetings of the Committee. 
Proposed expenditure agreed to. 
Proposed expenditure - Australian Tourist Commission, $2,350,000 - agreed to. 
Attorney-General's Department 
Proposed expenditure, $18,966,000. 
There are 3 matters which I want to raise and they relate to questions which were posed during the Estimates Committee C hearing. The first is the appropriation for Division 370, Administrative, within the Department of Labour and National Service. The Minister may recall a question put to  Dr Cook  that the arbitration inspectorate in Adelaide, which is centralised, ought to give consideration to providing inspectorate services to such places as Whyalla and Port Augusta.  Dr Cook  explained that what had been announced was the establishment of an employment office in those places but not inspectorate services. I have indicated that over the years there have been occasions both in respect to disputes and award infringements and also in respect to matters concerning young boys who have been retrenched from employment. Consequently a challenge arose as to whether these young men were properly protected under the terms of the Act and whether an inspector be appointed to these places. The Minister indicated that the matter would be distributed throughout his Department and there would be some consideration given to it and some reply given to me. Up to now I have not had a reply and I therefore place my remarks on record. 
I want to refer to an issue which was raised in the Committee and it applies to the Defence Services, Division 755, concerning the appropriation for the administration of the National Service Act. In August the Minister for Labour and National Service  (Mr Snedden)  supplied figures of the number of persons who had registered but who were not available for call-up. Those figures showed that in 1969 there were 2,038 and in 1970 the number had increased to 2,416. In view of the fact that a very small number of prosecutions have been made in both cases  -  6, 7 or 9  -  we tried to get information to confirm our suspicion that there has been some relaxation in the policy of the Government over the prosecution of young people who have not registered for service? I want to make it very clear that I am not advocating any stringent policy on this matter. I certainly would believe that a liberalisation of this sort of thing would be a good move. When this question as to how these numbers had increased was canvassed, the representative from the Department of Labour and National Service said that they would seem to be lost; that is, that they were scattered throughout the country and could not be found. Whether these 2,418 young people had been, in effect, left off the hook, if I may put it that way, or whether there was no positive action by the Department to prosecute them in the light of the current feelings of the Australian community was not fully explained. We were unable at that stage to get any figures. We were told that a further report would be given. 
The other question, on the same item, relates to the standards in the tests that these young people undergo. 
I am referring to the administration of the National Service Act, under Division 755. I refer to the so-called educational tests which have been adopted by the Department of Labour and National Service in respect of those young people who are conscripted. A system of educational tests is followed which has been criticised by some people who resent the fact that certain young people are being rejected from the Army. I refer to cases which have been mentioned in the past where young people who volunteer for service in the Regular Army have been rejected because of so-called educational tests. Over the years, the numbers rejected have been very high. I might mention that, in trying to find out what the tests were, we were unable to get the particulars of the tests. No evidence is available from the Department as yet as to whether these tests are carried out by a local doctor who may be examining medically or whether there are some specialist facilities.- At the end of the consideration of this matter by the Estimates Committee,  Senator Wright  indicated that he would see that the matter was put in writing. As reported at page 614 of the Hansard report of Senate Estimates Committee C, the Minister is reported as saying: 
I think it will be more clear if it is put forward in a statement in writing showing where the psychology test, the educational test and medical test all come in. They may obviously overlap and then when we give the numbers I think the members of the Committee will have a clearer view ... 
Unless the answers have gone astray on those subjects - and I certainly have not received any answers - I ask the Minister whether he has any more information? 
 I refer to Division 170 which is the Division referred to by  Senator Cavanagh.  I am not going to talk at length because of the time. When the Minister for Civil Aviation  (Senator Cotton)  gave me an answer yesterday he quoted figures and made some reference to a statement which had been reported from  Mr Robey.  Honourable senators will recall that  Mr Robey  - the information was given to the Minister some weeks ago - stated that there was an absence of uniform training regulations or manuals. He cited a number of incidents. The Minister promised to study the statement and he apparently did because yesterday he said that  Mr Robey  had told him that he was misreported or misunderstood. It is evident that the Minister has studied and considered what  Mr Robey  said. I ask the Minister whether there is any substance in the complaint which was put forward in the document containing the speech of  Mr Robey  which stated that there was a lack of uniformity in various manuals and that instructions to pilots differed in many cases.  Mr Robey  also claimed, if I remember correctly, that the Department of Civil Aviation gave instructions different to those in the manuals. Has the Minister been able to assess whether this is the position? As a result of  Mr Robey's  complaints, as the honourable senator now understands them, has some action been taken to create uniformity which will provide greater safety? 
In view of the time, I want to refer very briefly to Division 210, and to the recent impost by the Government of an excise on wine. I am quite sure that honourable senators will remember that in many places there were general protests about the introduction of the excise. There were many complaints from the South Australian wine industry. It was argued that at that stage the wine growers had just reached a position of profitability. As a matter of fact, the Treasurer  (Mr Bury)  mentioned this fact in his Budget Speech. During the meeting of Estimates Committee D on 20th October 1970 I asked the Minister for Civil Aviation  (Senator Cotton)  or his advisers what costs were involved in arranging for the imposition of the new duty. I asked: 
In recent years there was some re-allocation of excise officers, and some reductions. I tied that up with the question .of the proposed new wine duty. Has the Department already estimated what would be required for the staffing of excise officers or lockers as-  I  think they are called to Implement the proposed new Budget duty? Secondly, in relation to a proposition which is being examined by the Government of not applying the duty directly, are there any new procedures or regulations which the Department has to arrange to make this possible? Will it mean additional staff and if so what sort of costings are involved? 
Later I asked a question about particular costs because an answer was not forthcoming. I received an answer, which has now been incorporated in Hansard, in reply to the request that I made. I will read the letter because it is an important one. I suggest that it shows that what is happening is that the Department of Customs and Excise, because of Government direction, is setting up a permanent organisation to arrange for the collection of these duties. In my opinion, that means that the Department is being dovetailed into a Government position which will make affirmative this impost on an industry which is suffering from a number of disabilities. ' The latest disability is that a number of overseas organisations, including United Kingdom organisations, are now buying up the vineyards. It seems to me that this is a new matter which should attract the attention of the Senate. 1 will read the letter because it explains the position that I am trying to put to honourable senators. It is dated 21st October 1970. It is signed by J. E. Walsh, the First Assistant Comptroller-General (Management and Technical Services), and it states: 
I refer to the question, concerning salary costs for the collection of the new Excise on wine, from  Senator R.  Bishop during the examination of the estimates of the Department of Customs and Excise on 20lh October 1970. 
The organisation requested of the Public Service Board la cover this function is proposed only as an interim measure pending the development of longer term procedures for collection, lt is envisaged, once the initial collection procedures (for some 500 wine producers) have settled down that this responsibility will be encompassed within the existing organisation, subject to normal growth factors. Thus, die proposed costs are seen to be transitory. 
This is the important paragraph: 
The Public Service Board has been requested lo provide an organisation comprising 16 positions at a total annual salary cost of $102,459. For the balance of the 1970-71 financial year (7/12 of total annual cost), Ihe cost will be $59,768. It is expected that revenue for the year 1970-71 will amount to $12. 5m and for a full year $ 15.2m. Thus, for the balance of 1970-71 salary costs will represent 0.48 per cent of wine excise collected. On the basis of a full year, the salary costs will represent 0.67 per cent of wine excise collected. 
Already the Department has asked the Public Service to accommodate a new organisation which is to cost the Australian Government $102,000, and probably more when the real evaluations are made. South Australia's wine producers and other people throughout Australia are opposed to the impost. 1 bring to the attention of honourable senators that it is proposed to set up a permanent organisation which indicates that in future years the duty is to continue to be paid by an industry which is not yet properly established. 
My question to the Minister for Supply refers to a report today that a Government sponsored industry group is going to Asia to investigate the market possibilities of' the proposed utility-type aircraft now being considered by the Government. Does the development of this project in aircraft depend only upon the market possibilities that might develop from the group now visiting Asia, or has the Government already decided to develop a production cycle for the aircraft rather than wait for any market potentials outside whatever Australia's armed forces require? 
This Bill seeks parliamentary approval to borrowings by the Commonwealth of up to $US125m for the purchase of defence equipment in United States of America. It has been mentioned that, under the Loan (Defence) Act 1966, the Commonwealth arranged borrowings of $US450m. This money has now been committed almost completely by orders placed up to the end of December 1969. Under the Loan (Defence) Act 1970, which was passed earlier this year, the Commonwealth arranged borrowings of $US89m. Orders approximately equivalent to the amount of that credit had been placed in the United States by the end of June. We are in the situation where a successive number of Bills have been introduced for borrowings in the United States related to credit arrangements with that country. These Bills have authorised a part of the borrowings necessary to purchase equipment from the United States. 
In 1968, as honourable senators may remember, the Australian Labor Party opposed a Loan Bill which was related to the Fill. The view of the Labor Party then was related not only to the question of borrowing but also to the issue of whether or not the Fill at that time was the sort of aircraft which Australia ought to purchase. In 1968 the Opposition moved to the effect that the House was of opinion that the passage of the Bill should be delayed until the House reassembled next year to enable the Government to reassess the capabilities of the FI 1 1. As a matter of fact, the loan which was raised as a result of the passage of the relevant Bill in 1968 as yet has had no drawings upon it in respect of the Fill. Although at that time the full problems associated with the Fill had not developed, the Opposition took the view that some stay should occur in the purchase procedures so that the aircraft might be re-examined. We can say with some sense of certainty that at that stage the Australian Labor Party was not confident that the purchase of this aircraft was necessary. 
We certainly dealt also with the wider issue of purchasing United States defence equipment in this period. Most of our previous loan borrowings were at a much lower rate of interest than is the case in this proposal, although the full arrangements and terms have not been stated. Australia is to borrow this $US125m at an interest rate of 7.375 per cent. That is very high. In fact, it is extremely high. The Labor Party does not agree with the remarks of the Minister for Defence  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  who said in the other place that this is a favourable opportunity for borrowing overseas. As a matter of fact, in respect of the cost of this bor rowing, we say that we ought as a first step to ask ourselves whether the borrowing arrangements are necessary. 
That is not the only reason why we oppose the Bill. The Opposition opposes the Bill also because we consider that it is not necessary to purchase all of these items from the United States. We are not confident that all of the purchases are necessary ones because the list of items to be purchased contains a number of items in which Australian content should be greater. The list contains a number of items which in our opinion could be manufactured easily in Australia if appropriate notice was given to Australian manufacturers. Another argument is that borrowings should not be raised externally while Australia can obtain these out of its current international reserves. 
An urgent need certainly exists for a re-examination of the items to be purchased. As 1 have mentioned, the Minister for Defence in another place quite belatedly provided a list of the items which will be covered by this purchase. The extent to which the purchases will he made promptly or not is not known. We know that some of the items which are indicated as necessary defence requirements are items which, if proposed to Australian industry, could be manufactured in whole or in part by Australian manufacturers. 
In the Annual Report of the AuditorGeneral for the financial year ended 1969-70 we see that the amounts made available during that year and the total borrowings under the Act as at 30th June 1970 were as follows: The total borrowings were $US407,808,870. Of this amount, SUS3 10,629.229 was raised at 4* per cent interest. So, we have this general heavy interest charge. In addition, a very important argument relating to these purchases is whether Australia should continue to bc so dependent upon United States suppliers for this equipment much of which can be produced in Australia. 
Other background to this matter has been ventilated in the Senate. It is quite obvious that despite pressures from the Opposition and despite some recognition by the Government that there has to be a certain sharing by Australian manufacturers in the production of the defence items being purchased, not enough progress has been made in this desirable direction. It will be noticed too that this heavy commitment is a great liability on the Australian economy. The national accounting estimates for public authority, receipts and expenditure, shows that in these years the overseas outlays for war and defence in the following years were: In 1965-66. $15lm; in 1966-67. $220m: in 1967-68. $3 13m; in 1968-69. $292m; in 1969-70, $187m; and in 1970-71, the figure is estimated to be $186m. The total, covering a period of 6 years, is approximately $1 .200m. 
I turn now to physical imports. The Research Service of the Parliamentary Library has collated these figures for me. These figures relate to the import of munitions and war stores between the period 1965-66 to 1969-70. In 1965-66, the amount was $85,907,000- In 1966-67 it was $118,629,000; in 1967-68 it was $125,232,000; in 1968-69 it was $174,139,000; in 1969-70 it was $95,757,000, which of course is still an extremely heavy expenditure in view of the acceptance, as I have said, as far back as the time when  Sir Allen  Fairhall was Minister for Defence, of the principle that we should produce as much as we can within Australia and as far as possible get co-production arrangements or offset orders. We should ask ourselves what we are getting in the way of offset orders. I suggest that we are not getting the amount of work which we should be at a time when it is patent that the Australian aircraft industry is still struggling to increase productivity and to get orders for the future. We are also not using the manufacturing resources which we have in Australia, particularly in light and heavy engineering and in the automobile industry, to produce goods that we need. We have given to the electronic industry in Australia what I would call scraps in relation to orders. But the Government has not been organised to the extent that it believes it should influence industry. It does not have a positive policy, in my opinion. 
We have a related question which has emerged in recent years. It has been posed by none other than the former Secretary of the Department of Defence,  Sir Henry  Bland, who was also at one time the Secretary of the Department of Labour and 
National Service. He is a man of long and experienced service who knows industry and technology well. As honourable senators will remember, after he left the Public Service he recently posed in a series of articles the question whether we should have such demands for sophisticated weaponry produced overseas when, within our own shores, we have organisations which could produce perhaps less complex machines of war, devices of war and aircraft but which we are not engaging to the extent we might. He has posed questions which honourable senators have posed here. So far, in my opinion, they have not been answered. 
The matter has been brought to the notice of the Leader of the Government in the Senate  (Senator Sir Kenneth Anderson)  on a number of occasions and he has evaded the issue by saying that he recognises the position. I think he does recognise the position, but I am suggesting that, whilst he is not particularly responsible, it seems to me that the Australian Government has to take the sort of attitude which today, in other fields, the Japanese Government Ls taking. The Japanese Government is initiating policies like the major American defence policies. It has initiated a major government policy which goes down the line into industry and commerce. We should do the same thing. We have done some small things. It is true that some time ago, as a result of the new policy advanced by  Sir Allen  Fairhall, we gained some small offset orders for Australia. For instance, orders with the Boeing company amounted to $40m or $50m worth of equipment being imported by Australia. As a result of our then stated principle that we should get offset orders related to the purchase of such equipment we finally got a sub-contract worth $500,000. We on this side of the Parliament have pointed out on a number of occasions to the Leader of the Government in the Senate and to the Minister for Civil Aviation  (Senator Cotton)  the need for the application of the same sort of principle when the domestic airline operators are ordering their requirements for the future. We have asked what the Government will do about seeing that there is Australian participation in the supply of these requirements. I think we now have an acceptance of this principle. 
I have referred to  Sir Henry  Bland. It has been stated that this very competent ex-Government official lit a number of fires during his term of office in the Department of Defence. I am quite sure that all of us are pleased that these things are getting stronger consideration and will be of some service to the community. He wrote about this general position of defence competence in Australia: 
Perhaps the outsiders will accelerate  the  Uend to independent and novel Australian solutions to defence equipment needs. As is well known, compatibility of weapons and equipment with those of the USA has been a cardinal principle of Australian defence policy for some time. There is room for wondering whether habit has led this policy to be interpreted to Australia's long term disadvantage. True, it is less risky to buy off the shelf, whether from the US, or from the UK: Others will have eliminated the bugs; spare parts will be readily available. Yet there are, as well, great risks in this and perhaps, in today's world, great opportunities are being overlooked . . . 
Opportunities are being overlooked and the sorts of initiatives which should be taken are not being taken. We are continuing to be dependent upon overseas sources for most of our defence equipment. We are not achieving the joint ventures, the share of co-production orders and the percentage of offset orders that we are arguing should be achieved. In addition, it is fair to say that our dependence goes further than just the supply of these complex weapon systems. In a grave crisis, where a device is not available to Australia the only thing we have here is the ability to service and to make some alterations to the device. But we do not have the general power and knowledge to manufacture the device. So we are limited also in this regard. I suggest that the position has not changed much since August 1969 when, as honourable senators may remember,  Mr Fairhall,  as he then was, tried to make this an issue in the United States when he was visiting there. At an American chamber of commerce luncheon he said: 
It would help this country of your commercial adoption if you could arrange for some major American defence company to bring sub-contract work here. 
We are not getting enough of it. May 1 quickly point out the position with respect to domestic airlines which has been raised on a number of occasions by myself and other honourable senators, and which is of course an issue. I have some figures in relation to the imports of aircraft and parts into Australia between 1967-68 and 1969-70. The figures have been produced by the Legislative Research Service of the Parliament. They include imports of aeroplanes of various weights, helicopters and parts for flying machines. In 1967-68 we imported $136,286,000 worth of equipment. In 1968-69 we imported $131,590,000 worth of equipment. In 1969-70 we imported $127,014,000 worth of flying machines and parts. In 1967-68 we imported $59m worth of parts; in 1968-69 we imported 587m worth of parts; in 1969-70 we imported $7 6m worth of parts. I am trying to be as brief as possible in view of the time. 
I come back to the items we intend to purchase with this loan. In my opinion many of them could be produced in Australia. We have been seeking to get subcontract work in relation to some of these orders to ensure that once again Australian industry will have the opportunity to be co-ordinated into the supply of our own defence equipment. I refer to page 12 of the 'Defence Report 1970', in which the Minister for Defence  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  said: 
Progress on major projects announced in the last 12 months is as follows: 
. the design and construction of the logistic cargo ship, the fast combat support ship, the oceanographic ship and the hydrographic ship will be carried out in Australia. 
That is one job. He continued: 
The eight heavy landing craft have been designed and are being built locally. 
That is an Australian job, but it is a minor one. Then he said: 
Offset orders are being sought in connection with the procurement of the two additional Oberon Class submarines, which are being ordered from the UK. 
I should like to know the value of the offset orders, if any, which we have obtained. The Minister continued: 
A local contract will be placed for the design and supply of the Submarine Command Team Trainer.The contractor will have the benefit of support from overseas associates. 
That is another small job. Then he said: 
Offset proposals were invited from the US tenderers and were taken into account in the selection of the 12CH47C Boeing Vertol medium lift helicopters. 
How many offset orders did we obtain? He continued: 
Interested overseas and local firms have been invited to submit offers for the supply of 84 light observation helicopters, with a substantial Australian content. 
Obviously those helicopters could be built in Australia. How many orders were obtained by Australian firms? Then the Minister referred to the Australian aircraft industry. This morning I asked a question about the Project N aircraft. We believe that this is an important project and we support it, but the order is worth only S3m. We do not know whether the Australian aircraft industry will be used to produce these aircraft. I suggest that if one goes through the lists of items which were purchased this year or last year one can relate them to the issue about which 1 am speaking. We believe that a more positive policy should be adopted towards this matter, and that a major part of our defence requirements ought to be produced within Australia. There are 2 issues in the Bill. We think that they are important enough to oppose the Bill. We intend to oppose it for the reasons I have given. 
 I wish to respond briefly to  Senator Davidson's  remarks about the issues in South Australia. He referred to South Australia's ability to recover from a situation of great disability. I agree that South Australian governments, and I include the Playford Government, the Walsh Government and the Dunstan Government, have been able to increase South Australia's ability to produce goods. I refer particularly to the production of consumer goods and the motor car manufacturing industry in South  Australia  which has made South Australia an important Australian unit of productivity. However South Australia is faced with 2 important disabilities to which  Senator Davidson  referred. The first disability is the shortage of water supplies, and the second disability is transportation difficulties. 
In a rather hurried way  Senator Davidson  referred to South Australia's disability in respect of water supplies. I thought that he imputed to the South Australian Labor Government incompetence in concluding negotiations for the construction of a dam at Chowilla or Dartmouth.  As  I have followed the arguments about construction of a dam at Chowilla it has seemed to me that the South Australian Government bases soundly its arguments in favour of that  project.  Whatever may be the arguments in favour of a dam at Dartmouth, the South Australian Government simply wishes to preserve the concept of a dam at Chowilla. The Chowilla project concerns the South Australian Government, the Commonwealth Government and the other governments which are members of the River Murray Commission. When discussions were held between the South Australian Government and the other member governments of the River Murray Commission the South Australian Government argued that the concept of a dam at Chowilla should be preserved. That is all that it sought. Previously  Mr Dunstan  had asked the former Minister for National Development to initiate discussions between member governments of the River Murray Commission on preservation of the Chowilla concept.  Mr Dunstan  is not arguing that the Chowilla project has to be started straight away. He is saying only that it ought to be preserved as a concept of water conservation. 
I am surprised that senators from South Australia should say that in sonic way  Mr Dunstan  is now advocating something which cannot be achieved. I and other Labor senators, notably  Senator Laucke,  have been advocates of the Chowilla project. Our object is to ensure that the intentions once held by the Commonwealth Government in respect of Chowilla should be preserved irrespective of the commencement of the Dartmouth project. ] wish now to refer to the stand taken by  Mr Corcoran  the South Australian Minister who attended the discussions on Chowilla.  Mr Corcoran  proposed to delete the provision that completion of the construction of the Chowilla reservoir should be deferred until the contracting governments agreed that work should proceed. He wanted to ensure the preservation of the Chowilla concept. He also proposed that for the purpose of the study, so far as it related to the proposed Chowilla reservoir and in estimating its cost, no account should be taken of the cost of the work referred to in paragraph (JJ) of clause 20 of the 1970 Agreement or of the cost of dismantling or flooding those works. I remind honourable senators of the proposal to flood Lake Victoria. All we have asked for is an assurance that whatever the cost of the flooding might be, it should not be held against the Chowilla concept. 
It boils down to this: South Australia's Labor Government wants to ensure that the agreement in relation to the building of a dam at Chowilla is preserved. On the other hand certain governments, including the Commonwealth Government, now want to make sure that the concept of Chowilla shall be lost for all time. The South Australian Government's action should be endorsed and supported. I believe that there are honourable senators on the other side of the chamber who will support that proposition. 
 I am sure that he will. 
He has, and 1 think that he will continue to do so. That is all I have to say in response to what  Senator Davidson  has said. I turn now to the other question which relates to the railways. In 1949 the Commonwealth Government and the South Australian Government agreed to convert the whole of the South Australian railway system, except that part in the Eyre Peninsula, to standard gauge. This meant that in addition to the system connecting with Adelaide, the northern part of the system, with the exception of that part in the Eyre Peninsula, would be connected to the east-west system. Despite that agreement nothing was clone. Now, with the completion of the east-west standard line Adelaide is still not connected to it, nor is the northern part of the South Australian railway system. The Commonwealth Government has repudiated the agreement that it made in 1949, and has proposed to the South Australian Government that consultants should be employed to ascertain the most economical method of connecting Adelaide to the east-west standard gauge tine. 
The firm of Maunsell and Partners which had done some work on the Snowy Mountains scheme and on other projects in Australia was engaged. After investigation the firm said that the most economical thing to do was to connect Adelaide with Port Pirie and to leave the northern part of the State untouched. However, the 
South Australian Government of the day did not agree with that, nor did the subsequent Labor Government or the government led by Premier Hall. They believed that conversion to the standard gauge should take place in the northern part of the system. Finally, the Liberal Government in South Australia knuckled under to the request of the Commonwealth Government and agreed to accept the proposition advanced by Maunsell and Partners to connect Adelaide to Port Pirie and to leave the northern part of the State untouched. The Dunstan Labor Government supported the views which had been expressed by the Playford and Walsh governments and said that if any part of the South Australian railway system was to be converted to the standard gauge, not only should the line between Adelaide and Port Pirie be standardised but also that the work should be extended to the northern part of the railway system. 
As  Senator Toohey  has reminded me,  Mr Fitch,  the Commissioner for Commonwealth Railways in South Australia, who previously had been an engineer with the Commonwealth Railways and knew all about railway systems and the standardisation of railway guauges, urged that conversion should be extended to the northern part of the State. That is the issue in South Australia. I refute the statements which have been made by  Senator Davidson.  What the South Australian Labor Government is arguing is different in no way from what the governments under  Sir Thomas  Playford and  Mr Walsh  argued. That is that in addition to the connection between Adelaide and Port Pirie the northern part of the railway system should be converted to the standard gauge, otherwise the problem of duplication of railway gauges would exist at all of the northern terminals. We want the Commonwealth Government to agree to our proposal. 
I rose only to point out the attitude of the South Australian Government. There is no doubt in my mind that what it is arguing is no different from what has been argued over the years by earlier Liberal Governments. The Commonwealth Government should take notice of them and try to resolve this matter. 
My question, which is addressed to the Minister representing the Minister for Shipping and Transport or the Minister in Charge of Tourist Activities, relates to the Eyre Highway and the question asked by  Senator Davidson  in which he pointed out that there had been a number of deaths on the 270 miles of that road which are unsealed. Is the Minister aware that in the last 12 months S people have been killed on this unsealed portion of the Highway? ls he aware that the previous Minister for Shipping and Transport,  Mr Sinclair,  said last year that he accepted the principle that this road was of national significance? 1 also ask: ls the Minister aware that representations were made by a number of tourist agencies in a question directed to the Minister in Charge of Tourist Activities,  Senator Wright,  late last year and that he promised to investigate 
The question is: To what extent is the road being used by tourists from interstate? In view of the inquiries and representations from various bodies will the Minister consider to what extent the Government might now change its policy and agree to special financial arrangements so that the small unsealed section of this Highway, which is now accepted as being  a  national one, can be sealed in the near future? 
My question, which I direct to the Minister for Supply, refers to the Government Aircraft Factories. What progress has been made to date in the development of a light or medium weight aircraft for use in Australia? What will be the market requirements for such an aircraft when it is finally available? 
I understand the honourable senator to be asking a question about what we choose to call Project N through which we have committed ourselves to the production of a prototype aircraft. That work is proceeding. Concurrently with the development of the prototype, naturally surveys are being carried out and consideration is being given to the possible requirements of the Services. I can give no further information tonight other than to say that I was told today that the prototype work at the Government Aircraft Factories has reached quite a significant stage. If  Senator Bishop  or any other honourable senator wishes to visit the factories I will certainly make the facilities available for him to do so. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Trade and Industry, upon notice: 
Does the recent statement by the Minister for Trade and Industry advising that the Australia to Europe Shippers'. Association has abandoned negotiations in respect of the 10 per cent increase in freight charges and that it remained for the various shipper groups representing the meat, dairying and canned fruit industries, to decide on the 10 per cent increase, mean that the Government does not intend to consider amendment to the Trade Practices Act or use its interests with the Australian Coastal Shipping Commission to resist such increases? 
The Government does not Interfere in. or arbitrate  on,  what are essentially commercial negotiations between the parties directly concerned with the commercial contracts involved  - the  shippers and shipowners. 
The Trade Practices Act  is  designed to provide a framework within which these negotiations  can  take place between the Conference and the appropriately constituted Shipper Body-  in  this  case  the Australia to Europe Shippers Association or AES. and also to provide safeguards to ensure that the Conference provide an adequate, economic and efficient service. 
In this trade, protracted negotiations took place. As  a  result, from a much higher overall starting point, the Conference, eventually came down to increases of  4  per cent for the predominant cargo, wool, and 10 per cent for other cargoes (excluding fresh fruit and closeweight cargoes which are covered by individual contracts). The recent increase in basic freight rates to U.K./Europe was the first since  1966.  In that period there has been  a  weighted average increase  of  freights over  all  cargoes in the trade of only about  4)  per cent. In the same period costs of  all  kinds outside the control of the Australian Government or of the shipping companies have risen markedly. 
It has not been suggested to me by AESA that the negotiations were not conducted in accordance with the provisions of the Trade Practices Act. Nor has it been suggested to me from any source that the Conference service in question is not adequate, efficient or economic as required by the Act. 
I present the following petition: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate in Parliament assembled. 
Because of the excessive amount of wear and tear to our footwear caused by our occupation, we, the undersigned bread carters, being members of the Bread Carters Industrial Federation of Aus: tralia, petition and request the Commonwealth. Government of Australia through its Treasurer, to grant  a  taxation rebate for the amount of Ten Dollars per year to all breadcarters in the Commonwealth of Australia. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
My question, to the Minister representing the Minister forShipping and Transport relates to the long delay over several years in resolving the type and route of the proposed Adelaide, to Port Pirie standard gauge railway connection and the associated railway works which are recognised as part of a comprehensive rail standardisation plan ls the Minister aware that the proposal put up. by the South Australian Railways Commissioner and now made public could, enable more extensive rail conversion work tq be performed in South Australia arid would offer special facilities to traffic and industry in Adelaide, and that this could be done more cheaply than is proposed under the Maunsell report? I also ask the Minister: Has there been a speedy examination of the proposal? If that examination is at present being conducted, will he .endeavour to have the costing and policy decisions speeded up so that the necessary works might be started during l,971;? 
My question to the Leader of the Government in the Senate follows questions already asked relating to the fact that the terms of sale of DC3 aircraft and Royal Australian Air Force Viscount aircraft have been broken on more than one occasion, ls it a fact that in 1969 the terms of sale relating to 2 RAAF Viscounts, that is, that the aircraft were to be exported, were broken? I remind the Minister that the aircraft were being sold at the very low figure of 3153,000. If the Department knew that the terms of sale had been broken what legal remedies did the Government take to prevent their breach? Is it a fact that despite the fact that the terms of sale had been broken the Department of Civil Aviation decided to permit the use of those aircraft on certain domestic routes? 
Would you find out what happened? 
My question is directed to the Minister for Supply as such and as the Minister representing the Minister for Defence. To what extent will the $1On cut in defence procurements in Australia announced by the Minister for Defence, and which apparently will include such items as spare parts and related equipment, affect the efficiency of Australian private and government factories and  their ability to supply goods and services which might otherwise be expensive imports and thus create a demand, in special circumstances, for the importation of such articles? Will these reductions slow down any current or proposed works in Australian shipyards or in Australian motor vehicle plants which are now producing certain Army equipment? ls it anticipated that these cutbacks will in any way affect the production of the Australian prototype aircraft now being developed here? Will the project be slowed down because of the Government's current policy? 

 Senator Sir KENNETH ANDERSONI shall deal first with the last part of the honourable senator's question because I have a more specialised knowledge of that matter. I do not envisage that the announced cuts in expenditure will have any effect on the Project N work, which is being carried out in phases, lt is not expected that there will be any variation in that programme. The balance of the honourable senator's question was most comprehensive. I shall place it on notice and refer it to the Department of Defence. When the Department of Defence supplies information I will add a component dealing with the matters related to the Department of Supply, l will give the honourable senator and the Senate a comprehensive answer. To give a short answer at question time would not do justice to the magnitude of the question. 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for National Development. I refer to the answer which the Minister gave to  Senator Young  about the Dartmouth Dam agreement. In the newspaper report to which the Minister referred was  Mr Dunstan  reported as having stressed that the South Australian Government would not approve words in the amending agreement providing for the ending of the Chowilla proposal but, in relation to Chowilla, it would seek power to carry out the necessary works in terms of amendments which it had previously put to the other governments and parliaments involved, the amendments to be approved at some future time?  In  the light of his answer to  Senator Young,  will the Minister now consider what  Mr Dunstan  said and give to the Senate a considered reply which properly puts the position of the South Australian Government in respect to the DartmouthChowilla controversy? 
1 direct a question to the Minister representing the AttorneyGeneral. lt refers to questions I asked of the Minister during meetings of a Senate Estimates Committee as to whether Australian companies registered in Norfolk Island were using the Norfolk Island ordinances to avoid paying taxation in Australia. At that time the Minister promised to have the matter investigated. He stated that it was under consideration. Is the Minister able to supply any further information about the matter? 
My question is directed to the Leader of the Government in the Senate, and it relates to the statements by the Prime Minister and other Ministers including himself about the inflationary trends in the economy in which very strong criticism of wage increases was made. I ask the Minister whether the Government is concerned about the possible increases again occurring during this year in the price of steel produced by Broken Hill Pty Co. Ltd, in the light of the enormous profit which this company will make this financial year, following the handsome profit that it made last year. Has the Government thought at any time of intervening in such a situation in a manner similar to that already announced by the Prime Minister in relation to possible wage increases and medical fee increases? 

 Senator Sir KENNETH ANDERSONI am being invited to express a view or to make a response to a question asked by  Senator Bishop  that relates to policy. I certainly cannot answer that question. I rather suspect - and I am not suggesting that there is anything wrong in it - that the question is prompted by what we have read in the Press about a statement made by the  Chairman  of the BHP company in relation to profits for a 6 months' period. I do not think that I can answer that question at question time because the honourable senator asks me whether the Government will intercede, and so on. But I did read in the statement made by the  Chairman  of that company that a very serious and genuine effort was being made to hold prices down. I think that one has to read that in relation to the profit that was referred to. 

 Senator Sir KENNETH ANDERSONI am a bit old in the tooth to think about Santa Claus now, senator. Perhaps the best way to deal with the question is to ask the honourable senator to put it on the notice paper. 
My question, addressed to the Minister-in-Charge of Tourist Activities, refers to tourist traffic on the Eyre Highway. .Does the Minister recall my putting a request to him some time ago - it emanated from some tourist associations - for a survey to be made of traffic on the Eyre Highway in order to ascertain Che use made of this road by vehicles other than South Australian vehicles? The Minister promised to consider such a survey. I now ask him: Has he been  able to give consideration to the proposition which would identify the origin of vehicles using the highway? 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Shipping and Transport. Has the Minister received any reply to recent requests by South Australian senators that special financial arrangements again be considered to allow the sealing of the remaining  unbitumenised  section of the 
Eyre Highway? Has his attention been drawn to a recent statement by  Sir David  Brand that the Commonwealth Government should help South Australia to seal the Highway and that such bitumenising would benefit Western Australia more than South Australia? Is it possible for the Commonwealth Minister tor Shipping and Transport to consider the aspect that in fact there will be further fatal accidents on this Highway and that the Comonwealth Government has some responsibility in minimising such accidents by all means available to the Department of Shipping and Transport? 
 My question is addressed to the Minister for Air. What is the present  complement of Royal Aus tralian Air Force and other specialist staff in the United States of America connected with the examination of the capability of the Fill aircraft? ls the complement a static one which is not being regulated to the urgency of determining whether the aircraft will fly? Can the Minister indicate whether the Government has set a target date by which the evaluation of the aircraft might be considered so that it may be decided whether Australia will purchase it? 
My question, which I direct to the Minister representing the Minister for Social Services, relates to a survey conducted by the Department of Social Services and the matters referred to by  Senator O'Byrne.  Some of the facts revealed by the survey have been reported in the Press and they indicate great hardship amongst many thousands of pensioners. Apparently the report has been made available to the Press and I therefore ask the Minister whether she will ensure that members of Parliament will have access to copies of the report of the survey so that they can assess its results. 
I think this an extraordinary development in the Senate. I remind honourable senators that in another place nobody mentioned the aspect which is now being canvassed not only by the Australian Democratic Labor Party but by supporters of the Government. The Minister for Works  (Senator Wright)  who is in charge of the Bill has stated that the Government intends to support the DLP amendment. 
The ACTING  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Sir Magnus Cormack)  - Does the honourable senator mean the amendment moved by  Senator McManus? 
Yes. It was rather unusual to find in listening to the debates in another place that members of the Australian National University Council, which includes members of the Government Parties, were in great praise of the student representatives on the Council and of the participation by the  President  of the Australian National 'University Students Association who for some years has been invited to attend the Council and has all the rights of a member except the right to vote. 
lt was debated in October. 
The position is that a few days ago the matter was discussed and a member of the ANU Council, who was a supporter of the Government, and the responsible Minister in another place made no mention of the need to make the sort of strictures which the Government is now proposing by supporting the DLP amendment. That is most unusual. As a matter of fact the Government said: 'Yes, we think the presence of the students on the Council is a good thing but we are not prepared to extend the representation to the additional student as has been requested.' But no other reasons were advanced by the Government or by the Liberal Party members of the Council in relation to representation because all facts prove that the consultations on the old basis were good. That is to say whatever information the student representatives had brought to the Council was useful in the administration of the University. The Government felt that their work had been good. In fact the Government has been convinced that they should have a vote. The only thing the Government has not agreed to is that there should be an additional student representative. lt is rather surprising to me to find that not only does the Government take this position but at no stage did it raise the need for any caution in respect of any publication by the students. I suggest that that is an entirely separate matter because I agree with  Senator Murphy  that if there is such a question to be met it must first be met by the University administration and the students. It should be left at that stage. The Government is shifting from a clear acceptance of the principle that students are entitled to take part in the administration of the University which has been agreed to by the ANU Council. Not  only has the Council unanimously recommended what the Government is now proposing but also that there should be an additional representative. This is rather strange to me. I just cannot understand any government  shifing  from that entirely good and constructive position. The Government's proposal is not what the students want. It is not what the Opposition wants and it is not what the AN-J Council wants. It is not quite good enough but at least it moves with the times, lt allows the students to take part in the affairs of he University. By those methods embracing the right to vole and accept responsibility it is presumed that whatever correctives there might be against irresponsibility will be achieved in a clean manner. 
In those circumstances it is very strange and a most backward step for the Government to come along belatedly and say Yes, we will accept on the spur of the moment some sort of prescription which is quite sketchy.' If honourable senators want to do so they can examine further reasons for this sort of prescription. The proposed amendment is an expression of opinion. It says 'for example'. It does not say 'because a student paper is published which is pornographic'. After all if any honourable senator believes there is a publication which is pornographic he has his rights not only outside the Parliament but also inside the Parliament to specify some action. The DLP wishes to attach an expression of opinion to a motion for the second reading of a Bill which is designed to improve relations within the university and obtain a belter performance from everybody, lt gives the students a chance, which is now approved by their administrators, of being able to share in the voting. 
The University Council has already agreed unanimously to recommend to the Government- 
The people in the academic, scientific and teaching world have said that this is a good thing. The Government has accepted it. In another place there has been no canvassing of this sort of proposition. 
The ACTING  DEPUTY PRESIDENT  - The  Clerk  has advised me - and I accept his advice because I believe it is correct and 1 rule accordingly - that  Senator Bishop  is entitled to make reference to another place if it is relevant to the arguments he is adducing in the terms of this debate. I do not uphold the point of order. 
I do nol intend to labour my argument but I cannot understand why at this stage the Government should decide to accept something which is an odd thought and which reflects on the constructive legislation which it is bringing into the Parliament. I suggest that this situation has not been thought of by the people who devised the legislation. I think it is a last minute notion, lt is ill conceived and it can do a lot of harm to what is now proposed by the Government. The Government has gone part of the way towards reforms under the Australian National University Act. These reforms have been accepted by everybody except that the students say there should be extra representation. They have altered the age and made a number of other improvements and the ANU Council generally, I would imagine, would be prepared to accept what has been proposed. 1 expect that the students will persist in their aim. to get a further student representative on the Council. 
That is the position. 
Now, at the last minute, apparently the Democratic Labor Party, has persuaded the Government to accept this, amendment. I would be rather interested to hear from the Minister for Works whether his Party and the Cabinet supports the proposition now before the Senate. If . this amendment has not been properly , .considered by the Party organisation and by that section of the Government which concerns . itself with university education, , the Government ought not accept it. .This is the wrong move. I thought some . good might be achieved by this legislation but in my opinion the students certainly, will resent this extra expression tagged on ..to. the motion. 
The Democratic Labor Party seeks to say to them: Yes, we have agreed to your representation on the Council of the Australian National University, with all the legal rights attaching to it. You are adults. You are able to vote and talk and argue. But you still suffer from some disability because of something you did in the past. You might choose a representative of the wrong political colour or something else.' It is quite wrong to add this odd rider to the motion for the second reading. If pornography was not in question, as someone suggested, the Government might go to the extent of suggesting that political activities by students within the University were wrong. The Government might say that demonstrating for peace was wrong, lt might frown upon all the things we accept as being the right of the students. 
It is surprising that Liberal members of the Council have applauded what has been proposed and have supported what the Labor Party is now arguing for - extra student representation. All have accepted the fact that student representation on the Council, although without a vote, has provided a most useful means of communication. There is a great need in university education throughout the world today for better communication and a sharing of responsibility from top to bottom. To start putting out proscriptions which have no basis in fact and which refer to an odd section of the university community is not the way to achieve communication and responsibility. 
My question, which I direct to the Minister for Civil Aviation, relates to complaints by residents of Elizabeth and the Edinburgh area about noise occasioned by flights for the training of pilots of Qantas Airways Limited. In view of the many complaints which are now known to the Minister about noise and other possible hazards involved in such flying operations what action is being taken to restrict them to a minimum and to exclude as far as possible night training flights in the area? Will the Minister investigate possible alternatives to the present situation? Can he also indicate on which date the operations will cease in South Australia? 
My question is addressed to the Leader of the Government in the Senate. I refer to the recent bomb attack on the home of Senator-elect Gietzelt in New South Wales. Will the Minister cause special investigations to be made into this incident with particular emphasis on the extent to which the outrage was politically motivated and the precautions that might be necessary to protect people who have been democratically elected to the Commonwealth Parliament? Will he also see that whoever was responsible is brought to justice speedily? I ask the Minister ' to do these things, because they are very important to democracy within Australia. 

 Senator Sir KENNETH ANDERSONI am sure we all agree with  Senator Bishop's  suggestion that this was a monstrous outrage, even against any person, lt is even more terrible when it happens to somebody who has been democratically elected to be a senator or to a person who has been democratically elected to any office in which he serves the community. I know that Senator-elect Gietzelt and his wife and family have been terribly distressed. All of us can appreciate this because down through the years some of us have received threatening telephone calls and have been threatened with certain things. Obviously this incident could be considered only as being an attempt to murder, and nothing less. There is clearly only one intent in the mind of a person who puts a bomb close to a bedroom in which people are sleeping. ! agree that every effort should be taken to bring the person responsible to justice. I am quite certain the State police are doing everything they possibly can to investigate this matter. I will refer to the appropriate Minister that part of the honourable senator's question which suggests there should be some Commonwealth investigation, and I will get a reply for him. 
1 ask the Minister for Supply whether it is a fact that further retrenchments are likely in the Australian aircraft industry; that about 100 skilled aircraft workers are being retrenched from the Commonwealth Aircraft Corporation Pty Ltd and that that enterprise will now be based on a production of only 30 per cent capacity? Will the Minister conter urgently with the heads of the departments to ascertain to what extent new work can be given to the Commonwealth Aircraft Corporation, and re-examine procurements from overseas sources which might be diverted to the Australian industry? Finally, what new plan has the Government to give long term stability to the aircraft industry? 

 Senator Bishop has asked a very comprehensive question. Perhaps I should give a short answer now and at a later dale give more detail by way of a statement. I received a signal late on Friday afternoon, but I had been informed before then, that the Commonwealth Aircraft Corporation Pty Ltd proposed to retrench certain workers at its establishment. A figure of 100 has been mentioned. As I understand the situation, the retrenchment of those 100 workers will be phased; the 100 will not be retrenched immediately. On a number of occasions in the Senate I have mentioned that the defence aircraft industry, by its very nature, is subject to fluctuating work loads. We should understand that management must be permitted to adjust its work force to the work load on hand. That is exactly what is happening at CAC. The Government and the industry are doing everything possible to ensure a continuing work load for the industry and to try to smooth out these fluctuations, which are very serious matters particularly for the personnel employed. 
The Senate will recall that recently an announcement was made as to the light observation helicopter project. The services will take 75 aircraft. In fact, they will be manufactured here commercially, in conjunction with the Bell company. Most of that work will be done by the Commonwealth Aircraft Corporation. That was a decision of the Government which was taken perhaps 2 or 3 weeks ago. That is evidence of the Government's anxiety to preserve the Commonwealth Aircraft Corporation as a viable establishment. It has more operatives than either the Government Aircraft Factories or the Hawker company. Offset orders from the United States of America are being actively sought. It is a fact that the Commonwealth Aircraft Corporation has received from the Boeing company an order in relation to offset work. As I said at the time, it was not enough; we wanted more. My efforts and the Government's efforts have been directed towards getting more offset orders. As 1 have explained in the Senate, the Government's policy is to maintain an efficient defence aircraft industry. However, fluctuations in work load will occur. Unfortunately for those immediately affected, these fluctuations must reflect on the work force employed. The Commonwealth Aircraft Corporation is making every effort to assist the surplus employees to find suitable alternative employment. I accept what  Senator Bishop  said. The 
Government will help  these surplus employees in any way it possibly can. We will be in communication with them. 
My question to the Minister representing the Minister for Trade and Industry refers to the reported acceptance by the Government of the Tariff Board report recommending removal of protection against imported cherries. It has been claimed by the growers' associations that this will threaten the industry and will close down a number of South Australian and Victorian processing plants. It has been claimed that there will be a loss to South Australia of $150,000. Will the Minister, before accepting the report, arrange to meet the growers and the State Ministers who so request, including the South Australian Minister, with a view to considering further action in respect of the Tariff Board report? 
I shall need to find out the facts. The normal procedure is for a reference to be made by the Department of Trade and Industry on behalf of the Government to the Tariff Board, for the Tariff Board to take evidence and for everybody to have an opportunity to appear before the Board and give evidence, for a recommendation to be made to the Government and for the Government then to make up its mind to accept or reject the recommendation. I am not informed on the current situation so I cannot give a positive response to the proposal put by  Senator Bishop.  I shall get the facts as a first step and, once I have them, I shall take the matter on from there. 
My question, which is addressed to the Minister for Supply as such and as the Minister representing the Minister for Defence, refers to reports about civilian staff at the Department of Defence. The Minister may have seen a statement yesterday that staff who were recruited as part of the reorganisation of the Department of Defence commenced during the term of service of  Sir Henry  Bland are apprehensive about their future as a result of the appointment of a new Minister for Defence. I ask the Minister: Is there likely to be any modification of the existing long term planning for defence? If these changes take place are they likely to affect procurement policy and/ or recruitment? Are staff likely to be displaced through any such reorganisation? Are any - changes likely to take place in respect of the Department of Supply in the near future? 
The question asked by the honourable senator is predicated on the basis that there has been a change in the Defence portfolio and that therefore there may be some difference of emphasis which will have some effect upon civilian staff. I am answering the question in good faith when I say that my own view would toe that the change will not have any significant influence upon the programme of the Department of Defence as suggested by the honourable senator. The defence programme, which affects the Service departments and my own Department, is a long term programme. Indeed, on the defence side, we talk in terms of a 5-year programme.  I  cannot imagine why the circumstances should cause apprehension to some people but obviously they have prompted some comment in the Press. If there is some change of emphasis somewhere I will be informed of it and as the Minister representing the Minister for Defence I would be happy to provide the information at question time. 
In directing my question to the Minister for Air  I  refer to the incident yesterday near Newcastle when a pilot of the Royal Australian Air Force ejected from a Sabre jet aircraft and was forced to remain in a leaky dinghy for 2 hours. Was this due to the accident, faulty equipment or poor inspection at the base? 
My question is directed to the Minister for Civil Aviation. Is it a fact that Government cutbacks and/or the effects of Government policies have resulted in a substantial decline in passenger travel on the Australian domestic airlines and in some cases have meant a reduction of staff? Does - the Minister expect this decline to continue, with corresponding reductions in flights and/or standards of services? If so, what action can be taken to correct this situation? Also, is the current squeeze likely :,.to affect the announced orders by both airlines for additional Boeing 727-200' jets for delivery between 1972 and 1974? . 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Defence and concerns the Australian aircraft industry. I ask the Minister: Since his reply to me on 15th March 1971 announcing that he might make a statement about the future of the aircraft industry has he considered what would happen in the Commonwealth Aircraft Corporation Pty Ltd which then announced that 100 skilled workers would be retrenched? Has the Government been able to take any action to provide work for these people or to make other arrangements which might ensure that people employed in the aircraft industry will be fairly regularly employed in the future? 
Yes, I did say that I would give consideration to making a statement. It is true that there has been a stand-down of certain operatives at the Commonwealth Aircraft Corporation Pty Ltd. Because 1 read in the Press where it was assumed that because the word 'Commonwealth' was involved that it was a Commonwealth instrumentality it should be well and truly stated again that it is not a Commonwealth instrumentality; it is a private company. It is correct that the Commonwealth is its best customer. It is also true that some 35 personnel were stood down and it is projected that this figure might increase to 100. It is equally true that certain representatives from the Commonwealth Aircraft Corporation Pty Ltd and some from the Government Aircraft Factories arrived in Canberra unexpectedly. I saw them. At the time I pointed out that the normal procedure we adopt in relation to this situation is to do all these things through the Australian Council of Trade Unions which has been tremendously helpful in any problems which we have in the aircraft industry. 
It is not  Mr Hawke  but  Mr Souter  who looks after these matters. But these representatives having arrived here and having spoken to the Prime Minister in Kings Hall I took it upon myself to interview them. Of course the problem is one of workload. Indeed, every effort is being made where possible to find suitable alternative accommodation for these operatives. I do noi want to make a statement at this moment. 1 want to get a clearer picture. At the present time I am working on some information which will have regard to the Commonwealth Aircraft Corporation Pty Ltd and the Government Aircraft Factories and to the offset situation, which has improved considerably in the last couple of months. When I have a statement ready I will not be tardy in bringing it into this place. 
My question is directed to the Minister for Air. Will the current policy of the United States Government to reduce the number of FI 1 1 aircraft ordered from the American aircraft industry, and the rumours that production of this aircraft in America will cease in 1972, affect the existing Australian commitment? Does the Government propose to re-examine the Fill deal as a result of the reduction in production of this aircraft within the United States? 
My question, which is directed to the Minister for Supply, refers to the Woomera rocket range and the existing joint United Kingdom- Australia Project Arrangement which expires in 1972. I ask the Minister: Is the current visit to Woomera by a House of Commons technical committee directly related to any decision which the United Kingdom might make in connection with the Arrangement, or is the visit likely to result in an increased workload at Woomera and the Weapons Research Establishment facility in Adelaide? 
I would say that the visit of this United Kingdom delegation has not a direct realtionship to the continuation of the joint Arrangement between that country and Australia. During my recent visit to the United Kingdom and before I became ill I had an opportunity to have discussions with the Minister for Technology in relation to a renewal of the Arrangement. There was a general acceptance that we should renew the Arrangement in terms of a forward programme for a continuous 2- year period. That is being negotiated at the present time. I believe, and the Minister for Technology indicated to me, that they are very happy with the Arrangement. 
The visit by the delegation had been arranged earlier but a general election disorganised those arrangements. It is a nonparty visitation. I am very happy about the visitation because I think that the more United Kingdom parliamentarians who see Woomera and gain an appreciation of what is being done there the better. I am proposing to meet members of the delegation in either Sydney or Canberra before they return. Their timetable is very tight. However, I do not see any difficulties in relation to the continuation of our agreement with the United Kingdom in the joint project. 
My question, which is directed either to the Minister representing the Minister for Social Services or the Minister representing the Minister for Labour and National Service, relates to the legislation which was introduced many months ago to amend the Commonwealth Employees' Compensation Act and what has been reported to be current consideration by Cabinet of further suggestions on this matter from the unions concerned and the Australian Council of Trade Unions. In view of the fact that the standards of workers' compensation available to employees of the State governments are in advance of those covered by the Commonwealth Employees' Compensation Act, can the Minister indicate when the Parliament will have the opportunity to debate these matters? Has the Government decided what action to take on the suggestions which have been advanced to amend the legislation? 
My question to the Minister for Civil Aviation relates to services by charter aircraft and it follows on the question asked by  Senator Wood.  I am prompted also to advert "o the reference by  Senator Wright  to the Minister's appearance on 'Four Corners'. In view of the fact that there is evidence that two representations are being made to the Minister for permission to use additional charter services, and having regard to the fact that many of the existing charter services are insecure for the travelling public, including many migrants who wish to visit their homelands at economic fares, will the Minister consider any system, additional to the international arrangements which he has reported to the Senate, which will allow our own domestic operators, including Qantas Airways Ltd, to provide some form of charter service that would compete with the low fare charter services which often leave passengers stranded? I put it to the Minister that it is evident that Qantas aircraft, for example, often leave this country lightly loaded and that some arrangement might be made to provide a special charter arrangement other than that which now exists. Will the Minister consider this matter? 
I understand that the procedure to be followed in this debate is to talk about this Bill, together with the Repatriation Bill and the Seamen's War Pensions and Allowances Bill. 1 intend to refer particularly to repatriation and seamen's war pensions, and I indicate also that at the conclusion of my remarks I intend to foreshadow amendments which I shall move at the second reading stages of those Bills. Consequently, whilst this debate is on the general question of social services, my comments will be related particularly to repatriation and seamen's war pensions.  Senator Mulvihill  suggested that this has been an extraordinary debate because most Government supporters who previously had commended the Government under the former Prime Minister,  Mr Gorton,  who said that no improvements could be made in pension levels, now support what has been said by the Prime Minister  (Mr McMahon),  that it is reasonable to give an increase of 50c. But I remind honourable senators that the increase is a meagre 50c. 
At the time when Prime Minister Gorton was in power and  Mr Wentworth  was the Minister for Social Services, it was claimed that no immediate increase could be given to pensioners, but now for reasons stated by Government senators tonight reviews of the situation are being made by the Government. The Minister for Health  (Senator Greenwood)  has referred to reviews which are currently under discussion by the Government and as a result of which we might find during the Budget debates that the Government has again increased pensions by 50c. The fact is that pensions for ex-servicemen, aged persons and seamen are not only inadequate but also are quite unreal. Anybody who talks about $16 a week for a widow of a serviceman killed in Vietnam being a reasonable pension is being most unreasonable. Anyone who contends this is not looking at the wage standards for this country and certainly is not conforming with the philosophical concepts which have been stated in the past by the Prime Minister. 
When Prime Minister Gorton came to power he said that it was the intention of the Liberal Government to abolish poverty and to take the strain off people who were on the bread line and who were not able to live at a reasonable standard. But we find in 1971 that the best that the Government can do is to provide a meagre basic increase to the pension of 50c a week. This increase gives to a widow who has recently lost her husband in Vietnam a pension of $16 a week. At present, of course, the minimum wage, which is the wage for almost the lowest category of labourer under awards of the Commonwealth Conciliation and Arbitration Commission, is at least $47. Very few people in industry would receive only $47 a week; yet a widow who has lost her husband in Vietnam receives $16 a week. The totally and permanently incapacitated pensioner will receive an additional $1 a week, :f he is lucky, and it has been calculated that only two-thirds of TPI pensioners will receive the increase. Their rate will become $39 a week. The minimum wage awarded by the Arbitration Commission is $47 and the average weekly earnings in Australia are $88 a week. How can Government supporters stand up in this place and justify this situation? 

 Senator Marriott said that he was disappointed with the levels of improvements but that he does not intend to vote against the Government.  Senator Davidson  talked about a new formula being required, but when will we see a new formula introduced?  Senator -  Maunsell, who has now disappeared from the chamber, said that he intended to talk about repatriation benefits, but after a few short sentences left that issue. The Opposition does not intend to oppose the legislation, but we intend to move amendments in the second reading stage. Our reason for not opposing these measures is that we think it is better to have an increase of 50c than to have no increase. We can only conclude that for political reasons the Prime Minister has found it expedient to give this very small increase to pensioners. But in giving this small increase to pensioners he has not met the requirements of the ex-service organisations which since 1965-66 have been pressing the Government to establish a relativity with what was awarded after the review in 1950. They argued reasonably, in my opinion - I have never heard an argument which has been able to knock the concept - that if the Government in 1950 established a review of repatriation benefits and believed that that was the proper level for all these benefits - TPI, the general rate pension, the service pension and all the other associated pensions - then the benefits payable ought to be adjusted regularly in each year. In the arbitration field and in industry generally the courts do this. 
Despite the criticism by governments of the present Conciliation and Arbitration Commission, it is fair to say that the Commission has discharged its task in accordance with the Act and, to a large extent, in accordance with justice and the propositions advanced by the union movement. Workers generally, through the good offices and representations of the Australian Council of Trade Unions, have been able to get regular increases in the national wage. If these increases in the national wage occasion price increases because of the lack of controls by the Commonwealth Government, it is certainly not the fault of the Commission or the trade union movement. Australia can have, and has had, an increase in productivity but that increase has not been reflected in wages, because there is no price control, profit control or investment control. So the Government has an obligation to see that wage standards and particularly repatriation pensions are increased to the standard which it accepted in 1950. 
Repatriation is a subject which is charged with a great deal of sentiment because it refers to people who have served in the Services and the dependants of those servicemen who have lost their lives. As honourable senators know - we have canvassed this in the Senate on many occasions - the arguments of the Returned Services League and other ex-service organisations have been that there ought to be proper compensation for the people who have served in the Services, and that that service should be quite apart from any other employment. I completely agree with that argument. I might mention that former repatriation Ministers have accepted this proposition. 1 refer in particular to the late  Senator McKellar  who on many occasions stated that he accepted that service in the armed Services, either in -war conditions or under peace conditions, was a peculiar sort of service and ought to be recognised.  His  excuse for not achieving a proper repatriation standard was always that he had made recommendations to the Cabinet but that the Cabinet had not agreed with them. 
The attitude of the Opposition is that we can be justly proud that in all the years we have supported the argument that repatriation benefits ought to be related to the last government review, although we criticiCisc the Government for not commencing this sort of review which was carried out by the Labor Government in 1943. As most honourable senators know, some earlier examinations of repatriation benefits were made in 1917, and again in 1918, but the last real inquiry was conducted in 1943 under the then Labor Minister for Repatriation,  Mr Reg  Pollard. That was the last inquiry into proper methods of testing the sort of benefits to which ex-servicemen should be entitled which was conducted by a government. Although repeated requests have been made by the Opposition, the Returned Services League and others to have this inquiry re-established, the only acceptance we got from the Government was that it would conduct its own inquiry. In 1950 the Government made such a review but the 1950 standard, as has been pointed out by the RSL and other people, has been depleted and not maintained by the Government. The argument of the Government is that it accepts the review of repatriation standards in the same way as it would accept the review of social service payments. We of the Opposition do not accept that as being a proper consideration of repatriation benefits. We believe that the long dissatisfaction with repatriation benefits arises from this situation. 
The Returned Servicemen's League has put up 2 main principles in relation to repatriation. The first states: 
The very nature of service in the armed forces, especially in time of war, sets it apart from other forms of employment. The harshness of the conditions under which men serve, the element of danger, the strain lo which mind and body are subjected- 
That is true, not to mention the situation in Vietnam today, which 1 will talk about shortly, lt continues:  the separation from home and loved ones, the burden of responsibility for human life which so often must be accepted, all combine to impose exceptional demands on all who serve. All this means that the conditions under which men serve, especially those relating io compensation, medical treatment and re-establishment in civil life, must be the best the community can afford. This is a principle that has in modern times been universally accepted. These are the principles on which the Australian  Repatriation  Aci and all associated legislation is based.  lt is true to say that those reviews to which I referred had this concept in mind, and in those years repatriation benefits in Australia were the best in the world. The second principle set out by the RSL is as follows: 
A commitment, freely and unreservedly given by the community in time of danger, cannot subsequently be repudiated. Every man and every woman who served in the 2nd World War, and those who served subsequently, were reassured by  the  knowledge that in the event of incapacity or death arising out of their service they, or their dependants, will be properly compensated and cared for. This is an undertaking which the community must honour to  the  full, in spite of the pressure of opinions originating frequently from  those  who in many cases were loo young to appreciate the circumstances of total war . . . 
This is the very concept which many young mcn in Australia think the Government is accepting, but the Government is not accepting this concept. Frequently I  -  no doubt other honourable senators also have had this experience - in the course of my movements within my State have met young people, not only those conscripted but those who intend to join the Services, who talk about the benefits they will receive if they serve in Vietnam. They expect to get from the provisions of the repatriation legislation the sort of benefits which were applicable in 1943 and between 1943 and 1950. They will not receive those benefits because, as I have pointed out, the pensions which are now provided by the Government are much lower than they should be. The standard has been allowed to decline. As a result we have had the persistent agitation by the 
RSL and other ex-servicemen's organisations which have argued that the level should be restored. In addition to this basic position we have had a long standing complaint about the Act itself. 
In the background of all this dissatisfaction we have the Government developing a great agitation in support of the present policy of conscription for Vietnam, as a result of which young people are forced to go to Vietnam to fight in a war which is of long standing and which, in the opinion of most people, is almost unfruitful and might continue for many years. Despite the fact that these young people will be moving into these sorts of circumstances, they will not be rewarded on the basis of the repatriation legislation as it was when it was first introduced. They ought to be rewarded on that basis. If we require those people to go to war we should see that the standards are adequate, that they are equivalent to the standards set by the reviews which I have spoken about. If they are not, something should be done about it. We should see that those who volunteer to serve their nation should be rewarded. We know the long history of agitation about the conditions of exservicemen, because the conditions have been ventilated in this Senate. This is another reason why there is great discontent in the Services. I put it to the Senate that in the context of the present commitments of the Government the position in relation to repatriation benefits is most unsatisfactory. 
I have mentioned the position of a widow whose husband was killed in Vietnam. At present she receives $15.50 a week. When this increase is granted she will receive an extra 50c a week. She will get the magnificent sum of $16 a week. As recently as October 1970  Senator Keeffe  asked: 
How many Australian widows are in receipt of war widows pensions as a result of - the loss of their husbands in the Vietnam war? 
The answer was that there were 9 V widows and that there were 162 children, including one double orphan. Against a background of Government agitation to get more men to serve in Vietnam, it pays a very paltry pension of $16 a week to widows of men killed in Vietnam. That is not enough. The situation should be remedied quickly. As at 21st October 1970 the number of wounded ex-servicemen who had served in Vietnam and who were entitled to a special total and permanent incapacity pension was 22. Most of those ex-servicemen would be working in industry if they had not been injured. Today they would have been receiving a wage between the minimum wage of $47 a week and the average weekly earnings of $89 a week. As most people know, today many people are receiving not only their basic salary of $69 or $70 a week as a mechanic or fitter but also a number of fringe benefits such as overtime. This brings their earnings up to the average weekly earnings of $89 a week. Twenty-two soldiers, who were wounded in Vietnam and about whom we are always hearing great platitude from Government speakers, will receive an extra $1 a week pension. They will receive $39 a week because they are totally and permanently incapacitated as a result of the Vietnam war. Something has to be done about these people. 
On a number of occasions in the Senate we have asked that a special inquiry be conducted. On 3 occasions the Senate - the Australian Labor Party moving the motion, which was supported by the- Democratic Labor Party and by the independent senator - has carried motions which called for the setting up of an inquiry and which affirmed the principle of free ' hospitalisation for veterans of the Boer War and the First World War. As honourable' senators know, the Government has decided to take no action in respect of free hospitalisation. On one occasion it dropped a Bill which had been introduced in the Senate. It introduced a new Bill which ' was - a complete denial of what the Senate had carried. On the other 2 occasions' the Minister said that the Government did hot intend to take any action in respect of the decisions of the Senate. So we have the spectacle that on 3 occasions the Senate nas affirmed the principle that the Government has a case to answer in relation'" to the' Repatriation Act and that the benefits df exservicemen should be re-examined by some kind of specialist committee. 
The only time we have been successful in getting any attention paid to this matter was when we moved a motion in September last year. Earlier we were defeated by the Government because the new Minister for Repatriation '(Mr1 Holten), after the Senate had carried a motion for an inquiry, wrote saying that the Government did not intend to take any notice of the Senate's opinion. In September last year we moved: 
That there be referred lo the Standing Committee on Health and Welfare the following matter - All aspects of Repatriation, including the operation of the Repatriation Act and of the War Service Land Settlement Agreements Act. 
I understand that that Committee has been very heavily laden with work. It is possible that the Committee may not be able to discharge its obligations in respect of this matter. I make it very clear that in all these debates, with the exception of 1967 when  Senator Wright  gave us some support, Government senators have always voted against the amendments which have been moved by the Opposition. The amendments have been based on requests by the Returned Services League and by ex-service organisations. 
I repeat what the National President of the RSL said in 1970 when the matter was then under consideration. This is a quotation from the New South Wales journal of the RSL. The article states: 
The National  President  of the RSL  (Sir Arthur Lee, K.B.E., M.C.)  said the new Budget increases for repatriation pensioners were 'totally unacceptable'.  Sir Arthur  said: 'Why should ex-servicemen and women who had suffered disabilities through war service find the compensation they receive adversely affected by the need for allocation in other areas of Government expenditure?' 
That shows the failure of the Government in respect of repatriation. What happens with repatriation is that the Government makes the same tests in respect of this compensation as it does in respect of the general level of social service payments. It is a consideration with which exservicemen and the Opposition do not agree. We think that the RSL plan this year is reasonable. The RSL advocates the setting up of an independent inquiry. On this occasion the Opposition does not intend to promote this concept because, as I have mentioned, we  were  able to get the matter referred to the Standing Committee. The compensation plan seeks: 
A general review of war and Service pension rates and allowances with a view to correcting deficiencies within the range of compensation provided, and increasing rates to bring these into line with present cost of living standards. In this review, it is recommended that the special rate pension should be increased to an amount equal to the present minimum wage . . . 
That is the $47 which I have mentioned. The plan continues: 
. the 100 per cent general rale and war widows pensions should be increased to an amount equal to 50 per cent of the minimum wage . . . 
That would make it half of the $47, which is the minimum wage. The plan goes on: 
. and all other pensions and allowances increased proportionately. 
The plan also seeks: 
The extension of repatriation, hospital, medical and pharmaceutical benefits lo all returned exservicemen of the First World War .... 
The Senate carried a motion to that effect. It also included returned ex-servicemen of the Second World War. The Government decided not to support that motion. The compensation plan then calls for something which is so evident that one would have thought that the Government would have approved it. I refer to the funeral benefit. The present benefit is $50. In 1970 we asked that the amount be increased to $150. At the time there was evidence from a number of organisations which proved that funerals cost much more than  $150.  On this occasion the RSL has asked that the amount be increased to $200. 
For the reasons I have given, it is evident that the Government intends to mark time in respect of these matters. A case has been made out for the setting up of an inquiry. The only movement which the Government has made since pressure for an inquiry was applied was to say that it is conducting its own inquiry. The Government's inquiry will probably take a number of years to complete. It is a closed inquiry. Representatives of ex-service organisations and other people will not be able to say what they think the Government should do. Much argument in support of what the Government now proposes to do has been based on what it calls fringe benefits. I point out to the Government that many of the fringe benefits that are now extended to repatriation pensioners come from the State governments. State governments are becoming increasingly unable to provide the fringe benefits. This is because of the current lack of Commonwealth financial support to the States. I refer to the restrictions that the States are placing on transport concessions to pensioners. If the present inflationary policies of the Government continue, subsequently most of the fringe benefits provided by the States will cease. 
The payments to pensioners are most unsatisfactory. Repatriation pensions should be adjusted to the 1950 standards. We have asked for and supported that standard over the years. No effort has been made by the Government to adjust the outstanding anomalies in the Repatriation Act. I refer to the contentions which have been made in this debate and on previous occasions about the failure of the Government to apply the onus of proof provision in the Act correctly, I refer also to the number of unsuccessful applications to the Repatriation Commission and to the tribunals by people who have a history of complaints arising from their war service. I also refer to a pertinent argument which ought to be repeated in respect of serving servicemen. In the wars that have passed many servicemen have failed to have an application to the Commission or tribunals granted because their record of medical service has been deficient. It has been deficient because many servicemen have nol made application for treatment to commanding officers, doctors or regimental aid post services. So nothing has appeared on their records. 
This position was accepted in principle by the late  Senator McKellar  who put on record in this Senate what he accepted to be a deficiency. He said he accepted that many applications were deficient and would be restricted because the record of the serviceman was not complete because* he had not obtained medical attention. But the late senator said: 'Despite that, 1 think tribunals might give proper weight to the applications.' Those of us who are interested in this matter know that in many cases many ex-servicemen fail to obtain justice from tribunals because of these very circumstances. But there are some other circumstances too. The Act wants reviewing. 
There is the anomaly of people who have served in organisations like the Red Cross and various philanthropic organisations such as the Salvation Army who are entitled to act of grace benefits under the Act but who. are not entitled to benefits in respect of war service homes or taxation allowances which people at present serving in Vietnam are entitled to. Although submissions have been made to the Government by people who are affected and who have asked for these concessions the Government is not prepared to alter the position. There are lots of anomalies in the Act. The Opposition takes the same stand now as it did in the years when we discussed repatriation. We think that not only are social service standards wrong and inadequate but also in respect of repatriation they are most unjust. When the Repatriation Bill and the Seamen's ' War Pensions and Allowances Bill is again debated in the Senate at the second reading stage I intend to move this amendment: 
At the end of the motion add: 'But the Senate is of the opinion that the pension rate for totally and permanently incapacitated ex-servicemen, the general rate pensioners and war widows should not have been allowed to decline notwithstanding the proposed increases in relation to average weekly earnings'. 
A social service matter has come to my attention in recent days, it is' the plight of unmarried mothers in respect of social service payments. 1 mention this because in recent months there has been some publicity as to the position of unmarried mothers. I refer mainly to the group of women who have enough courage to decide that because of circumstances they- cannot marry the father of their child. 'They have the child and try to keep it iri proper comfort. Recently with 2 cases I . have found that Commonwealth social services are not applicable to unmarried mothers. They cannot obtain unemployment benefits because they are not available for work as they have to stop home and look after the child. They cannot receive sickness benefits because they are not sick. They cannot obtain the defacto wife entitlement because they do not have ihe qualifying status accepted by the Department of Social Services. They do not live as a wife and would live with a husband under the conditions which the Government accepts. The Department of Social Service's accepts a defacto qualification, but an unmarried mother who decides to raise a child and not take the ordinary course which is now available in many cases cannot receive the defacto benefit. She cannot receive the various State social services unless she is destitute, if she happens to have some moneys in the bank or if she happens to receive some compensation from the father of the child she is not eligible for any pension from the State social service departments. Here we have a grave anomaly which ought to be corrected. I direct this position to the attention of the Minister. I hope that he will occasion some inquiries to be made. Those young girls who have enough courage to decide to keep a child the father of which might be unable to marry her. perhaps because he is already married, ought to be given the same consideration as a defacto wife. With those comments 1 indicate that I intend to move the resolution lo which 1 have referred at a later stage. 
My question, which is directed to the Minister-in-Charge of Tourist Activities, refers to the failure of some briefly constituted travel agencies, one recently in South Australia, resulting from which booked passengers, including migrants, have now lost savings or money which they had secured on [oan to visit families overseas, without much chance of recovering the fare money. Is the Government contemplating, either on its own behalf or in concert with the States, any legislation which would provide protection to such people or to the industry? 
-I move: 
Atthe end of motion add -  but the Senate is of opinion that - 
The pension rale for the T. and P.I. exservicemen, the general rate pensioners and war widows should not have been allowed to decline notwithstanding the proposed increases, in relation to average weekly earnings; and 
A Joint Select Committee should be appointed to inquire into and make recom mendations on all aspects of the provisions and operation of the Repatriation Act'. 
The reasons for the amendment were given in my speech last night. 
Question put: 
That the amendment  (Senator Bishop's)  be agreed to. 
My question, which I direct to the Minister for Air, refers to Press reports of an address given by the Chief of the Air Staff in Canberra on Monday evening. It appears that he questioned or sought to modify the current effectiveness of purchasing policies, particularly in relation to helicopters but also in relation to air refuelling requirements for F111 aircraft. I ask: Do the views expressed by the Chief of the Air Staff represent a change of opinion by the Government? Is it a fact that resulting from a defence study the requirements and role of Australian helicopter squadrons are likely to be modified? Is it apparent that air refuelling capability is essential if the F111 aircraft are to be finally accepted by Australia? 
I address a question to the Minister for Health and refer to his answer to a question asked earlier by  Senator Sim  and also to reported statements in this morning's Press wherein  Senator Greenwood  is reported as having described the 15 per cent increase in doctors' fees as roughly within bounds. Does the Minister accept, prima facie, that there should be some increase, roughly 15 per cent, or is his position, as has been stated by  Senator Sim,  that he intends somehow to negotiate or arbitrate with the Australian Medical Association in respect of this matter? In doing so will he have regard to the statements of the former Minister for Health and also of the occupant of the position of Prime Minister who have warned against the impact on the economy of this reported increase in doctors' fees? Is the Minister for Health in conflict with the proposals and policy of the Government to stop inflationary trends and also the Government's criticism of trade union claims for increased wages? Can he explain the Government's position in respect of the 15 per cent increase? 
My question is directed to the Minister for Air. I again refer to reports that the Government is likely to announce a $72m purchase order for 6 Boeing 707-320 military tanker type aircraft. I ask: Has the Royal Australian Air Force recommended the purchase of this type of aircraft? Will these aircraft be used for in-flight refuelling? Has a decision been made to purchase these aircraft?  If so, is it related to the possible use in Australia of Fill aircraft which, according to the Chief of the Air Staff, would need extra refuelling capabilities? 
My question, which I direct to the Minister for Civil Aviation, refers to answers given by the Minister on 6th April about applications for the operation of international charter flights and for more specialised charter services by Qantas Airways Ltd. I ask: ls it a fact that the Director-General of Civil Aviation has recently asked Qantas, as reported in the Press, to examine a proposal that Qantas should operate a subsidiary charter company? If so, what is the result of that request? What decision, if any, has been made by the Government on the application by Ansett Airlines of Australia to operate international charter flights, and on the application by World Airways inc., a representative of which recently saw the Minister in connection with charter services between the United States and Australia? 
My question to the Minister representing the Minister for Trade and Industry refers to a recent Tariff Board report which lifts duties on imported cherries, as a result of which it is claimed that there will be a loss in South Australia of $150,000 a year and some general loss in the processing factories, etc. Have the representations to the Government from the South Australian Fruit Growers and Canners Association, the cherry producers ' of Australia and the South Australian Minister of Agriculture been considered by the Government and, if so, what action is proposed by the Government? 
I ask the Leader of the Government in the Senate: In view of the recent statement by the Prime Minister that the Government intended to liberalise trade with China, and having regard also to the statement made yesterday by the Deputy Prime Minister that he now supports recognition of Mainland China, does the Government now support what the Australian Labour Party is trying to do in opening up new initiatives with China, or does the Government intend to display initiative especially in respect of trade and diplomatic relations with that nation? 
At the conclusion of question time we will be confronted with a matter of urgency on this very subject.  Senator Wright,  who will be handling the matter on behalf of the 
Government, will make the attitude of the 
Government abundantly clear and 1 do not think I should anticipate it at this time. 
My question is addressed to the Minister for Civil Aviation. It follows  Senator Poyser's  question about Qantas Airways Ltd and refers also to the financial position of the domestic airlines. I refer to answers that the Minister has given in recent weeks in the Senate as a whole and when appearing before an Estimates Committee. To me, his answers were optimistic reports on the future of both Qantas and Trans-Australia Airlines. What positive steps is the Government taking to arrange domestic travel and Government support for these services to prevent any further decline in the financial position of both airlines or to prevent staff redundancies? Does the Government propose to enter the area of the Qantas dispute only on the basis of the test of profitability of the airline? If not, what means does the Government intend to use to intensify the present arrangements in relation to charter participation by Qantas? During the latter part of 1970 and in the early part of the first quarter of this year why were there not consultations about the problems which are now facing not only the staff but also the management of Qantas? Will the Minister personally advocate, in respect of both internal and overseas airlines, immediate consultation about matters which might eventuate during the latter part of this year? 
-My question is directed to the Minister for Civil Aviation. I ask: Is it a fact, as reported in the Press, that the discussions to which the Minister has just referred between Qantas Airways Ltd, the Australian Federation of Air Pilots and, in some cases, the Minister himself are progressing satisfactorily? If this is the position, is there any reason why an incidental matter - the so-called redundancy and retrenchment of some 40 flight engineers, many of whom were recruited recently and are now being trained in special schools - should not at this instance be immediately revoked? 
My question is directed to the Minister for Civil Aviation. It refers to what the Minister has described as Qantas Airways Ltd being in a potential loss situation. Is it a fact that during the last 12 months more than 300 dry or wet charters, associated mainly with the migration programme, have been arranged by Qantas with other airlines? Is it a fact also that these airlines, on the return flights, compete with Qantas? In view of the financial situation of Qantas, of which the Minister is aware, have any instructions been issued to Qantas or has it arranged to cancel these charter flights, or will the Minister consider with Qantas the transfer of any such traffic to Qantas? 
 My question is directed to the Minister lor Supply. It relates to recent questions I have asked of him concerning the future of Woomera and the Weapons Research Establishment at Salisbury. Is the Minister able to give any further or more up to date information at this stage as to employment prospects and the future of Woomera and the Weapons Research Establishment at Salisbury? 
I recall the honourable senator asking a similar question previously. On that occasion, whilst I gave a short  response to  his question, I said that I would try to get some further information. I can say that present operations at Woomera are being conducted under a British-Australian joint project arrangement that was last reviewed in May 1968 for a period of 4 years. In March 1969 I reported that the work load up to 1972 was expected to be significantly greater than was planned when the arrangement was renewed. I think I said that previously. I am now pleased to be able to say that this trend has been confirmed in discussions recently concluded between British and Australian officials in Canberra and that we can now forsee a satisfactory work load in the years ahead to at least 1974. 
I indicated on 1st April in this chamber that I had reached a general understanding with the British Minister for Technology that the arrangement should be extended for a further 2-year period through to 1974. The Government will shortly be considering the proposal for such extension in detail. We can expect therefore that employment opportunities will continue to be available at Woomera for at least the next 3 years. The load after 1974 has not been assessed, but there is no reason to believe that the range will not continue to be active and viable in the future. 
My question, which is directed to the Minister for Supply, relates to the alarming announcement that an additional 140 skilled workers are to be retrenched from the Commonwealth Air-, craft Corporation and that, on the basis of the existing orders which have been placed with that organisation, further sackings are likely during the year. I ask: Aire these reports accurate? Will the Minister take urgent action within his own responsibility to see to what extent additional orders can be given to that organisation? Would it be possible for the Minister to consult with the Ministers of other Commonwealth departments, including the Department of Defence, to determine to what extent additional orders can be placed by them with the Commonwealth Aircraft Corporation and, if they are in the same position, the Government Aircraft Factories, even to the extent of cancelling some orders which have been placed overseas? 

 Senator Bishop has asked a very proper question. I was informed on Friday afternoon after the Senate rose that an urgent submission was coming to me in relation to a verbal report that had been received to the effect that the Commonwealth Aircraft Corporation was going to stand down some employeess. I think the number of employees to be stood down was, as  Senator Bishop  has pointed out, about 150. I received yesterday a departmental submission in relation to this matter. It is regrettably true that the Commonwealth Aircraft Corporation is going to take this action because it is in a difficult position. I understand that the indirect rather than the direct operatives are to be stood down. This action is being taken on the basis of an attempt to balance the work force with the work load. As honourable senators are aware, the Commonwealth Aircraft Corporation is a private company. Even though the Government is its best customer the Corporation is, nevertheless, a private enterprise. I have already initiated interdepartmental discussions in relation to this matter. I also had a discussion this morning with the Minister for Defence about it. We regard it as a very serious matter. As  Senator Bishop  has properly pointed out, it is a serious matter which, to a degree, will extend in the ultimate to our own Government Aircraft Factories. It is also a problem which is currently being experienced by Hawker De Havilland Australia Pty Ltd in Sydney. The General 
Manager of that company is coming to see me one day this week about this problem. 
As to the honourable senator's question about the redirection of work to the Commonwealth Aircraft Corporation and the Government Aircraft Factories, I would point out that quite recently I made a Press announcement, which was discussed in this chamber, in which I was .able to indicate that a contractual arrangement had been entered into with the Bell organisation for the building of something like 190 helicopters in Australia. There is a Service requirement for some 75 of these helicopters. The Bell organisation will, of course, be responsible for the sale commercially of the balance of that number,. of helicopters. Practically all the work,, with the exception of the engines, will be done by the Com.monwealth Aircraft Corporation. Currently we are considering whether the engine work can be carried out. by CAC. 
It is very difficult to be able to say that we can redirect work ,to a company. We have, to bear in mind that we are getting offset orders. So far, we have got about $4.5m worth of such orders, a significant amount of which has gone to the Commonwealth Aircraft Corporation. We are in the market for a further' $4m worth of orders, which I do not want to discuss at the moment. I am very conscious of the situation. It is a very serious and critical matter. It is true that it may have over? topes which will extend into the Government Aircraft Factories. Currently I am looking also at that situation. Everything that the Government and  j  ean do will, be done. As honourable senators know, at present we are building a prototype aircraft - Project N. Aspects in relation to the future of that project also . are currently under examination. 
My question to the Leader of the Government in the Senate follows the question by  Senator Laucke  in respect to the activities of the Australia and New Zealand Bank Preservation Trust in raising money to preserve the important and unique historical ANZ Bank building in King William Street, Adelaide. I ask the Minister whether in conjunction with his representations to the Treasurer on this question he will also ask the Treasurer if he would receive a deputation from the Trust if so requested? 

 Senator Sir KENNETH ANDERSONI would be happy to add that request to the list of representations that I would naturally make as a result of question time today. 
I ask the Minister for Civil Aviation whether any progress has been made in talks between Qantas Airways Ltd, the Air Pilots Federation and the Minister in connection with the pending retrenchment of air crew by Qantas, and also in respect qf the training of crews for the operation of jumbo jets. Is it a fact that an amount of $200,000 would cover the complete cost of retaining the employees it is proposed to retrench? In that circumstance it is not sensible that the Government should attempt to maintain the full complement of Qantas air crew on the basis that business will return to Qantas within the ensuing 12 months? 
My question which is directed to the Minister for Civil Aviation refers to the recent answers given by the Minister relating to charter flights generally and the application made to the Minister by World Airways Inc. in connection with charter nights between the United States of America and Australia. I ask the Minister: Is it a fact that the application of World Airways, Inc. is based on the proposal for IS charter flights into Australia, which would not detrimentally affect existing services of Qantas Airways Limited to the United States of America? Would the acceptance of the proposal entitle Qantas to a reciprocal 15 charter services, and would these charter services be profitable for Qantas? Has the Minister approved of this proposal? What is the current position in respect of his consideration of the proposal for Qantas to enter the charter business generally on a full time basis? 
My question is directed to the Minister for Works. It refers to the Minister's answers in the past about the Commonwealth Centre in Adelaide and to his interest in that project. Recently he stated that the matter was still under consideration. Is the Minister able to inform the Senate whether the possibility of building a Commonwealth Centre in Adelaide has since been determined? 
I direct a question to the Minister for Air about complaints made in the Adelaide Press by 5 wives of Air Force personnel stationed at Edinburgh about the extremely long hours which members of the fire section have to serve. This section is made up of 15 LACs for whom no proper arrangements are made to spend a reasonable amount of time at home. I ask the Minister: Is it a fact that the fire section at the RAAF Edinburgh station works about 380 hours a month or is on call for part of that time? Is it also true that correct overtime payments or day off adjustments are not properly made? Is it also true that these LACs are required to use their own vehicles to travel to and from the station, on many occasions during the night when they are on call? Will the Minister investigate the complaints to see that proper standards are applied if the information is correct? 
My question is directed to the Minister for Air. Does the Government still operate on the basis that the policy in relation to the operation of the Fill aircraft will be determined before the end of the year? What is the present position in relation to the evaluation that was received from the technical group in America? Do those reports indicate that some satisfaction has been achieved in modifications to the aircraft, irrespective of the number of aircraft that have crashed in recent months? What form of discussions is held between the Minister's own Department and the related departments in connection with the evaluation of the reports as they come to hand Is it expected that at Budget time a report will be given to the Parliament in respect of these aircraft? 
The honourable senator has asked what liaison there is, firstly, with us in America. We have technical and scientific officers in the United States watching the project all the time and reporting back practically daily, and sometimes even twice or thrice daily. We also have continual discussions with the Department of Defence. Tomorrow I am sending my Air Member (Technical Services), together with a finance officer and another technical officer, to America to have some further discussions. Despite this visit, we will not be in a position, because of the static and fatigue tests not meeting the agreement, to make a decision on tha matter until the end of this year. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Shipping and Transport, upon notice: 
Has the Minister, and the South Australian Government, agreed on a compromise plan to connect Adelaide with the standard-gauge railway system, by the conversion of the existing 5 ft 3 in gauge system between Adelaide and Port Pirie; if so, does the compromise plan propose the construction of a completely new railway track between those cities, or the modification of the existing line. 
Does the plan also include a proposal to connect the Mile End railway yards, and industries located south of Adelaide, by means of a completed standard-gauge railway system. 
Has theCommonwealth Government rejected financial assistance to convert the existing railway systems, including the Wilmington line, in the northern part of South Australia. 
When is it likely that the matter will be finalised. 
 I  take this  opportunity  to  indicate  my  support  of the  Bill. 1 concur in the comments  made by  Senator Wriedt  who  led  for the  Opposition  on this Bill. I agree with his  remarks  about co-ordination. I support the  thought that  Senator Laucke  has brought  to our minds  that required standardisation  work  in South Australia ought to  dovetail with the wider  question of co-ordination. I wish  to  refer  very  briefly to  a reply that  f received this morning from  the  Minister for Civil Aviation  (Senator Cotton)  as representative here of the Minister  Idi  Shipping and Transport  (Mr Nixon).  On this standardisation proposal, the  Minister said  that a compromise plan had  been  acknowledged to  be  under consideration  by the  South'. Australian Government  and the  Commonwealth Government. 
Sitting suspended from 1 to 2.15 p.m. 
la dealing with this Bill, 1 direct  my  comments to the standard railway guage  system in  South Australia. 1 make the point  that  the. Commonwealth is not taking the initiative that it should in relation to railway works. I remind the Senate thai in 1949, following investigations ordered  by  the then Minister for Transport, the  late  Eddie Ward, who invested  Sir Harold  Clapp with a lot of power to consider a standardised railway system, the Commonwealth Government made agreements with the States. In particular it made an agreement with the South Australian Government in respect of the conversion of the South Australian system. Unfortunately, despite pressures from various South Australian governments, no substantial work in connection with the conversion of different gauges in South Australia, other than the conversion of the south eastern section of the system, was carried out. The conversion had been recommended by a number of committees which had worked on standardisation. Not only did they bring down plans for South Australia but also plans which have now been implemented in respect to the standardised system which is now operating between the east and west coasts of Australia. As everybody knows, that line is very well supported by passenger traffic and by freight traffic. It has been proven that the amount spent on the project is being repaid by this extra traffic and by the profits which come from that traffic. Not only is that system doing its job but also it is keeping pace with the modern trends in transport. I refer to the more mechanised and almost automatic system of handling goods traffic across the country. This vast container system of heavy hauls by efficient railway units is proving - as is the case in Europe and Japan - that the railway system is not dead. 
While this has been accomplished in South Australia, for many years South Australian governments have complained that the Commonwealth Government did not give the State the support that it needed.  Senator Laucke  mentioned the Whyalla connection. In 1964 the proposal to link Port Augusta with Whyalla was first put before the Commonwealth Government. In successive years many representations were made. Evidence was given that the line could be economic. It was not until recent years that the Broken Hill Pty Co. Ltd decided to support the carriage of steel by rail, rather than by road or ship. The carriage of steel by road or ship was hazardous and the services infrequent. The Commonwealth Government then decided to support the building of the link to Whyalla. Before the Whyalla connection was envisaged, South Australian governments had proposed to the Commonwealth Government that it should do what it undertook to do in 1949 when it made an agreement to standardise all the South Australian systems except the Eyre Peninsula system. This issue is still of great importance to South Australia. Not only is it important to South Australia but also it is obviously highly important to the rest of the Commonwealth to connect Adelaide with the standard gauge system. Adelaide probably accommodates the most modern secondary industry complex for the production of motor cars and consumer goods in Australia. It is highly important that that industrial complex be connected with the standard gauge system. 
There were 2 famous reports on standardisation given to this Parliament. One was by the Government's Standardisation Committee headed by  Mr Wentworth,  who is still in the Parliament, and the other was by a committee headed by Eddie Ward which inquired into the need to accept the principle that the Australian continent had quickly to be connected by a railway system which was not faced with the problems of non-standard gauge and the heavy costs that go with it. That is on record and I must say that, apart from what I have said about our own Labor people associated with the project, there is no question that  Mr Wentworth  at that time and since then gave substantial support to the proposal- to connect the capitals, particularly Adelaide. I am sorry that the Commonwealth Government has not accepted this obligation in the way it should have accepted it. Now, in 1971 the South Australian Labor Government has been forced to accept a compromise. 
The details of the compromise are not known. I asked the Minister some weeks ago whether the compromise had been accepted by the Commonwealth Government and whether work might commence soon. The answer I received today from the Minister representing the Minister for Shipping and Transport is as follows: 
(2) and (3) I recently met with the South Australian Minister for Roads and Transport in an endeavour to resolve differences between the Commonwealth and State Governments over the proposed connection of Adelaide to the standard gauge railway system. It was agreed at that meeting that certain proposals for effecting this link would be submitted to the respective Governments for consideration. I intend to bring these proposals before the Commonwealth Government but at this stage it would not be appropriate to provide details. 
Pending agreement of both Governments to any proposals, it would be premature to provide information on a time-table for construction. 
To conclude my remarks in support not only of the legislation before the Senate but also of the urgent need to connect Adelaide with the standard gauge, I want to say that it is unfortunate that the Commonwealth Government has not accepted what was in fact an obligation. Whether it was legal or not it was an obligation, written in terms accepted by the Premiers of the States at the time, that the Commonwealth Government would finance the proposal to convert the whole of the South Australian system, excepting the Eyre Peninsula system. 
It is much worse. This goes back to the postwar years when this sort of national objective would have been a good thing for Australia. It was not only the Labor Party which argued for this; the concept was agreed to by the Government. We had committees of the Liberal Party supporting  What  we had proposed and accepted. All .that has been done since those days is that there has been some finance provided for rolling stock or locomotives which has kept that very efficient industrial complex, the Islington workshops, in production. During the war these workshops were competent in the production of efficient "railway units  of  modern standard which had been designed by the late  Mr Webb  Who was brought  out  here by a Labor Government to run the South Australian railways, ' which at that time were the most efficient' railways in the Southern Hemisphere. Iri. addition, the workshops took on the task of manufacturing aircraft.  Senator Davidson  should be very interested in this because, as he knows, it was not only the Labor Government which argued for this but also Liberal governments iri that State, although the Hall Government went- back on the proposition. 
The position is that the original obligation was to standardise the whole of the South Australian system. We cannot avoid that. It is in writing and the agreement can be found in documents in the Parliament. During the reign of  Sir Thomas  Playford the south eastern section of the railways was converted. It was provided that there would be a 5 feet 3. inch gauge and that when the standardisation system became accepted by the State, the South Australian Government would put. in an additional rail or shift the 5 feet 3 inch rail to 4 feet  8i  inches. That is the agreement. Quickly after that  Sir Thomas  Playford asked the Commonwealth Government to make suitable arrangements to convert the system. What has happened now? In the negotiations with the State Government, the Commonwealth Government - has refused to fulfil its obligation other than to consider the link between Adelaide and Port Pirie, which is urgent and must be done. In dealing with this link, I suggest that the 
Commonwealth Government should still consider its original obligation to which I have referred. It should consider not only its obligation but also the fact that there are other country rail links in the north of South Australia which are efficient and are at present making a profit. 
The Government has relied on a consultants' report. I cannot see why the Government ought to rely on private consultants when competent engineers in the Commonwealth Railways and the South Australian  Railways have put forward a plan which would be cheaper to implement than the plan proposed by the Maunsell consultants. It has been argued , that the South Australian Railways Commissioner,  Mr Fitch,  who was formerly an officer of the Commonwealth Railways - and a very efficient officer - could do this conversion work at a lower cost than is proposed for the work outlined in the Maunsell report. Of course, that work will be less extensive, as it will link only Adelaide and Port Pirie. As I think this matter is urgent, once again I place before the Government the need for a vision in regard to South Australia that is not related just to the connection between Adelaide and Port Pirie, although that extension is of course, long overdue.  Senator Wriedt  spoke about the need to give the railways a footing again in the community, having regard to relationships with other forms of transport and to efficiency. We have the examples of the older worlds of Europe and Japan. If steps along these lines can be taken, we will be achieving the objectives of the Second World War and the post-war years. 
I ask the Minister for Civil Aviation: Does the reported agreement on salaries between Qantas and the Australian Federation of Air Pilots mean that the 747s will fly on time? Have the necessary administrative steps been taken to enable the training of crews to commence this operation? Will the agreement in relation to the jumbo jets provide a basis for the retention in the service of the aircrew and flight engineers who are likely to leave during the currency of the 747 operations as a result of having been given notice of termination of employment? If not, is it a fact that the flight engineers and some of the aircrew have been recruited from overseas in recent times by Qantas personnel? Will the Minister take some initiative to see that the aircrew and flight engineers are retained for some time, even though it may mean some sort of a temporary subsidy? 
My question, which is directed to the Minister representing the Attorney-General, follows the one  Senator 
Rae asked about petrol prices in South Australia. Is it a fact that the South Australian Government is the only government in Australia maintaining a price control administration to protect consumers from exploitation? ls the Minister aware that the Commonwealth Government, through the Minister concerned, and other State governments accept the procedures and examinations of the South Australian Prices Commissioner in setting the petrol prices to apply throughout Australia, and that the Minister in charge of this place often refers to that fact in answering questions about petrol prices? 
 I commence my contribution to this debate by saying that  Senator Davidson's  straight out commendation of Qantas Airways Ltd was, I suppose, due to the fact that he has travelled in its aircraft and found its services to be very good. The Opposition was rather surprised to find out not so long ago that Qantas is in financial difficulties, particularly in view of the fact that as recently as January of this year as well as late last year the managers and directors of Qantas led us to believe that Qantas was doing very well in the general business of flying passengers internationally. The Opposition has been all the more surprised to find that issues between the pilots and Qantas have led to the dismissal of aircrew, including flight engineers, all of whom have undergone special training. There are also apparently issues concerning not only wage rates, which would appear to be close to being resolved, but also superannuation. 
What we have in the Qantas argument is this: We are purchasing the Boeing 747 aircraft to put on the international run. At the time when we arranged to purchase them there were important differences between the pilots and the management, about which the Minister knew, which had not been resolved, and certain training programmes which ought to have been started had not been started, as a result of which a number of air crew were given retrenchment notices. I refer, of course, to the 153 pilots and the 17 flight engineers who had already commenced a course in preparation for the reception of the 747s. As far as I know, the issues between those people and Qantas have not yet been resolved. Yet people in the Senate and the managers of Qantas are saying that the picture is fairly rosy. 
What we on the Opposition side want to know is whether these important and grievous issues which concern the people who operate Qantas have yet been resolved. I refer to the campaigns by Qantas last year when it directed its personnel who were visiting overseas ports to attract additional staff where they could because Qantas needed increased staff. I refer to the representations which were made to the ground mechanics last year to commence a third shift in preparation for the reception of the jumbo jets. Then we found, after some disputes between the ground engineers and Qantas managers, that the ground engineers agreed to work the third shift; but these people are now being put off. I refer to the discussions between the flight engineers and Qantas managers in respect of a special training programme which was to equip flight engineers who were not appropriately qualified and who had come to Australia specially to take up jobs as flight engineers with Qantas so they could fit into the Australian scene. When they commenced their course they were told instantly that they would not be wanted. Some of these flight engineers are now resting at home under an arrangement whereby they will receive 6 months pay until they are told what the future forecast might be. 
These questions have been put to the Minister for Civil Aviation  (Senator Cotton)  and he had been unable to give a direct answer in respect of these issues. I believe, to do him some credit, that he thinks that in matters concerning disputes it may be better for the Government or him to stand aside until the disputes are settled. But I suggest that these differences have not yet been settled. Apart from the pilots' wages, other great and important matters which concern the industry have to be resolved before we can get the best use out of the expenditure which this country is guaranteeing to put jumbo jets on the runs. I would still be interested to have answers to the questions I have raised with the Minister. I must admit that, in a very courteous way, he gives what information he can. But I suggest that in this matter he should not stand aside and let the parties settle these things. I think the Government's position is, and properly, as he put it to Estimates Committee D on 21st April 1971. In reply to a question from me he said this: 
The board and the management have a responsibility to manage that business - 
He is talking about Qantas - 
. within a directive laid down many years ago by the Government. It has to make important commercial decisions subject to Government check. 
I am yet to be satisfied about the important disputes concerning the pilots and the disputes which concern the flight engineers. These people make up a team of highly skilled men who have to be trained. I have not yet received an answer as to whether their training has -reached the stage where they would be equipped to handle the operation of the 747s. It was first proposed by the Manager of Qantas that the training scheme for Qantas pilots should have commenced as far back as April. It is now the second week of May and the pilots' wage issue has just been settled. We do not know the outcome of the superannuation issue and we would be pleased to hear from the Minister what the position is. 
That is right. As  Senator Douglas  McClelland says, Qantas has made other alterations, including the ones I have mentioned, such as when the management went to the ground mechanics and said: 'We want a third shift'. The evidence so far, as I have found out, is that when the Boeing 747s come on, even presuming they will be on time, there may be a speeding up in training programmes. But it would appear from the information given to me that the availability of aircraft will be less than it is now with the Boeing 707s. I would be interested to hear from the Minister whether that is the position. I have been told that the 747s will be available for only 10 hours a day whereas the 707s are available from 12 to 14 hours a day. That is an important matter if Qantas is to achieve the sort of earnings about which it is talking. 
But let us turn to what seems to me to be a most important part of this issue, and that is the issue of the charter services. As everybody knows, the question of Qantas considering the setting up of a subsidiary charter organisation such as the British Overseas Airways Corporation set up has not only been raised in this Parliament in the Senate but has been raised locally. It was a feature of a national television programme recently. It is an issue upon which Qantas has commented and upon which the Minister himself has made an observation. What are the issues? The issues are, of course, that in attempting to explain what the position is the Minister has taken the point that he has to agree to protect first Qantas and whatever international arrangements it has at the present time for conventional loadings and to operate charter services as prescribed by the International Air Transport Association. What we are putting to the Minister and what the pilots themselves have put to the Minister as recently as today is that Qantas should try to get a charter licence and operate its own charter services and not make the sort of assignment which was made when the Government arranged, for example, with Caledonian Airways to carry a large part of the migrant intake to Australia. As people now know, Qantas got no real benefit from this sort of operation. 
We have suggested over the years - I understand the pilots have too - that if Qantas operated its own charter services through a subsidiary such as BOAC has, whatever earnings there were in the business would go directly to Qantas. But in Australia we have allowed  Qantas to  enter a number of leasing contracts which have resulted in a large section of our migrant population coming to Australia by aircraft which are not owned by Qantas but which have been dry leased. I would like to quote some figures which were obtained by  Senator Mulvihill  recently from the Minister in answer to a question. He asked how many assisted migrants travel to Australia by charter flights or commercial flights, and the Minister's reply was as follows: 
Department of Immigration Bookings. 
The detailed breakdown of charter passengers for the financial year 1970-71 (including forward bookings) is as follows: 

<graphic href="048232197105116_66_0.jpg"></graphic>

The information I have - I think the Minister now accepts the information - is that Caledonian Airways, having done an operation which Qantas itself could well have done and having brought the migrants out to Australia, became a direct competitor with Qantas on its return trip. It has been said - I understand it has been put to the Minister directly - by people in the industry that in Singapore, for example, this organisation could offer cheaper fares to people who were already booked on Qantas to London. 
That is so, and in many cases it would be in direct competition with Qantas. It seems rather strange that this should be allowed to happen to an important national enterprise like Qantas. We regard Qantas as an important enterprise. The Australian Labor Party supports national enterprises, but we want answers to this question. At this stage is there not a complete, positive answer as to whether Qantas proposes to engage in specialised charter and subsidiary services? That is very important to know. Another matter I want to talk about relates to  World Airways  Inc. Last week I asked a question of the Minister for Civil Aviation in respect of a proposition which had been put to him. I referred to the answers given by the Minister recently relating to charter flights generally and the application made to the Minister by World Airways Inc. in connection with charter flights between the United States of America and Australia. I asked the Minister: 
Is it a fact that the application of World Airways Inc. is based on the proposal for15 charter flights into Australia which would not detrimentally affect existing services of Qantas Airways Ltd to the United States of America? 
This is the important part of that question: 
Would the acceptance of the proposal entitle Qantas to a reciprocal 15 charter services . . . 
That was the information which had been given to the Opposition. The Minister replied that he understood it was not so but he would find out about it. From the point of view of the people in the industry I suggest that it is alarming, with the sort of reputation which has been built up by Qantas, which we have been accustomed to acknowledge and which is the result of statements from the management of Qantas, that at this stage there should be some down turn. We want to see this down turn corrected. We want to know why it is that the sort of remedies which are possible have not been applied. 
Let me refer to a statement made at the end of January 1971. It is a Qantas circular entitled 'Qantas Plans to Meet Future Challenges'. That circular refers to expanded programmes of training of an increasing number of employees at all levels of staff and management, amongst other things. It refers to separated line operating functions and corporate planning and control functions to allow top management to concentrate on corporate strategy. It also refers to increased efforts to improve relations with customers, employees, the aviation and travel industries, the travelling public and governments. As I have already mentioned, shortly after that time there was for some reason a crisis and people in the industry were told they would not be required. If there is evidence of a down turn, if it was more than an industrial tactic to get pilots to compromise in relation to operating Boeing 747 aircraft, then it seems to me to be good sense from the management point of view to retain those skilled people whom Qantas had attracted from overseas posts. I know from my own knowledge that some of the people who entered the flight engineers courses were attracted from overseas to come to Australia and take the courses but having embarked on the courses they found that there was no security or permanency. They are the issues which concern the management of Qantas. 
I have only one last aspect to refer to in this debate. It seems to me that in the light of what I know there is a great lack of industrial technique as far as Qantas is concerned. I am surprised in this day and age that the management of Qantas cannot resolve in the way that it should be able to resolve the differences which are now occurring. I am told that on many occasions when discussions are held they are very arbitrary discussions and that there is no expansion on them or no across the table determinations which might occur in other industries and which would be of great benefit to this industry. I hope that the matters I have spoken about can be resolved because none of us want to see a great national socialistic airline such as Qantas lose any of the advantages which it has built up through efficiency and good service. It seems to me that unless Qantas embarks on the sort of charter operations which the unions are putting to the company it will not succeed. 
My question is directed to the Minister for Air. Were the terms relating to the leasing of the 24 Phantom aircraft fixed in relation to the amount of work which might fall to Australian industry? If the terms relating to the use of the FI 1 1 aircraft have yet to be negotiated, will the Minister see to what extent the servicing and overhaul specifications and the work which has now apparently been sent to the United States of America might be let out to Australian manufacturers? 
asked the Minister  representing the Minister for Trade and Industry, upon notice: 
Did any of the witnesses before the Tariff Board hearing which considered the duty on imported cherries, support a reduction in import duty. 
Have large orders been placed overseas since the Board's report was tabled, and will the Australian crop, now in brine, remain unsold. 
Is the removal of import duty likely to result in an estimated loss of over $100,000 to the South Australian industry and the likely closure of process plants. 
Have the various producer organisations and the South Australian Government requested the Commonwealth Government to reject the report. 
What action, if any, is being taken to protect this valuable industry. 
My question is directed to the Minister for Civil Aviation and I refer to the statement made by him yesterday in connection with charter services. Can his statement of yesterday be taken to indicate that Qantas Airways Ltd has rejected the idea of the establishment of a subsidiary charter service and will maintain its attitude on operating charter services based on international agreements for groups having reasonable affinity? If this is so, will the cheaper charter fares now available to parents of migrants to Australia be continued or are they likely to be based on this new proposition? Has the Minister yet determined whether the retrenchments which were to take place in Qantas have now been temporarily stayed? 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Foreign Affairs. I refer to difficulties which are experienced by Canberra citizens in obtaining visas from the American Embassy and the representations which have been made by a number of community groups, including tourist agencies in Canberra, to the American Embassy. Will the Minister ask the Minister for Foreign Affairs to make representations to the American Embassy to see whether it is possible for visas to be supplied in Canberra? At the present they are supplied in Sydney, a practice which occasions delays of up to a fortnight because of the correspondence and paper work involved. 
 As the Leader of the Opposition in the Senate  (Senator Murphy)  has indicated, the Opposition considers that this occasion should be taken to move an amendment to the motion. I move: 
At end of motion add -  but the Senate expresses its concern at the Government's mishandling of the F1ll purchase and its failure to develop and maintain an effective Australian aircraft industry'. 
I think it is important that these matters be raised. Perhaps I would suggest to the Minister, through you,  Mr Deputy President,  so that we may proceed with some regularity and so that we can avoid having a lengthy discussion and argument about this - I think that would be consonant with what is being endeavoured to be achieved on both sides of the chamber - that we could move this amendment by moving to suspend so much of the Standing Order as would prevent the amendment being moved. That would be one way of overcoming the problem of deciding whether the amendment is in order. Alternatively we could move the amendment by leave and we need not worry about whether leave is necessary. Does that suggestion commend itself to the Minister? If we are to have a debate as to whether the proposition can be put, there will be a very lengthy argument. I would think that it would be in accordance with what both sides are attempting to achieve if we suspended so much of the Standing Orders as would prevent this amendment being moved now and other amendments being moved at any other stage of the Bill. 
The  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Bull)  - Order! I am informed that had 

 Senator Bishop wished to do this under the Supply Bill (No. 1) he would have been in order; but he is not in order in doing it under this Bill. So, to that extent I uphold the point of order raised by  Senator Cotton. 
I ask for leave to move the amendment. 
The DEPUTY PRESIDENT- Is leave granted? There being no objection, leave is granted. 
-I move the following amendment: 
At end of motion add:  but the Senate expresses its concern at the Government's mishandling of the F1ll purchase and its failure to develop and maintain an effective Australian aircraft industry'. 
There are 2 main issues in this argument, namely, the 2 matters mentioned in the amendment. One is the position in relation to the F111 purchase, which was a political gimmick in 1963 when the then Prime Minister,  Sir Robert  Menzies, in order to win an election decided that Australia needed new aircraft. We were committed to a programme which has not yet been accomplished, which has cost us more than $300m and about which at this stage we cannot obtain very satisfactory answers. Reports from Ministers and replies to our questions indicate that the aircraft is not yet available for operation in Australia. We have the spectacle of continuing crashes of this aircraft. In fact, there have been 18 crashes in the United States. These crashes are almost as significant as those of the Starfighter in Germany. That aircraft was imposed on the Federal Republic of Germany. 
There have been 18 to date. It is argued - this may or may not be so - that the Australian Government has to maintain its options at this time. That point has been canvassed recently. It is argued that after all these years we still should not be very worried about whether we take the F111. We know from the debates that took place in the Parliament at the time of the purchase that the position taken by the Opposition was that the Government was not critical enough about the purchase; that it should have made an investigation of every available aircraft that could fit the Australian scene. A former Minister for Defence,  Sir Allen  Fairhall, and the Government maintained that we were buying more than an aircraft; we were buying a weapons system and it would fly soon. For example, the 1967 Defence Report, following references to the matter in the Parliament, stated at page 40: 
The F111C project is on schedule and delivery of the 24 aircraft will be made in the latter half of 1968. Two instructor crews and the officerincharge of the F111C mission simulator are already in the USA undergoing training. The remainder of the F111C crews will proceed to the USA for conversion training from March 1968 onwards and will ferry the aircraft to Australia after acceptance from the manufacturer. 
The history of the F111 is a scandalous one.  Senator Wriedt  will go into the arguments more deeply. There is no doubt that the Government has mishandled the matter. It has fitted too neatly into the defence concepts established by the United States. This is happening all too frequently. The Government should have made a more selective investigation. 
We know that from time to time the Minister for Air  (Senator Drake-Brockman),  in response to questions, gives us reports. But it is evident that he and his specialist groups that travel to and from the United States have been very careful and are not satisfied. In 1971 there is every possibility that we will have to rely for a longer time than was expected on the Phantoms that we now have under lease. We are up for the cost of this project. We have paid $300m for the F111s. As everybody knows, we are already involved in an expenditure of $34m in relation to the Phantoms. We are not getting a cracker out of this expenditure - 
Sitting suspended from 1 to 2.15 p.m. 
I seek leave to continue my remarks at a later hour. 
Leave granted; debate adjourned. 
 Before the suspension of the sitting I was referring to our commitments with the United States of America to purchase the F111 aircraft and our arrangements to lease Phantom aircraft. I had mentioned that Australian industry was not given an opportunity to manufacture any substantial part of these aircraft. Apart altogether from the mishandling by the Government of these aircraft projects, the Opposition is of the opinion, as it has expressed in the Parliament and outside the Parliament, that the acceptance by the Government of the F111 was a political gimmick adopted in 1963 in the face of a pending election. Over the years we have been told that the F111 aircraft would be available and that in addition to being the most advanced aircraft available they would be a weapons system. We have now found that we are not much nearer to the stage when the aircraft might be accepted. 
In the United States 18 F111 aircraft have crashed and this has occasioned our specialists to give definite consideration to whether the order should be cancelled, as a result of which Australia would stand to lose a great deal of money. In the meantime we have had to meet the additional expense of leasing 24 Phantoms under arrangements which do not allow any work to fall to the Australian aircraft industry. As recently as this morning the Minister for Air  (Senator Drake-Brockman)  made it clear that no substantial work would fall to the Australian industry. The leasing arrangements made by the Government did not allow us to use bargaining tactics of the kind that we should use with the Americans. I put it to the Government and to the Senate that we are too soft in dealing with these matters. In matters of trade it is well known that the Americans are hard bargainers who make sure that they get their complete quota. Examples can be seen in the resentment by the Americans of the arrangement which has been made by Massey-Ferguson (Australia) Ltd to sell sugar cutting machinery to Cuba and the arrangements which have been made by the Minister for Civil Aviation  (Senator Cotton)  in respect of the passage through Australia of American airlines. 
It is obvious that all along the line the Americans put pressure on Australia and other countries and take a very hard line in relation to trade. Generally we accept propositions too readily when we should be bargaining more keenly. Having accepted the F111s we should have insisted on, and even now that our bargaining position is so much better we should ensure, . a better deal for the Australian aircraft industry. Other countries which enter into similar deals with the Americans make sure that a large part of the work goes to their own industry. In the United Kingdom this has been done for the aircraft industry. It seems to us that in relation to aircraft acquired from the United States . we are merely tagging along, that we are a bit too timid and that we should insist on better deals. No work involved in the production of these aircraft flows to the Australian industry as should be the case. 
Everybody knows that the Australian aircraft industry is facing a crisis. A potential has been built up for our aircraft industry since the last World War. I refer, of course, to the Government Aircraft Factories and the Commonwealth Aircraft Corporation. Those establishments have proved their capacity by producing fairly sophisticated aircraft, but they have been unable to maintain production. In recent years problems in the industry have been so grave that it has needed support from the Commonwealth. But what do we hear from the Commonwealth about the problems affecting the industry? Repeatedly in this place we hear statements, which I accept as honest statements, from the Minister for Supply  (Senator Sir Kenneth Anderson).  I do not suggest that the Minister is not concerned about the aircraft industry, but it is evident that the Commonwealth authorities who should be ensuring that our aircraft industry is operating to full capacity are not insisting enough about maintaining competence in the industry or about attracting the offset orders that should be available. It has been pointed out in earlier debates that we are importing into Australia defence and civil aircraft to the value of millions of dolars, but that very small orders are sifting through to the Commonweath Aircraft Corporation or to the Government Aircraft Factories. 
I have referred in this place to the retrenchments which took place in March of this year from the Commonwealth Aircraft Corporation and the more recent sackings which have occurred, but the best answer that the Minister for Supply has been able to give has been that he has talked to the Minister for Defence  (Mr Gorton)  to see to what extent additional work 'can be given to these factories. All that We have been able to get so far is an order for $4m. ' arising from the Boeing aircraft used by the domestic airlines and an indication that we are in the market for additional orders to the value of $4m. However, since the completion of the orders for the Mirage and Macchi aircraft general production has fallen off. The Government Aircraft Factories and, more particularly, the Commonwealth Aircraft Corporation are facing a complete downturn in production. They have been forced to accept orders from all sorts of industries, including the motor vehicle and light engineering - industries, in order  to keep their skilled workers in employment. It is quite wrong that they should have to take on this kind of work, and it is a disaster when we consider the competence that has been built up in this industry over the years. 
Honourable senators will be aware that from 1940 through to 1943 our aircraft industry was able to produce about 200 Boomerang aircraft and later continued with the production of fairly up-to-date aircraft. But the continuity of production was not maintained, whereas it should have been maintained, by Government sponsorship if necessary. Obviously the real responsibility for this situation falls upon the Commonwealth Government. When we ask about retrenchments from the industry and the loss to the industry of skilled workers the Minister replies that the industry is facing a drop in the workload and that this is characteristic of the private aircraft manufacturers also, including Hawker de Havilland Australia Pty Ltd in Sydney. He says that it is characteristic of the fact that the industry is not receiving sufficient orders. We have been talking about this matter for a long time and in June of last year we raised it as a matter of urgency. On that occasion the Senate carried a resolution which put to the Government a proposition that not enough was being done to develop and maintain our aircraft production capabilities. The evidence is available from cold hard facts. Quite apart from the opinions held by members of the Opposition and people engaged in the industry, leaders- in the industry will state quite clearly that in their view the Government has failed. I know that the Government and the Minister could say: 'Well, we have sent special teams to the United States of America to see to what extent we could get offset orders', but the fact is. that the results of those investigations .have- not been sufficient. When we consider, the magnitude of the expenditure, totalling about $500m, on importing aircraft from the United States of America, we realise that Australia is getting only small bundles of orders to a total value of $4m or SSm. It must be understood' that if something is not done to increase the .capacity of the Australian aircraft industry,: the industry will decline; and if it declines Australia's defences will be failing. 
Briefly, the attitude of members of the Opposition, is that we think it is a worthwhile exercise at this stage of the Senate's sittings, even in a week when the House of Representatives is not meeting, to draw attention again to the problem that is facing Australia. We think that the Government not only should clearly state the extent of its commitments in relation to the Fill but also should tell us that in respect of the Phantom order it is pressing the American Government - that is, if it has to continue to extend the lease of those aircraft - for some offset work for the Commonwealth Aircraft Corporation which is now sacking a further 140 skilled men. Australia should be using the same strength that the Americans use when they are making a bargain. Of course, we recently discussed this aspect when we debated the legislation which affected Qantas Airways Ltd. 
It is essential to realise that if, at this stage, we do not give some strength and support to the Australian aircraft industry, 
Australia will be dependent for all time on other countries for aircraft for defence purposes and, in time of war of course, these aircraft may not be able to be delivered. To sum up my contribution, which has been brief because of the stage of the debate, I refer to an article which was published by the Australian Industries Development Association in its September bulletin. This sums up not only the Association's point, of view but also my point of view. The article said: 
The statements by  Senator Anderson  and  Mr Barnard  highlight the dilemma of trying to support what there is of an Australian aircraft industry with bits and ' pieces of defence work, leftovers from importing, and any commercial work that people do not choose to place elsewhere. 
Despite occasional strong Ministerial statements, Government policy towards the industry seems to be one of scratching around for some defence work to keep the industry going. It certainly does hot start with the positive intention that there will be a thriving and successful industry and that we will turn elsewhere only when the Australian industry genuinely, and for good reasons, cannot fill the bill. 
The issue should not be sidetracked by the old gag of asking whether Australia is to launch into building Phantoms, Fill's and 747's. The question of patently uneconomic projects cannot be entertained. However, our aircraft requirements outside of such highly sophisticated areas provides an ample base for a thriving industry. 
What is the Government doing in concert with its advisers? It has recently set up several advisory components in the reorganisation of the Department of Defence. It has every opportunity to confer with the Minister for Defence  (Mr Gorton)  and his advisers and with the Department of Air and its advisers on the Fill. I should like to know what plans the Government has to revive the Australian aircraft industry. 
My question which is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Education and Science, relates to the report in this morning's Press of a nearly blind student at Laverton High School who was very talented but who was unable to sit for the Commonwealth secondary schools scholarship examination because there are no facilities for people with this incapacity. In view of the fact that other handicapped persons who have sight can sit for such examinations will the Minister see to what extent special facilities can be made available to avoid any discrimination against people without sight? 
My question is addressed to the Leader of the Government or to the Minister representing the Minister for Shipping and Transport. I refer to the bituminising of the Eyre Highway  and also to the most recent request, late in April, by the Premier of South Australia to the Prime Minister for further consideration of some financial arrangements to complete the highway. In view of the proposition now advanced by the South Australian Premier and the commencement of the work to be finished by the South Australian Government in 1973 on that section of the highway between Ceduna and Penong, will the Minister examine the extent to which financial assistance might be given to enable the highway to be completed, especially when the evidence is growing that the highway is used almost exclusively by other than South Australian traffic? 
I can only report to the Senate in response to this question that I have an indication that the Premier of South Australia has written to the Prime Minister concerning the Eyre Highway and that the matters raised in the Premier's letter are receiving examination so that a decision can be made on the matter and reply given. 
 My question is directed to the Minister representing the Attorney-General. I ask him whether he considers it competent to reply in the terms he used to questions put to him about arrangements made by the Premier of South Australia relating to petrol. On 2 occasions in the Senate the Minister has taken the opportunity to criticise the State Premier on 2 bases instead of using his position as Minister representing the Attorney-General to supply information. He could check with the Department and then give the Senate proper and factual answers to questions. Instead of doing that he has launched out on a number of guessing expeditions, mainly on a political basis and flowing from Press reports. I ask the Minister whether in future he will supply the answers to questions in a proper form, including an answer to the question I put to him recently. I then asked: Is South Australia the only State in which price control abtains in relation to petrol and does the Commonwealth Government now accept South Australian prices as providing the basis for uniform petrol prices throughout Australia? 
My question to the Minister for Civil Aviation refers to previous answers by the Minister and further publicity about an application by the United States charter operator, World Airways, for 15 charter nights to Australia. Is it a fact, as the Minister said in reply, that the application was for control by World Airways of the charter services to and from Australia, or was there an agreement or a proposal that consideration would be given to 15 reciprocal charter flights from Australia to the United States? If not, has the Minister considered putting this up as an arrangement to resolve the issues between the Government and World Airways? 
There is one other point in the first group of 10 clauses to which I have referred. The Minister might have noticed that in the other place the honourable member for Hindmarsh  (Mr Clyde Cameron)  urged that members of Parliament should be covered by this legislation or that the Government might consider bringing in a specific Bill to cover them, because if a member of Parliament is incapacitated before his pension rights become due he will not get anything. I mention this point briefly. I think it has been considered. I am interested to hear what the Minister has to say on it. 
I know. In Queensland and in New South Wales for many years workers' compensation has been a specialist matter. Probably this is due to environmental influences affecting these matters and this makes the situation there satisfactory. However I suggest that in the case of a new compensation law it could well be that a departmental officer without experience may be appointed to this job. 
That is right. I am suggesting what the position ought to be. 
The ultimate would be to have the Department represented and also to have the workers represented. 
My question is directed to the Minister for Air and I refer to a question I put to the Minister on 7th May concerning complaints from wives of Air Force personnel at Edinburgh airport in Adelaide that their husbands were work  ing over 380 hours a month because of a lack of firemen. I ask the Minister: Has his investigation yet been completed and is the position such that it can be expected that unreasonable hours worked by these airmen will shortly be reduced or that additional Air Force personnel will be put in the fire section to allow them to work what would be reasonable hours? Is it a fact that when Qantas Airways Ltd used Edinburgh airport when the Avalon airport was out of commission the Air Force personnel in the fire section were rostered for duty to cover this operation? I also ask: Will the entitlement to holidays in lieu which would normally be due to these airmen after working long hours be preserved in the future? Will the Minister also consider to what extent some Air Force transport might be made available to these airmen when they are on call because at the present time they are going backwards and forwards to the airport in their own vehicles? 
I ask the Minister for Civil Aviation: Can he give any current information as to whether the downturn in the traffic of the domestic airlines, which was experienced in the first quarter of this year, has been corrected? Are there good reasons for believing that both domestic airlines are now performing at their usual rate of growth? Has me Minister any further information regarding the retrenchment of aircrew members, including flight engineers, which was proposed by Qantas Airways Ltd? Has some agreement been reached to keep these people employed, or is the position the same as that announced by the Minister some weeks ago 
This workers' compensation legislation comprises 4 Bills. What might be called the parent Bill - the Compensation (Commonwealth Employees) Bill - gives effect to many of the major changes suggested since the early 1960s. Part 8 of this Bill amends the existing Commonwealth Employees Compensation Act 1930-70 in respect of monetary amounts. Part 8 will apply from the date of Royal Assent and will be repealed when the new Commonwealth Employees Compensation Act is promulgated, which I presume will be when all the regulations and all the necessary administrative changes have been made. 
It appears to us that the position for quite a time will be that those concerned under the existing Commonwealth Employees Compensation Act will receive increases only in respect of monetary amounts and will not receive the benefits of the other improvements in the Act. 
The subsidiary Bills to this Bill are the United States Naval Communications Station (Civilian Employees) Bill, the Air Accidents (Commonwealth Liability) Bill, the Anglo-Australian Telescope Agreement Bill and the Seamen's Compensation Bill which will be debated following consideration of this Bill. The same sort of principles will apply in respect of the Seamen's Compensation Bill as apply to this Bill. The monetary amounts will be increased. The Government has promised to introduce as soon as possible a new code for seamen. The same observation applies in respect of that legislation, that until such time as the new code comes in, which could take many months, seamen will not receive the benefit of the improvements which have been advocated for many years by the Opposition and by the trade union movement. 
The extensions under this legislation will now cover a large number of people. At the present time the Commonwealth Public Service has approximately 230,000 employees, and it is estimated that with the extensions which will cover the employees of statutory authorities and committees to be set up by the Government, it will cover about 300,000 employees. Honourable senators can see that the Bill is of vast importance. The fact that over the years increases have not been made consistent with increases in the State Act has meant that many officers in the Commonwealth Public Service have lost a considerable amount of money. Because it is a national code, in our opinion, it should be the best code. We have argued over the years when legislation has come before the Parliament that the Commonwealth Employees Compensation Act should be a model Act. It should be a national code. It should be of the highest standard to which the State governments should aspire. In the past, of course, in lots of respects the Commonwealth legislation has not been as valuable to its employers as has the legislation of the various States to their employees. 
And it is not as just. When this new code is introduced we will have a situation in which the same position applies in some respects and the same comparison can be made. I know that there are bits and pieces in respect of these standards, but the fact is that the Commonwealth Government has not taken the best principles from Commonwealth and State legislation and put them into a model Bill. 
 I want to say something about the general discontent which has taken place during the. time that the Government has taken to bring in the model Bill. The first argument that we put forward is this: Now is the time for the Government to agree to the request of the unions for ah annual review of compensation principles and of the amounts paid. We cannot allow to continue the situation which has developed over the years and which I will now speak about. As far back as 1964 the then Prime Minister,  Mr Holt,  promised to bring in a model Bill. Later in the session  Mr Cameron,  the honourable member for Hindmarsh in another place, introduced a comprehensive code in the form of the code which has since been modified by the Australian Labor Party. At that time the Prime Minister told  Mr Cameron  that if he withdrew his amendment the promised model Bill would be introduced during a later part of the session. It is now more than 10 years since the then Prime Minister gave this undertaking to bring in the model Bill. When a model Bill was introduced in March of last year, we saw that it had been very hastily conceived and as a result of the criticisms of the Australian Council of Trade Unions and the Council of Commonwealth Public Service Organisations the legislation was withdrawn. 
In June 1968 the then Treasurer promised to introduce the type of legislation which is now being brought in. He mentioned, as we have mentioned, the failure of the administration and the separation that was necessary. Some of the things he promised in June 1968 were these: The travelling provisions would be extended; there would be a cover for the Commonwealth statutory authorities; and voluntary workers would be covered. I might mention here that voluntary workers such as fire fighters have been covered by legislation in New South Wales since 1954. The then Treasurer went on to say that there would be improved provisions for appeal, the common law action provisions would be liberalised, the provisions concerning left and right limbs would be eliminated and the things which have now been introduced would be included. These include the lump sums for facial disfigurement, compensation for loss "of the power of speech, and assessment of compensation for loss of sight. The administration would be modified - this was the important thing and it has now been brought about - and there would be some separation or independence. 
What has happened, over the years, as I have mentioned, ,is that Commonwealth legislation has . remained behind the provisions of State legislation in almost all respects. We have made submissions over the years that the State, provisions should be applied in the Commonwealth Act. We have referred to the lot of servicemen, which has not been satisfactory. The situation is that members of the Services do not have a representative body. Looking at the position of Commonwealth public servants generally we see that the situation is good in that unions represent them in making submissions to the Commissioner and may take those submissions further to the courts. Consequently, every aggrieved worker - every employee who thinks that he has not been given,. a fair deal - may be represented by some body. 
The situation in the Services is different. In rare circumstances is a special officer available to advise a soldier who has been injured on the job not only in Australia but, on occasions, outside Australia. Senators receive many complaints where servicemen have not available to them the type of advice that they need because no special officers are available in the Services to give this advice. I know of numerous cases where this sort of advice is not provided. It should be provided. 
So, some attention has been paid to servicemen in certain provisions of the new code - I speak of cl ause 8 which has the heading 'Employment to include attendances at certain places' - in mat an attempt has been made to cover servicemen for the time that they spend In camp, because they are expected to be in camp. But nothing has been done to provide them with the. very necessary advice which they should be given as to their rights upon discharge or in respect of their employment needs. A case clearly exists for a provision of this kind in the Act. 
As everybody well knows, one of the cardinal principles in the Australian Labor Party's programme is that of 'no loss of pay'. This principle applies in many circumstances. Already in New South Wales employees in the Government transport services have this principle applied to them. When they are on compensation, Government railway servants generally are paid their full ordinary wages. The same principle is applied to workers employed by the' New South Wales Electricity Commission, the Sydney City Council, the Sydney County Council and  the various locally constituted electricity authorities. In the current building dispute in New South Wales, members of the building unions are in contest with their employers- in respect of not only pay but also' compensation. One of the matters which has been partly resolved is the question of full pay when a worker is off work and receiving compensation. The area in dispute largely relates to wages. A report in yesterday's Press on this issue said: 
About 200 small building companies have signed private agreements with the unions in respect of workmen's compensation payments. 
On the employers' side, the report stated: 
The employers believe that the State Government should legislate to increase workers compensation payments. They agree there is an urgent need for a review of the present rates. 
While it may be true that some State legislatures are slow to introduce amendments in this field, I remind the Senate that States in which Labor governments held office during the post war years were the States that really started the welfare trend. In New South Wales, Tasmania and more recently in my own State of South Australia there has been a great and new appreciation of the needs for workmen's compensation. The provision of this compensation has been placed on entirely new and higher levels. It is surprising to me that the Commonwealth Government has not adopted the standards which were set by the South Australian Government because, in fact, the law in regard to compensation payments there was enacted in March of this year. The introduction . of this legislation has occurred after the intro duction by the Government of South Australia of its new workmen's compensation Act. In respect of weekly payments, for example, I cannot see why the Commonwealth Government has not been able to import the South Australian standards instantly into the new code. As is well known the Australian Council of Trade Unions and the Commonwealth Council of Public Service Unions already have sent  a  written submission to the Minister for Labour and National Service  (Mr Lynch).  The Minister has promised to send that submission to the interdepartmental committee. This will be one of the matters raised in its consideration of the subject. - - Recently in South Australia's maximum compensation payment of $65 a week was adopted. In the case of a dependent spouse the payment is $13 a week. In the legislation under consideration by the Senate now, the amount payable for this category is $8.50 a week. A great disparity exists between the 2 amounts. In South Australia the amount in respect of a child is $5  a  week. The rate for a single man is $43  a  week. Yet- the Commonwealth compensation payment for a man, wife and child is only $43.50 a week. The situation then is that under the Commonwealth Act the family unit - a man, wife and child - receives only 50c more than the rate prescribed in South Australia for a single man. 
I am not suggesting that the new levels prescribed in South Australia are adequate. This has always been apparent. The situation in South Australia can be met only when the Government adopts what is now the International Labour Organisation's standard, that is, that a man should suffer no loss of earnings. The latest figure available shows that the average weekly earnings in Australia are in excess of $84. The present rate for a fitter is $59 a week. A fitter is a typical metal trades worker who would receive a great deal more than that amount. In addition to his $59 a week he would receive incentive pay, attendance allowance, sometimes a production bonus and, in a number of cases, the combined salaries and additional rates paid to workers in industry reach between $90 and $100 a week. Bus drivers in the public transportation systems in some States are earning $90 a week. The average family plans its spending and purchasing pattern in relation to daily and weekly commitments on the basis of that earning capacity. When that earning capacity is reduced to the level of $43 a week, or in the case of South Australia to a maximum of $65 a week - that is the highest compensation figure payable in any of the States - the situation is not satisfactory. 
The point that I wish to make is this: The Government has introduced this legislation late in May and I see no reason why it should not have adopted the rates of pay that I have mentioned apply in South Australia. I suppose honourable senators could say that it may have been a good thing that the passage of similar legislation brought forward in March 1970 was delayed. The Opposition is not happy even now about the general background of the Commonwealth's treatment of workmen's compensation. We trust the same treatment will not apply in respect of the Seamen's Compensation Act. In introducing the Seamen's Compensation Bill, the Minister for Health  (Senator Greenwood)  said: 
 A similar code of compensation to that contained in the legislation for Commonwealth employees has always been applied under the Seamen's Compensation Act. In some respects the provisions have to be applied to suit sea-going conditions and shipowners necessarily have to be consulted. Action along these lines is now proceeding and a Bill to further amend the Seamen's Compensation Act to introduce a new code similar to that for Commonwealth employees will be introduced as soon as practicable. 
It seems to me that the Government ought to accept the proposition that, once this code is promulgated, the benefits of that code should be extended to the people covered by the existing Commonwealth Employees' Compensation Act and the Seamen's Compensation Act. The Labor Party, as is well known now, has given consideration to the question of compensation.  Mr Clyde  Cameron in the other place introduced on behalf of the Labor Party what was known as the Labor Party model Bill. Since we began to analyse the code that is now before the Parliament we have noticed that large sections of the Labor Party Bill have been incorporated; at least it is very obvious that there has been a specialised study by the Commonwealth of the Bill which Labor proposes. 
I would like to make the point that the Australian Labor Party has generally played  a  very constructive role in the field of compensation over the years since 1963. Members of the Labor Party have always accepted the proposition that even though the code has not been overhauled in  a  major way the rates ought to be changed. We have said in the Parliament that we think it is important to get a new code. This new code has only now arrived.  I  want to commend  Mr Clyde  Cameron who introduced the model Bill. I also want to mention that many members of the Parliament including members of the Labor Party's Industrial Relations Committee, made a contribution in respect of the preparation of the model Bill, much of which I must submit resembles the provisions of the Government's Bill. They also discussed this matter with organisations such as the Australian Council of Trade Unions and the Council of Commonwealth Public Service Organisations. These people spent  a  lot of time and used their own legal advisers in setting out a prescription which they thought would produce a Bill which the Commonwealth ought to adopt and which ought to be administered at a national level. 
I want to mention in particular the senators who were members of that committee. They were  Senator Cavanagh, Senator Milliner, Senator Poyser, Senator Lacey  and  Senator Donald  Cameron. I also want to make special mention of  Senator James  McClelland who, because of his legal training and experience in the field of workers' compensation, spent a lot of time not only discussing this legislation but also discussing the Labor Party's Bill to which I have referred. Important changes have been made in the Bill before us. There is no doubt 'that these changes are improvements. But it is very obvious - and I do not think that anyone can dispute this - that a continuing study has to be made of workers' compensation legislation. The Labor Party believes that no interdepartmental committee can do a job which the Parliament itself should do. We want to see the Parliament set up its own committee. The Labor Party will propose the establishment of such a committee later on. It may be that the Government will not be prepared to accept the proposition that a parliamentary committee should be established to examine this question. However, when the Parliament meets for the 
Budget session the Labor Party intends to press for the establishment of this committee. 
There is no doubt that certain basic improvements in the Bill now before us are good. The separation of the administration from the Treasury is one of the things that we have been concerned about over the years. Improvements in the provisions relating to disfigurement and impairment of sense of smell and taste, as well as arrangements for journeys, are improvements which we have to accept. Also we have to accept that the Government has recognised the need to make provisions in the law for vocational training and for rehabilitation. This trend follows a new concept in workers' compensation legislation throughout Australia. Many people and authorities are thinking along the lines that there has to be a real tie up between industry, injured workers and the services of special social workers and rehabilitation services. They realise that the main objective is to return a worker to employment as quickly as possible. Of course, this is also related to the responsibility of the employer to provide suitable employment. 
Under the present legislation, while suitable employment might be found by the employer, there is no responsibility on the Commonwealth Government - which it ought to accept - to find a job for a man who is incapacitated but is still available for suitable employment. I speak not only of the numbers of employees who work in the Department of Works and the Department of Supply, as well as the many other clerical, manual and skilled workers in the service of the Commonwealth, but also of ex-servicemen. I have struck a lot of cases in which no advice has been given to servicemen when they are discharged from the Services. They receive no written notification. They do not receive any sort of special advice such as: 'Look, unless you go and find a job you will lose your compensation', or 'We will find a job for you'. Therefore, whatever has been done in respect of the present legislation is not the sort of improvement which we would expect to have. 
I think, broadly speaking, that while we appreciate what has been done we say that the sort of scheme which is proposed by the Commonwealth at present is one which will in fact still involve a fairly unwieldy sort of administration. In saying that I am guided by the fact that the Government has not adopted what has been provided for in the Labor Party model Bill. The Government has provided for a tribunal, but that tribunal in fact is made up of only one man. The Labor Party's code provides for a tribunal made up of a chairman appointed by the Governor-General, and 2 representatives of employees. They would be nominated by either the Australian Council of Trade Unions or the Council of Commonwealth Public Service Organisations. This, of course, would be an entirely different sort of tribunal from that proposed by the Government. 
I am inclined to think that while the Government's Bill has made certain improvements in the code the same sort of problems will arise in respect of determinations. Many senators in this place know the frustrations experienced by a claimant or a worker who has been injured and who makes his application to a commissioner. The evidence is assessed not on the general sympathetic and humane treatment of the case but largely on the basis of what doctors think. I accept that the constitution of the new medical board as set out in the new code corrects some of these matters. The worker will now have the opportunity, or his union will have the opportunity, of obtaining from the board the facts relating to his case. He will have some knowledge of what takes place in the medical boards. The employee's organisation can nominate one of the medical experts and this will help to correct the situation. 
But the whole scheme needs speeding up. While the Labor Party's model Bill provides for an administration which, because of its complexity, is largely a Commonwealth administration we are thinking these days more along the lines of the minimum litigation schemes which apply in New South Wales and which now apply in South Australia. Such an arrangement would cut somehow, by means of some sort of expertise, the delays which occur in settling workers' compensation cases. One of the outstanding improvements in South Australia is that what has been made in respect of weekly payments. One of the continual complaints in many of the States, and certainly in the Commonwealth, concerns the delay in the granting of weekly payments where there is some dispute in connection with an injury. It may be that accident forms have not been filled out. It may be that there has been a delay in giving evidence, in making the claim or in the evidence of a witness. In such a case a man could go for months without receiving his weekly pay. In South Australia a new section of that State's workers' compensation legislation provides that a worker has to receive his weekly pay within a fortnight. The option is then open to the employer. If the employer contests the application to pay workers' compensation he can go before the new court which has been set up by the South Australian Act He can put forward evidence as to why the compensation should not be paid. 
I think I might mention some comparisons between the Labor Party's model Bill, the South Australian Bill and "the Govern. ment's Bill. One example concerns the compensation rates set down for the loss or total loss of the sight of an eye which is set out in the specified or scheduled injuries. The Bill before us provides an amount of $5,400 for such an injury. The amount set out in the schedule of the South Australian legislation is $6,000. Under the model Bill which will be introduced by the Australian Labor Party when we are in government the compensation will be $12,116. For the loss of an arm below the elbow, under the Government's Bill the compensation is $9,450 and under the South Australian Act it is $9,600, but in the Labor Party's model Bill it is $19,386. For the. loss of a hand or the thumb and forefingers of a hand, the Government's Bill provides for compensation of $9,450, under the South Australian Act the amount provided is $9,600, and in the Labor Party's model Bill the provision is $19,386. For the loss of a thumb, under the Government's Bill the provision is $4,050, the South Australian Act provides for $4,200, and the provision under the Australian Labor Party's model Bill is $8,486. 
For the loss of a forefinger the Government's Bill provides for $4,700, the South Australian Act provides for $3,000 and the Labor Party's model Bill provides for $6,058. For the loss of the ring finger the Government Bill provides for compensation of $8,190, the level of compensation under the South Australian Act is $2,400 and the Labor Party's model Bill provides for $3,635. For the loss of the distal phalanx or joint of a thumb the Goverment's Bill provides for $2,160, the South Australian Act provides for $2,040, which is a bit lower, and the Labor Party would provide $4,190. The South Australian Act specifies a large number of injuries of the type that I have mentioned. I do not intend to mention all items listed in the schedule, but honourable senators will see if they examine the schedule that the existing South Australian legislation provides for much higher compensation than will be payable under this Bill. I can see no reason why the amounts of compensation under this Bill should not have been related to the levels payable under the South Australian Act, or perhaps at a level between the present level in New South Wales and that applying under the existing Commonwealth Act. 
We have complained regularly about lump sum payments. For some years South Australia, New South Wales and some of the other States have provided that lump sum payments should be made available in addition to weekly payments to injured workers. Although there has been some improvement in the Commonwealth provision, there has not been an acceptance of the principle that specific lump sum payments shall be payable in addition to weekly payments. Also, whilst the 1968 Agreement provided some compensation for facial disfigurement, there is still no provision for bodily disfigurement, which is just as important as some of the other matters that I have mentioned. We appreciate that a number of written submissions have been made to the Minister on this subject and that in the other place Labor Party speakers raised a number of matters which the Minister undertook to submit to the interdepartmental committee. In this connection I should like it to be known that we can see a number of faults in the proposal for an interdepartmental committee. It is our view that the proposition being advanced by the Labor Party is far better than what is proposed by the Government. 
I am aware that during the discussions by the Government in reference to this Bill special attention was given to the amendment proposed by the unions and that for the first time the Government set up a 
Cabinet sub-committee to deal with the matter. It was obvious that something needed to be done in view of the long history of delays to which reference has been made in the past. But one of the faults of ah interdepartmental committee is that it will be similar to an employers' committee or a management's committee. Obviously the interdepartmental committee will consist of people from various departments, such as the Department of Works or the Department of Supply, and representation on that committee would probably not be by a deputy director but rather by an industrial officer or personnel officer. The committee will be composed of all the officers who in the past have specialised in carrying out the directions of the Commonwealth Government. This is equivalent to a committee set up by management. No provision is made for an expression of the views of employees, the 300,000 workers in the Public Service who should be given some recognition. The committee will not have the advantage of specialised knowledge. 
However expert an officer might be in handling workers compensation claims for his department he would not be as expert as a trade union official who has to consider some accident case every day and takes steps to institute claims on somebody's behalf, often where the circumstances of a case are not clear. The trade union official knows the history of a case and deals with the lawyer who advises him. Generally speaking he has an expert knowledge. So any committee which does not have trade union representation is doomed to failure. Whilst we appreciate that consideration has been given to submitting to the interdepartmental committee some of the matters that I have mentioned, I strongly urge the Minister to give consideration to the establishment of a parliamentary committee to consider this subject. Although it might be true that in establishing its workers compensation code the Government and its advisers have looked at case histories and at the law as it now stands, in recent years an entirely new concept of workers compensation has come into being. There has been an acceptance of the principle that workers compensation should provide a more humane standard, that it should be speedy in its application and that there should not be a maximum of litigation. 
A little later in the debate  Senator James  McClelland will speak of his experience of workers compensation in New South Wales. I am sure that he will say that in relation even to strictly legal matters it has been the custom in the courts to take note of this new concept of workers compensation and to look at the law as providing the sort of compensation which should be provided in a welfare society. The environment of workers compensation has changed considerably since the old days, and so it should have been changed. Perhaps it would save time if I were to continue now to mention some other matters about which we are concerned, but before doing so I should like to refer to the position in relation to industrial accidents. It has been well. known for years the recording of industrial accidents in. Aus. tralia has been most unsatisfactory. Unless there is a uniform system of . recording industrial accidents and unless -we advocate in association with safety campaigns in factories the need for first aid and instant medical attention we will not see a drop in the number of industrial accidents, the figures for which at present' are quite astronomical. 
For years the Commonwealth Government has known that there has not been a satisfactory and uniform method Of recording accident statistics. Whenever we have asked questions about this matter we have been told that deficiencies of this nature have been due to changes in the compensation law in the various States. Whilst there have been suggestions of uniform statistics in various places, no real initiative has been taken by the Commonwealth Government, as should have been the case. If a senator asks in the Parliamentary Library for figures which will show a' comparison between the States, he will be given figures indicating a comparison, but at the top of the document will be the observation, which I now read from the document that I have: 
The statistics shown below for industrial accidents are those supplied by State authorities and workers compensation legislation differs in the several States. Therefore there is lack of uniformity and coverage from State to State. This seriously impairs the comparability' of these statistics and it is not reasonable, to draw conclusions regarding the incidence of industrial accidents amongst the States. 
I should like to refer to a pamphlet prepared by an advisory committee of the 
Department of Labour and National Service. This body has made its own calculations about some of the accidents and their cost to the country. These figures are worth hearing. The document to which I shall refer deals with the situation back to June 1970. Although these figures need to be revised, the document 'Personnel Practice Bulletin' states that the total working time lost annually from disabilities was estimated to be 630,000 man-weeks in the case of persons who were disabled for 1 week or more. For a disability for 1 day to 1 week, the figure is 70,000 man weeks. For all disabilities it is 700,000 man weeks. The statement goes on to say that because of certain unavoidable assumptions and extrapolations the figures should be considered only as giving a general picture. They relate only to employment accidents. It is pointed out that differences in compensation law have made it necessary to exclude compensable diseases and also injuries occurring between home and the place of work. It states as a general comment that it should be remembered that the estimates present a more blurred and generalised picture than State statistics do, and one less applicable to local conditions. It is a fairly comprehensive document and I do not want to take up too much time of the Senate by reading it all. It highlights the need for statistics and the need for safety and is therefore pertinent to the debate. With the concurrence of honourable senators, I incorporate the document in Hansard. 
 The first matter I want to raise, in answer to the Minister for Health  (Senator Greenwood),  who represents the Minister for Social Services  (Mr Wentworth)  in this chamber, relates to clause 1. I refer to the statement that the Opposition did not move amendments to the legislation because it considered the legislation to be satisfactory. Let me state the position clearly. In the other place the honourable member for Hindmarsh  (Mr Clyde Cameron)  moved the Labor Party code, the favourable benefits of which I have mentioned, as an amendment to the legislation. We in this place received representations from the unions regarding the long delay in bringing forward the legislation. As I mentioned, in 1964 the then Prime Minister said that he would bring it down. In June 1968 the then Treasurer,  Mr McMahon,  said that it would be brought in in the same year. We have it now and for that reason we have proceeded to deal with it. I refer now to the definition of 'separate living accommodation' which appears in clause 5. As the Minister might recall, I mentioned this in my speech. The definition is in these terms: 
Separate living accommodation', in relation to an employee, means living accommodation provided for the exclusive use of the employee, or of the employee and his family, being accommodation that includes cooking, bathing and sanitary facilities. 
We have suggested that the terms of section 7 of the New South Wales Workers Compensation Act should be included in the Commonwealth legislation. The relevant portion of the section includes the words: In every other case where his place of abode is or within a building or structure, that exit of the building or structure whereby he departed on his journey from his place of abode, or that entrance of the building or structure whereby he entered or would, but for the injury have or may have entered his place of abode at the con clusion of his journey thereto, as the case may be. 1 would be interested to learn whether the Government accepts the proposition as it affects not only members of the defence forces but also, say, railwaymen who live in barracks provided by the Commissioner for Railways. I presume they would be accepted under this definition and also under clause 8. Presumably, taking again the case of railwaymen, a mechanic on call who lives in married quarters would be covered except perhaps if he had an accident inside his premises. Can the Minister state the Government's view on these matters? 
 I wish to speak very briefly on clause 9 because I think this is the only opportunity I will get to do so. I wish to refer to 3 cases to indicate the sorts of delays which occur in the administration of this Act. I have already referred to the case of ex-private Higson. I ask the Minister for Health  (Senator Greenwood)  to read what I said during the debate on the motion for the second reading of the Bill as this will save time. The basis of my complaint is that  Mr Higson  did not receive proper compensation. At no time after he was discharged in May of last year was he told that he had to obtain suitable employment. Because he did not obtain suitable employment he suffered a progressive reduction in his workers' compensation until it fell to $1 a week in May. I am not concerned about answers from departmental officers in relation to these matters. 1 am illustrating the casual way in which the administration deals with these cases. I shall not mention the boy's name involved in the second case. It can be picked up from records. On 10th August I wrote to the Minister for the Army  (Mr Peacock)  concerning a private and I said: 
Private . . . joined the permanent military forces in August 1969, trained at Puckapunyal and then served at Balcombe. In April 1970, he came home for 5 days - his parents believed he was on leave, but after 3 days noticed that the boy seemed odd, he did not talk but shut himself up in his room with the blinds down. 
His parents took him to Keswick Barracks. As I have said, that was in April 1970. As recently as 10th March 1971 the Minister told me that the case was not finalised. On 4th December 1970 the Minister wrote: 
It appears that there is a possibility that  Mr .  . . condition may have existed prior to his enlistment in the Australian Regular Army. 
The other case involves a man who served in the Air Force on two occasions. The first occasion was late in the First World War and late in 1949 he joined again. When he was in the Air Force he sustained some injuries to his hands and his arms. He also suffered from what is called diabetes mellitus'. He applied to the Repatriation Department for compensation. Apparently he was eligible under a national security regulation to apply to the Department. The Department found he was not entitled to repatriation benefits. More recently this man applied to the Commissioner for Employees' Compensation.  Dr Shepherd  of Mount Barker said:   . . certainly no doubt  Mr W.  has diabetes . . . fairly well controlled on tablets. First record of being diabetic when foot operation performed whilst in the RAAF according to discharge papers. It therefore can be definitely established that the diabetes started while he was in war service. Also, according to discharge papers he had a number of accidents during war service, including one when he was thrown from a jeep. Hospital records should be available from this occasion. 

 Dr Shepherd said that stress can bring on a latent diabetic condition, so perhaps this accident could have brought on his diabetes. I have 2 letters from the Commissioner in relation to this case which give the opinion of medical experts. Both applications are long standing and some investigation should be made into these cases. I raise them to avoid this sort of delay under the new scheme which is to apply. 
My question is directed to the Minister for Health. I refer to the publicity which has been given in the Press to the Minister's criticism of  Mr Hawke  yesterday, and particularly to the headline in the 'Australian' which states Hawke accused of robber baron tactics'. Does the Minister realise that  Mr Hawke  represents the national trade union movement and that his policies and decisions are endorsed by that movement throughout the States. Does he realise that  Mr Hawke  is also a member of the National Labour Advisory Committee that in this capacity and in other capacities in relation to labour matters heads the trade union delegation to the Government which confers with the Minister for Labour and National Service and his colleagues, and that in the circumstances the degree of conciliation and good relations which exists between labour and management must be preserved? Does the Minister accept the fact that his published comments, including his speeches as reported in Hansard, are highly offensive not only to  Mr Hawke  but also to the trade union movement because the policies which  Mr Hawke  enunciates are supported by the trade union movement? Therefore, having regard for the objectives of conciliation in Australia to which I have referred, I ask the Minister whether in the future he will be more moderate when he criticises the men of the trade union movement. 
 In view of all the circumstances, I believe that  Senator Cavanagh's  suggestion is  a  good one. As has been stated before, we hoped that everybody would be given an opportunity to make an extensive examination of this compensation legislation because it is a long time since it was proposed. Therefore,  it  is unfortunate that, as we often find in respect of important industrial legislation, this legislation is being considered in the concluding stages of the session, speeches have to be curtailed and members of the Parliament who want information cannot obtain it. I mention as a preliminary  to  the matters that I wish to raise that the Minister knows that we met two of his officers with the idea of trying to resolve some of the differences of view about the provisions of the legislation and to obtaining information.  We  imagined that, as a result of the visit by the officers to the representatives of our Industrial Relations Committee, when questions were asked the Minister would be in a position to give studied replies. 
We have gone over the issues to some extent today. There were some matters which we thought, because of the pressure of business, might be let go. I am referring there to provisions on which some certainty exists and which we accept. So I will content myself by making a couple of points. There is a long list of matters that we could traverse; but in my speech in the second reading debate I suggested that when the departmental officers are afforded the opportunity to do so they might go through them and send to  Mr Clyde  Cameron and our other representatives their observations on those matters. The first question I want to ask relates to delegations by the Commissioner under clause 24. 1 would like to know - perhaps the Minister or his officers could supply this information - what changes are proposed in the new administration as compared with the old administration. Will the delegations be the same? ls there any forecast of the time it might take to promulgate the new code and of when the new administration might be working? Does the Minister want to deal with these matters one at a time, or will I raise them all before he replies? 
I have just been reminded by telegram of the position in relation to Norfolk Island. It will be remembered that the Opposition made a request that consideration be given to including in the ordinances for the Territories the standards which have been adopted in the Commonwealth workers' compensation code. I understand that this request has been considered by the Minister. In the past it has been common practice for ordinances of the Australian Capital Territory, the Northern Territory and Papua New Guinea to be related largely to the Commonwealth Employees' Compensation Act. 1 have been reminded by a telegram from a representative of Norfolk Island that although in 1965 an application was made and a petition lodged with the Minister to have workmens' compensation applied to that Territory, this has not yet been done, nor has any ordinance been effected to give expression to a common code. I raise this matter at this stage in the hope that the Minister may direct the attention of the Minister for Social Services  (Mr Wentworth)  and his Department to this fact. 
 I wish to participate briefly in this debate because during the various discussions on this legislation I have made a similar complaint to that made by  Senator Cant.  The accusation that  Senator Greenwood  made against the Opposition - namely, that we were not moving amendments because we were satisfied with the Bill - was quite wrong. I have pointed out to him that in the other place the model Bill which was put forward by the honourable member for Hindmarsh,  Mr Clyde  Cameron, and which had been worked on not only by members of the Australian Labor Party's Industrial Relations Committee, the Australian Council of Trade Unions and the Council of Commonwealth Public Service Organisations but also by some officers of the Parliament, in fact was moved as an amendment, and it contains more beneficial provisions than the code introduced into the Parliament by the Government. 
As regards the position of the Opposition in the Senate, it is very evident, as  Senator Cant  has said, that the submissions of all the people concerned have been restricted because we are in the closing stages of this session. We could have gone on for quite some hours, or even days, in discussing this legislation. It is a very important piece of legislation. It will cover about 400,000 Commonwealth employees as well as some other employees. In addition, as hat been pointed out, it has been promised since 1964. I agree with  Senator Cant  that  Senator Greenwood  in his general attitude on this matter, which is a very important piece of industrial legislation, has been most provocative. We find that unreasonable contention is developing on legislation which would progress better if  Senator Greenwood  answered the questions in a deliberate way. 
The first point I want to make about that is that we met the Minister for Social Services,  Mr Wentworth,  and made submissions to him in respect of a number of amendments. Some of them have been introduced in the present code and arc now before the Senate. The others are under consideration. In addition, as  Senator Greenwood  well knows because we sought his permission, we met 2 representatives of the department that will be handling the administration of this legislation. Having given them the relevant information, we expected that when the legislation was being considered in Committee studied replies would be given to the questions that we asked and those replies would go on the record. But, instead of that, as honourable senators will have noticed,  Senator Cavanagh,  myself and other senators have had to canvass in depth matters which might easily have been determined quickly. In addition,  Senator Greenwood  has brought his own legal interpretations into the consideration of the legislation. 
We accept, and so do the unions, this compensation legislation as an urgent piece of legislation which is long overdue. That has been well established. The trade union movement spent thousands of dollars on its investigation of the code, as it did on its investigation of the March 1970 code which was introduced and found to be faulty. For that reason, I would have expected that, rather than the Government adopting a critical attitude, it might have respected the viewpoints of senators and ensured, as I hope  Senator Greenwood  will do now, that the matters that have been raised are given very serious consideration. I include in that the suggestion of putting the matter before a parliamentary committee. 
My question, which I direct to the Minister for Civil Aviation, relates to the future of Adelaide Airport. 1 ask: ls it a fact that in recent months proposals have been initiated by the Department of Civil Aviation to interested persons regarding some extensions of the Adelaide Airport which would interfere with trust lands under the control of the West Beach recreation trust body? Have there been petitions and complaints by organised residents in relation to the noise factor and also in respect of zoning proposals in the area which would affect city councils and those councils that have complained? ls the Minister able to state whether the proposals are in fact definite and are still to be pressed by the Department of Civil Aviation and the Minister? Will the Minister also consider at this stage stating the intentions of his Department and the Government in respect of a second airport outside the metropolitan area of Adelaide which will accommodate the increase in air traffic occurring in South Australia? 
asked the Minister for Civil Aviation, upon notice: 
Can the frequency of aviation accidents, particularly to single-engined aircraft be prevented by stronger aircraft operating regulations, particularly with respect to light aircraft? 
Do some or all of the recent accidents indicate a need for improved air traffic control or Air Navigation Aids? 
To what extent is the lack of uniformity in flight training manuals - as mentioned by a  Mr Robey  - a cause of aviation accidents? 
 Senator Wright  in concluding his address made a very important statement which I direct to the attention of honourable senators. He said that the United States of America had a record of industrial unrest much greater than that in Australia. The facts are, of course, that, in Australia our level of industrial unrest compares more than favourably with that of. any similar developed country. Any similar industrialised country generally has more stoppages of work than has Australia. So the only case which  Senator Wright  and the Australian Democratic Labour Party have made is that some of the strikes may be unnecessary. The Democratic Labour Party makes the point that a lot of the stoppages are occasioned by political motives and that that should not bc the role of the trade unions. 
The proposition by  Senator Kane  puts 2 views. It refers, first of all, to:' 
The developing practice ' of using industrial trade union organisations to effect purposes of a political character, not designed to or having the ' effect of improving the industrial conditions of the members . . . 
Then  Senator Kane,  who led the debate for the Democratic Labour Party, talked about political strikes. He related a number of cases where in his opinion the strikes were not related to trade union activity. I suppose when  Senator Little  speaks in a little while he will have forgotten those great arguments in the Australian Council of Trade Unions when the great Trades Union Congress, which represents today something like 2 million trade unionists, debated whether it would have international . . affiliations. It decided to' affiliate with the International Confederation of Free Trade Unions, which is a moderate organisation. It then disowned the move which was then made that it should have some sort of affiliation with the World Council of Trade Unions. 
 The honourable senator has said that we should have no political influences but he has himself taken part in the work of the trade union movement which determined- 
No, it is not industrial. Let me read something which was published as far back as 1964. Everybody is attacking poor old  Mr Hawke  who can look after himself, but I want to say a word in support of him. I refer to something which was done in 1964 when the late Albert Monk was  president  of the ACTU. This is something which government supporters say is politically motivated action, that is, the condemnation of discrimination on racial grounds. I am referring to the apartheid question, the Springboks* campaign in Australia. The December 1964 issue of 'The ACTU Bulletin' carried a statement from the executive of the ACTU. The chief of the ACTU then was Albert Monk and the secretary was Harold Souter. He still holds that position. What is suggested in this statement could not be done with the sort of policies advocated by the DLP and which the Government wants to put into operation. The statement reads: 
That the ACTU make representations by deputation to the Commonwealth Government to initiate and support, in the United Nations Assembly, world-wide sanctions, including diplomatic, economic and an arms embargo on South Africa, and the Australian Government to implement such decision in Australia in accordance with the United Nations Assembly deliberations. 
The ACTU also to request the ICFTU- 
That is the Internation Confederation of Free Trade Unions, an international body which finds acceptance by both right and left of the trade union movement -  to re-examine the question as to whether a world boycott could be instituted by all Trade Unions throughout the world, to boycott the handling of South African goods. 
Today the Government supports the DLP. It is very significant that if the Government which wants to take the old dog collar Acts out of their secret places and place them on the trade union movement in 1971, is not prepared to apply them today because of troubles in its own Party. For many months it has been probing the Australian electorates to see what support it may have for an attack on the arbitration system and its relationships with the ACTU. This Government has been very lucky over the years. It has had a trade union movement which has, in fact, directed its political aims to the Government, on occasions making industrial activity around it, but generally speaking, it has been trotting up to the Government for years what were in fact not just industrial aims but political aims. To change the Conciliation and Arbitration Act is obviously not just an industrial aim: it is a political aim. 
Finally, the Government by political action has to agree to something. May I mention the penal provisions of the Act? For years we in the Senate and in the other place have been debating the right to impose the penal provisions. They are in the Conciliation and Arbitration Act, but in the years subsequent to their introduction the Government, because of the case put up by the unions and also because of militant action by the union - action in the workshops, in the factories and on the waterfront - conceded that some alteration should be made. The alteration was made because the Government was satisfied that it had to give way on the penal provisions. Apparently it wanted to re-impose them, but after negotiations with the ACTU under the leadership of Albert Monk and Bob Hawke, it decided to let them go by. But, of course, there are warnings in the air. There have been warnings by the new Prime Minister.  Mr McMahon,  who has his own great problems of changes in the Cabinet. 
If the coalition Government had been secure and stable, and if it felt that it had the electors behind it, it and not the Democratic Labor Party would have brought this matter before the Parliament. It would have decided to bring into the Parliament today fresh laws to hamstring the trade union movement. What was its excuse? It was the Springboks' tour. Whose responsibility was it? In the eyes of the world the South African Government is condemned. The Ministers in this Government say that the South African Government carries out a policy which is wrong. All the international sporting organisations have condemned the South African Government, but ours is the only government which has invited into Australia a team- 
The Rugby Union Association supported by the Government, supported by the Prime Minister and supported by honourable senators opposite who are running around like little puppets saying: 'Yes, you have to keep politics out of sport.' The Government created the situation. It was warned over the years that such a policy would bring about disturbance and confusion in the Australian electorate in all States. What was said by  Senator Wright  about Don Dunstan is not righted by  Mr Tonkin.  What the trade union movement said in those 2 States - in my State anyhow - was: 'We will offer rio facilities'. They made arrangements to impose appropriate bans on places which would house, accommodate and provide facilities for that sporting team because' it should never have been brought into Australia. 
As I have said, since 1964 the Government has been warned by decisions which have been made known to it by the trade union movement, that such a policy is wrong. Tonight the Democratic Labor Party says: 'Look, we are independent. We will vote for whomever is right'. But we know from experience and from the statements made by Democratic Labor Party leaders that their purpose is to keep the Australian Labor Party out of office. The Government talks about this new technique of the trade unions. It is not a new technique. These political aims have always been part of the history of the trade union movement and of the Australian Labor Party.  Senator Kane,  of course, used only part of the story. Some of the information he quoted is accurate. 
The Trades and Labour Council was formed in my State in 1883. It laid down policies which were, not just industrial; they were political policies as well. One of them has not yet been achieved, that is one vote one value. As recently as the time of the last Hall Government in South Australia the trade union movement went on to the streets and to the parks and demonstrated at stop work meetings against this discrimination against the rights of electors. 
My question, addressed to the Minister for Air, refers to his recent visit to Europe to examine possible replacement aircraft for the Royal Australian Air Force, and related facilities. What types and makes of aircraft, and countries of manufacture, have been considered by the Minister? Have any purchases been approved? In view of the fact that there have been further retrenchments at the Commonwealth Aircraft Corporation and the Government Aircraft Factories, has the Minister, on behalf of the Government, been able to indicate to any possible manufacturer that there should be co-production of any aircraft ordered by Australia? Does the Government intend to hang on to the Fill? If so, what is the current view as to its evaluation by the experts in the United States of America? 
My question which is directed to the Minister for Civil Aviation, concerns charter operations by Qantas Airways Ltd. ls there final agreement between Qantas, the Department of Civil Aviation and the Government in relation to the establishment of a subsidiary charter company in view of the fact that BOAC is likely to operate between Kuala Lumpur and London some time in August? What is the likely data of such operations by Qantas? Will these Qantas operations and other of its operations mean a withdrawal of retrenchment notices which were given, as the Minister will remember, to some 150 air crew, cadet pilots and flight engineers who are likely to be put off in October this year? 
My question is directed to the Minister for Air and refers to a report which came from the United States of America early last July regarding modifications to the Phantom F4E aircraft and the Minister's statement that some examination was being made of this report. Has the Royal Australian Air Force completed its study of the United States recommendations to modify these aircraft? Has it been decided to modify the aircraft? If so, will the work be done by the RAAF or the Australian aircraft industry  which  is now working below its capacity? What is the estimated cost of such work? Will the Australian Government have to meet the cost of the work? 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Defence, upon notice: 
To what extent will the $10m cut back in defence procurements within Australia, including such items as spare parts and related equipment affect the ability and efficiency of Australian pri vate and Government factories to supply from Australian sources goods and services which might otherwise be expensive imports? 
Will these reductions slow down current or proposed work in Australian shipyards, or in Australian vehicle manufacturing firms which are producing vehicles for the armed forces? 

 Senator Sir KENNETH ANDERSONThe Minister for Defence has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
The capability of Australian private and government factories to supply goods and services from Australian sources has not been affected. No orders have been cancelled but delivery on machinery, plant and production orders have been deferred. Some production development activities have been curtailed and expenditure on minor items, including travel and overtime, has been restricted. Anticipated expenditure on repair and overhaul of aircraft engines at Commonwealth Aircraft Corporation has been reduced by about $400,000 for the period to the end of June 1971, by a combination of the phasing out of service of the RAAF Sabre aircraft with economy measures. 
No reduction has been made in the provision of essential machinery and plant items necessary for HMA Naval Dockyards to carry out their production and repair tasks. In consequence there has not been any slowing down of production in the dockyards due to this cause. Some Australian vehicle manufacturing firms which are sub-contractors to Government factories supplying trailers to the Services would be slightly affected by the need to delay delivery of components for these trailers. The value of transactions deferred would be minimal and would not exceed $0.259m. 
My question, which is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Labour and National Service, follows the question asked by  Senator Carrick.  Is it a fact that the National Labour Advisory Committee, comprising representatives of the Government, the employers and the Australian Council of Trade Unions, is currently negotiating a review of the Commonwealth Conciliation and Arbitration Act and that at a meeting on 12th August it was agreed to recommence on 20th September its examinations of the Commonwealth Act, following the ACTU congress? Is it also a fact that at the date of the last meeting no firm proposals had been determined or reported by this tripartite body? If these are the facts relating to these national discussions, how is it that the Government and the Minister are associated with the policy which now affirms that the penalties under the Act must be strengthened and not weakened? Has the Government agreed to impose new penalties or to re-apply the penal clauses of the Act? If so has it so advised the employers and the ACTU? 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Shipping and Transport. It refers to the proposed expansion plans for the Whyalla shipyards and the statement on Monday by the general manager of the BHP shipyard when launching the largest vessel such a shipyard has ever constructed that the Broken Hill Pty Co. Ltd could not go ahead with its expansion plans until details of the Tariff Board's inquiry into shipbuilding was made available. I ask the Minister: As this inquiry has been proceeding over several years and the report is overdue, will he take urgent action to see that the general outlines of the report are made available to BHP in order to avert a situation in which any plan for expansion will not take place because of lack of information? Will he also ask the Minister to offer BHP the services of experts of the Department of Shipping and Transport so that the company might plan its expansion facilities, because it has already displayed an efficient ability to compete on the world market when it is given proper assistance? 
ls the Minister representing the Minister for Supply aware that the Australian aircraft industry continues to suffer a great recession and, in fact, is working greatly under capacity with some 80 employees being retrenched from the Commonwealth Aircraft Corporation Pty Ltd, some of the reduced work load being due to economies by the Government resulting in a lack of servicing work being given to that company by the Royal Australian Air Force?  I  ask the Minister: What action is being taken to co-ordinate with the various departments to see that additional work is given to the aircraft industry? Of course I refer not only to the Victorian industry but also the New South Wales industry which has a great capacity for production. Is the Minister aware that Japan is now encouraging and promoting its own aircraft industry by direct government assistance? Will he do what he can to have general work given to these efficient organisations to ensure that the skilled tradesmen in the industry, some of whom have been in the industry for up to 30 years, will not be lost? 
Has the Minister representing the Minister for the Army seen Press report of complaints from soldiers serving in Vietnam about their pay. classifications and groupings compared with other groupings in the Services and also claims that their pay is relatively low when compared with that received by civilian tradesmen in the same category. If the Minister has not seen the statement will he make inquires to ensure that servicemen receive rates of pay equivalent to those applying to civilian tradesmen? Is not this the normal criterion for the Public Service in recommeding pay rates for the Services? 
My question is addressed to the Minister for Civil Aviation. ls it a fact that in addition to the orders for 5 Boeing "547 aircraft from the United States a request has been made by Qantas Airways Ltd for consideration of further Boeing 747s? I refer to a statement made last week in which it was reported that Qantas had indicated to the Boeing company that it wanted to operate as many as 20 Boeing 747 aircraft by the end of the 1980s, ls it a fact that these propositions have been made by Qantas? Are the decisions dependent upon the  arrangements  which will be made between the United States and the Australian party which is now in the United States? If not, what will be Qantas's requirements of the United States industry? 
I ask the Minister for Air: What progress, if any, has been made towards a realistic evaluation of the various tests now being conducted on the FI 1 1 in order to allow the Government to determine the future of this aircraft? Have the tests now being conducted developed into tests of other defects in the aircraft? When does the Minister think it will be possible for him. or his colleague, the Minister for Defence, to give this Parliament a report on this matter? 
My question, which is directed to the Minister for Civil Aviation, follows upon the question asked by  Senator Laucke  about possible extensions to the Adelaide Airport and to the future of the West Beach recreation reserve lands. [ ask the Minister: ls it now clear that there will be no acquisition of the West Beach trust lands which are now being developed under a State Act for recreational purposes? Is it also clear that there is no proposal by the Department of Civil Aviation to extend the present runways outside the present limits of the airport area? ls it possible that, when the new committee meets, the Government or the Department of Civil Aviation intends to put these 2 propositions to it for consideration, or is the matter to be determined on the premise of my first question? 
I ask the Minister for Air whether it is true that specifications for an aircraft to replace the present Mirages have been finalised, that major overseas aircraft manufacturers have commenced bidding for the contracts and that procedures have already been established for consideration of those contracts. If these are facts, what has been determined by the Government as to co-production or a share in such work by the Australian aircraft manufacturers? 
My question is directed to the Minister for Civil Aviation. I refer again to the retrenchment notices issued by Qantas Airways Ltd to some  150  officers and workers, including air crew and flight engineers, some months ago but to take effect from October. Is the Minister able to advise whether ' these retrenched staff will now be maintained in view of the agreement in relation to United StatesAustralia air services? If he is not able to advise us at this time, will he find out the position and let the Senate know? 
I direct to the Minister representing the Minister-in-Charge of Tourist Activities or the Minister for Shipping and Transport a question relating to the Eyre Highway and the support from various tourist organisations, the Australian automobile associations, and the governments of South Australia and Western Australia for a formula entailing Commonwealth financial assistance to provide for the sealing of the remaining sections of the Highway. I ask the Minister: Have the representations from these bodies, including those made during the tourist Ministers conference and since, been further considered by the Government? At the present time is any formula being considered by the governments concerned which might allow an early determination as to whether the whole of the remaining section of the Eyre Highway can be sealed? 
My question to the Leader of the Government relates to price control and the fact that in South Australia, as the Minister knows, price control has recently been extended. I remind the Minister that the Western Australian Government also recently introduced price control in that State. Is it a fact that the South Australian and Western Australian Governments have requested the Commonwealth Government to consider promoting talks between the Commonwealth and the State governments to consider basic price controls? Is the Minister able to say whether this matter has been considered by the Government and whether it may be accepted by the Government? 

 Senator Sir KENNETH ANDERSONThe last part of the question clearly relates to a matter of policy, but as to the first part of the question I can say that I have not been informed whether representations have been made. I shall seek that information for the honourable senator. 
My question to the Minister representing the Minister for Shipping and Transport relates to the alarming road toll which can be described only as needless slaughter. I point out particularly that during the last holiday weekend 45 people including, we are all sad to note, the wife of  Senator Negus,  were killed as a result of road accidents. Does the Minister consider that this situation requires emergency measures and more effective traffic controls by means of manual and mechanical devices to reduce the number of accidents? Will the Minister have his department, in conjunction with the various road traffic advisory groups and the State departments concerned, consider the promotion of such emergency measures, including more intensive patrols, to ensure that the present situation shall not continue? 
My question, which I direct to the Minister for Civil Aviation, refers .to the proposed formation of a Qantas subsidiary charter airline in the background of pending retrenchments of certain air crew and other people. To what extent have negotiations for landing rights been finalised and for which countries? On which routes will the first Qantas charter services operate? In view of the current operations of the British Overseas Airways Corporation charter services between Kuala Lumpur and London and the possible early final iSa ion of that airline's rights between Singapore and London, I ask: What is being done to expedite the arrangements for the Qantas subsidiary charter airline? Is it possible that this circumstance will change the policy in relation to retrenchments? 
I ask the Leader of the Government in the Senate whether it is a fact that recently the Australian Government complained to the Government of the United Slates of America about the failure of the United States Administration to keep Australia properly informed on important matters of joint concern. Has the Australian Government been officially advised about the pending visit to Peking of  Mr Nixon's  Foreign Affairs Adviser,  Dr Kissinger,  related to  Mr Nixon's  visit to that country? If the Government has not been advised does it consider that this is of no concern to Australia? 
Here again this is a very important question. In fairness to those asking the questions I think I should refer them to the Prime Minister's Department. I will do that and will seek to get an answer for  Senator Bishop  and for the whole of the Senate. 
I direct a question to the Leader of the Government in the Senate. It follows upon his answer to  Senator Murphy  about the Minister for Foreign Affairs. Was the Minister for Foreign Affairs requested or instructed by the Government to support the recent complaints by the Prime Minister to the United States Administration that it had not properly consulted with Australia, or even given Australia sufficient information, about moves by it in matters which jointly concerned Australia and the United States? If the Minister was so requested, why were not his representations made diplomatically during his presence in New York to attend a very important world conference? Does the Minister agree that, having regard for the traditions and importance of the office of Minister for Foreign Affairs and his task in New York, he should use the occasion publicly to partly support these complaints by attaching the Labor Opposition? 
I find some difficulty in associating the 2 matters.  Senator Murphy  directed a question to me, as he was entitled to do, related to a speech that was made by the Minister for Foreign Affairs at a dinner in New York. The other matter is one which I feel, comes more within the portfolio of foreign affairs than within my area as Leader of the Government. Unless  Senator Wright,  who represents the Minister for Foreign Affairs, wishes to respond to it, I ask that part of the question be placed on the notice paper. 
asked the Minister for 
Civil Aviation, upon notice: 
Is it a fact that there will be no acquisition of the West Beach Trust lands, which are now being developed by the West Beach Recreational Reserve Trust under a State Act, in any scheme to extend the Adelaide Airport? 
Is it a fact that there is no proposal by the Department of Civil Aviation to extend the existing runways outside the present limits of the Adelaide Airport area? 
Is the proposed Commonwealth-Slate Airfields Committee likely to consider submissions from (he Department of Civil Aviation in respect of the above matters and will his Committee consider any plan for a second airport in South Australia at a location outside built-up areas? 
My question, which is directed to the Minister for Civil Aviation, relates to a report in the Press last Wednesday that retrenchment notices served on 50 flight engineers employed by Qantas Airways Limited had been withdrawn. As the Minister might recall, similar questions have been put to him several times during the last month. How is it that he, as the Minister, has been unable to supply this information to senators whilst the Press is able to get and report it? Is it because the information is not being given to the Minister or is it because the Minister has decided not to give the information to the Senate? In future will he supply information where it is available? What is the present position in relation to the retrenchments? 
My question, which is addressed to the Minister representing the Minister for Labour and National Service, relates lo the questions asked by  Senator Young  and  Senator Jessop.  Is it a fact that, at the present time, the National Labour Advisory Council which reports to the Minister is currently discussing the question of arbitration amendments or any reforms which might bc necessary for Government attention? In the light of that action, has the Minister yet told the Australian Council of Trade Unions which is represented on the National Labour Advisory Council that the Government is against any recommendations which this Advisory Council might make? If not, will the Government shortly bring this matter to an end because it appears that Ministers are saying that they are prepared to introduce legislation which has not yet been approved by the National Labour Advisory Council? 
-I address my ques  tion to the Minister representing the Minister for Defence or the Minister representing the Minister for Supply. It relates to the production of the 2 prototype light twin engined N3 aircraft for military and commercial purposes. which were apparently designed to add to the capability of the Australian aircraft industry at a time of its downturn. I ask: As one aircraft has been completed and flight tested, has its design been approved? If so, what orders for the aircraft have been placed with the Government Aircraft Factories and the Commonwealth Aircraft Corporation by Commonwealth departments or the Services? 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Shipping and Transport. It relates to rail standardisation and the agreement between the Commonwealth and the South Australian Government which will provide the basis for the construction of the new broad gauge railway link between Adelaide and the east-west standardised service. Is the Minister able to indicate whether the formalities connected with this agreement have yet been finalised and whether the Government has any idea when the project may be started? 
My question to the Minister representing .he Minister for Supply relates to the recent announcement by the Minister for Defence regarding the cancellation of orders for helicopters for the Services. Will the cancellation of those orders result in any reduction in the offset orders available to the Australian aircraft industry, thus creating further employment problems in Australia? If there is a reduction in offset orders, is it proposed to provide other essential production for the industry? 
My question is addressed to the Minister representing the Minister for Supply. To what extent are launchings of sounding rocket experiments at Woomera in conjunction with the European Space Research Organisation and other Weapons Research Establishment activities at the range and Salisbury likely to maintain a continuing capability? Are these activities sufficient to maintain the existing scientific, skilled and other staffs in these locations? Do future programmes, including those in co-operation with the United Kingdom, New Zealand and other countries, guarantee stability for all these skilled workers? 
My question is directed to the Minister for Civil Aviation. It relates to the possible extension of the runways at Adelaide Airport and also to whether there is substitute land, now owned by the Department of Civil Aviation, which would be made available in the event of the trust lands being required for runway extensions. Since the meeting of the relevant Estimates Committee, has the Minister had a chance to examine the issue as to whether the vacant land might be a fair substitute for the reserve trust lands? When is the Minister likely to visit the area to examine conditions for himself? 
My question, which is directed to the Minister for Air, relates to the FI I ) aircraft. Have the evaluations of that aircraft reached the stage at which the Minister is able to report upon its acceptability or otherwise to Australia? If not. will the report be made before the Parliament rises for the Christmas recess? Has there been any final resolution of the amounts which may be payable for storing the aircraft? If so, what payments by Australia are likely? 
My question, which is directed to the Minister for Civil Aviation, relates to the establishment of the Qantas subsidiary charter company. What progress has been made in negotiating charter landing arrangements necessary for the operation of the Qantas subsidiary? Does the Minister expect any obstacles to the consummation of early agreements? In view of the early operations of British Overseas Airways Corporation in the area, what is the likely date for the commencement of Qantas charter operations which might attract passengers to the Australian-owned airline? 
I ask the Minister for Civil Aviation whether it is a fact that representatives of the Australian Federation of Air Pilots have recently discussed with the Minister the need for new and improved procedures, including representation from the Federation of Air Pilots, in relation to air accident investigations? Has the Federation also requested a new inquiry into the Trans-Australia Airlines - Canadian Pacific Airlines incident? If so, what action does the Government intend to take in relation to these 2 matters? 
My question is addressed to the Minister for Civil Aviation. Is it a fact that conferences between the management of Qantas Airways Ltd and the Australian Federation of Air Pilots relating to retrenched air crews have ended and that Qantas will retrench forthwith about 130 of its air crew personnel who are now on suspended retrenchment? Does the Minister agree that the loss of these specialised personnel to the airline industry could be a serious loss to Australia? If the information that I have stated is correct, will the Minister confer immediately with the management of Qantas and the Air Pilots Federation, or indicate his preparedness to chair any conferences which might provide a solution to the problem of the pending retrenchments? 
My question, which I direct to the Minister representing the Minister for Defence, relates to the transfer of the major part of the plant of Hawker Siddeley Electronics Ltd from Salisbury in South Australia to Brookvale in Victoria, resulting in the retrenchment of skilled South Australian staff who are employed now on important defence contract work. I ask the Minister: Is it a fact that, when this company secured a recent Sim contract for electronic defence devices, it was claimed that the work would be performed in South Australia? I ask the Minister also: In view of the fact that the South Australian work force of this company will be reduced from 250 to 50 by the end of March 1972, will the Minister investigate the matter to see whether the work might be retained in 
South Australia as this company is located quite close to the Weapons Research Establishment facility? 
This question is posed to me as Minister representing the Minister for Defence. As  Senator Bishop  and all honourable senators will appreciate, 1 was Minister for Supply and I am aware of the Hawker Siddeley establishment in Salisbury. I cannot recall the circumstances under which the contract was let to that company. I would need to refer to the Department of Supply through the Department of Defence to obtain that information. But I would not imagine that the point made by the honourable senator would have been a factor considered in entering into that contract. It may have been that in announcing the contract the Minister concerned - it may have been me; it may have been the Minister for Defence; I cannot recall - said that this development would be of some significant help in relation to the employment situation in the Salisbury area. I will have some research done on the matter and respond to the question, lt is very difficult in that the Hawker Siddeley company is a private company, a joint s'ock company. In the very nature of things it would carry out the work most advantageously in terms of its contract. 1 would be almost certain that the contract would contain no provision which would in effect bind the company to carrying out the contract in the Salisbury area. 
 The Senate is debating a matter raised by the Australian Democratic Labor Party. I suggest it is a very loose proposal because it refers to the implications for Australian defence and security of Britain's entry into the European Economic Community and also raises the subject of the entry of the People's Republic of China into the United Nations. The subject is phrased in a fairly imprecise way because it refers to the implications for Australian security. I suggest that honourable senators representing the Democratic Labor Party have made very clear their position in respect of these matters. They rest on military solutions. I put it to the Senate that in our lifetime we have found that military solutions are not satisfactory. They do not solve the problems. Let us look at the current issues throughout the world. I refer to the agreement to admit the People's Republic of China to the United Nations and related matters. Briefly, I agree with the great work of Willy Brandt, Chancellor of West Germany, who has been able, against great resistence from people within his own country and also from other people, to consummate an agreement with East Germany. As a result of that he earned the Noble Prize. He has been commended by everybody because he has been able to reach some sort of agreement.  Senator Little  is trying to interject. I point out that his Party talks about the need for nuclear arms. It challenges the Government's policy and threatens to vote against it. The Democratic Labor Party looks for military solutions all (he time. 
The Australian Labor Party believes that we have to exploit new political avenues. We have said for many, many years that the Government has been lax in not supporting the claims by Communist China to enter the United Nations. Belatedly, Government supporters came here today and accepted the position, as the United States of America has done. That is the real position tonight. Rather vaguely every Government  speaker  tonight has said that he realises that Communist China had to be admitted to the United Nations. Honourable senators opposite admit that this could be a good thing for the world, just as the arrangement between the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics and the United States has been. We know that many world crises have been avoided because of the understanding - I admit there have been some misunderstandings - between the Soviet Union and the United States. Those 2 countries have been conversing. This policy has been extended in the postwar years in the countries of the North Atlantic Treaty Organisation, particularly as a result of the work of Willy Brandt. That is the sort of policy that we believe in and it is the sort of policy which the Prime Minister  (Mr McMahon)  now accepts as fundamental. It is a pragmatic idea and we have to try it. However much people talk about the need to set up military security and to send Australian troops outside this country, history has proved that these policies are wrong. They do not solve problems. 
They do not solve the situation.  Senator Little,  I have only a few minutes and you are wasting my time. You should consider the situation when we have put troops into the field. Consider South East Asia, if you like. After all the fighting we find that the real solutions are made politically. A stage is reached when people have to talk to one another. I will give an illustration relating to Laos. I do not dispute that North Vietnamese forces have been in Laos many times. Yet persistently, throughout the years that Prince Souvanna Phouma, a Social Democrat, has been in power in Laos, he has maintained that Communist China should be admitted to the United Nations. As  Senator Wheeldon  pointed out earlier, Laos is one of the countries to which we are giving aid although it has spasmodically had a very turbulent military experience, lt voted in favour of China's admission to the United Nations. It is like most of the South East Asian countries, and I include Cambodia and Vietnam. 
J have been to Vietnam on two occasions, once in 1964 and then again last year. I found that most people wanted to reach some accommodation with Communist China. That is the sort of solution we have to reach. There are some risks in this policy. Nobody can say that either China or the Soviet Union has given up the Leninist idea of world revolution but experience has clearly shown that both countries are pragmatic enough to accept agreements that they reach with major countries. We know that relationships with the Americans have been fairly reasonable and satisfactory. We hope that China's experience will mean that it will not take any overt action and that its presence in the United Nations will bring a new peaceful era to the world. 
The Democratic Labor Party, as the Government's parties used to do, thinks about solving things in a military way. I put it to the Senate that we already have found that these are not solutions; we have found that we have to talk to people. Let us consider the question raised by  Senator Byrne  relating to Malaysia. He talked about the stresses of Malaysia and I want to put a counter argument. I was there recently attending the Commonwealth Parliamentary Association conference. Some countries have to realise that if they do not follow democratic processes they will be faced with Communist insurgency or local insurgency. In Malaysia today the Chinese population is the most industrious. The Chinese are strong commercially and industrially yet there are strong discrimination laws against them. Only small numbers of them can enter the military services. Only small numbers are allowed to engage in educational or university activities. The result is that this very active and efficient Chinese population, which helps to make the economy of Malaysia work, resents what is taking place in that country. Apart from asking for our aid, Malaysia has to find solutions to its problems and give its people a form of democracy which will be lasting. 
Let us get back to the Australian scene. We talk about defence capability. Do honourable senators know that the real defence capability is to have a capability in our own country? It is no good exporting arms and people. In an economic sense the aid which we should give to our near neighbours who are not as sophisticated as we are is the product of Austraiian industry. What are we doing about this matter? We have a very efficient aircraft industry which everybody knows is being allowed to run down to the extent that the Government is talking about rationalising the industry. We are not prepared to give these industrial components - both Government factories and private factories - enough work because we are importing heavy equipment. Because we are not going to give the industry enough work we say: 'Let us rationalise it'. We are talking about the Government Aircraft Factories being taken over. They are among the most efficient government factories in Australia. We are talking about turning the factories into some sort of a combine with private industry because we will not give them work. At the same time we are importing about S90m worth of munitions and war supplies in a year. We import over SI 00m worth of aircraft, spares and helicopters in a year. We could produce half this equipment in Australia. That is the defence capability we have; that is the capability we have to develop. 
Sending troops overseas and stationing them in other countries, which causes resentment because they are foreign troops, is no solution at all. 1 agree that we have to assist Indonesia and Malaysia. I had the experience recently of testing an idea of mine and of the Australian Labor Party at Butterworth. I am satisfied that we are continuing a mistake by keeping troops at Butterworth. We are now adopting a 2- country arrangement to control the Butterworth base. The Malaysian people are looking after the aerodrome security and deciding whether Royal Australian Air Force personnel will come into the base or leave the base. As a result of this situation there is some friction between both forces and it will grow. Our expert RAAF personnel are really the brains of the outfit. Shortly they will be told that it is time for them to leave. We have to use the advanced technology of this country. We have to use our capability, develop it and give aid in supply and capital goods to the people who need it. We should not export troops and arms; that is not a solution to this sort of situation. I accept that Britain's entry to the European Economic Community clearly will make a complete change in the idea of the Commonwealth of Nations. As the Government speakers said rather primly - I would rather they had said it more strongly - Britain's entry is going to produce a stronger Britain if the terms are good. Obviously if Britain is stronger it might be possible for Britain to give aid in the area where she has traditionally given aid. That is the situation in relation to the EEC. Honourable senators can talk as much as they like about whether Britain should or should not enter. But finally Britain will enter the Common Market. As a result of entering the Common Market she will be a stronger Britain. If she stays outside the Common Market she will be a weaker Britain. Obviously a weaker Britain cannot give the same sort of support to the old Commonwealth countries, her neighbours and friends, as she used to. lt seems to me that whether we like it or not Britain will go into the European Economic Community. I have always thought, that we had a damned cheek in telling Britain what she should do because it is her business. 1 remind the Democratic Labor Party, because it is always attacking the Labor Party about these matters, that it is the British Labour Party which is trying to obtain the best terms for entry. But I accept as a fait accompli that Britain is going into the Common Market. As a result of this action she will be a stronger country technologically and financially. 1 believe that the ties which Britain has with Commonwealth countries will be of some advantage to us. Again I submit the main point of difference between the Labor Party and the Democratic Labor Party. We believe that Australia should develop the maximum capability within its shores. We can do this if we give aid to the industries about which I have spoken and if we take a positive stand about the importation of aircraft, defence equipment, war stores and munitions. I have given honourable senators figures in relation to these matters. They can check with the Library as I did today. The figures show roughly our importation of this equipment but it has been greater. A large part of the imported equipment we need not have. While we are importing this equipment honourable senators from both sides of the chamber are talking about rationalising the aircraft industry. That is a damned shame. This position should not be allowed to continue. We should force the Government to make sure that orders for a large quota of imported equipment which is related to aircraft and defence requirements are given to Australian industry. In that way we will develop a capability within Australia. Then, if we want to, we can decide where we should give aid. We can decide to give near neighbours aid in the form they most need such as advanced equipment, technology and capital. Once we- start exporting men and materials we reach the situation which has been reached in Asia today. 
Honourable senators opposite have complained about the treatment of Taiwan. I believe that the United States of America has realistically accepted the position. I remind honourable senators that while the debate was taking place in the United Nations  Mr Kissinger  made his second visit to Peking. He was seeking an accommodation with Peking and he has reached that accommodation.  President  Nixon is going to Peking. There will be a studied and proper reception of  President  Nixon in Peking. There will be no crises. He will be received and internal Chinese policy will be trimmed in order to accept the new relationship with America. It is true that as far back as 1955 the Chinese tried to reach an agreement with the United States. Because of United States commitments in the area the approach was dropped. Well, America has reached the commitment and, sensibly, this Government has said: 'We accept the realities of the situation'. 
It is my opinion, however much honourable senators lament the fact, that Taiwan is only a province of China. Taiwan has a population of 14 million. At no time has it had any substantial claim to be the main government of China. In reality everybody knew that 14 million people could not speak for 800 million people. We have reached the situation where Taiwan has been dropped from the United Nations. 1 believe that the Chinese are very experienced and industrious people. They are pragmatic. I accept that Taiwan will reach an accommodation with China in the not distant future. There is some evidence that Taipeh has had discussions with Peking. These discussions will continue. It is my opinion that in a short time - 5 to 10 years - Taipeh will make the same sort of accommodation with China as the United States has made. 
Finally, what is the world picture? In my opinion it is not unsatisfactory. We have a relationship in Europe which is very satisfactory. We have the greatest peace time arrangement of all times between the East and the West. If we are realists we should try to reach the same sort of arrangements with China and use these arrangements to further peace and not war. 
I ask the Minister for Civil Aviation: Does Qantas Airways Limited propose to slash its air services dramatically during 1972? Is it a fact that flying hours will be greatly reduced during the balance of this year and in the following year? Is Qantas facing an operational or financial crisis or other disabilities which have as yet not been made known to the Government or to this Parliament? Will the Minister give the Senate a clear statement on matters affecting Qantas in view of the widely publicised versions of its difficulties which, in the absence of the Minister's report to the Parliament, will create greater confusion amongst the public and unfortunately affect Qantas? 
I ask the Minister for Air whether it is a fact that during the last few days the Royal Australian Air Force has announced specifications for the proposed replacement for the Mirage fighter aircraft and that these specifications have been circulated to aircraft manufacturers in Great Britain, Europe and the United 
States of America. If this is so has the Government firmly indicated to the manufacturers the requirement that the depressed aircraft industry in Australia should share in the production of this aircraft? 
I ask the Minister representing the Minister for Defence whether he has been able to investigate the matter raised by me on 2nd November relating to the proposed transfer to Brookvale, New South Wales of the Hawker Siddeley Electronics Engineering plant, which is performing defence contract work at Salisbury at a location very close to the Weapons Research Establishment. It is likely that this transfer will result in 200 skilled workers being retrenched in South Australia before the end of March 1972. Is it a fact that this firm has stated that equipment covered by recent contracts which it had obtained would be manufactured in South Australia?' Has he been able to initiate any action which would avoid these retrenchments? 
I think I owe the honourable senator an apology. He asked me late yesterday afternoon whether I was in a position to make a comment on this matter. I said that I believed 1 was. I am in the process of obtaining some information and some background to this matter. Regrettably, it is not available to me at this point of time but I hope to be able to make a comment tomorrow. 
 The proposal in the Stevedoring Industry Bill is to insert a new definition of 'union' in section 7 of the Stevedoring Industry Act 1956-1966 in place of the existing provision which, amongst other references, specifies that the North Australian Workers' Union is the union for the purposes of this Act for the port of Darwin, lt is a straightforward proposal acceptable to all parties concerned. It results from changes in trade union registration and coverage following the action of the North Australian Workers' Union in affiliating with the Federated Miscellaneous Workers' Union of Australia. Proceedings Under the Commonwealth Conciliation and Arbitration Act have been completed. The Waterside Workers' Federation of Australia will take over the waterfront section from the North Australian Workers' Union which section includes all registered waterside workers in the port of Darwin, numbering some 200. These organisational changes necessitate the deletion of the existing definition of union and the inclusion of the definition as set out in the Bill. The Opposition supports the proposal and wishes the legislation a speedy passage. 
My question is directed to the Minister for Civil Aviation and relates to reports of further dismissals by Qantas Airways Limited. I ask the Minister: Is it a fact that in April this year dismissal notices were issued to 17 flight engineers and that these dismissal notices were withdrawn in May? Is it now the position that those 17 flight engineers have been given further positive dismissal notices? Is it a fact that a new programme of dismissals and/or retirements has been adopted by the Qantas management? 
This Bill proposes the borrowing by the Commonwealth of $US1 1,3 10,400, which is roughly$A 10,100,000, from the Export-Import Bank of the United States of America and the Boeing company and the appropriation from the Loan Fund of an amount not exceeding$A 13, 1 50,000 to assist Qantas Airways Ltd in purchasing not more than 2 Boeing 747 aircraft and spares. The proceeds of the loan will assist Qantas in financing the purchase of a fifth and sixth Boeing and spares, with an option to cancel the sixth if necessary. 
The Bill also provides some minor amendments to the 1968 legislation. I suggest that the legislation allows the Parliament to discuss a number of important issues related to the operations of Qantas. We all know that Qantas has had a proud record in the past. From very small beginnings, assisted by the philosophy of the Labor Party during the World War II years, and staffed by very expert people, Qantas has become a formidable airline carrier. Bui now there appears to be a crisis in the affairs of Qantas. We are all very concerned about it. The crisis has occasioned very drastic retrenchments of highly skilled personnel from the organisation. Press reports, which the Minister for Civil Aviation  (Senator Cotton)  is not able to confirm or deny, state that further retrenchments and/or retirements are likely because of the crisis. We are not able to understand the viability of Qantas in the present intense competition from overseas airlines, but the situation is such that Parliament ought to discuss the matter, lt ought to be informed more than it is. 
On behalf of the Opposition 1 move the following amendment to the motion that the Bill be now read a second time: 
Al end of motion add: but the Senate is of the opinion thai firm arrangements should have been made for substantial coproduction procedures for imported aircraft and a joint select committee should be appointed to inquire into and report upon the effectiveness of Qantas management in relation to crew retrenchment, migrant carriage contracts, the future role of Qantas In the major international aviation scene- both from commercial and defence aspects, the question of Qantas' role in Australia's balance of payments, entry into and extent of activity in international charter operations, charter fare structures, the company's continued viability as the national flag carrier in Australian aviation and its industrial relations ' policies and practices.' 1 indicate for the benefit of the Minister that this amendment is not exactly the same as the one that was moved in the House of Representatives. By this time, no doubt, he has had an opportunity to see the difference. 
The situation to which 1 have been referring seems to be a crisis. As everybody knows, for about 12 months now - certainly since April this year when retrenchments were forecast - the Press has engaged in many speculations. But, when we senators have attempted to obtain answers on those speculations or when we have met representatives of the industry, the information given to us has been no more perfect than it is today. So. my first proposition is that the Parliament ought to know more. 
With reference to the attitude of the Minister, let me say that whatever 1 say about him in this debate is certainly not a personal reference; it is a reference on the basis of what seems to be his philosophy and that of the Government in respect of Qantas. 1 know that, generally speaking, their proposition would be similar to what would be advanced by a Labor government: We would not interfere unnecessarily with a national enterprise that was doing well. But the controversy is so intense, the information given is so obtuse and the circumstances of the retrenchments are so important that much more information should be given to the Parliament. 
The position is that our national flag carrier is to lose a large number of skilled people and that many more are certainly under the shadow of dismissal. Nobody knows exactly what the position is. Until very recently the managers of Qantas were fairly optimistic about its position. Last year and early this year the prospects were that Qantas would suffer all the rigours of the competition now prevailing. There are many new developments in the aviation industry which ought to be considered in a broader sense. Even the information that may be provided during the debate on this matter is not the sort of expert information that we want. We have not been able to obtain such information in the Estimates committees. That is only natural. That is the reason why the Opposition proposes that a select committee be appointed to consider the position. 
All of us members of the Parliament have loyally supported Qantas in ils endeavours to ride the rigours of competition. We have all welcomed its achievements. Everybody has been proud to fly on Qantas aircraft. But surely we have reached a situation, in the current reported crisis, when we ought to know more about it. We cannot obtain that information from the Minister because, it seems to me, his philosophy is to stand aside from the affairs of Qantas as much as possible when, in my opinion, he should be devoting himself to the task of seeing whether some of the things that are happening can be corrected. If they cannot be corrected, he should advise the Parliament in more definite terms. 
One of the most important aspects ot this matter - this Bill gives us the opportunity to discuss it - is the subject of coproduction or Australia sharing in the manufacture of the equipment that we are purchasing. As everybody in the Parliament - particularly in the Senate - knows, we have canvassed the subject on several occasions. For many years now we have said that the Government should be more active in ensuring that the Australian aircraft industry gets some part of the production work that goes into the making of the massive number of pieces of equipment in these very expensive aircraft. Each one of them is worth about S20m. This is the priority subject as far as we are concerned. Whilst there have been some minor moves in this field, they have involved only sprats of work. I use the word 'sprats' bearing in mind the huge programme for the importation of aircraft. 
I wish to quote now some figures which have been prepared by the research section of the Parliamentary Library. Some of them have been reported earlier, but the position has been brought up to date. They give the total value of imports of aircraft and parts thereof into Australia from 1967-8 to 1970-71. I make it clear that they include not only civilian aircraft but also defence aircraft. The table refers to the types of aircraft involved, the sizes of the aircraft, which include helicopters, and spare parts. In 1967-8 the total value of these imports was $136,286,000; in 1968- 69 it was $131,590,000; in 1969-70 it was $127,182,000; and in 1970-71 it increased to $159,028,000. As most people know, in addition to those imports, we import various munitions and war stores. This also has been the subject of argument. According to a table supplied by the Parliamentary Library, in 1970-71 the value of such imports was nearly $90m. 
This situation has been developing, and many members of the Parliament - particularly from this side of the Parliament - have argued that the determination of the Government is not strong enough to make deals that will mean that more aircraft and parts are manufactured in Australia. We have pointed to the depressed state of the Australian aircraft industry which, as most people know, is composed of very efficient units. Our own Government Aircraft Factory is a highly specialised and technically equipped factory. It compares with the best in the world. Its staff has been reduced over the years. Id the last 6 months its staff has been reduced by SO skilled workers and is now less than 2,000. The Commonwealth Aircraft Corporation Pty Ltd is another highly specialised organisation in aircraft work. In 12 months its staff has been reduced from 2,550 to 2,050. At its peak it has a staff of 3,500. In addition there is the Hawker Siddeley organisation which has technically expert people. It also is suffering the same sort of downturn. Rearrangements of the defence programme nave also reduced the amount of servicing work available to the industry from the Royal Australian Air Force and other units  nf  the Services. 
While the Government is allowing this sort of decline, it is looking for solutions which, I believe, will not be satisfactory. It is talking about rationalisation and merging the very effective national factory - the Government Aircraft Factory - into some arrangement with the private sector. What it should be doing is making sure (hat in every deal it makes for the civilian airlines and other people in Australia it says: 'We want to produce this part of the aircraft". But what hat been the position? Over the years since this issue was first raised there have been some good intentions. The former Minister for Supply.  Senator Sir Kenneth  Anderson, was interested in this matter. But we have had no more than $5m worth of offset orders from the Boeing company. That is only peanuts, if I may use that expression. It seems to me that that alone should  cause  honourable senators to support our proposition. If they want to support it only in part, at least that will represent progress. This is an important contribution that we should be making. 
We should be saying in this Parliament that the decline of the aircraft manufacturing industry should be halted and that we will not be satisfied with being able to provide merely small bits and pieces for the industry. We should adopt that view not only from an economic aspect in view is? the ability of our own factories to perform work of this kind - but because wc should reduce considerably our need to place reliance on other powers for major equipment. I propose to refer briefly to the experience of the Japanese aircraft industry which, in a technical sense, started almost from scratch after the last world  war. Now. because of Government promotion, Japan has entered strongly into the field of aircraft production. It is producing aircraft which it is exporting to Western Europe, and it is selling some light aircraft to Australia. Yet in Australia we are still talking about the need for offset orders to help our aircraft industry. The Government should take a firm attitude in this regard. 
I shall mention the kind of situation which prompts me to suggest that a select committee be appointed. I have mentioned already that most people are of the opinion that Qantas Airways Ltd is facing a crisis in its operations. Although to some extent this crisis is related to the general down-turn of the aviation industry, which has become something of a rat race, and the introduction of new sophisticated aircraft, everybody is aware that the plight in which Qantas finds itself is due to some extent to the lack of appreciation of current trends by the management of Qantas. I refer to statements made by the management of Qantas and I propose to cite passages from the news sheet put out by the company. A circular issued by Qantas in January was headed 'Qantas plans to meet new challenges' and it stated, among other things: 
Qantas has, over the last decade, achieved a substantial and profitable rate of expansion, which brought revenues and profits to record levels last year. As one of its main objectives, the company hopes to maintain and improve this record of profitable expansion, to permit it to continue to be a major contributor to Australia's development and balance of payments. Projected market growth, and additional capacity to be provided by new aircraft types, provide a favourable environment for continued growth of the airline. Although continued expansion is within our reach, it will not occur by itself. The market potential along Qantas's route systems is attracting increasing competition from other carriers. 
The circular then goes on to mention the kind of problems that Qantas is facing. It mentions the development of more sophisticated approaches to the establishment of appropriate future strategies, of precise long range plans geared to those strategies and of methods of appraising performance against plans. It refers to expanded programmes of training of an increasing number of employees at all levels of staff and management. On 14th April 1971 the Qantas 'News', No. 8 of Vol. 19, carried a heading which revealed a trend different from that to whichI have referred. The heading was 'Qantas faces financial crisis - Company battles costs in effort to stay our of the red'. This special edition of the News' refers among other things to huge cost increases, coinciding with a drop in the growth rate in international air traffic, having brought Qantas to a situation where the company will have to struggle hard to remain profitable in the financial year that has just begun. The report states: 
But the problem is being tackled, and the measures now in train should just enable us to stay inthe black in 1971-72. 
In a report presented to the Parliament last year  Sir Roland  Wilson said: 
During the past decade the company has grown very rapidly - from revenues of $68m in 1960-61 to almost$200m in 1969-70. With predictions of an upsurge ininternational air traffic in the years ahead, we see Qantas entering a new period of long-term development and continued vigorous growth. However, as we progress into the seventies, it becomes more evident that competition from foreign airlines operating into Australia will become increasingly severe. Increases in total capacity provided are tending to exceed increases in traffic, a situation which must ultimately lead to deterioration in financial results. Nevertheless, we are confident that Qantas is in a strong position to meet the challenges of the years ahead, when new generations of aircraft will be entering service with the company. We shall strive to maintain our competitive position on existing routes and broaden our markets to take full advantage of the opportunities that develop. 
That passage would seem to indicate that certainly there are no heavy clouds on the horizon. I refer next to a report by Captain Ritchie, the General Manager of Qantas, on the anniversary of the company's fiftieth year of service, in which he said: 
In the last 10 years, world airline revenue passenger miles have quadrupled and the impact of mass air travel has penetrated deeper and deeper into our civilisation and, in the next 10 years, air travel is expected to at least triple in volume. Such meteoric growth has given rise to a precise and demanding art in the aircraft industry - the vital task of planning an airline fleet. Yet, this art must be practised in an indefinite atmosphere where production and passengers' predictions are the ruling factors. 
In the same report he went on to say: 
The productivity of a Boeing 747 is about 2½ times that of the 707 and when we receive our 4 in August, October, November and December next year it will be the equivalent of receiving something like ten 707s. This will then give Qantas, by the end of 1971, the equivalent of about thirtyone 707 fleet, which is pleasingly close to our 1965 forecast requirement. 
The annual report for 1970-71, which has been presented to the Parliament by the Minister, sets out in the conclusions at page 17, among other things: 
On the basis of either capacity ton miles available, or actual loads carried, Qantas is the twelfth largest international airline. With S225m of revenue and over 12,750 employees, the company in many ways made, and will continue to make a substantial contribution to the country's trade and national economy. 
The short term outlook for Qantas is not as encouraging as we could wish. Some recent developments are giving cause for concern to the company. The influences which adversely affected our rate of traffic growth during the last months of the financial year have continued in the early part of the current year. 
The report refers to cost increases being offset to some extent by small passenger fare increases which became effective in April 1971. It concludes by saying: 
The Board expressed its appreciation to the thousands of Qantas employees who have been responsible for our accomplishments over the past year, and to the Director-General of Civil Aviation . . . 
All those reports and statements do not present a gloomy picture, yet between the issue of the report last year and the one in September this year there have been substantial retrenchments which followed closely upon the rather optimistic reports from the management of Qantas. In November 1970 Qantas was recruiting skilled technical staff and it put to the Federal secretary of the Flight Engineers Association a proposal that might assist in recruiting flight engineers, and during December 1970 and January 1971 recruiting efforts were conducted in New Zealand, Hong Kong and England. These efforts included a proposal to former employees of Qantas who were employed by Cathay Pacific Airways Ltd. The union was asked to  contact  these people to see whether they would return to Qantas and become part of the Qantas enterprise. In February 1971 five applicants were interviewed in London. During this time Qantas spent $1,000 on advertisements for staff. Then a dispute developed between the Australian Federation of Air Pilots and Qantas about superannuation and the operation of the 747 aircraft. Closely following those discussions was an announcement on 22nd April 1971 that 90 pilots, 42 cadet pilots and 70 flight engineers had been retrenched, although at that time 5 flight engineers were undergoing training. Since then a number of questions have been asked of the Minister about whether the information was correct, whether discussions between the staff unions affected and Qantas were held, and broadly what the Minister thought about the situation. On almost every occasion the Minister simply said that he had not been informed. 
 I do not dispute that. The Minister was justified in assuming the role of the Minister for Civil Aviation as he saw it. We think that the role he is adopting or that the Government instructs him to adopt and the role the Prime Minister is adopting are wrong. An enterprise such as Qantas, with a fine record and with everything going for it, suddenly was faced with a crisis. It seems to us that the Minister and the Government should have acted quickly and should have adopted the role of mediator or organiser. 
 I refer the Minister to the occasions on which I asked questions similar to the one that I asked today As far back as May of this year I asked about the small number of flight engineers - a highly skilled group - who were to be retrenched. Since then at almost regular intervals I have asked what is happening about them. The questions and answers are recorded in Hansard. I have asked whether they have been retrenched, whether there have been negotiations between the unions covering the flight engineers, the crews, the pilots, etc., and Qantas and whether the negotiations were being conducted in a way which would satisfy everybody that the retrenchments might be averted or the position corrected. I put it to the Minister that it is relatively easy to ask a Minister a question about his department. The Minister for Civil Aviation might like to draw a fine distinction about this, but when there are fairly heavy retrenchments in an industry it is relatively easy to get an answer quickly from a Minister in this place or in another place. We get an answer as to what the developments are, what can be done and on occasions what efforts are being made to avoid retrenchments. I asked a question about the position of the 17 flight engineers, not the 90 pilots or the 35 aircrew. On 29th September I asked this question: 
My question is directed to the Minister for Civil Aviation. I refer again to the retrenchment notices issued by Qantas Airways Ltd to some 150 officers and workers, including air crew and flight engineers, some months ago, but to take effect from October. Is the Minister able to advise whether these retrenched staff will now be maintained in view of the agreement in relation to United States-Australia ait services? If he is not able to advise us at this time, will he find out the position and let the Senate know? 
On that date the Minister replied: 
Actually I am waiting on that information myself at the present time. As soon as 1 get it I will see that the honourable senator receives a copy of it. 
On 12th October, as recorded at page 1275 of Hansard, I asked the Minister this question: 
My question, which is directed to the Minister for Civil Aviation relates to a report in the Press last Wednesday that retrenchment notices served on 50 flight engineers employed by Qantas Airways Limited had been withdrawn. As the Minister might recall, similar questions have been put to him several times during the last month. How is it that he, as the Minister, has been unable to supply this information to senators whilst the Press is able to get and report it? Is it because the information is not being given to the Minister or is it because the Minister has decided not to give the information to the Senate? In future will be supply information where it is available? What is the present position in relation to the retrenchments? 
The Minister replied: 
The honourable senator could have included a third factor in his comment, that is, that perhaps from time to time the Press is not accurate and perhaps the Press is speculating in making comment not based on fact. When a question is asked of me I ask the responsible people to let me have an answer if I have not got it myself. I have asked the people concerned - Qantas Airways Limited - to let me have an answer. I have not got it yet. I cannot say when I expect to get it, but I shall ask Qantas again. The honourable senator may be assured that I try to give the Senate accurate information when I have it. I do not base my replies on speculation, and I do not particularly appreciate it being said of me that I do. 
On the same day, at a meeting of Senate Estimates Committee D, I followed up that question. I referred to the retrenchments and asked a broad question of the Minister. My questions are recorded in the Hansard of Estimates Committees C and D of 12th October. The Minister gave a broad and a very long reply. He reiterated the position to which I have referred earlier. 
I do not want to quote what he said, but again he gave only a small amount of information. When he finished the  Chairman, Senator Laucke,  who is in the chamber, complimented him on the advice and the information given to the Committee. At page 121 of that Hansard I said: 

 Mr Chairman, 1 agree with you that the Minister has given us some views in depth. I had only hoped that he might bc able to say - he might think it is a small point - whether the information about the retention of the 15 flight engineers was correct, but he cannot say. 
The Minister did not answer about the retrenchments. Honourable senators will notice that in replying to the questions I put to him earlier he said that he would ask Qantas and that he did not have the information. At the hearing of the Estimates Committee he said that he had not the information. The true position, as I am told by the union, is that in April retrenchment notices were issued to 70 flight engineers. In May, because the flight engineers union pointed out that some requirements of capacity could be offset by the engineers taking accumulated leave, the notices were withdrawn. It was only when we came into the chamber this morning that the Minister gave information about something which happened in May. I think I understand his position. It seems to me that he is standing aside because he wants Qantas to operate on some kind of commercial basis. 
It seems to me that these matters are presenting a crisis. There have been threats of a strike by the pilots if the present retrenchment notices are not withdrawn. I am told that the Federation of Air Pilots was willing to subsidise the pay scales of the retrenched employees while they were temporarily unemployed by Qantas and employed in other employment. They would be receiving the same kind of pay rates that they would if they had been employed by Qantas. That would not have been as heavy handed as the payment of severance pay. Everybody knows that in industry these days severance pay, following the American pattern, often operates where people are displaced because of changes in employment and changes of techniques in industry. 
I am told that the pilots put the proposition that they themselves would pay some part of their salary but that the proposition was refused. 
I refer now to the charter subsidy of Qantas. As the Minister knows, for many months people both outside and inside the Parliament have been pressing the Government to set up a subsidiary. This was done, but it was done belatedly. British Overseas Airways Corporation was certainly first in the field. At present BOAC is operating charters through Kuala Lumpur and Singapore. One of the things about which the industry has been critical is the fact that some of the charter arrangements made to bring migrants to Australia over the last 2 years were neither profitable nor satisfactory to Qantas. Qantas, rather than carry this traffic, in the last 2 years obtained 180 charter flights and sub-let 145 of these to Caledonian Airways, a Scottish company. In fact, that airline was competing with Qantas on the return trip in respect of the passengers who would be travelling back to Europe. On 28th April 1971  Senator Mulvihill  placed a question in these terms on the notice paper: 
What is the breakdown by individual airlines of the transport of migrants? 
The Ministers answer was as follows: 
No statistics are maintained of the individual airlines who bring to Australia migrants who make their own travel arrangements, viz. unassisted migrants (approximately thirty (30) per cent of the total) and assisted migrants from the Americas and Denmark. 
The following information therefore relates only to assisted migrants who travel on bookings made by the Department of Immigration or by the Intergovernmental Committee for European Migration. 
The proportion of assisted migrants who travel by air to sea travellers is now approximately 65 : 35. 
Assisted migrants whotravel by air are carried either: 
on charter flights: or 
on commercial flights where seats not required for commercial passengers are available. 
Department of Immigration Bookings 
The detailed breakdown of passengers for the financial year 1970-71 (including forward bookings) is as follows: 
booked through Qantas: 

<graphic href="050232197111110_20_0.jpg"></graphic>

I interpose at this point to say that that was one of the things which was revealed, I understand by deputations to the Qantas management. There were complaints and suggestions that Qantas should have got into the field then, not in relation to affinity groups but in the form of a charter subsidiary company which was then on the go. The answer continues: 
booked through other carriers: 

<graphic href="050232197111110_20_1.jpg"></graphic>

ICEM Bookings 
The detailed breakdown of ICEM bookings for the financial year 1970-71 (including forward bookings) is as follows: 

<graphic href="050232197111110_20_2.jpg"></graphic>

I suppose it can be said that it is too late now to complain about these matters. But we raised them in the debate - I think it was in May - and certainly the pilots organisations have raised them with the Government. We are wondering now why the Government cannot tell us something more positive about the inauguration of the charter subsidiary and its viability and, of course, the future viability of Qantas. The whole matter raises a number of questions which should be answered and which should have been answered before.I refer to the retrenchments at the present time. Obviously, one of the questions is: Is it serious for Qantas and the staff? It is certainly serious for the staff. Another question is: Will there be more retrenchments? I I think Parliament ought to be informed about it. Will the staff come back to the industry or will it be lost for all time to Australia and the industry? Is the reason for not informing the Parliament based on the policies of the Government or is it because the Government is not getting the information from the Qantas management? Was the issue a subject of and dependent upon industrial negotiations? This raises a very important aspect. I know that the Flight Officers Tribunal tried to tackle this question. The Minister offered some reference to this when he said that if he was asked to intervene in an industrial matter he would do so, but he may want to correct or alter that according to what the position seems to be at the time, lt is obviously an industrial matter when people are sacked from an industry because the question whether they can be employed again at some future time is involved. 
We hope that Qantas will recover from the downturn and that these people will not bc lost to Australia or to the industry when the vast amounts of money spent on training very highly specialised persons is considered. It seems lo me that it is an issue about which in another department the Minister or the Government would intervene or assist the unions and management to come to terms around the table. Was that done on this occasion? Why is it not possible for that to he done if it was not done? What is the future position? That, of course, is the main question. Did Qantas management make a mistake in late 1970 and early 1971 in recruiting technical staff and in not warning that staff that there could be some downturn because of the references to that aspect contained in the various reports from management? One would have thought that something concerning these matters would have been reported to the Parliament. 
The final point with which we are very much concerned is the operation of the charter subsidiary and the forecasts for Qantas in the future, ls there to be a succeeding period of difficulties which could result in an altered operation of Australia's national flag carrier, which would be a great loss to the country? If that position does arise; what corrective methods will be applied? It seems to me to be reasonable that a committee be employed to look into the matter. I refer to only 2 other incidental questions. Obviously, the question of the future of International Air Transport Association agreements comes into the picture. The pilots association and others are arguing that we have reached a stage where we should disregard those agreements to some extent. They claim that our pool partner, BOAC, is at present playing a doubleheaded penny. To conform with IATA obligations BOAC is issuing 2 rickets while at the same time taking advantage of what is an open go in respect to the charter provisions. We have been told of the breakdown that occurred at Lausanne. I understand that the whole question of fare deter minations has to be determined by February next year. What is the future?-. I am certain that the Senate would like to know what the prospects are. 
The Opposition considers that not enough information has been given to the Parliament. There may be some argument that in times when there is the usual growth rate and no sackings or industrial trouble occur, the Minister for Civil Aviation might stand aside from these issues, but to the Opposition this does not seem to be the situation at the present time; nor has it been so since May of this year. The Opposition, therefore asks the Senate, to support the amendment that I have moved. 
The  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Prowse)  - ls the amendment seconded? 
Has the attention of the Leader of the Government in the Senate been drawn to further reductions in employment and production resulting from the announcement by the Broken Hill Pty Co. Ltd of its decision to cut steel production drastically and the laying up of 2 Australian National Line freighters, which actions will accelerate the growing unemployment which is forecast to reach more than 100,000 workers by the end of January? What is the Government doing in respect of these matters? Will it consider what action can be taken in respect of the ANL laying up and the BHP cuts? Will the Government consider the call by  Mr Dunstan,  the Premier of South Australia, for an early Premiers Conference to consider ways of stimulating the economy? 

 Senator Sir KENNETH ANDERSONFirst of all, a figure of 100,000 is being bandied about. I think it is a figure that has been loosely picked up and referred to. The bower birds get hold of it - I am not suggesting that the honourable senator is in that category - and it becomes a political figure for the purpose of making cases. Secondly, I saw today a reference to certain curtailments that BHP is proposing. Concurrently with that, I saw a reference to the fact that this would not mean a displacement of employees at all, but was being done at a time when certain work has to be done in relation to the maintenance of its equipment, etc. The honourable senator also referred to the laying up of certain ships of the Australian National Line. 1 am not competent to answer that question. It should be directed to the Minister for Shipping and Transport. I will have it referred to him. 
I am talking about the laying up of a crew. 

 Senator Sir KENNETH ANDERSONI am not competent to answer that at all and I shall have to refer it to the Minister. The other matter referred to was a blueprint which was put down, I think, by the Premier of South Australia. When I read it I thought: It is not bad; it is obviously pitched for home consumption because most of the things in it are directed to issues which would have particular interest in South Australia. For instance, I noted that one of the matters related to a motor car industry, and there is a motor car industry in South Australia. I noticed another one was pitched to an electronics industry which I know has quite an establishment there. Then there was one pitched to the wine industry, which has been referred to particularly in the Senate. Another one related to the building of a railway from somewhere in South Australia up to the border. I thought that as a political exercise these 12 points were well directed to the people in South Australia, but this is the world in which we live. That being so, all I can say is that the Government is aware of the economy; it has a responsibility to look to the economy and to the state of the economy. This is a matter of Government policy. Nevertheless in fairness to  Senator Bishop,  I shall refer his question to the Treasurer. 
J ask the Minister for Air: ls it a fact that the Royal Australian Air Force and the Government have abandoned the earlier commitment for the purchase of 8 Boeing 707/302C tanker transports or similar aircraft for refuelling purposes which were considered necessary at the lime? If so, what new situation or changes in aircraft requirements occasioned the altered view of aircraft refuelling capacity? 
1 ask the Leader of the Government in the Senate whether his attention has been drawn to the statement made yesterday by the General Manager of General Motors- Holdens Pty Ltd that sales of medium priced cars in Australia have dropped from 24,180 in July this year to 18,900 in October, that in New South Wales the percentage of medium priced cars in October was the lowest since October 1970 and that as a result of this 290 production workers would be dismissed in Victoria and New South Wales. As these retrenchments in the motor car industry follow the retrenchment of 600 workers from South Australian factories in September this year, will the Government take such action as is possible to assist the Australian motor car manufacturing industry to sustain its capacity and work force, including any rearrangement in respect of the importation of cars or by stimulating the Australian economy? 

 Senator Sir KENNETH ANDERSONI do not have the advantage of knowledge of the statement to which  Senator Bishop  refers, but I am aware of the generality of what he has said in some contexts. This is a matter of economic policy and for that reason I very properly will refer the question to the Treasurer. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Supply the following question, upon notice: 
To what extent are the launchings of sound ing rocket experiments at Woomera, in conjunction with the European Space Research Organisation the other activities by the Weapons Research Establishment at Woomera and Salisbury, likely to maintain continuing capability at Woomera and Salisbury. 
Are present activities on these experiments sufficient to maintain continuing scientific and other staff in these locations. 
Do future programmes, including those in co-operation with the United Kingdom, New Zealand and other countries, guarantee employment stability for the scientific and other staff at Woomera and Salisbury. 
My question, which  is directed to the Attorney-General, follows upon the one asked by  Senator Young.  Was the Attorney-General saying in his reply to  Senator Young  that he was advocating recourse to action other than what is available under the existing Conciliation and Arbitration Act - an Act which this Government alleges it supports and advocates? Does he now recommend that action outside that Act be taken by persons concerned in the case of union membership, when certain facilities are open bo those persons to appeal to the arbitration courts? 
The Opposition agrees to a cognate debate on these Bills because they are related to the announcements in the Budget Speech of the Treasurer  (Mr Sn- dden)  which provided for increases in the cost of petroleum and tobacco products. Consequently the Opposition, in its opinion, has a clear duty to oppose the measures. During the Budget debate we contended that no case had been made out for increasing charges on not only the  community but also the economy generally. We see the various excise duties on petrol and diesel lue/ as being duties which run through the whole economy. They flow on and increase every charge associated with production and the necessary work of the community. They apply even to the people when they travel to and from work. 
To a large extent, we find that our general argument that no case had been made out for the increases has been reinforced by what is now happening. Of course, 1 refer to the downturn in the economy, with resultant unemployment in certain important industries and with a number of important economists and academics drawing attention to the need for stimulation of the economy. There is a clear difference between the Government and the Opposition on the proposed imposts. Therefore, we intend to vote against the motion for the second reading of the measures and to resist them as strongly as we can. 
We believe that the attitude we adopted during the Budget debate has been reinforced by what has happened since then. The passage of these Bills will mean an impost of 2c a gallon on petroleum products. During the remainder of this financial year this will yield $43,200,000 and, in a full year, $54,100,000. The other increases relating to the removal of certain by-law exemptions will provide $1,300,000 for the remainder of this year and $1,500,000 for a full year. The increased levy of 50c per lb imposed on cigarettes and cigars, and 20c per lb on manufactured tobacco will yield $31,700,000 in a full year and $21m for the remainder of this year. In all, the proposals which are contained in the legislation will yield in a full year $87m and for the remainder of this year $65m. In addition, one of the Bills - the Customs Tariff Bill (No. 3) 1971 - makes provision in the First Schedule for a number of changes in the Australia-New Zealand Free Trade Agreement in relation to a number of commodities. Broadly, the Bills are designed for the purposes I have mentioned and for that reason we are opposed to them. 1 want to draw attention to what was claimed to be the objectives of the Budget in the statement made in the Senate by the Leader of the Government,  Senator Sir Kenneth  Anderson. He said: 
Even more than usually the Government has this year found it necessary to shape its Budget to serve an overriding economic purpose. Australia is in the grip of inflationary pressures. The rate of increase in costs and prices is already fast and has tended to become faster. This is a serious condition. If allowed to develop unchecked it will cause increasing economic and social hardship to many people, add to the burdens of rural industries already depressed, disrupt developmental plans of great promise and undermine the rich possibilities of growth which our future unquestionably holds. So far as lies in our power as a government we are determined to coinb-.il this pernicious trend, slow it down and hobble it. 
Later in his remarks he slated: 
In general, as we see the problem, there has been and still is a powerful upthrust of costs, stemming largely though not wholly from large wage claims relentlessly pursued. 
I put it to the Senate that what is happening is that, as usual, the Government is complaining about certain increases in costs occasioned by wage increases. On the other hand it has imposed these very heavy increases on the community generally - on consumers and on the economy. The imposts will amount to $83m a year. What the Government is doing, as it always does in these situations, is saying thai il wants to curb inflation; but it accelerates the wage-cost spiral by imposing increased taxes such as the increased petroleum and diesel fuel tax. Everybody knows that once these taxes are increased the whole gamut of increases starts. It is claimed, fairly accurately, that transport costs approximate 25 per cent of the whole of the costs in the economy. An increase in the fuel tax means an increase in each cost that makes up the process of production, whether it be rural or manufacturing production. 
If the impost on petrol or diesel fuel is increased the cost of the production of raw materials is increased. That applies to movements in the factories also. The cost of every piece of raw material that goes into a factory to be manufactured is affected by the transportation costs to and within the plant. When the process is completed the end product needs to be transported from the plant to the consumer or to the domestic or export market, and this operation involves the use of a motor vehicle or a rail truck. All that the Government has done in this regard has been to ensure that the cost of hauling the finished product will be increased. This has affected the people who work in the factories. At present the work force is oriented largely to the motor car or to public transport. As a result of the impost by the Government of the extra diesel fuel tax the cost of transport, whether it be by motor vehicle, by tram in the city, by public bus or diesel train, will be increased greatly. That will result in applications for increased wages which, if granted, will mean rapid increases in costs, which add to the cost of the finished product. Increased cost affects manufacturing for the domestic market as such and it becomes a great factor in the ability of industries to  compete  on export markets. 
For many years certain discontented elements in the rural industries have complained about costs in those industries - not only wage costs but also transportation costs. Heavy increases in the rural economy, which already is requiring special attention by the Government, have become a fact of life, lt has been claimed that the Government is now considering to what extent special attention should be given to assisting persons engaged in the rural industries, particularly those who have been displaced from farms as a result of the downturn in sales. Perhaps most heavily affected have been the public transport systems. The .State governments have found it a great embarrassment to be put in a situation in which they cannot get sufficient finance from the Commonweatlh Government. They have to try to provide the expanding services needed by developing urban communities. In addition they are charged with giving benefits to pensioners. They have agreed lo do that, with the general acceptance of rises in social welfare. They are finding it very difficult to cope. 
I put it to the Senate that the imposts are unnecessary. At this stage there is speculation as to whether corrective action is required if the economy is not to run down to a situation in which there will be very heavy unemployment resulting in a crisis affecting all Australian consumer industries, particularly the motor vehicle industry. I point to the situation which is causing great concern in my home State and yours,  Mr Deputy President.  In South Australia the major secondary industries are those that manufacture consumer goods and motor vehicles. We have already seen the trends that can occur. I will have a little to say about that later, lt is traditional for the Government each year, in attempting to correct what it calls rising costs, to adopt a studied approach to dampening down things, but what it is really doing is increasing the charges on industry when there should be an appreciation of the need to relax controls and costs. 
I point to the very heavy general charges imposed by the Commonwealth and the States in respect to the motor vehicle industry. I put it lo the Senate thai that industry does not manufacture luxury items. The vehicle industry in Australia - the manufacture of motor cars and trucks and the ancillary industries - is related to a very important productive system, nol only in this country but also in other countries, which can be said to have the characteristics of a highly sophisticated industrial economy. The question is noi whether motor vehicles should be allowed on the roads but whether the heavy transports which carry large quantities of minerals and play their part in the development of the country are an essential pan of the economy and should not be subject to very heavy imposts The Government should look at what charges are applied so that this important adjunct of production might not be unduly laden with costs. 
Over the years the Commonwealth Government and, to some extent, the Stale governments have levied very heavy charges on the transport industry. The slates are involved to a lesser extent because they do not have  the  heavy fund raising responsibility which the Commonwealth has. Up till now the industry has been able to survive, to a large extent, but I suggest that today we are reaching a situation in which the policies of the Government should be reflected upon. The Government should be prepared to ensure that the burden is lightened. 
I have a table which has been prepared by the Parliamentary Library Legislative Reference Service and which shows the amount of customs and excise duties collected on automotive petrol and diesel fuel and Commonwealth aid roads payments to the States. The table is as follows: 

<graphic href="050232197111305_65_17.jpg"></graphic>

So the situation is that the revenues of the Commonwealth Government from customs and excise duties are increasing. They are being paid into general revenue. They certainly are not being distributed to the States. The proportions in fact are decreasing and important road works in all the States are not receiving proper consideration. I refer to something thai is very significant in my own State; that is, the Eyre Highway. 
As most honourable senators now will be aware, on many occasions South Australian senators have drawn attention to the need to complete what is now accepted by the Commonwealth Minister for Shipping and Transport  (Mr Nixon)  as a national highway. The Commonwealth Government does not propose to add anything to meet the need to bituminise the highway. Tn recent years the State Government has offered to provide $3m to seal a portion of the highway and has asked whether, if it spent that $3m, the Commonwealth Government would spend the other $9m required to complete the highway which is now largely proven lo be a national highway. We have extracted from the Ministers in this chamber and in the other place figures which show that the majority of the traffic which goes to and fro across that highway does not emanate from South Australia but originates in other States, lt is a national highway. We have a stalemate with the Commonwealth Minister for Shipping and Transport who refuses to give special grants to our State and says that the cost of the work must be met from the Commonwealth aid roads grant and that South Australia will have to put up with that situation. The most recent statement by the Minister was made as far back as February this year, when he said: 
I believe that as part of our national highway system it is important that the unsealed portion of the Eyre Highway should bc sealed as soon as possible, and 1 will continue to examine suggestions on ways in which this might be done. But it should bc borne in mind that the initiative for the work rests with the South Australian Government, and that so far that Government has apparently placed a lower priority on the Highway than on other roads in the Stale. 
I put it to you,  Mr Deputy President,  and to the Minister that we have shown clearly that the roadway is of national importance and that it .has been proven by surveys carried out by the tourist associations of Australia that the traffic using the highway is largely interstate and not South Australian. Since the Minister made that statement I have raised the matter in the Senate. The latest reply lo my questions simply says that the Minister will consider to what extent assistance may be given. 1 have said thai there are heavy burdens on transport in the community. These very heavy burdens have reached the stage where some reappraisement has to be made by the Government. If we inhibit the transportation industry in Australia we affect not only the economy and produce the sort of down-turn which I suggest we are experiencing now but also the capacity of the motor vehicle manufacturing industry to survive. Over the years the industry has developed a capacity to compete with countries which are now selling motor cars and other commodities to Australia at rates which are not competitive. But people are buying them because they are receiving certain advantages and because we have to buy goods from Japan and other countries. We have to let European motor cars into the country. We have to buy motor cars from Japan. The result is that a number of ordinary people in the community are buying a motor car of a smaller capacity than one they would buy normally, such as a motor car that is produced by the Chrysler or General MotorsHolden organisations in Australia. Recently the General Manager of General MotorsHolden's Pty Ltd,  Mr Bill  Gibbs, came forward with figures showing that sales of the medium priced car in Australia have dropped. There seems to be evidence that sales have dropped because people are choosing, for economy reasons, to buy a smaller car. What is happening is that with the large costs that are imposed - not bywage increases but largely by the cost of transportation and fuel - sales are being reduced and consequently there is a threat to the industry. 
I wish torender some information which was prepared by the Parliamentary Library Research Service in relation to Commonwealth and State government taxes on motor vehicle users. I will not give the individual amounts in respect of sales tax on parts or customs duty  on  motor spirit. The following table sets out thefigures for total net Commonwealth taxes and net Slate and Territory collections from taxes on the ownership and operation of motor vehicles: 

<graphic href="050232197111305_66_0.jpg"></graphic>

So we see the very heavy government imposts on an industry which has been able largely by the development of productive devices and increases in its own economy to keep pace with those imposts. I believe that these imposts have to slop now because what the economy needs now -is not the heavy charges that the Government has imposed but a boost. We know that already a number of sectors of industry have been marked by unemployment. That position has been noted in the steel industry, in the motor car industry about which I have spoken and in related industries. Also there are reports that in some shipyards workers are to be put off. There are likely to be retrenchments in the metal manufacturing industries in Melbourne. General Motors-Holden's Pty Ltd has already retrenched 290 plant staff in Melbourne and in New South Wales, and in my own State there were retrenchments in the motor car industry in September and also more recently. Even more recently, of course, there has been retrenchment of staff by Hawker-Siddeley Electronics Ltd. in relation to which I addressed a question to the Leader of the Government in the Senate(  Senator Sir Kenneth  Anderson). There are reports also that in South Australia Philips Industries, because of rationalisation, will retrench staff. The Broken Hill Proprietary Co. Ltd will retrench staff not only at Whyalla but also in New South Wales. I asked the Leader of the Government in the Senate the following question a few days ago: 
Has the attention of the Leader of the Government in the Senate been drawn to further reductions in employment and production resulting from the announcement by the Broken Hill Pty Co. Ltd of its decision to cut steel production drastically and the laying up of 2 Australian National Line freighters, which actions will accelerate the growing unemployment which is forecast to reach more than 100,000 workers by the end of January? What is the Government doing in respect of these matters? Will it consider what action can betaken in respect of the ANL laying up and the BHP cuts? Will the Government consider the call by  Mr Dunstan,  the Premier of South Australia, for an early Premiers Conference to consider ways of stimulating the economy? 

 Senator Sir Kenneth Anderson said in reply: 
First of all. the figure of 100,000 is being bandied about. 1 think it is a figure that has been loosely picked up and referred to. The bower birds gel hold of it - I am not suggesting that the honourable senator is in that category - and it becomes a political figure for the purpose of making cases. Secondly, I saw today a reference to certain curtailments, that BHP is proposing concurrently with that. I saw a reference to the fact that this would not mean a displacement of employees at all, but was being done at a time when certain work has to be done in relation to the maintenance of its equipment, etc. The honourable senator also referred to the laying up of certain ships of the Australian National Line.I  am  not competent to answer that question. It should be directed to the Minister for Shipping and Transport. 
The Minister then went on to say that some of the cases I had referred to were purely South Australian. But I put it to you,  Mr Deputy President,  that this is now recognised to be an Australian trend. The unemployment figure will certainly increase to 100,000 in the early part of next year. There will probably be 130,000 people out of work, and this does not simply mean that 130,000 people have to rely on unemployment sustenance which is not adequate; it means a substantial loss in production, a decrease in the amount of wealth which this country can produce. In my own State unemployment is a serious matter, whether or not the percentage is less than the national average. 
I refer again to the motor car industry. Governments seemto think that they can put large imposts on the motor vehicle industry without considering its value to the community. I refer now to some figures which have been prepared by the Legislative Research Service of the Parliamentary Library. They relate to salaries and wages paid in all States in the construction and assembly sectors of the motor vehicle indust ry for the year 1967-68. the latest year for which figures are available. In that year the salaries and wages paid in the industry amounted to$83,038,000, and the value of the output from the people who received those salaries and wages was $332,409,000. In the motor vehicles repair sector, the salaries and wages paid in the same year amounted to $168,913,000 and the value of the output was $463,235,000. The salaries and wages paid in the production of motor bodies amounted to $113,630,000 and the value ofthe production was $466,181,000. The motor accessory industry, like the motor vehicle industry, is making it obvious that Australia can produce the requirements that it imported previously, which means that we are placing our country in a position of credit. Salaries and wages paid in the production of motor accessories in 1967-68 amounted to $60,787,000 and the output of the people receiving those salaries and wages amounted to $203,225,000. The total number of employees in the industry was 163,644 and the actual value of the production of each person amounted to $9,021. The average wage paid to each amounted to $2,500. This is a very important industry. 
I suggest that the Government is only placing strains on the economy and I put it to the Minister andto the Government that there is growing evidence from people in the community who specialise that what the economy now needs is stimulation and not the heavy charges about which we are speaking tonight. The Government's proposals in respect of the 5 Bills under discussion are imposts with which we do not agree. The Opposit ion proposes to vote against the measures. I hope that as a result of contributions to the debate from honourable senators on this side of the chamber the Government will consider that it is high time that the stimulationto which I have referred was engendered in the economy. 
Mv question to the Minister for Civil Aviation relates to his statement about plans by Qantas Airways Ltd for new cut rale fares. In the event that agreement within the International Air Transport Association for the new cut rate fares &lt; not reached, is it certain that bilateral arrangements with Britain and European countries will proceed unimpeded, thus allowing the commencement of early 1972 flights at reduced rates? Have the negotiations with Britain and European countries in relation to landing rights arising from the formation of Oantair been completed? Can the Minister say to what extent the negotiations have been successful and whether these will necessarily be completed before the proposals for the new fares will be possible in early 1972? 
My question is directed to the Minister for Civil Aviation and is supplementary to the question I asked him in relation to the new arrangements for cutrate fares by Qantas Airways Ltd. It also refers to the Minister's failure 'o make a statement either in this place or. through some other Minister in another place, on a matter which has been strongly debated and which is of great concern to employees of Qantas who have been retrenched. Does the Minister consider that the statement he made to the Press yesterday is not of sufficient importance to be made in this chamber or in another place by one of his colleagues? Does he intend to make the procedure he adopted yesterday the normal practice in respect of Qantas matters and not allow Parliament the chance to note his statement or any honourable senator or honourable member of another place to have the carriage of the debate on such a statement? 
 The importance of the contributions made to this debate by  Senator Poyser  and  Senator Cavanagh  is the need to report on meetings of the Estimates Committees to the Committee of the Whole - that is the Senate - so that we can then discuss what information has been obtained from the investigations of the specialist committees. I agree that there is some difference of opinion among senators representing the Australian Labor Party. Some honourable senators on this side of the chamber feel that the committees have failed to do what was expected of them. While the Estimates Committees extract a great deal of special information and details of expenditure which ordinarily would not be available from ordinary debates in the Committee of the Whole, the fact is that the information obtained is nol reported to the Committee of the Whole. 

 Senator Cant, Senator Wriedt and I attended all the discussions held by Estimates Committee D. The Committee gathered 40 pages of information of special significance relating to details of staff establishments, redundancies and the sort of people employed. For example, we gathered a lot of information about the cost of Commonwealth offices in Adelaide and found out that $1.5m was being spent on private accommodation. The chances are that as the Estimates Committees report to the Committee of the Whole this information will noi be available to the Senate. In order to remedy this matter I suggest that the committees should report to the Senate sitting as the Committee of (he Whole because unless the information is given to each honourable senator there will be a duplication of questions. Otherwise special information obtained in the committees will not be given to all honourable senators and whatever they want to say about expenditure contained in the Estimates will not be properly considered. That is one of the failures in the system which we want to point out. 
The other failure was mentioned by Sena:or Poyser and  Senator Cavanagh.  I refer to the fact that committees meet at the same times. It is true that there is a mechanical difficulty involved in fixing times of meetings of the committees and that it may be necessary to have Estimates Committee D and Estimates Committee C meeting at the same time. But the fact is that honourable senators, whether from the Opposition side or from the Government side, have fairly varied interests and they have electoral commitments. Many people write to honourable senators and ask questions about health, civil aviation, defence, the Air Force and other matters and we are required to ask questions at meetings of the Estimates Committees. Under the system we have adopted it is not possible for us to attend every meeting of every committee because often they meet simultaneously. That is the defect outlined by  Senator Poyser  and  Senator Cavanagh. 
I entered the debate only to point out that these are some of the deficiencies in the system. Unless we can find a remedy for these deficiencies the value of the special research carried out by the Estimates Committees will not be transferred to the Committee of the Whole. The whole point of having Estimates Committees was to involve public servants more closely in the activities of the Parliament. They will supply information to honourable senators which they would not ordinarily get during the course of the debate on the Appropriation Bill. Probably that is a good thing. It is a good thing to have a committee which deals directly with the people who staff all the branches of the Commonwealth departments because we meet the people who deal with the various activities of the departments. They can give us more intimate details. Unless we get that information, which we would have in writing of course, and it is transferred into the debates of the Committee as a Whole, into the Senate and into the Parliament, it seems to me that there is a gap. I support the remarks made on these deficiencies by  Senator Poyser  and  Senator Cavanagh.  I suggest that what ought to be done is that the Leader of the Government  (Senator Sir Kenneth Anderson)  and the Leader of the Opposition  (Senator Murphy)  should consider the extent to which the system might be remedied in this respect. 
I shall wind up by summarising my objections. There is a lot of information in each of the Committees' reports. That information should be reported, in the same way as the reporting of seminars elsewhere, to the Parliament so that the information that has been obtained from the research is brought directly to the Parliament. We have a situation where every honourable senator, whether from the Government or the Opposition side, has been able to confront officers in the departments and gain important information, but unless this information is transferred in reports directly to the Senate it seems to me that much of this information will be- lost. There is only one other matter which I regard as important. There is substance in the arguments advanced by  Senator Poyser  and  Senator Cavanagh  that the Parliament should be able to debate in a general political sense the significance of the appropriations. There should not be any sort of reduction in the scope of the Parliament to do this. Without damning the committee system, there are gaps in it and I hope that when we meet next year there will be some consideration given to the points made in this debate, 
I want to follow up the question asked by  Senator Cavanagh  about the Legal Service Bureaux. According to my information this service is offered to exservicemen particularly and it is very minimal. I notice that the appropriation this year is $197,600. I presume that this is its cost throughout Australia and obviously the staff involved is not great. Could the Attorney-General  (Senator Greenwood)  tell me what staff there is in South Australia? I understand that there is only one officer in that State. What service does he provide to ex-servicemen and the families of exservicemen on the matters which concern them? I notice that it is an advisory service only. 
My second question to the AttorneyGeneral is this: To what extent is his Department related with the Department of Labour and National Service on reestablishment cases? How does his Department work in with the Department  of 
Labour and National Service when an exserviceman - a discharged national serviceman or a former member of the regular Army - finds that his old employment is not available to him? What sort of access does such a person have to legal assistance? Should he go to the Department of Labour and National Service in the first instance? Can he receive legal aid? Does he have to rely finally on the services of the Attorney-General's Department in order to prosecute a case? 
My question is directed to the Minister for Air or to the Leader of the Government who represents the Minister for Defence, whichever is appropriate. It refers to the 24 Fill aircraft. I ask the Minister: Is it a fact that all evaluations and other tests necessary to permit the Government to decide the future of this aircraft are now available to the Government? Does the Government intend to give a final report to the Parliament before it rises in respect of this question? ls it likely that, at that time, it will be known whether or not the aircraft will be purchased? If the final report will not be given to the Parliament, when is the report likely to be issued? 
 Mr Temporary Chairman,  I apologise for being late and not hearing all of the reply by the Attorney-General  (Senator Greenwood)  to the questions I asked last night. Did the Attorney-General give any information as to staffing of the Legal Service Bureaux? He will remember that I said last night that, according to information which had been made available to me, the staffing situation in each of the States, particularly in South Australia, is minimal. lt would seem to me on the figures that a good case could be made out for increasing the staff of the Legal Service Bureaux. 

 - Mr Chairman- 

I want to add my protest at the way in which the AttorneyGeneral  (Senator Greenwood)  has treated the complaint made by  Senator Poyser.  I understand that the Minister is growling now because he did not receive the call. If there is any reason why he did not receive the call, it is his arrogant attitude on most questions and particularly on this question. He did the same thing with regard to workers compensation. When a reasonable case is presented to him he brushes it aside in a cavalier way, makes alt sorts of offthecuff statements and then wonders why members of the Australian Labor Party protest. 
The cheek of some Ministers! They come into the Senate and bring with them a copy of the Australian Labor Party's platform which they have purchased. Of course, they have an opportunity to read Labor's policy because it is published. Our policies are made each year at public conferences which anyone may attend. But Ministers come into the Senate chamber and challenge our' policies when the policies of the Parlies they represent are never known. Their policies are decided behind closed doors and are changing all the time, as I shall demonstrate a little later. The first matter about which 1 protest is the sheer arrogance of the Attorney-General in coming into this place and asking what is Labor's policy, although he has with him a copy of our policy. Our policy is available for everyone to read. Any honourable senator who does not know what our policy is merely has to look at our platform. He will find that it is a very clear policy. 

 Senator Willesee - Perhaps,  Mr Chairman,  you should silence the bass drum which is interjecting. 
I agree with  Senator Willesee,  who very shortly will reply to the wild accusations which were made by  Senator Greenwood.  I add my protest merely because of 3 important cases which, in my view, are matters of principle and which were referred to by  Senator Cavanagh.  They are 3 major cases involving racial discrimination by this Government. The first case to which I refer involved a West Indian engineer in London who wanted to come to Melbourne. A job was available for him, but he was refused an assisted passage because he was coloured. Yet he is from a country which is a member of the .Commonwealth, having come from Jamaica, which is one of the very important Caribbean nations. We meet representatives of that country at conferences of the Commonwealth Parliamentary Association. This was an application by a cultivated man from an accomplished and civilised country, yet he was refused an assisted passage to Australia. The fact is that in Melbourne people raised money to make it possible for him to be brought to Australia. 
The second case to which I refer is another one referred to by  Senator Cavanagh,  in this instance involving the Joseph family whose relatives in Adelaide had come to Australia on assisted passages. For some strange reason the present Minister for Immigration  (Dr Forbes)  refuses to grant an assisted passage in this case.  Mr Joseph  qualifies for an assisted passage in every way other than on the basis nf colour. Again, he is from a country which is a member of the Commonwealth of Nations and which is one of our partners. The third case is one which was referred to, quite rightly, by  Senator Poyser.  In this case also the man, who again was from a country which is a member of the Commonwealth of Nations, was refused an assisted passage because his wife was coloured.  Senator Poyser  raised this case in the Parliament. I suggest that what the Attorney-General might have done was what other Ministers have done, namely, said that he would take up the case and see what the position was. But instead of this he came in, flashed the Labor Party handbook about and attacked members of the Labor Party. In my opinion, our policy on this matter is clear. When the Government excludes a man merely because he is coloured, that is unjust. The Government has not any electoral support for that. There is not a church organisation in Australia which will support the Government on this action. I suggest that, if the Government reads the record of this public controversy on the 3 cases I have mentioned, it will find that the Anglican and Roman Catholic churches in Australia react in the same way as the Australian Council of Churches, which condemned the Government for excluding people on the basis of colour. To exclude people on this basis is clearly wrong. While honourable senators opposite are talking about not relaxing conditions relating to colour, year by year, as everybody knows because the figures which have been released show it, the Government is relaxing conditions of entry into Australia of coloured people, including Asians. It would be interesting if the Minister would give us the figures for the last 5 years. The previous Minister,  Mr Lynch,  released figures which showed clearly that coloured people are coming into Australia. So, if there is any threat to the balance of peoples in Australia, it is the Government which has started it. 
But that is not the issue with which I am concerned. I am concerned with an injustice and with correcting the situation, as I am confident it will be corrected as time goes on, to allow people who are coloured to come into Australia on assisted passages. The Government should do this now and certainly should not treat an honourable senator who raises such a case in the way that  Senator Greenwood  has treated honourable senators. In so doing all the Minister has done is to provoke much emotion and discontent. I base my complaint on the 3 cases to which I have referred. I suggest that the Government should quickly set about changing its policies in relation to these matters because the present policies are unjust. I am quite confident that nobody in the electorate supports the Government in its policy of not assisting people because they are coloured. 
 As one of the honourable senators who took a point of order against the Attorney-General  (Senator Greenwood)  1 shall briefly state the position as I see it. I have been in the chamber all night. I was here for the earlier discussion before dinner. The position is that on a number of occasions tonight - 6 or 7 - some honourable senators have taken objection. They have raised points of order against the Minister on the basis that on each occasion when the Minister rose to speak he talked about matters concerning the Australian Labor Party machine and not about matters of immigration or matters relating to the estimates. The Minister raised matters relating to  Mr Harradine  and  Mr Dunstan,  about which  Senator Cavanagh  has spoken. The fact is that the Minister on 2 occasions challenged  Senator Poyser  and  Senator Cavanagh  to explain Labor Party policy. If the Minister wanted to proceed with the discussion on the estimates his policy should have been to draw the attention of the  Chairman  to the departures and ask that the attention of the honourable senators be directed  towards  these matters. Instead, on each occasion the Attorney-General wanted to traverse matters which concerned Labor Party policy and machinery, and more latterly  Mr Dunstan,  the Premier of South Australia.  Senator Poyser  and  Senator Cavanagh  rose to address themselves to the Minister's challenge to explain the policy. The situation continued along these lines. 1 suggest that in these circumstances it is obvious that this was not the usual exchange of ideas to which the Leader of the Government in the  Senator (Senator Sir Kenneth Anderson)  referred. Simply, this was a continuous attempt by the AttorneyGeneral to engage in deliberate attacks upon Labor Party machinery. 
APPROPRIATION BILL (No. 1) j  1971-72 
In Committee i Consideration resumed. i Progress reported. 
! RELIEF OF NON-METROPOLITAN UNEMPLOYMENT 

 Senator Sir KENNETH ANDERSON (New South Wales - Minister for Health) - I ask leave to have incorporated in Hansard a statement made in the other place today by the Prime Minister (Mr McMahon) relating to a Commonwealth offer to the States of financial assistance for the relief of non-metropolitan unemployment. 
There being no objection, leave is granted. (The document read as follows)- 
I wish to inform the House that I have written to each of the State Premiers seeking agreement to the introduction as soon as possible of a scheme of Commonwealth grants to the States for employment creating activities in non-metropolitan areas, where such action is desirable for social and economic reasons. The Government has been concerned, as I know the governments of the States have been, at the difficulties confronting some of our rural industries - wool in particular - and the communities dependent on them. We are, of course, with the co-operation of the 
State governments where appropriate, already providing massive assistance to the industries in question. Indeed, as the House will know, 1 have had correspondence recently with some of the Premiers on these matters and particularly on the problem of unemployment in nonmetropolitan areas. 
The Government is determined to meet and overcome the problems facing the rural industries that are in difficulty. But that will lake time and we believe that meanwhile there is a need to take temporary measures for the alleviation of unemployment in non-metropolitan areas, with the social problems associated with that. This is a particular aspect of the difficulties facing our rural populations and one which is of . increasing concern to us. Much of this non-metropolitan unemployment is of a structural kind and therefore requiring particular rather than general economic measures to deal with it. As the health of the rural industries concerned improves, this will contribute over time to alleviating non-metropolitan unemployment. The current rural reconstruction scheme and the retraining programmes and rehabilitation assistance associated with it will make a useful contribution. But all these measures will take time to become fully effective and. in the meantime, the stubborn economic and social problem of rural unemployment seems likely to continue unless specific short-term action is taken to deal with it. 
Following my return from overseas the Treasurer  (Mr Snedden)  had discussions with me about this matter, and subsequently Cabinet has considered the problem and possible responses to it. A measure which we believe would have a quick and direct impact on the problem - but without significantly impeding the long-term adjustments necessary to meet changing economic conditions in rural areas - is the provision of funds for employment creating activities in affected non-metropolitan areas and, as I have said, I have written to the Premiers proposing a scheme of grants for this purpose. The details of the scheme would, of course, be determined in consultation with the States. In broad terms, however, the Government envisages an arrangement providing for giants for employment creating activities to be made to the States for the period up to 30th June 1973. subject to review after 30th June 1972 in the light of the then prevailing conditions. The objective of the Scheme would be to make a significant impact on the level of unemployment in non-metropolitan areas. Thus, grants would be made for the purpose of reimbursing expenditures on additional labour intensive activities of a productive kind which might be undertaken by State, semi-government and local government authorities to provide employment for those unemployed in non-metropolitan areas. Recent grants made to some Stales under the drought relief arrangements to enable the employment of persons who were unemployed as a result of drought might be taken as a brand indication of the type of scheme the Government has in mind. 
Obviously, since the details of the scheme remain to be settled with the Premiers, it is not possible at this time to put any precise figure on what the cost of the scheme might be in the balance of this financial year. Details will, of course, he given as soon as they can be worked out, aud, on the assumption that the proposal will meet with the approval in principle of the Premiers, the Treasury will be moving speedily to arrange the necessary discussions between Commonwealth and State officials. The chief costs involved are. however, likely to be wage costs, plus' some lesser amount, perhaps up to 25 per cent of the total, in respect of the purchase of materials and. perhaps, equipment. A figure of $2m a month or thereabouts might approximate the kind of broad order of cost we have in mind, but having said that, I must add that there are numerous uncertainties about such a figure at this stage. Much wilt depend, not only on our discussion of the details wilh the States, but on the extent to, and the speed with which they can give effect to the proposals. In this latter regard I may also mention that we would envisage the Department of Labour and National Service being closely associated with the scheme at the ground roots level. But for all the reasons I have indicated, we do not, at this stage, have a closed mind on the question of the precise amount to be provided during the balance 
23I4I/71-J.5 
of this financial year even though, as I say, we have in mind something of the order already mentioned. 
On the assumption, as I say. that these proposals will be acceptable in principle to the Premiers, we shall require to bring forward to the House early in the autumn session legislation to authorize the necessary grants to the States. Meanwhile, however, temporary arrangements will be made for the financing of the scheme in the interim. I believe that that would, in all the circumstances, meet with the approval of the House. This proposal, of course, demonstrates the Government's readiness to respond to changing circumstances. Designed as it is to meet the emerging social and economic problem of unemployment in non-metropolitan areas, the scheme will, I believe, be warmly welcomed by the House aud by the community at large. 
 My question, which is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Defence, or the Minister representing the Minister for Supply, relates to the Australian manufactured project N24 aircraft, the tests of which have been successful and which is to be demonstrated in Canberra tomorrow. In view of the urgent need to stimulate the Australian aircraft industry will the Minister promote this aircraft to the. Services and other Commonwealth departments which are likely to be ordering aircraft in the near future, with a view to ensuring production of this aircraft? Is the Minister able to advise whether any Commonwealth department has recently placed orders for the aircraft? 

 Senator Sir KENNETH ANDERSONAnswering the question as the Minister representing the Minister for Defence and as the former Minister for Supply - during my time as Minister for Supply the project N concept came into some reality - I can say that the Service departments have been made very much aware of the project. The Minister for Air may wish to give a supplementary answer to the question. The system in relation to defence requirement is that there has to be a stated requirement, from the various Services. That would come through the Service portfolios to the Minister for Defence and subsequently to the Government. The projection of project N to the Services for their requirement was being done before I left the portfolio of Supply.I presume that it is continuing to be done. In certain conditions and with certain variations there could be a commercial use for the project N aircraft. I understand that this also is being developed and projected. That is all the information thatI can give as the Minister representing the Minister for Defence. If the Minister for Air wishes to supplement my answer I should think that by your leave,  Mr President,  he would be at liberty so to do. 
I wish  to relate my remarks to the Adelaide Airport. As the Minister for Civil Aviation  (Senator Cotton)  well knows, on  a  number  of  occasions in the Senate South Australian senators on both sides of the chamber  have  sought to determine whether extensions  are to be  carried out to the Adelaide Airport. At present there is some uncertainty about this matter. Fairly recently  the  Minister stated that he intended  to  visit South Australia and to inspect the land available as a substitute for extensions in the event that some part of the area now under the control of a reserve trust might be required for other purposes. I will re-state what I have understood the Minister to have said previously. He has said that there is uncertainty whether extensions to Adelaide Airport will be necessary. I would like him to confirm whether that uncertainty still exists and also whether, in the event that extensions are necessary, alternative land is available. 
The Minister will remember that the people in the area have stated that no alternative land is available there if extensions are necessary, is the Department of Civil Aviation examing the prospect that ultimately a second airport will be required to service Adelaide? It seems to me that what should be stated clearly by the Minister and the Department is a recognition or otherwise that in the long range there should be a second airport. The site of a second airport should be outside developed areas. From the information I have been able to obtain in South Australia there have been some surveys conducted and information has been collected by the Department of Civil Aviation which would tend to support the notion that in South Australia the Department has accepted the principle that ultimately there will be a second airport because the present airport cannot serve the needs of the industry very far into the future and because of developments in the type of aircraft that will become available.I ask the Minister firstly: What is the position in relation to the second airport? Secondly, has he had the opportunity to inspect the sites as he promised if my memory serves me correctly, to do by 1st December? Thirdly, has he information as to the sites available which need to be considered as alternative areas for reserves? Can the Minister give an undertaking on this matter which is of great concern to the community and particularly to residents in the vicinity of Adelaide Airport? 
 In relation to the subject of administration, I shall advert to the statement which the Minister for Civil Aviation  (Senator Cotton)  made last week about cut-rate fares charged by Qantas Airways Limited. The Minister will recall that he gave a progress report which seemed to indicate that early next year Qantas would be operating with very low fares between Australia and Great Britain. Firstly. I would like to ask the Minister whether there are any impediments to these developments at the present time. When 1 say impediments' I am referring to arrangements with foreign countries in relation to landing rights. 
When the Minister gave answers to questions about these fares he gave an answer to a question asked by  Senator Davidson  which related to the readjustment of domestic fares. He said that fares within Australia might be lowered because of the external fares which would operate when Qantas received the new charter arrangements for new cut-rate fares. From the Minister's answer it would appear that not only can we expect that Qantas will reduce fares over long sections of its flights within Australia but also that the domestic operators Trans-Australia Airlines and Ansett Airlines of Australia will also be required to charge lower fares over long sections. If I remember correctly there was a reaction from the operators which placed a number of obstacles in the path of any reductions because of a number of new imposts which have been made in recent years. In relation to the latter matter I ask whether, in fact, it is likely that fares not only in relation to Qantas within Australia but also in relation to Ansett Airlines of Australia and Trans-Australia Airlines might be reduced correspondingly with any reduction which is made in operations as announced by the Minister last week? 
I have been asked to raise the question of the subsidy paid to Connair Pty Ltd in the Northern Territory. The Minister for Civil Aviation  (Senator Cotton)  replied recently to questions from  Senator McLaren  on this subject. But, because this matter has occasioned some interest in the Northern Territory, it has been left to me to raise a number of general principles and to find out whether, since the Minister has said that in his view an inquiry into the existing subsidy is nol necessary, the Government has given any further consideration to the matter. I will be as brief as I can in dealing with this subject. The opportunity to raise the question was not available in the other place because of the pressure of work. I refer to a statement reported in the 'Northern Territory News' on Saturday, 6th November 1971. It included a long statement by  Mr Cavill  who is the managing director of South Australia and Territory Air Service Pty Ltd. He challenged the Government to reveal the full details of its cost-plus subsidy which created unfair and unbalanced competition with other operators. He went on to state that the subsidy which had been granted to. Connair this year amounted to over $800,000 and that this bad, in fact, doubled the subsidy paid last year. The terms of  Mr Cavill's  argument were that to subsidise this airline meant that, in fact, a legitimate operator such as SAATAS would be prejudiced. 
This information in the local Press raised much controversy within ihe Northern Territory and encouraged not only the newspapers there lo make a number of very important comments but also the Federal member for the Northern Territory to say a number of things and a representative in the Legislative Council for the Northern Territory to add his points. All the comments represented the notion that there ought to be an inquiry into the operations of Connair. It would seem to me that some sort of a case does exist for an inquiry. 1 noticed that recently the manager of Connair said that the company would welcome an inquiry. The manager of Connair is Captain Kirk, and his statement to :hat effect was made as recently as last November. The Northern Territory News' recently said that, whilst it admitted that  Mr Cavill,  who is the managing director of SAATAS, had an axe to grind, it supported the call for an inquiry. One of the reports of SAATAS said this:  lt has been pointed out to the Director-General of Civil Aviation and the Minister for Civil Aviation, and 1 believe accepted by them, that one of the best ways to judge the efficiency of a subsidised operator is lo allow private enterprise to compete alongside them.  1 will be as quick as 1 can on this matter because 1 understand that it is still under consideration. I wish to refer to what was said in November in the 'Northern Territory News'. Amongst other things, it said in an editorial: 
SAATAS chief,  Mr Dick  Cavill, has claimed that the subsidy is a 'cost-plus affair' and that the airline  is able lo carry on only because of the subsidy. 
Heavy subsidisation of one operator to the exclusion of all others must have a demoralising effect on the industry itself. 
These allegations and suggestions that an agreement was written for Connair guaranteeing subsidy to 1980 should be answered in the interests of the public and in particular the airline industry and Connair itself. 
If the Government has nothing to hide .it should lay all the cards down face up now. Searching inquiry may not then be necessary. 
These matters came before the attention of  Mr Calder,  the representative of the Northern Territory in the Federal Parliament. A statement by him was reported in the newspaper I have mentioned on 9th November 1971 in the following terms: 
The Federal member for the Northern Territory,  Mr Sam  Calder (CP.), said yesterday he would urge the Government to hold an inquiry into the operations of the Territory airline Connair.  Mr Calder  was commenting on claims made last week by the managing director of the charter' airline SAATAS,  Mr Dick  Cavill. 

 Mr Cavill said that the hugs subsidy . paid to Connair was not necessary and was corroding the airline industry generally. ' 
He said he was shocked by the announcement that last year Connair had been given a Federal Government subsidy of $838,000, almost double the previous year's subsidy. 
And yet before June 30 this year they owed the Commonwealth $620,000 by way of direct loan. 
In the meantime,  Mr Calder  has placed upon the notice paper of the other place the following question, directed to the Minister, representing the Minister for Civil Aviation: 
Will the Minister institute an inquiry into the operations of the subsidised airline operator Connair Pty Ltd of Alice Springs in order to ascertain by the thorough taking of evidence (a) what alternatives there are to the present Connair regular public transport standard operations in the Northern Territory and outback northern Australia; (b) what is the requirement of these areas, in its fullest context, for the provision of adequate air  services  having regard to (i) economy, (ii) safety and speed, (iii) passenger comfort,  (iv)  proper freight handling and (v) suitable aerodromes: (c) what is the ability, nf existing or aspiring operators in these outback areas to give the standards of service, safety and maintenance to which travellers in the Northern Territory and outback Australia arc entitled: and (d) what is the feasibility and practicability of  Connair's  F-27 aircraft proposals as a replacement fur current similar operations by major airlines? 
I mention that not only  Mr  Calder was interested  in  this matter;  Mr Fisher,  who  is  a member  of  the Northern Territory Legislative Council for Fanny Bay said according to the 'Northern Territory News' on 25th November that any inquiry into the operations of Alice Springs based Connair should be widened to cover all airline and charter flying in the Northern Territory. 
He  went  on  to say that he thought that  the  Government should in fact institute an inquiry to clear the air in respect of all operations in the area. To summarise the matter  as  quickly as possible, as  far  as 1 am aware the Commonwealth Government has not  yet  given an answer to a request that the Western Australian State Shipping Service ought to be subsidised to allow a continuity of service on the seaboard between Fremantle and Darwin. This is  an  essential service; 1 think  Senator Cant  and  Senator Wilkinson  have spoken about this matter in the Senate. At the same time as the Commonwealth Government refused to give any consideration to a subsidy to this service it has accepted apparently a con- tinuing application to subsidise Connair to the extent at the present time of nearly 
Sim  a year. 
I do not want to refer to what has taken place between the competing airlines in the Northern Territory, but it is true to say, looking at the reports of the Department over the years since 1967, that Connair has needed a great deal of propping up. It would appear to me that there is substance in the complaints of organisations like SAATAS and other bona fide airlines which are operating on their own merits and who are in fact doing a reasonably good job. I am informed that in addition to its presence in the Northern Territory, SAATAS has been able to carry, the Australian record of efficiency into the Indonesian area. At the present time it is carrying on profitable services between Australia and Borneo, Indonesia and Bali. It has a record which would certainly not quickly reduce that airline in the opinion of any observer. So it would seem to me that what is required is for the Department of Civil Aviation and the Minister to give fairly reasoned consideration to what has become a controversy in the Northern Territory. 
I wind up by saying simply that while the Minister on this occasion will not be able to give a long report, the matter certainly needs a study in depth rather than the one which has been given, and . to which focus has been given. The Minister's reply to  Senator McLaren  has been publicised in the Northern Territory. I know that there has been a great deal of negotiation between the airlines, the Department of Civil Aviation and the Minister which forms a background to this matter. So 1 raise this matter with a hope that there will be more study into the need for an inquiry in order to bring about a more efficient airline operation in the Northern Territory. 1 ask the Minister for his comments, even if they are only part comments al this stage. 
 I direct a question to the Minister for Air. Is it a fact that a large number of Royal Australian Air Force personnel who had been given specialist training on the operation of the Fill aircraft are no longer available because of postings, promotions or retirements from the Service? If so, how many personnel are involved? Should the aircraft be accepted by the Government this year, are there sufficient trained crews and other skilled RAAF personnel to operate the aircraft effectively? If not, how long would it be before the necessary personnel were available? 
asked the Minister representing the Treasurer, upon notice: 
How many employees, since the Superannuation Act 1922-1971 was last amended to pro-ride superannuation rights for Commonwealth employees moving to other areas of Commonwealth employment, or to public employment with the States (a) have transferred to such other employment and fully obtained the benefits of the recently amended Act and (b) have applications for benefits pending. 
In respect of employees with applications pending, what are the reasons for delay in finalising their applications. 
How many Commonwealth employees have failed to obtain the prescribed benefits under the Act, and what have been the reasons for this. 
With which States and public authorities have agreements been concluded by the Commonwealth Government to provide the maximum benefits of the Act, since the passage of the amended Act. 
The amendments to the Superannuation Act 1922-1969 by Act No. 46 of 1971 to provide  for the preservation of superannuation rights became operative on 25 May 1971. Under the legislation, as amended - 
52 elections for benefits have been finalised; and 
24 elections are pending. 
The form of the preserved benefit depends upon the former employee's employment and membership of a superannuation scheme, if any, at the expiration of three months after ceasing to be a contributor under the Superannuation Act. The elections in1 (b) are being held until the required period of three months has elapsed. 
All applicants whose applications have been finalised have obtained the appropriate benefits under the legislation. 
No agreements have yet been negotiated by the Commonwealth with the States or public authorities, but this does not necessarily preclude a contributor to the Superannuation Fund from obtaining the maximum benefits under the preservation provisions of the Superannuation Act. Under that Act, where an employee exercises his option to preserve his superannuation rights on movement to public employment the preserved benefit may be either a transfer value paid to another superannuation scheme that has been declared an eligible superannuation scheme, or a deferred benefit, payable at a later date, under the Superannuation Act. In each case the preserved benefit represents the employee's accumulated interest or stake in the scheme, including the appropriate employer supplement, thus providing a maximum benefit. 
I take the opportunity of extending some of the questions I asked during the sittings of Estimates Committee D in respect  of the Eyre Highway. I wish again to put before the Government the need for a renewed look at the request of the South Australian Government for increased aid to bituminise the Eyre- Highway. The answers given by the officers from the Department of Shipping and Transport are contained in the report of Estimates Committee D. I asked: 
For how many years has the contribution to  south  Australia in respect of the  Eyre  Highway remained at $25,000? 
The answer provided is as follows: 
Since 1947-48 the Commonwealth has provided financial assistance towards the cost of maintaining the highway in South Australia and Western Australia (from Penong in South Australia to Norseman, in Western Australia - 723 miles). The payments were made from the Commonwealth Aid Roads Trust Account prior to 1959-60 and  from Annual Appropriations since 1st July 1959. 
The payments to each of South Australia and Western Australia have been at the rate of  $25,000  per annum since 1st July 1961. The condition of payment is that the State expends at least an equal amount on the highway during the financial year. 
I raised also the related question that on a number of occasions senators from South Australia or Western Australia have asked whether the Department itself will conduct a survey in respect of the traffic which uses the road. Estimates have been made by outside bodies, but the aim of such a survey would be to indicate the kinds of vehicles that travel on this road. For example, it has been contended by most of the various authorities and the State Government that the vehicles using the road are interstate vehicles in the main, if not the vehicles of tourists, and a very small proportion in fact are South Australian vehicles. I again raise that question with the Minister to ascertain whether any recent consideration has been given to having a survey made which may be studied by the officers of the Department of Shipping and Transport in conjunction perhaps with tourist groups to see whether the vehicles which use the Eyre Highway can be correctly identified. It seems to me that this would give some substance to the claim by South Australia that more assistance should be given to that State to bituminise the highway. As you will recall,  Mr Temporary Chairman,  an offer was made recently by the State Government that if the Commonwealth Government provided S9m the South Australian Government would then spend $3m. I understand that South Australia is now spending the $3m anyway. Fairly recently  Mr Dunstan  raised at the tourist conference which was held in New Guinea the need to surface the  road purely on the basis of the assistance which the Commonwealth might give to tourism. I put that matter before the Committee again. It follows representations made by many South Australians. I hope that the Commonwealth Government will follow up actively the suggestions that have been made. 
I have one short question which relates to questions asked during sittings of Estimates Committee D. It relates, to the agreement between South Australia and the Commonwealth to standardise the rail connection between Adelaide and Port Pirie.  An announcement has been made by the Minister for Shipping and Transport.  (Mr Nixon),  and the South Australian. Minister of Roads and Transport,  Mr Virgo,  in respect of the route of the new rail link, but we have no further information than that contained in the public statement. I raised during the sitting of Estimates Committee D the question whether it would be possible to forecast the commencing date of the relevant legislation, and whether the consultants had made subsequent reports. Is the Minister in a position to give any further information because written answers have not yet been received to the questions I asked? 
 I take this opportunity to raise again briefly a question dealt with in Division 354, Rent, and to draw attention to the need for a Commonwealth centre in Adelaide. Honourable senators will remember that as far back as 1964 the Government promised to consider constructing such a centre. It has been said that the heavy rents being paid by the Commonwealth in Adelaide are comparable to rents in the larger cities. As a matter of fact so far as the extent of office properties owned by the Commonwealth in the State capitals is concerned, Adelaide runs second last, just ahead of Hobart. In 
Hobart the Commonwealth owns 1 1 4.000 square feet of space and in Adelaide it owns 118,000 square feet. In Brisbane amost 500,000 square feet of space is owned by the Commonwealth. In South Australia the Commonwealth pays rent in excess of $2m a year. An answer to a question I asked during the Estimate Committee hearings shows that at present in South Australia 27 different Commonwealth departments are using private accommodation. I was told on 5th November, in answer to a question I asked, that the Commonwealth Government is paying an annual rental for office accommodation in South Australia, together with related charges, of $2,353,478. Also I was informed that the Commonwealth Government paid $157,729 for the accommodation of members of Parliament. 
At various times South Australian senators have asked Ministers responsible for this matter questions. The Ministers have said: 'Yes, it is under consideration'. They have gone on to say that the Department of Works or the Department of the Interior is making a study of this proposal. The most recent answer I have received on this matter was given to me during the recent meetings of the Estimates Committees. I was given the following information: 
The Department is conscious of the desirability of providing Commonwealth buildings to house departments wherever possible. The question of the provision of a Commonwealth centre in Adelaide is under active consideration but any decision to proceed with such a proposal must be viewed against Australia-wide priorities and the availability of funds for capital works. 
The answer continued: 
The situation in Adelaide is that rental levels are relatively low and stable compared with some other cities. This, together with more pressing needs in, say, Sydney and Melbourne, cause a possible Commonwealth centre in Adelaide to have a lower priority. 
I would like to conclude my speech - and the opportunity is not given here to state the full case although it has been made before - by referring briefly to the comments of  Senator Wright  when he attended the last Adelaide festival. The Minister came back and said that in his opinion South Australia had a good case for the construction of a new Commonwealth Centre. 
I would like to refer to a table which was prepared by a journalist,  Mr Vincent  Smith, and which appeared in the "National Times' of 4th to 9th October this year. The article in which the table appeared is entitled: 'The office boom: an inflationary boost from the Commonwealth'. I would like the Minister or his Department lo check the table which has been given by this reporter. The table shows the square footage leased, the rent paid and the area owned by the Commonwealth in the respective cities. For example, I have already mentioned that the area leased in South Australia by the Commonwealth is 564.000 square feet and that the current rent which is paid, and which  includes some other payments, is over $2m and that the area of land owned by the Commonwealth is only 1S0.000 square feet. In "Perth the area leased is 346,000 square feet, the rent paid is $1,135,000 and the area owned by the Commonwealth is 315,000 square feet. In Canberra the area leased is 617,000 square feet, the rent paid totals $2,756,000 and the area owned totals 1,935,000 square feet. In Darwin the area leased is 69,000 square feet, the rent paid is $250,850 and the square footage owned is 214,000 square feet. In Sydney the area leased is 1,309.000 square feet, the rent paid is $5,628,980 and the square footage is . 1,030,000. In Melbourne the amount of area leased is 1,874,000 square feet, the rent paid is $6,302,130 and the area owned is 2,108,000. 
I conclude by saying that, in comparison wilh the ownership of land in all of the capitals and bearing in mind the number of persons accommodated in private buildings, South Australia is not getting proper consideration and prompt action should be taken to see that a Commonwealth centre is started in Adelaide. 
asked the Minister  representing the Minister for Shipping and Transport, upon notice: 
Have negotiations taken place relating to the agreement between the Commonwealth and South Australian Governments, which will provide the basis for construction of a standard-gauge railway to link Adelaide with the east-west standard-gauge railway? 
Can the Minister advise when the necessary legislation will be introduced and the projected date of commencement of the work? 
 I have a question in relation to the staff of the Department of Foreign Affairs at overseas posts. Is it a fact that recently some increases in salaries were awarded to staff at all of our posts but that as the result of a Commonwealth Public Service determination all of their allowances were reduced? Can the Minister give details of this now or, if not at a later stage? 
I should like to make one or two remarks about the discussuon which has beef prompted by  Senator Murphy's  criticism of the great Press barons whose salaries are often not known and whose expense accounts are generally unlimited. They are not the only people in the community who are in this situation. It is well known from hearsay that in business and commercial circles in addition to salaries other arrangements are made for payments to people of quite fabulous amounts. Yet the strange thing is that the Government continues to direct attention to the effect on the economy of wage increases. If we listen to the statements by the Minister for Labour and National Service  (Mr Lynch)  we hear it said repeatedly that our present situation has been caused by increases given to public servants and other workers. I put it to the Committee that this has always been the attitude of Liberal Governments. I refer to another statement in the same vein made by the Minister for Labour and National Service on 6th Sep tember in an address about the problems of full employment. On that occasion be said at a seminar: 
Full employment can contribute to inflation by generating sectional labour shortages, by strengthening the bargaining power of organised labour and by creating market conditions which facilitate price increases. 
We know that the Government's attitude to the present very serious unemployment situation is to wait and see and that the only remedies which the Government is now using are those proposed by the rural assistance plan by which it is proposed to advance $20m a year to the States for the purpose somehow of correcting the unemployment situation in rural areas. But no attention has been given to the general economic necessity to give stimulus to the community. 
Already statements have been made in this place by the Minister for Works  (Senator Wright),  who represents the Minister for Labour and National Service in this place, about price controls. He has said the Government does not agree that prices should be limited, yet consistently the Government tries to suppress wage increases. Although the price for labour is controlled, the price for every other commodity is not controlled. One would think that the only cost increases in the economy and in the production of goods and services were caused by wage increases. Let me illustrate very clearly one of the aspects which is never considered by the Government. This week a Melbourne newspaper - I think it was the 'Age' - reported on the effects of late night shopping on the cost of goods. In its edition of 8th December the newspaper stated: 

 Corner store prices dearer - Corner stores charge up to 10 or 12 per cent more for each item than supermarkets as part of the price for running a late night shopping operation for the convenience of housewives. 
That is clearly one situation where prices have been loaded because of the decision of the State Government to bring in late night shopping. 
I do not dispute that. The fact is that the Labor Party and the organised union movement, as well as other people in the community, have always contended that at some stage in the economy price controls must be introduced. It is of no use talking about imposing control only on the wages of the workers. Everybody in the community who puts a substantial case for a salary increase following cost/ price pressures is challenged. The Government and people in the very high business brackets say that wage increases are not justified because they add to inflation. As a result of such opinions the trend to unemployment is growing throughout Australia. The November employment figures are not yet available. In October this year 17,500 more workers registered for jobs than registered in October last year. There are 29,000 unemployed workers in the non-metropolitan areas and 35,000 unemployed in the metropolitan areas, lt was reported yesterday that in Western Australia 500 clerks are out of work. 
Unemployment has risen in South Australia through sackings in the motor car industry and by Philips and Hawker Siddeley Electronics Ltd in Salisbury. About 800 workers have been laid off in the motor car industry throughout Australia since September because of the downturn in the economy. 
Because of the economy. 
Let me tell you that recently  Mr Bill  Gibbs, the General Manager of General Motors-Holden Pty Ltd, commented on this aspect. 
No. He made a public statement to which I drew the attention of the Leader of the Government in the Senate  (Senator Sir Kenneth Anderson)  when I asked him a question.  Mr Gibbs  was reported in the Press to have said that the reason for the downturn in the industry was that people were not buyng medium priced motor cars. There was an alarming drop of about 16,000 in sales of medium priced cars over a period of 12 months. The company decided that it has no option but to reduce staff on the production lines in South Australia and Victoria. I suggest that the Government ought to be looking at loss of production in the community and determining whether curbs should be applied. There has been a loss of values and a loss of export ability. 
I have mentioned that this week in Western Australia 500 clerks were registered as unemployed. About 200 people have been dismissed in the steel industry. In Victoria at present the unemployment figures for the motor car industry and related industry total between 700 and 1,000 workers. That means that 1,000 fewer- workers are producing something of value for export at a time when we are attempting to move more into export markets. In South Australia 87 people have been retrenched by Cresco in the last fortnight, lt is also reported that in South Australia Philips, in the electronics industry, will retrench about 400 workers over a number of months. 
The trends are there and the effect will be felt by the young people in the community. In January and February next year about 200,000 young people will enter the labour market. Most State Departments are cutting back their intake of apprentices and other people entering semi-professional trades. It means that fewer skilled people will be producing goods to be marketed. Young people who ought to have an opportunity to learn a trade will be denied it. The estimates are that in most States the intake of apprentices will be cut back by about one-third. 
Although the Prime Minister  (Mr McMahon)  recently said that the establishment of Commonwealth departments would be reviewed, the evidence received by Estimates Committee C was that the establishments were fixed. They had not been lifted. It seems that the intake of almost all government departments has been depressed. I am prompted to think that the remedies proposed by the Government are not sufficient. The only tangible statement made is in respect of the rural industries and that will be only minimal because the residue going to the work force in rural industries will be small. By the time $300,000, say, is paid to Queensland and the necessary expenditure is made on plant and equipment, the balance going to the work force will be small. In any event, it will only mean a saving in unemployment benefits. This is not substantial enough. 
As  Senator Mulvihill  has said, we have reached the stage in the economy where the Department of Labour and National Service ought to be geared more to the working of the economy. 1 am not criticising the work of the Department. I think it is largely hamstrung and some of the reasons for that were given by  Senator Mulvihill.  1 think the Department has been asked to do a number of things beyond the capacity of its staff or facilities. It is commissioned to give the unemployment figures. Honourable senators know that while we talk about the unemployment of 63,000 the figure is largely arbitrary, lt is not as positive as we would like it to be. There is no definite basis for the unemployment figures in some rural areas because there are no government agencies there. During a sitting of Estimates Committee C  Senator Milliner  asked  Dr Cook  a question on this subject. On 28th October  Senator Milliner  asked: 
The number of unemployed could be considerably higher if people have not registered witta you as being unemployed. Would that be correct? 

 Dr Cook replied:  lt has never been claimed that the figures released by the Department of Labour and National Service are actual figures for the total number of unemployed. That figure is available only at the time of census taking when there is an actual body check of the total community. It is a figure for those who have registered wilh the employment service. The presumption is that if people are in fact seriously looking for work it will not bc long, if they cannot get work, before they register wilh the employment service. Further, if they wish to draw the unemployment benefit they must register, of course, but the figure could be more or less in terms of the number of actual  unemployed 
In discussing the estimates of the Department of Labour and National Service we should ask that its work be geared to provide a more specialised service in finding positions for people who are seeking work, and largely to report upon trends in the economy. I have referred to Press reports about sackings in each State. The figures vary from State to State, but there is a trend to unemployment. However, no action is taken by the Government because it says that it must wait and see in case it is pure fiction. 
A couple of weeks ago 1 asked the Leader of the Government in the Senate the position about cutbacks by Broken Hill Pty Co. Ltd and in the motor car industry. At page 1973 of Hansard of 23rd November  Senator Sir Kenneth  Anderson's answer is reported. He said: 
First of all, a figure of 100,000 is being bandied about. I think it is a figure that has been loosely picked up and referred to. The bower birds get hold of it - I am not suggesting that the honourable senator is in that category - and it becomes a political figure for the purpose of making cases. 
The Minister then went on to refer to other instances. It is apparent that the Prime Minister and the Treasurer  (Mr Snedden)  will not state exactly the extent of unemployment. The opportunity to discuss these matters is fairly limited. I relate my remarks to what  Senator Murphy  said. Too many people in the community are attacking the way in which workers get wage increases. But it should be remembered that all of us on wages or salaries are seeking increases in order to try to recover former standards. At one time the Conciliation and Arbitration Act used to impose an obligation on the Commission to maintain the standards of yesteryear. As everybody knows, increases based on the cost of living figures gave some recognition to that principle. 
Getting back to what  Senator Mulvihill  said, it seems to me that there is a general need to give stimulus to the economy and to watch very closely unemployment trends in the community, because these trends will cost the country a lot of money. 1 refer very briefly to some figures which have been taken out by the Legislative Research Service of the Parliamentary Library in relation to the motor car industry. The figures which 1 have been given are only up to 1967-68, and they would have increased since then. In 1967-68 the value of output per person - that is the basis upon which the goods are sold - employed in the motor car and cycle factories throughout Australia was $9,021. At the present time there are about 700 metal workers out of work in Victoria. Taking the value of the output of each as $9,021, it means that because of the unemployment of those workers the country lost $6.3m. The same situation applies to the motor car industry in South Australia. It has been reported that the motor car industry has lost about 600 workers in 2 groups of 300. So it can be seen from an economic point of view that at a time when we have an ability to produce goods, and the facilities for exporting them - we are exporting them - and then we have the competence of all the sophisticated nations, our production is cut back. I have given some very brief examples of what is happening. We are losing about S7m in production because we are letting the economy run down and this position should not obtain. 
 I am sorry to detain the Senate, but this will be the last opportunity I will have this session to deal with this matter. I refer to the accident investigation report issued by the Department of Civil Aviation on the accident which occurred at Sydney (Kingsford-Smith) Airport on 29th January this year and which involved DC8-63 aircraft CF-CPQ and Boeing 727 aircraft VH-TJA. It is unfortunate that this is about the only opportunity we will have to discuss this report because the Opposition considers that it does an injustice to Captain James, the Trans-Australia Airlines pilot, who was an experienced pilot as stated in the report. I understand that  Senator Sim,  a Government supporter, will be supporting the call for a new inquiry. 
The Opposition's representations at this late stage are occasioned as a result of requests by the Australian Federation of Air Pilots which, I understand, not only met the Labor Party's transport committee but also since the accident made representations to the Director-General of Civil Aviation and the Minister for Civil Aviation  (Senator Cotton).  The Federation asked the Minister and the Director for a new inquiry. Over the years the Federation has suggested to the Government that the Air Safety Investigation Branch and its officers ought to be separated from the Department of Civil Aviation because it is contended - it seems, prima facie, to be a good argument - that one is appealing to Caesar from Caesar. The Federation over the years has made the point that it would be proper and consistent with international practice for investigations of this type, as they involve staff and personnel of the Department of Civil Aviation, not to be conducted by staff and personnel of that Department. These people should be separated from the Department. This is one of the related matters I wish to raise but it is an important one and ought to be considered on its merits as a primary argument. However, that is incidental, perhaps, to this report. 
I said that the Federation had made representations to the Government. We do not know yet what the results are because we have not been informed by the Federation. We do not know whether the Minister has agreed to have a new investigation or whether he has agreed to take any action which might result in a review of the opinion expressed in the Department's report. We agree with the Federation that the report unjustly condemns the captain of the TAA aircraft involved in the collision. I refer the Senate firstly to a letter sent to a number of honourable senators by the Federation. My letter was signed by  Mr Brooksbank,  the Secretary-Treasurer, and is dated 6th December. It states: 

 Mr dear Senator, 

I enclose a copy of a mildly worded critique prepared by the Federation on the D.C.A. report, and I would like to stress the following for your assistance. 
The propriety of D.C.A. examining and preparing behind closed doors a report on an accident to which it was a litigant. It must be appreciated that under Air Navigation Regulations Departmental Investigations can, per medium of a fine, compel aircrew to answer any question. This fine can be repeated every time the question is not answered. 
 There are no rules of evidence 
 There is no ability of witnesses' statements to be examined by cross examination by parties other than the Department. 
 There is no right of legal or other representation or presence during any interrogation. 
 There is no right of appeal or ability to have the finding challenged. 
 There is no board as such. It is written by basically one man. 
The letter goes on to refer to particulars of the accident which I will mention shortly. The Federation suggested that there was an urgent need for the entire resources of the Air Safety Investigation Branch of the Department to be transferred to the Department of Shipping and Transport or some other government agency not responsible to the Minister for Civil Aviation. The Federation said that this was not a new proposal but that it was first discussed in 1966. The current position is that one section within the Department of Civil Aviation must stand in judgment over other related sections on standards, procedures and actions, not only of individuals but also of policy formulation, or execution of responsibility. The Federation states that corrective changes ought to flow from the results of the accident investigation. I refer now to clause 8 of the conclusions stated in the report: 
Although the obstructing aircraft could have been cleared quite safely by the adoption of a steeper initial climb angle, the pilot-in-command of VH-TJA- 
That is Captain James -  adhered to the normal take-off technique and the underside of his aircraft came into collision with the tail fin of CF-CPQ. 
That is the Canadian Pacific DC8. The report continues: 
Although substantially damaged, VH-TJA continued in flight, and after dumping fuel, landed at Sydney Airport again without further damage. 
The cause complained about by Captain James and the Federation was as stated in the report as follows: 
Cause: The cause of this accident was that the taxi-ing clearance given after landing was misread by the flight crew of CF-CPQ and this error was not detected by the aerodrome controller, who cleared VH-TJA for take-off. The flight crew of VH-TJA, on detecting the obstructing aircraft, did not then adopt the most effective means of avoiding a collision. 
I suggest to you,  Mr President,  and to the Minister, that the cause as stated in the report in fact involves not only the crew of the Canadian Pacific aircraft but also the aerodrome controller and the flight crew of the TAA aircraft. The evidence put to the Labor Party Transport Committee leaves greatly in doubt the proposal that if the TAA aircraft had adopted any other procedure than the ordinary take-off procedure it could have avoided the collision. As a matter of fact the Federation showed the Labor Party Committee a faim and a number of other items of evidence - I understand they have been put to the Department - which would place greatly in doubt the suggestion that any other procedure than that adopted by Captain James would have resulted in probably greater damage than what was done by the ordinary take-off procedure. 
As  Senator Devitt  reminds me, the tail came down. Subsequent inquiries show, in accordance with the recommended procedures of the Boeing company, quite clearly that this type of aircraft does not take off like the short take-off aircraft that we see; that in fact the aircraft takes an inclined upward path, in which circumstances it could have had very disastrous effect upon the situation. In fact, as the Federation says, quite clearly the pilot and crew of the TAA aircraft carried out. the recognised regular take-off techniques. Conclusion 7 of the report states: 
The flight crew of VH-TJA state that, at the commencement of their take-off, they did not observe CF-CPQ on the runway as an obstruction.  Nevertheless  CF-CPQ was observed al  a  time when the take-off could have been abandoned wilh safety. The pilot-in-command of VH-TJA elected to continue lire take-off and attempted to overfly the  obstructing  aircraft. 
That is a conclusion; it certainly is not the affirmation of the pilot of that aircraft. This is what is stated on pages  2  and  3  of the report: 
Captain James, in VH-TJA, says that his attention was not attracted to any obstruction in his aircraft's  path  until he had commenced the rotation action for which the nominated speed was 131 knots. He says that it was at this point he saw the DC8-63 aircraft but he judged it too close to be avoided by abandoning  the  take-off unci so he concentrated his attention on continuing to use a normal take-off technique, guarding particularly against any over-rotation, in the belief that this would be the best means of clearing the obstructing aircraft. 
This is a statement of fact and Captain James and the Federation say it proves that he carried out a proper and safe procedure. A great number of irregularities are disclosed in the Accident Investigation Report and the statement of the Minister. I want to refer to some of them. The surprising point is that in a report which discloses all these irregularities an injustice should be perpetrated by blame being placed solely on the head of the TransAustralia Airlines pilot who was a most senior and experienced pilot. Conclusion 9 of the report relates some of the irregularities noted by the investigating committee. Conclusion 5 is in these terms: 
The aerodrome controller did not recognise the difficulties of visual perception in the circumstances that prevailed and this, in conjunction with the slow manoeuvre of the aircraft on the runway as well as ils direction of movement and position in relation to the taxiway entrance, led him to believe that CF-CPQ had taxied off the runway in accordance with the instructions issued. 
We have a situation here in which the Department says that the aerodrome controller is at fault. He is making certain assumptions which, in fact, did not take place. In the circumstances why did the 
Investigating committee come to the conclusion to which I have referred? Another one  qf  the irregularities is disclosed in Conclusion 6: 
The aerodrome controller issued, to VH-TJA,  a  clearance for take-off when the runway was still obstructed by CF-CPQ. 
That is a statement of fact from the report, which shows that the aerodrome controller was at fault. I remind honourable senators of Conclusion 5 which I have read. Another one of the irregularities was the change of aerodrome control frequency. I again refer to the report at page 24 where the following appears: 
Another error made by the crew of CF-CPQ in the procedures they followed on this night was to change from the aerodrome control frequency to trie surface movement control frequency whilst their aircraft was still on the active runway and, as they believed, cleared to remain on the runway for a significant further period of time. 
That is a breach of regulations. On page 34 of the report, the reference again being to the aerodrome controller, we see this: 
The second significant error was the belief of the aerodrome controller that CF-CPQ had vacated the runway via Taxiway T and that  it  was safe to clear VH-TJA for take-off without obtaining a 'clear of the runway' report from CF-CPQ. Having regard to the limitations of visual perception,  it  is not difficult to understand how the  aerodrome  controller could be deceived in attempting to discriminate some three quarters of a mile away on a dark night and with a very shallow line-of-sight closure with the ground.  Here again, piece by piece, the conclusions reached by the investigating officers show how  the  evidence weighed against the aerodrome controller. 
Conclusion 4 is as follows: 
A taxying clearance '. . . take taxiway right - call on 121.7' issued by the aerodrome controller to C F-CPQ as it nea red the end of its landing roll was not given adequate attention by the flight crew, who misread it as '. . . backtrack if you like - change to 121.7'. The aircraft was then turned through 180 degrees to backtrack on the runway, instead of entering an immediately available taxiway as was intended by the aerodrome controller. 
On  page  27, amongst other things, the following appears: 
The aircraft under his control preparing for departure al this time included VH-TJA, which had taxied to the holding point for Runway 16 and an F27 aircraft, VH-EWJ, which was also ready for take-off on Runway 16. Although this traffic situation was not one which presented any unusual problems for the aerodrome controller, his primary objective was to be able to clear the departing aircraft for take-off between the movements of the landing aircraft. 
The Australian Federation of Air Pilots points out that the report which has been placed before the Parliament states that prompt and proper action was taken by Sydney tower once the accident had occurred. However, shortly after the accident had occurred, and in the knowledge of its occurrence and before any examination for wreckage on runway 16 had been made, Sydney tower cleared an East-West Airlines F27, VH-EWJ for take-off on runway 16. During the F27's rotation, the debris from the Boeing 272 and DC8 was illuminated by its lights. 
The authors of the report were aware that VH-EWJ was cleared to take off into many hundreds of small aircraft fragments together with some larger components spread across runway 1.6. But they have chosen to be silent on this aspect of bad aerodrome control which nearly caused a second accident within minutes of the first. I have referred to the statements by the Australian Federation of Air Pilots. The Minister might ask the officers of the Department for an answer to them. 
I turn to the statement that the aircraft accident could have been avoided if the flight crew of VH-TJA had taken proper precautions to observe the runway ahead and had also, of course, applied a method of avoiding the accident. The Federation states that it is impossible to justify this argument because in its belief, had the crew proceeded to take other than the normal take-off procedure, there would have been greater damage than that which occurred. I wish to deal now with the weather conditions of the night. One of the witnesses before the inquiry,  Mr K.  T. Byrnes, a Qantas tugmaster  driver, said this in relation to the weather conditions existing at the time: 
There was a light breeze, about 8 knots from a general south-easterly direction. There had been quite heavy showers on and off, but there was a break at the time and it was not raining at alt at the time of the occurrence. It was a fairly dark night. There seemed to be low cloud, moving across in patches fairly quickly. It was not a particularly clear night, but the visibility at ground level was not too bad. I could see the tower quite clearly, and I could see aircraft on final approach with their landing lights on a considerable distance before they reached the runway, perhaps Iwo miles. From the end of runway 16, I think the whole of the runway lights would have been visible from an elevated position. 
There is  a  rise in the strip and because of this, the full length is not visible from the end of the strip at ground level. 
He was asked this question: 
Did you see whether the DC8 cleared the runway to the right when it turned to the right? 
He replied: 
I think the aircraft was clear of the runway and then turned back onto it. I could not be absolutely positive of this, because there was intervening rising ground between the DC8 and my position. While I could see the lights of the aircraft and the reflected light from the top of its fuselage, I think the lower part of the aircraft and the aerodrome surface lights in its vicinty were obscured. The distance I was from the edge of the runway could also make this assessment difficult, but I believe, from my impressions, that the aircraft had cleared the runway. 
He was later asked: 
Is there anything further you can add which you believe may be significant? 
He replied: 
While I was waiting on the taxiway and the DC8 approached along the intersecting taxiway from my right, I had the impression that the pilot was unsure of the aerodrome because he asked where to now?'. I am particularly alert and careful when towing aircraft and I was a little concerned that he may have turned into the taxiway I was occupying. 
To sum up, the position is this: Captain James carried out all the regulations and procedures. The union complains - it has put this to Captain James - that had he attempted to take any other ascent than the regulation one, the incident could have been more serious than it was. The accident investigation report refers to evidence from the Boeing people and from people who had been instructing the crew of the Boeing aircraft. In referring to Captain James and dealing with his background and record, the report states: 
Captain Warren Owen JAMES, aged 50 years, was the pilot-in-command of this aircraft and he held a first class airline transport pilot licence which was not due for renewal until 31 May 1971. His licence endorsements authorised him to fly Boeing 727 aircraft and he had a first class instrument rating endorsed for ADF, VAR, VOR, ILS and Localiser radio navigation aids. Captain James' total flying experience at the time of this accident was 19,874 hours of which 4,100 hours had been gained in command of Boeing 727 aircraft. His most recent proficiency check was successfully completed on 5 October 1970, and his most recent medical examination successfully passed on 30 October 1970. In the 90 days preceding this accident he had Sown 165 hours, all in Boeing 727 aircraft. 
What does the Minister say about that? When he made a statement to the Senate and introduced the report he said, among other things: 
It was rather a dark and wet night at Sydney Airport when this accident occurred. The aerodrome controller in Sydney Tower was responsible for observing the movements of aircraft on the runways being used for landing and take-off and for regulating the movements of all aircraft so that safety would be preserved at all times. Here, however, the error made by the Canadian captain was compounded by a separate and completely different error made by the aerodrome controller. By chance the landing run of the Canadian aircraft finished right opposite the entrance to a taxiway which the aerodrome controller expected it to use in complying with his instruction to 'take taxiway right'. The direction of the turn taken by the Canadian aircraft was to the right, towards the entrance to this taxiway and because of the size of the aircraft involved and the wetness of the surface on which it was manoeuvring, this turn was carried out at a speed much slower than is exhibited by the types of aircraft more frequently using Sydney Airport. Furthermore, the aerodrome controller underestimated the deceptiveness of observations of an aircraft's position on a night such as this and the need for verification of his observation, made over a distance of some three quarters of a mile. Unfortunately, the controller's misjudgment of the position of the aircraft and his belief that it had entered the taxiway, removed from the safety back-up system, the first opportunity presented to correct the intial error made by the crew ofthe Canadian aircraft. 
The Minister said also in respect of the first error: 
I think that the situation is most effectively summarised in the section of the report entitled Causal Factors which commences on page 33. The first error, in terms of time, made by the people involved in this occurrence was made by the captain of the Canadian aircraft who misread the air traffic controller's instruction 'take taxiway right' as 'backtrack, if you like'. 
The Minister then went on to explain why there might have been some mistakes about the phrase because of certain phonetic qualities. He continued to comment on the air traffic controller and then said: 
As the investigation report makes clear, the error by the aerodrome controller on this night did not stem from any degree of carelessness or lack of adherence to proper instruction, but rather from the much more human error of underestimating the limitations of his visual observations made under the prevailing conditions. The training and instruction of air traffic controllers has been modified to ensure that they recognisethe difficulties of determining, at a considerable distance, purely  by  visual judgment, the precise position of an aircraft on the runway/ taxiway system of an airport, particularly under night conditions. 
In those remarks the Minister was saying that a modification was necessary in view of the report of the accident investigation. He went on then to support this by referring to errors by the aerodrome controller and mistakes made by the crew of the Canadian Pacific Airlines aircraft. Then he referred to certain modifications that were necessary, and made 3 points. He said: 
Shortly after this accident the Director-General also took up with Canadian Pacific Airlines the question of the degree of familiarity of their crews with Australian airports, acceptable methods of achieving that familiarisation and the need for cockpit procedures which would ensure compliance with Air Traffic Control instructions issued at our airports. These matters arc being further pursued by the Director-General in the light of this report. - Now that the report has been made public, the Director-General will also be taking up with TAA and the other Australian airline operators the whole question of the vigilance of flight crews whilst operating on and in the vicinity of airports. The matter will be featured in the Aviation Safety Digest which reaches all licensed pilots in Australia as well as many others around the world. 
I propose now to refer to the statement in relation to the flight crew as it appears at page 5 of the accident investigation report. It states: 
Captain Charles Edward Mograth, aged 40 years, was the pilot-in-command of CF-CPQ and he was the holder of a Canadian airline transport pilot licence which authorised him to fly DC8 type aircraft. He held a Class 1 instrument rating. At the time of this accident Captain Magrath's total flying experience amounted to 10,723 hours of which 5,277 hours had been gained in DC8 aircraft. During the 90 days preceding this accident, he had flown 65 hours in DC8 aircraft. His most recent proficiency check was carried out in a DC8 simulator on 8th October 1970. Captain Magrath's most recent medical examination was carried out on 26th October 1970 and he was not due for re-examination until 29th April 1971. 
The last occasion, prior to this accident, on which Captain Magrath had flown into Sydney Airport was in July 1962, when he visited Sydney as first officer of a Bristol Brittania aircraft. Prior to the flight of 29th January 1971, however, on 7th October 1970, Captain Magrath carried out a simulated approach to Runway 16, Sydney Airport using the flight simulation equipment installed at the Operator's headquarters in Vancouver. Although Captain Magrath had not seen the training film for Sydney Airport, he was supplied with the Pilot's Route and Terminal Study Guide for the South Pacific Area which provides information relating to weather conditions, air traffic control procedures, navigation facilities, communications procedures, airport characteristics and search and rescue facilities for routes and airports in the South Pacific area, including Sydney. Captain Magrath was also given a final briefing relating to Sydney Airport prior to his departure from 
Honolulu and he had in his possession the most recently issued Jeppersen Approach Chart for Sydney Airport dated 6th November 1970. 
Evidence was given by other members of the crew of the Trans-Australia Airlines aircraft VH-TJA. First Officer Douglas Arthur Spiers confirmed what had been stated by Captain James. The Air Pilots Federation and the pilot of the aircraft contend that the conclusions in the report are unjust. I read again to the Senate the cause as stated in the report: 
The cause of this accident was that the taxiing clearance after landing was misread by the flight crew of CF-CPQ and this error was not detected by the aerodrome controller, who cleared VH-TJA for take-off. 
The report condemns the  2  people who cleared VH-TJA for takeoff and then goes on: 
The flight crew of VH-TJA on detecting the obstructing aircraft did not then adopt effective means of avoiding a collision. 
The union, Captain James and other authorities say that they did adopt effective means. I have suggested that there is substance in the claim made by the union to the Department for many years that the investigating group ought to be separated from the Department of Civil Aviation. I think the case made out is so good as not to warrant a great deal of argument. 
That is so. The practice should not be condoned. It does not lead to justice. I am also told that on many occasions the organisation is not invited to attend inquiries. It is an ad hoc sort of arrangement. Sometimes it is invited, sometimes it is not. Other organisations are invited and the same sorts of procedures apply. There should be a rigid formula based on the proper investigating procedures. The investigating body should not be attached to the Department of Civil Aviation. It should be separated. I suggest that now is the time for the Department seriously to consider what the union has said in respect of this matter. The Opposition supports this proposition. We intended to propose a motion on this proposition during the debate on the Estimates but agreed not to do so because of the pressure of the late sittings. 
The other question is the injustice suffered by the captain. He is an airman who has served for a long time. He has a  good record as an outstanding and experienced pilot. He should not be condemned in this manner. Action should be taken to correct the injustice imposed on him by the report.  I  have discussed this matter with  Senator Sim  and I understand from further conversations with the Federation of Air Pilots that there is a suggestion that if the Minister does not agree to the union's request for a new inquiry it will consider having an all-in discussion with the parties involved so that remedies can be effected. 
However, it is true that no final remedies can be applied until a new method of dealing with air accident investigations is set up. It is obviously unjust that the present arrangement should continue. The investigating body should be separated from the Department, possibly in the manner suggested by the pilots. The pilots are prepared to accept a section of the Department of Shipping and Transport to constitute an investigating body after recruiting the necessary specialists from the Department. They would not be employees of the Department of Civil Aviation but of another Commonwealth department, if necessary. The proposition has enough merit to warrant consideration. 
My purpose in speaking is to ask the Minister at this late stage to carry out corrective procedures. The Minister's own remarks that I have read serve to condemn the conclusion that I have referred to. I trust that on the basis of our submission some alteration will be made to protect the name of the TAA pilot who has an otherwise unblemished record. 
No, I am not. The distinction is that the Federation of Air Pilots has asked this of the Minister, I understand. It has certainly told me that it wants an inquiry but I am not making a request for the Federation. I am not a spokesman for the air pilots as the Minister well knows. 
I want to make a point very clear. 
Yes, I do. 
That is nonsense. 

 Senator Georges has done a lot of work in relation to this matter. I know what he is really seeking to establish - that really and truly the TAA pilot has no responsibility; the Canadian Pacific Airline's pilot has not a great deal because it was a visiting aircraft; and the burden falls on the air traffic control section. I think this is clearly established from the comments the honourable senator made. I do not think I have said anything which will prejudice in any way a judicial inquiry or High Court case. I would not want to do that because people's reputations are involved. It is easy to stand up here tonight and say these things but in the end, at some time, some people may well suffer quite seriously in this exercise. On the other hand, the Department and I have a great responsibility for air safety. We believe that we discharge that responsibility adequately. We believe that the report as presented resulted from a factual examination. We believe that it was done objectively and dispassionately. As the responsible Minister I do not feel persuaded that any officer of the Department of Civil Aviation behaved other than completely properly. 

 Senator BISHOP (South Australia)  -  I seek leave to make a statement because 1 thinkI have been misrepresented. 
 I wish to say something in relation to the exchange between myself and the Minister for Civil Aviation  (Senator Cotton)  over the confusion which arose. I do not act for the Australian Federation of Air Pilots in making these representations. Let us be clear about that. I have no commission from the Federation to do anything at all. But I have been supplied with information from it. I understand that the Federation has put it to the Minister for Civil Aviation and the DirectorGeneral of Civil Aviation that there should be another inquiry. That may or may not be correct, but I have been told that. I can read from a letter addressed to me from the Australian Federation of Air Pilots.It is not confidential. It is dated 6th December 1971 - - 
Yes. I used part of it earlier tonight. The last 2 paragraphs of it read: 
We most strongly believe on the evidence that we have been shown that this is a highly biased report, valiantly attempting to whitewash the Department, and avoiding their basic responsibility. They cleared TJA to take off on an occupied runway, and then cleared EWJ to take off on a debris strewn runway. We demand that the report and investigation be reopened and that proper and professional representation re-examine the whole incident. 
The credibility, and bence viability, of the accident investigation branch is now very seriously in question, with an almost complete loss of faith and trust by the professional airline pilots. 
The letter was signed by B. A. Brooksbank. The only reason for my speaking again is to make it clear that I seek no prestige by saying that I represent the pilots. 1 do not represent them. I simply enter the debate in support of what the pilots are trying to get from the Department. 
Yes. of course you may. 
My question which is directed to the Leader of the Government in the Senate, refers to unemployment in the motor car industry. I ask: Has the Minister's attention been drawn to continu ing reports about the downturn in the motor car industry and about retrenchments in New South Wales, Victoria and South Australia? Will he cause investigations to be made about employment in the motor car industry and see what action the Government may be able to take to reduce the trend towards unemployment in an industry whose activities are very extensive and affect many other ancillary industries? 

 Senator Sir KENNETH ANDERSONAs late as this morning I saw a reference to this matter which I read very carefully. I do not want to get into a controversial area, but all honourable senators will be aware that in the motor car industry in South Australia there have been problems with a particular organisation resulting in disputation in the industrial sense. Be that as it may, the point made by  Senator Bishop  is that there is an element of movement in the motor car industry. In the first instance I should like to refer the question for a departmental report at 2 levels, firstly from the Treasury and, secondly, from the Department of Shipping and Transport. When I have received replies 1 shall ensure that they are conveyed to the honourable senator. 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Social Services or to the Minister representing the Minister for Labour and National Service. It refers to a reported statement by the Minister for Social Services issued during the currency of the State Electricity Commission dispute that unemployed members of any union involved in that Victorian dispute, irrespective of State domicile or usual industry occupation, could be declared ineligible for unemployment benefit. Has the Government any intention of applying such a criterion to such unemployed persons in future, whether they might be involved in the motor car industry or otherwise? Can the Minister say whether anybody was temporarily denied unemployment benefit because of this statement? 
My question is directed to the Minister for Air and it concerns the Fill aircraft. What is the total sum Australia will now pay for the Fill aircraft? What will be the amount for storage which has been charged for the aircraft pending their modification? I also ask the Minister: Is it a fact that the Government is now considering an increase in the number of these aircraft that it will purchase? 
My question to the Minister representing the Minister for Labour and National service relates to what  Senator Wright  has explained to be the traditional role of the Commonwealth Government in opposing cases brought by the Australian Council of Trade Unions where it decides that it should intervene. Is it a fact that the Commonwealth Government has now decided to intervene in any major case where there is a possibility of wage increases? Is it a fact also that this is a departure from the traditional policy of any government and particularly this Government? Does the Government now propose to interest itself actively in any case affectingthe Public Service - its own officers - and members of Parliament and to oppose any increases for any reason at all because of inflationary trends? 
I ask the Minister for Civil Aviation: Since the announcement of  new low fares between Australia and London and other overseas capitals, what progress, if any, has been made in providing related and reduced fares for long distance travel within Australia? 
 My question which is directed to the Minister for Civil Aviation follows the question asked by  Senator Willesee  about the statement of Captain Ritchie on the possible further reduction of the staff of Qantas Airways Ltd. Will the Minister investigate the extent to which redundant Qantas staff might be employed in the domestic airlines or related Commonwealth services in order to retain these skilled personnel in the airlines industry? 
I support the representations made by  Senator O'Byrne.  I agree with his comments about the reply furnished by the Minister for Air  (Senator DrakeBrockman)  to  Senator Wriedt's  question. The Minister, in his reply admits that the practices have taken place and says that they will not be tolerated. I think a report to the Senate is warranted about the steps the Royal Australian Air Force will take at Laverton and other places to prevent a recurrence of those practices. The Minister, in his reply, said: 
During the course of the inquiry the court became aware of reports of improper incidents and procedures concerning other apprentices al RAAF School of Radio. ... As a result of these further inquiries the Air Officer Commanding Support Command has advised me that certain initiation practices were imposed on first year apprentices by second year apprentices at RAAF School of Radio despite specific orders to the contrary and that disciplinary action is to be taken against a number of leading apprentices. 
Then follows an assurance that the Air Board will take such action as is necessary by promulgating again instructions against those practices. The Senate is assured that they will not happen again.  .Senator O'Byrne  has already stated that this case has been highlighted in Tasmania. The Press has carried large headlines about the circumstances which warranted the boy's release from the Air Force. It is obvious that the Air Force agreed that the circumstances were such as to warrant the release of the boy on the application of his father. lt has been clearly established that the practices adopted at Laverton were improper. Tonight we are concerned about whether some machinery should be established to ensure that they will not recur. I am concerned not only about Laverton but also about Wagga Wagga and other training centres. Laws and regulations are made to ensure that airmen have the right to certain procedures in order to obtain justice, but in such an organised Service it is often impossible to implement those procedures. 
During World War II there was a system of welfare officers. The Minister might well examine whether more welfare officers should be given the task of seeing that in training establishments the practices which have taken place are prevented. The responsibility goes further than the Air Board and local commanding officers. It extends to the welfare section of the Air Force which should possess enough strength and prestige to approach a commanding officer and say: 'These sorts of things ought to stop'. That was so during World War II. 
We would like the Minister to consider whether he should report further to the Senate on the result of the promulgation of new instructions or the re-emphasising of old instructions at Laverton and other places at which Air Force recruits are trained. I support  Senator O'Byrne's  comment that the Air Force is a good Service. It offers great facilities, but young people joining the Service should be assured that they can train under the best conditions. Perhaps the Minister for Air might consider to what extent the welfare section of the Air Force could be instructed to examine current conditions at Laverton and other places. Once this information has been gathered we ought to be told how effective the new instructions are as they apply to young people. I say that in supporting Sentor O'Byrne with the idea simply of ensuring that what has happened in the Army at Duntroon should not happen in the Air Force, because the Air Force is an important Service. Young people who join the Air Force can be equipped with new techniques and new responsibilities. But local arrangements should not be made by any trade group or other category of people which might adversely affect young people who want to join the Air Force. 
May 1 summarise what I have said. The Minister should request the Air Board to give him specifically the results of the promulgation of new instructions and secondly he should instruct welfare officers to visit these training areas to ensure thai measures are not adopted there which are not consistent with the. traditions of the Air Force. 
My question, which I direct to the Minister for Civil Aviation, refers to the Adelaide Airport runway. Since his reply in October last year with respect to the examination of proposals which involved extensions to the main runway and the future of recreational areas, has any determination on these matters been made? ls the main runway to be lengthened or has it been decided to strengthen the pavements? Has the Minister had an opportunity to visit the recreational areas and adjacent areas which would be involved in any transfer of lands outside the airport boundaries, as he promised to do? 
My question to the Minister representing the Minister for Shipping and Transport refers to flood waters again isolating Alice Springs and reports that the railway line between Adelaide and Alice Springs will take 2 weeks to repair. Is it a fact that although the survey for a new railway link between Tarcoola and Alice Springs is proceeding and that the Commonwealth Government has undertaken to build this railway line, there has been no commitment of Commonwealth funds for the project? Is it also a fact that the Commonwealth Railways Commissioner has already given to the Commonwealth Government firm estimates of the cost of constructing the line and has indicated that he is ready to proceed with its construction? Will the Minister consider an early commitment to construct the line in order to avoid these annual interruptions to railway traffic by flood waters? 
My question is directed to the Minister for Air. Is it a fact that, resulting from discussions between the Royal Australian Air Force and the United States Air Force, a 2,000 miles per hour Lockheed aircraft, which is stated to be the technical successor to the U2 spy plane, is likely to be stationed at Elizabeth air base in South Australia to study upper atmosphere weather patterns? As the Air Officer commanding Edinburgh air base is reported on 4th March as having stated that he had no knowledge of the proposal, is- the Minister able to give any information in relation to arrangements which have been made to base the aircraft at Edinburgh or at another RAAF base in Australia? 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Social Services, upon notice: 
Did the Minister for Social Services, during the currency of the State Electricity Commission of Victoria dispute, state that unemployed members of any trade union involved in the dispute could be declared ineligible for unemployment benefits, irrespective of his State of domicile or usual industry occupation. 
Has the Government any intention of applying such criteria in future. 
Were any unemployed unionists not directly involved in the SEC dispute denied unemployed benefits because of their union membership. 
I ask the Minister for Civil Aviation: What is the current position relating to the announcement by Qantas Airways Ltd of services between Australia and London for a fare of $420 and for an excursion fare of $700? Have any aviation authorities in Britain, France or Germany yet determined their attitudes towards the Qantas proposal? Tn the event that these authorities reject or frustrate the proposed fares, what prospects are there for an early commencement of such services? 
I ask the Minister for Air or the Minister representing the Minister for Defence what is the current position relating to Government and Royal Australian Air Force investigations into proposals for replacement aircraft for the RAAF and for related offset or coproduction schemes? What firm proposals, if any, are under consideration for these aircraft to stimulate the Australian aircraft industry? Has the Government: considered co-production schemes from the Swedish aircraft manufacturer Saab-Draken associated with the Viggen aircraft or other Swedish aircraft? What tests or investigations, if any, are intended in relation to these proposals? 
 This Bill,, which relates- to the. settlement of industrial disputes on .matters arising out of employment in the1 Commonwealth Public Service, will not in the opinion of the Opposition settle:, those disputes or, as they are termed in the- Bill, industrial situations'; it will enlarge, the areas and measure of discontent to encompass wider sections of the Commonwealth Public Service. In his second., reading speech the Minister for Health  (Senator Sir Kenneth Anderson)  said that the . Government now believes that the processes of the Public Service Arbitration Act. need further strengthening to enable speedy resolution of industrial situations. What has happened within the Public Service in general - certainly within the . physical grades - is that the officers have been struggling to maintain their salaries and standards at a time when other employees in the. work force in general - have had improvements and because of the frustrations they have experienced in their dealings with the Public Service Board, there have been disputes. It is these disputes that have occasioned the Government to strengthen this legislation. 
I believe that the Government's" actions in seeking to strengthen this legislation is in accordance with its policy of" imposing further restrictions on the ability of trade unions in Australia to bargain with employers for an improvement in working conditions. As was stated by the Minister in his second reading speech, this legislation is directed primarily at employees and unions in the Post Office. Those employees have been in the past closely allied to outside industry and variations to determinations or awards in outside industry used to flow directly and quickly to them. But that is no longer the case. For some years Post Office employees and the unions representing them have been frustrated by the Public Service Board. Most of the claims they have put to the Public Service Board have been rejected. Some, have taken as long as 2 years to be finalised. For example, in the case of the transport drivers* strike a negotiating period of 12 months was involved. Most of the claims ought to have been resolved quickly;' Their validity would have been evident to anybody who had had any dealings with industrial matters. 
A simple solution by the Government to the problems which exist in the Post Office would be to accede to the representations that have been made in this place on many occasions by the Australian Labor Party and the Australian Democratic Labor Party and divorce the Post Office from direct Government control. It ought to be allowed to run its own affairs on business lines and to settle industrial issues in the way in which they would be settled in any normal employer-employee relationship. All honourable senators will be aware of the comments that have been made on this subject by  Mr O'Grady,  who was the chief officer la the Post Office and who retired from that position in about 1967. He has since drawn attention to the disabilities under which he and his officers worked in trying to settle matters of immediate industrial concern because he always had to take into consideration the general attitude of the Government towards wage rises and industrial relations. It seems to me that the simplest thing for the Government to do would have been to accede to the representations of postal workers generally and of a large section of the Parliament - the Senate carried a resolution on this matter - and divorce the Post Office from direct Government control. 
The Government discussed its proposed amendments to the Conciliation and Arbitration Act with the Australian Council of Trade Unions, the Council of Commonwealth Public Service Organisations, the Australian Council of Salaried and Professional Associations and other organisations and undertook that the discussions would be resumed. I will have something to say about that matter directly. First of all I want to say that it is evident to me that what is involved in the matter of industrial relations in a situation where the economy is rapidly expanding and where inflation has taken over and is rising very sharply every year is the ability or non-ability of trade unions to secure for their members that to which they are rightly entitled, that is, their share of the wage increases which flow from national wage cases or determinations made outside the arbitration tribunals. The Government has an obligation to ensure that its employees enjoy the standards that are enjoyed in the State public service and in the private sector of industry. The point was made by the 
Minister that over 20 years ago public servants were not only in receipt of good salaries but also worked under good conditions. They were also saddled with special responsibilities. Some of those responsibilities have not been lifted. What has happened in recent years is that Commonwealth public servants in general and those employed in instrumentalities of the Commonwealth have been left behind in the struggle to obtain wage and salary standards commensurate with those of workers in outside industry. In addition, in certain State public services - I have in mind my own State of South Australia and other States where Labor has had a chance to make improvements in the statutes covering public servants - 'the leave provisions, allowances, etc., have not only caught up with the general standards in the Commonwealth Public Service but have gone ahead of them. So there is a background of discontent of which the Government must be aware and should heed in making any alterations to the Act. 
It is clear that the Government has decided to amend the Public Service Act not only to impose some new restrictions on Commonwealth public servants but also because it is a part of the Government's long range policy to hamstring the trade unions. The Government is imposing new restrictions which will prevent Commonwealth public servants from taking ordinary and traditional steps to obtain industrial justice. A dissimilar situation exists in other parts of the world. Unions in those countries of the world which constitute the International Labour Organisation have, over the years not had more restrictions placed upon them; they have had restrictions taken off them. They are experiencing freer conditions of negotiation and more direct influence with management. 
What we are surprised about is that the Government, having set upon a course of dealing with restrictions in a general industrial position where it could not enforce the punitive clauses of the Arbitration Act, has also engaged in discussions with the ACTU, ACSPA, CCPSO and other related unions. The first discussions were held at the same time as the discussions took place on the question of the amendments to the Commonwealth Conciliation and Arbitration Act. During these discussions it was  agreed between the parties,  Mr Lynch  being the Minister for Labour and National Service and the head of his Department being present, that there would be further discussions in respect of the Public Service Arbitration Act between the Minister, his officers and the Public Service unions. So that there will be no confusion about whether these discussions took place, I would like to read the correspondence exchange between the Council of Commonwealth Public Service Organisations and the Minister. On 27th October 1971 Paul Munro, the Federal Secretary of the Council of Commonwealth Public Service Organisations, wrote to the Minister in these terms: 
The  Hon.  P. R. Lynch Minister for Labour and National Service Parliament House Canberra, A.C.T. 2600 
Dear Minister,  re:  National Conference: Conciliation and Arbitra tion Act. 
At the meeting of the National Conference on 21st October, it was agreed that the C.C.P.S.O. would take the initiative in seeking discussions on the Public Service Arbitration Act. 
The Council is anxious that the discussions should commence as early as possible after the Conference on the Conciliation and Arbitration Act has concluded. 
In anticipation of the National Conference concluding not later than 4th November, I suggest that you  fix  a time and place for discussion soon  After  that date. 
I believe that, as is in the case of the National Conference, the discussions should  be  tripartite and in those circumstances the Public Service Board should be represented and in  a  position to put its views. 
On 1st November 1971  Mr MacDonald,  Secretary, Office of the Public Service Board, wrote to the Federal  President  of the Council of Commonwealth Public Service Organisation as follows: 
Public Service Arbitration Act 
Your C.19 of 27 October 1971 
I desire to acknowledge receipt of your letter concerning the Council's request for a discussion on the implications of particular proposals relating to the Conciliation and Arbitration Act in respect to the Public Sevice Arbitration Act. 
It is noted that you have written to the Minister for Labour and National Service suggesting that he fix a time and place for discussion. Itis confirmed that the Public Service Board will  be  represented at the proposed discussions. 
As I have mentioned, on 27th October 1971  Mr Paul  Munro wrote to the Minister and on the same date  Mr Linehan,  the Federal  President  of the CCPSO, wrote to the Secretary of the Public Service Board in the same fashion. As honourable senators will see, the Public Service Board acknowledged those representations. While this correspondence was being exchanged, and in view of the fact that the central organisation of the Commonwealth Public Service unions would be able to take this matter up and consider what might be appropriately altered within the purview of the Commonwealth Public Service Act, they sent out to their members a letter believing that they had a complete understanding with the Minister that they would be given the opportunity to discuss what might be done. The letter was headed 'Public Service Arbitration Act: Amendment to Legislation' and dated 24th November 1971. One copy of the letter was sent to the Federal Executive, one copy to the Federal affiliates and one copy to divisional secretaries. The letter reads: 
During the National Conference on the operation of the Conciliation and Arbitration Act CCPSO advanced a number of proposals which involved amendment to the Public Service Arbitration Act. A copy of CCPSO's proposals for change supplied to the Conference has been circulated to Federal Executive and affiliates. 
In summary the amendments to the Public Servide Act proposed were: 
Removal of limitations of powers on positions of Deputy Public Service Arbitrator by abolishing those positions and creating additional positions of Public Service Arbitrator. Until this is done the Act be amended to permit Deputy Arbitrators to be appointed to appeals and reference benches and upon the creation of additional positions of Public Service Arbitrator provision to be made for the appeal bench to include a Public Service Arbitrator. 
Variation to the mode of appointment and tenure of office of Arbitrators by providing for a system whereby in future there is agreement between the unions, employers and Government on who should be appointed as Public Service Arbitrators; upon appointment the term of office should be the same as for a Commissioner or Presidential member of the C. &amp; A. Commission. 
That at least one copy of transcript be provided free of charge to parties in a matter before the Arbitrator. 
Amendments to the Public Service Arbitration Act were excluded from detailed consideration by the National Conference. Since the Conference CCPSO has requested the Minister for Labour and National Service to enterinto discussions on operation of the Public Service Arbitration Act The Minister, has indicated that he would be willing to have discussions with CCPSO and the Public Service Board some time during 1972. 
Toe purpose of this circular Is to request affiliates, members of executive and divisions to supply to me details of changes to 'the operation of the public service arbitration act which you may desire to be represented on behalf of CCPSO. 
This ls an opportunity to bring to attention any changes which you may desire to be represented; the reasons for the change should be itemised as fully as possible. 
To be given consideration affiliates suggestions in relation to this matter should be forwarded to me prior to January 21st, 1972. 
There is the evidence of the discussions as reported by the Council of Commonwealth Public Service Organisations, and that is the action the Council took with its affiliates to require them to submit proposals which might later be taken before the Minister. Early this year - in March -  Mr Cook  of the Department of Labour and National Service and the Minister,  Mr Lynch,  invited the unions to discuss the matter. But the Minister presented to the unions the final draft of the Bill which is now before the Senate. So, having undertaken to consider what the unions might think about necessary amendments, the Minister came along with the completed draft of the Bill. Consequently there was no proper discussion with the CCPSO on what might obtain within the Public Service. 
As I have mentioned before, the Government might properly have taken into consideration a number of matters. One was the question of separating the Post Office from the Commonwealth Public Service. The other matters are ones which we have discussed in this Senate. It was accepted by the Opposition and by some other parties in the Parliament that it was high time for another Public Service inquiry. This Public Service inquiry had been agreed upon and the unions said they would support it. It would not only inquire into the efficiency, staffing and so on of the Commonwealth Public Service but also, from the union point of view, it could consider industrial relations and the general scope of what industrial laws might be required in relation to the management and the employers of the Commonwealth Public Service. The Government did not do that. 
It might have considered some other matters also. It might have considered in what respect some provisions of the existing Commonwealth Conciliation and Arbi tration Act might have been inserted in place of what is now proposed. In a communication which has been sent to me and to some other unions Paul Munro, Secretary of the CCPSO, pointed out that it might have been possible to consider - it would have been preferable from the point of view of the unions - inserting directly and strictly the provisions of sections 28 and 29 of the Commonwealth Conciliation and Arbitration Act which they considered would be better and certainly less onerous than what is now proposed in the Bill before the Senate. On page 2 of the statement to which I have referred the following appears: 
CCPSO does not seriously quarrel with the need for conciliation procedures to be written into tha Public Service Arbitration Act. At present resort can be made by Public Service unions and management to the conciliation and dispute settling procedures under section 28 of the Conciliation and Arbitration Act. So it is hardly a matter of urgent need. Nevertheless the lack of integration between the Public Service Arbitration Act and the Conciliation and Arbitration Act result in more cumbersome procedures than should be the' case. An answer would seem to be to extend the Public Service Arbitrator's jurisdiction by tha insertion of powers similar to those contained in sections 28 and 29 of the C. and A. Act. 
The Government should properly have continued its discussions with the unions if it felt that new procedures were necessary. Discussions could have encompassed the form of a proper inquiry into the Public Service which is long overdue. They could have included arbitration matters. The Government also could have sent delegations round the world to see the standards of public servants today in other countries. 
I recently returned from a visit to Sweden. In that country, contrary to the concepts held in Australia, there are no punitive clauses operating in agreements on wages and salaries affecting the ordinary so-called physical grades, the people in the workshops, or the people in the public service. All agreements are made on a national basis by consultation round the conference table. There are no court procedures in those countries and public servants have much more freedom than they have in this country. 
We strongly oppose this legislation. We suggest that step by step this Government has set out to impose restrictions on unions in an effort to restrain the economic drives it commenced in its Budget. The Government, by its budgetary action, set in course the chain of price increases. Those increases resulted from the heavy duties the Government imposed at Budget time yet it blames the unions for the escalation of costs. In recent months we have become used to regular attacks on unions by the Prime Minister  (Mr McMahon),  the previous Prime Minister and by leaders of the Government parties. They place all blame for rising costs on the workers. 
Maybe he has, senator, but you had long enough experience in the industrial movement to know that what  1  am saying is correct. That was the policy adopted by this Government when it was not so unstable. Clearly it is unstable today. Nobody would suggest that this Government is a permanent government. There is every indication that it will not survive until election time this year. There was concentrated action by the Government to attack, on every occasion possible the Australian Council of Trade Unions, the national voice of the labour movement. Over the years the ACTU has been a highly responsible body, an organisation with which this Government should have been proud to do business. On many occasions the Government failed to consider the propositions of the ACTU and the unions. The Government said that it would take every action possible in the courts to restrain wage increases. It was this sort of policy which, as we know, even during the period when  Mr Gorton  was Prime Minister, caused some of the disputes within the Commonwealth Public Service which have been referred to by the Minister. 
For example, he referred to the dispute by the transport members of the Amalgamated Postal Workers 'Union of Australia. This was an outstanding case where the union's claim was justified. Because the Government declared that it would resist wage increases the Commonwealth Public Service Board would not grant to mail drivers in the Post Office the increases which had been approved in outside industry. It would not grant the appropriate margin which should have flowed to them because of their special duties. It took the union 5 months to put the case before the Commonwealth Public Service Board and it was rejected. It took a further 4 or 5 months to put the case before the Commonwealth Public Service Arbitrator and to get the proper increases. The increase of $104 a year which was awarded gave them a relationship with outside industry as well as some consideration for their special duties. 
There was a great flare-up in the Government during this dispute when the PostmasterGeneral  (Sir Alan Hulme)  decided to employ scab drivers. This intensified the discontent in the Public Service. In these situations what else do you think the unions would do but engage more actively in campaigns to secure wage justice? If one reads the reports of the Public Service Board and looks at the frustrations of industrial dealings in the Commonwealth Public Service one finds that the record shows that the Public Service Board has been obstinate. It has been obstinate not only because of the special responsibilities it has, as declared by the Government, but also because of Government policies which too closely restrict what it might do. There is a need for reform, not further restrictions. The reports of the Public Service Board show each year that many cases have not been dealt with. There also have been numerous delays which have cost union members many thousands of dollars, particularly the Amalgamated Postal Workers Union which apparently has been singled out. I referred earlier to the strike by transport workers which occasioned delays and pay losses over a period of 10 months. 
The second great problem that the Amalgamated Postal Workers Union got into was over its claim for an industry allowance. It established a very clear case for the award of this allowance, particularly when one considers the trends in private industry and the payments awarded to State public servants. I have referred mainly to my own State of South Australia because I know the conditions there better. On taking office the Labor Government in that State caught up with some of the other States in awarding industry allowances to all workers and officers in the 
State Public Service. The industry allowance did not apply to Commonwealth public servants until the Amalgamated Postal Workers Union negotiated and obtained the $4.50. Commonwealth employees gained some relativity with outside grades. 1 remind the Senate that when we are talking about the Commonwealth Public Service and the Amalgamated Postal Workers Union we are talking about what the Government called, during the negotiations, the physical grades. These grades are very closely allied to classifications in outside industry. There are no distinctions to make when talking about fitters, linesmen, truck drivers or concrete hands, lt is easy to align the grades. There should be no question of disparity and there should be no great delay. 
That claim for the industry allowance took 2 years for the unions to process and it took a long time for the Public Service Board and the Public Service Arbitrator to deal with it. The same thing applied to the flow on from the metal trades case. It had been the custom to recognise that there was a nexus between outside industry and the Commonwealth Public Service Board. The frustrations occasioned loss of the increase to members of the Amalgamated Postal Workers Union for some 18 weeks. Finally the  Deputy  Public Service Arbitrator,  Mr Wilson,  granted a $6 increase. 
To support what I have said I want to read from the annual report of the Commonwealth Public Service Board for 1971. I refer particularly to negotiations in respect to the physical grades and associated staff. At page 40 of its report the Board states: 
The Board expressed to the ACTU its concern at the circumstances which led the ACTU to make representations so soon after the December 1969 increases for trades and associated staff. However, the Board noted that the ACTU was correct in claiming that the Commonwealth Service rates had again fallen behind the market because of the significant increases in going rates in the private sector and important sections of the public sector since 1st January 1970. 
In relation to the negotiations to which I have referred it was fortunate that, in some of the circumstances, the Australian Council of Trade Unions was able to come along and assist the Amalgamated Postal Workers Union settle the negotiations. As I have pointed out, there are growing industrial disputes in some years which are occasioned by these matters which can be corrected. They can be corrected by a more active work on behalf of the Public Service Board. It can accept very clear pro formas which are well known to industrial relations people, unions and management. There should not be the delays which have occurred. They should be corrected. There is no need for restrictions which are now imposed by the Bill. 
I suggest that what is now before us is legislation which is imposed for the 2 reasons which I have mentioned. The first is to try to build up within the Australian community a notion that the only cause of rising costs is the militant unions - the over-active unions - and not Government policy. I say in relation to this piece of legislation that I support what has been said on behalf of the Council of Commonwealth Public Service Organisations that negotiations should have been obtained and surrounding the Public Service Act. Management and unions should have been allowed to decide in what respect it might be modified. If negotiations had been carried out properly, today in this Parliament probably we would be considering a mutually acceptable Bill. 
But the legislation casts a very wide net. Not only does it catch the. Public Service unions but it catches all the other people in the Public Service who, in many circumstances, are able to negotiate very quickly. Such people are the professional and specialised officers who have no trouble in settling their wage claims. The net which is cast by this new procedure is a wide one. It means that employees can be stood down. They can be stood down not only because of a dispute which involves workers in the Commonwealth Public Service or the instrumentalities but also because of a dispute which obtains in the private sector of industry. Such action has never been taken before, lt is going to be taken now. Looking at the sorts of unions involved, how does the Government expect to encourage the settlement of disputes? How can we expect these people to be satisfied with a situation when the Government is going to ensure that its ministers by their action can force, the arbitrator - because of an industrial situation - to act as he thinks fit? The net result of what the Government now intends will be to bring into industrial disputation more and more Commonwealth public servants, people who, hitherto, were not affected by disputes. They have not been involved in disputes. They have been able to settle their wage claims in a way which represents a conciliation. The number of unions involved in the Public Service are set out in the Public Service Board annual report for 1971. It states: 
Unions and staff associations with membership confined to the Commonwealth Service . . . 
There are 21. I am not going to read the names. The report continues: 
Unions and staff associations with membership confined to the Commonwealth Service and to Commonwealth authorities- - 
There are 6 - 
Unions and staff associations with membership in the Commonwealth Service and in private employment, etc and, in some cases, in Commonwealth authorities - 
There are 8. The list goes on with large groups of unions. The report further states: 
Unions and staff associations with membership confined to Commonwealth authorities with which the Board is in statutory relationship - 
There are 5. The Government is having difficulty in the Post Office. It now proposes to establish a wide industrial prescription which brings all employees into a net under which they can be stood down. Not only can they be stood down under proper arbitration procedures but also I suggest the procedures which are outlined in this Bill are far too wide and the Minister can, if he so desires, on his own motion advise the arbitrator. The arbitrator has power under clause 12d which deals with orders in relation to industrial situations. It states: (1.) Where the Arbitrator has been informed under the last preceding section of the existence or likely occurrence of an industrial situation, the Arbitrator or a  Deputy  Arbitrator- 
shall forthwith call a conference . . . 
I do not intend to read the clause because it is a machinery formula. But clause 12d (1.) (b) states: may, subject to the next succeeding subsection, after hearing such evidence (if any) as he thinks fit, make such orders as he thinks necessary or desirable for putting an end to, or preventing the occurrence of, the situation or preventing the occurrence of further industrial situations or such other orders as he thinks necessary or desirable by reason of the existence or likely occurrence of the situation. 
Within this prescription there are no proper rules or provisions which entitle the parties to a full and complete hearing. In particular it does not refer to those affected. There can be a wide ranging obligation upon anybody to be involved. The parties to the dispute may never attend this conference but the arbitrator can forthwith decide to do as he thinks fit. Looking at the industrial matters prescription, clause 3 sets out the industrial situation. It states: 
the refusal or failure to perform work, including (without limiting the generality of the preceding words of this paragraph) the refusal or failure to perform work in a particular manner, at a particular place or at a particular time or while particular circumstances exist; 
the unauthorised interruption, delaying or obstruction of, or any unauthorised limitation on, the performance of work; 
the performance of work in an unauthorised manner or at an unauthorised time, being a manner or time so different from the usual manner or time of the performance of that work that there would be a limitation or restriction on, or a tendency to limit or restrict, the amount or volume of work performed or the output or production of work; or 
the unauthorised adoption of such a practice in relation to work that there would be a limitation or restriction on, or a tendency to limit or restrict, the amount or volume of work performed or the output or production of work; 
As I say this sort of provision is wide because it can involve more matters of disputation than those which relate directly to wages and salaries. In every enterprise there are disputes between workers and management and between union delegates and secretaries and management. For example, such disputes could relate to safety at work, air pollution, unsatisfactory and unhygienic working conditions, the effect of redundancy from automatic devices and things which are negotiated every day in factories. All these things can be declared to be industrial matters. As a result, what could happen is that the Minister could decide the matter. It is no good saying that a minister's action is similar to administrative action which a minister might take in relation to a dispute in his own department. We have a law which refers to the Minister. It could be the Minister for Labour and National Service or it might be the Minister for Works. 
I say to honourable senators that we can bet our bottom dollar that when the Minister takes action under the provisions of this new law it will be in accordance with the policy of the Government. Not only does that mean government policy in relation to a particular dispute or department; it also me.ans that the minister will carry out the aims of the Government, translated from its economic policies. So we have a most unsatisfactory, unfair and repressive piece of legislation because, in effect, the minister becomes the Government He thinks as the Government. He does not think as the manager of an enterprise or as the person who runs the Post Office. He thinks in terms of Government philosophy. He initiates action and honourable senators have heard me refer to clause 12D. Under that clause the arbitrator forthwith occasions a conference and then he takes such arbitrary powers and such a close action in relation to whatever he wants to do. In this world today how can there be such arbitrary powers and such a close connection between the Minister and Government policy. 
A perusal of the history of the threats by the Government and the reports made to the unions shows that the legislation was drafted at a time when the Government intended to carry out a large electoral campaign against Labor. The Government intended to introduce first what it called this small piece of legislation as a dummy run for the larger piece of legislation and then to introduce the major piece of repressive legislation next week or shortly afterwards. 1 suggest that the 2 points that I have made are enough to make anybody concerned about the new power. The Minister is not just the administrative head of the department; he becomes the voice of the Government. It is a great new power. It should be resisted. We should vote against it. The Labor Party is strongly opposed to it. We will oppose, not only in the Parliament but wherever possible, the unfair and summary powers which are granted under the Bill. If the Government says that it is not intended to do the things which I have suggested will be done, it should ensure that amendments to the Bill are introduced immediately. The Minister has said that the provisions of section 28 of the Conciliation and Arbitration Act are similar to the provisions in the Public Service Arbitration Bill. Section 28 of the Conciliation and Arbitration Act reads: (1.) Subject to this Act, if it appears to a Commissioner that an industrial dispute has occurred or is likely to occur, he shall, whether he has been notified under this section or not, immediately ascertain the parties to the industrial dispute and the matters which form the subject of that dispute and shall take such steps as he thinks fit for the prompt prevention or settlement of that dispute by conciliation or, if in his opinion conciliation is unlikely to succeed or has failed, by arbitration. (2.) As' soon as an organisation or employer becomes aware of the existence of an industrial dispute or of an industrial situation which is likely to give rise to an industrial dispute the organisation or employer shall forthwith notify a Commissioner or the Registrar accordingly. (3.) A Minister who is aware of the existence, of an industrial dispute or of an industrial situation which is likely to give rise to an industrial dispute may notify a Commissioner or the Registrar accordingly. 
That prescription is quite different from the one contained in the Bill. The procedures are set out quite clearly. The parties to the dispute are the people who are called. As everybody knows, section 28 is used frequently today. Informative discussions are held. They might provide an avenue by which a return to work or settlement of the matters in dispute is secured. Section 28 often does that. If the issue is a difficult one the individual union almost' always engages the assistance of the Trades and Labour Council, which is the State branch of the ACTU. By consultation the dispute is settled. 
The provision in the Bill gives a summary power to. take instant action. The provision will affect not only those involved in the dispute but also those only partly involved in it - employees of instrumentalities and people who have never! been previously involved in industrial, disputes. Whatever the Government's intentions in introducing the Bill, all it is doing is widening the area of industrial, disputes. It would include any strike, ban. or embargo outside the province of Com-' monwealth employment. For example, recently the Building Workers Industrial Union in New South Wales imposed a ban and carried out activities to secure new standards of workers' compensation - full pay for those on workers' compensation - and it finally succeeded. In those circumstances, if the Commonwealth considered that an instrumentality such as the Commonwealth Employment Service might be affected, it could almost summarily take action and refer the matter to the Public Service Arbitrator to stand down workers in industries which are not involved. 
It has been argued by the Minister that in the Arbitration Act there is an almost similar provision in relation to bans and limitations. In respect of the bans and limitations clauses let me point out that there are proceedings which are properly tested before the courts. The procedures are set down. The case is tested. The application is brought on for hearing. The arbitration authority decides whether a ban or limitation will be imposed. The ban or limitation can be revoked at any time. Under this Bill the bans and limitations last for all time. As long as that provision is in the legislation summary action can be taken against the union. The provision is too strong. It should not be part of the legislation. The Government should take the first opportunity to do what the Public Service unions ask, that is, to consult them as to whether modifications in respect of both sides of the employment scale might be considered. If the Bill is passed actions could be brought under the legislation. There is no doubt in my mind that prior to the election the Minister will initiate actions against unions by standing down their members. Often those actions will not be related to disputes within the particular section of Commonwealth employment. The actions will be prompted partly by political reasons. This is one of the steps that the Government has taken to bring before the public, in its own particular haphazard way, its attempt to pass all responsibility onto the union movement. 
I refer to matters which are easily solved in outside industry. I have had a long experience of some of these matters, as many of my colleagues have had. There are safety campaigns in the workshops, campaigns against redundancy and campaigns to safeguard the workers against poor conditions or bad lighting. At present in the Commonwealth Public Service there are campaigns by some unions in respect of these matters. Sometimes the campaigns involve short stoppages of work. No restriction should be placed on the workers because of activities in that regard. Everybody should know that sometime or other the problems have to be solved. If the Government wants to solve them, the sensible way is across the table. It would be well for the Government to look at the standards of industrial laws operating overseas, in West Germany in particular or in Europe generally - my colleague  Mr Clyde  Cameron and I recently visited Sweden - to see the extent to which it is possible to settle differences across the table. Where there are differences in administration there could be used what is now being used in some of these countries - works councils where people can talk across the table about the problems in the industry or shop. We support the opposition of the CCPSO, of the unions generally and certainly of the ACTU. I conclude by reading a resolution carried by the Joint Councils on 30th March 1972. They issued this statement after the meeting: 
Meeting of the Joint Councils comprising of representatives of the Australian Council of Trade Unions, Australian Council of Salaried and Professional Associations and Council of Commonwealth Public Service Organisations meeting in Melbourne today expressed strong opposition to and decided to seek the defeat of amendments to the Public Service Arbitration Bill due to come before the Senate when it resumes on 11th April. 
The Bill seeks to give the Public Service Arbitrator power to stand down without pay Commonwealth public servants in relation to disputes inside or outside the Public Service. 
The meeting was attended by  Mr R.  J. Hawke,  Mr H.  J. Souter of the ACTU, Messrs P. Riley and R. D. Williams of ACSPA, and Messrs D. Linehan and K. Turbet and P. Munro of  CCPSO. 
After the meeting the Presidents of the 3 Councils,  Mr Hawke, Mr Riley  and  Mr Linehan  issued the following statement: 
Representations will be made to the Opposition parties in the Senate and to Independent senators asking them to defeat the passage of the Bill through the Senate. 
There has been indecent haste in the introduction of this legislation. 
The Bill is not in a form which lends itself to amendment. 
The whole matter should be reconsidered and new legislation introduced after proper consultation with the unions and organisations affected.' 
Debate interrupted. 
My question, which is directed to the Minister for Air, follows upon his answer to me last Thursday concerning the replacement of aircraft for the Royal Australian Air Force. I now ask him whether he is able to give more information about this matter? Does the Government intend to insist upon joint production for such replacement aircraft? Which firms from which countries accept co-production of such aircraft? Is SAAB, the Swedish aircraft manufacturer, one of these firms? 
 I move: 
That the Senate, at its rising, adjourn until tomorrow at 11.5 a.m. 
I do so for the purpose of enabling a debate on a matter of urgency, namely: 
The failure of the Government to safeguard the future of the Australian aircraft industry. 
I think the facts are well known. This is a very serious topic for the employees in the Australian aircraft industry, in government and private factories, most of whom are very highly skilled. It is also one of great concern to government and private manufacturers who, at this time, do not have any long range plans to help the industry whose capability has become well known and has been recognised over the years. While this Government is providing massive finance or is approving huge borrowings for the purpose of importing military and civilian aircraft and their military requirements, much of which could and should be produced in this country, the Australian manufacturing capacity is only partly employed. As a matter of fact there is a complete lack, of support by this Government for the industry. I suggest that over many years this Government has been frequently warned about the urgent need to give the industry a stimulus. 
Some piecemeal measures have been arranged between the Government and private manufacturers, including some from overseas. But there has not been the sort of long range plan which should be adopted to keep the industry going. Over the years all the people in the industry have acquired a great deal of skill and our productvity in the industry has become well known. I do not think 1 need to extend the argument because it is well known that we have a very effective capacity. 
As everybody knows, what is happening is that retrenchments or fear of retrenchments are still in the air. During the early part of this year another 26 men were dismissed from the Government Aircraft Factories at Avalon. After representations from the Australian Council, of Trade Unions some few men were kept on. But a general uncertainty surrounds the activities of the aircraft industry. This uncertainty should not obtain because, as I have said, its capability is clear to anybody who knows the industry. It must be clear to the Minister for Air  (Senator Drake-Brockman),  to the Department of Supply, the Department of Defence and their ancillaries that there is a competence in the industry which ought to be used. There should be a plan to keep the industry going at full steam. There is not such a plan. As I have said, this uncertainty and dissatisfaction are felt not only by people who work in the industry but also by manufacturers. This feeling should not be current. 
In addition to all this uncertainty there is also concern about a possible merger. Honourable senators will recall that following representations which have been made not only by people outside Parliament but also people inside various Ministers have proposed rationalisation. We do not disagree with rationalisation but the idea grew into the concept that there should be a merger between the Government Aircraft Factories and the private manufacturers. Although such a motion has not been agreed upon by the Government, it should be adopted only as a last resort. A merger was proposed simply to deal with the defects which I have mentioned and which flow from the absence of a positive policy by the Government to use our capacity in a proper way. In using that capacity we would not only ensure that there would be useful production but also that in the proper defence circumstances we would have a continuing capacity; we would not be caught with our pants down if any crisis occurred. 
Over the years, more particularly in the last 2 years, there has been an acceptance by the Government of what we and the people in the industry proposed many months ago, that is, that there ought to be a very definite policy of offset orders and coproduction where that is possible. Unfortunately these aims have not been achieved. The result is that the people I have spoken about, the industry leaders, are still in a state of uncertainty. Why do we keep importing these huge bits of machinery, aircraft and everything else without insisting upon a greater share of the work?. 
At the present time the share we are getting, after a lot of agitation, does not amount to more than about $7m. Let me refer to the imports of aircraft since the year 1969-70. The research section of the Parliamentary Library provided the figures for me. For aircraft exceeding 5.000 lb weight, in 1969-70, 35 aircraft were imported at a cost of $39,476,000. In 1970-71, 64 aircraft in this category were imported at a cost of $108,460,000. In the 8 months ended February 1972, 24 such aircraft were imported at a cost of $33,512,000. For lighter aircraft, not exceeding 5,000 lb, in 1969-70, 255 were imported at a cost of $8,639,000; in 1 970- 71, 127 were imported at a cost of $6,700,000; and in the 8 months to Febru- ary 1972, 49 were imported at a cost of $1,928,000. For helicopters, in 1969-70, 28 were imported at a cost of $2,478,000; in 1970-71, 38 were imported at a cost of $4,797,000^ and in the 8 months to February 1972, 22 were imported at a cost of $4,769,000. For heavier-than-air craft, non-powered, in 1969-70, 28 were imported at a cost of $100,000; in 1970- 71, 31 were imported at a cost of $116,000; and in the 8 months to February 1972, 18 were imported at a cost of $84,000. For parts for flying machines, in 1969-70, $76,489,000 was spent in 1970- 71, $38,967,000; and in the 8 months to February 1972, $19,904,000. 
Those figures show the extent of the massive importations. The Government lacks strong purpose in this matter; it has failed to give the lead to local suppliers. It should insist that our own factories manufacture substantial parts for these aircraft. Over the last 10 years Australian airline operators have imported $540m worth of equipment. Qantas Airways Ltd has imported $365m worth of aircraft, TransAustralia Airlines and Ansett Airlines between them have imported $175m worth of equipment. Recently, approval has been given for the importation of 4 extra aircraft - Boeing 727-200s - by each domestic operator, at a cost of $67m. Over the years substantial sums of money have been spent on smaller aircraft which could be produced in Australia. The amount involved there has been $6m. 
Retrenchments have continued. In March this year 26 more skilled workers were retrenched from the Avalon factory, lt might be appropriate to give figures showing the serious decline in employment in the industry. An aircraft manufacturer is not like a motor-car manufacturer. Employees at these plants are highly specialised workers and they ought to bc retained. They are lost to the industry if they have to leave it. Once they lose that employment, these highly skilled and well trained men get work in a more stable industry and tend not to return to the aircraft industry. That is a sensible arrangement for a worker. He will not stop in an industry in which he thinks his future is not secure. He gets no satisfaction from his work in the aircraft industry, when he does not know what the future holds for him. 
In June 1965 the Government Aircraft Factories had 2,750 workers, but by June 1968 the number had fallen to 2,300 and by June 1969 to 2,000. Since then there have been smaller numbers of retrenchments. At the Avalon factory, 26 workers were retrenched in March. The Australian Council of Trade Unions, I understand, has obtained other work for them. At 1st February 1966 the factory at Avalon employed 413 persons, but by February 1967 the number had gone down to 402 and by February 1968 to 351. By 1969 the number was reduced to 286, by 1970 to 271, and by 1971 to 267. At the present time the factory has about 250 workers. One of the larger manufacturing enterprises, the Commonwealth Aircraft Corporation, which has a record of competence and is well known in the industry, had 3,747 workers in 1967. By 1968 this number had been reduced to 3,485. by  1969  to 2,909 and by 1970 to 2,670. In 1971 the number was down to 2,047, and this year it is 1,950. 
In my own State, as people know, there have been retrenchments in the industry. For example, part of the Department of Supply aircraft establishment in Salisbury was discontinued a couple of years ago. This year one of the Hawker Siddeley subsidiaries in Salisbury, very close to the Weapons Research Establishment, which is a very convenient location for an electronics manufacturer, was discontinued. We took a deputation to the Minister for Supply and we spoke to the manufacturer. We put to the Minister for Supply the proposition that the Department should feed into the subsidiary of Hawker Siddeley some extra work which would keep men in employment in South Australia. Some 200 workers have been given dismissal notices over a period. It would be very good for the State and for the industry if the Government would accede to that proposal. Strangely enough, the Minister for Supply said that nothing could be done. He said that it was not possible to give such work to the enterprise. We cannot understand this. If we have a competence in Australia, it ought to be retained. We are relying on other countries for our aircraft. Nobody can tell me that we cannot produce in our own country bits and pieces for our own aircraft. This would provide work for employees in the aircraft industry in Australia and would keep in this country huge sums of money that are being spent on imports. Enterprises such as Hawker Siddeley and the Commonwealth Aircraft Corporation, and our own people in the Government Aircraft Factories, are enterprising as well as efficient. For example, 2 representatives of the Commonwealth Aircraft Corporation,  Sir Frederick  Scherger and  Mr Abbott,  recently went to Indonesia to see to what extent it might be possible to open up markets in that country for Australian aircraft products. They found that our own aircraft, Project N, was then receiving important consideration in Indonesia. In yesterday's 'Financial Review', a statement by  Mr Abbott  was reported as follows: 
The major problem facing general aviation was finance. 
Although there was an expanding market for light aircraft - he instanced the Australian Project N concept built by the Government Aircraft Factories in Melbourne - finance and technical backup in the farm of support and manuals were essential in any gales drive. 
Banks and finance houses will have to change their ideas about financing if we are to make an impact on this market. 1 refer the Minister to the assistance given by the Japanese Government to the aircraft industry in that country. Not only should the industry be backed by private finance, but it is the responsibility of the government to provide adequate financial arrangements for an industry facing severe competition and in need of assistance. Project N is a very good piece of equipment lo sell. The Government should be the first to ask how it can assist with the project. 
I want to deal particularly with the position in relation to the Commonwealth Aircraft Corporation. To me and to those who have inquired, its reports show that there is no dramatic change in the situation in that industry. It is still working in what amounts to a very low key when one considers its work force and its capacity of previous years. The Corporation points out, as do the other manufacturers, that even with projects which have been built up, whether they be small or large, preproduction planning takes as long as 12 months before the manufacturing can get into gear. Obviously what is required is a long term plan to give work to the industry. I am not saying that the Government should give CAC work which is not necessarily useful. I think it is well known without my stating it that the Service departments and the civil airline operators have requirements for units such as Project N. The Government should so organise orders that work is given to the industry. At present it is not. 
I refer now to the position in relation to Project N. As honourable senators will remember,  Senator Poyser  and others on this side of the chamber have consistently asked when the Government intends to buy some of these aircraft. Reports about the aircraft would satisfy any expert. While I do not want to suggest thai wc should not take account of the specialists and specification requirements of the Services, it is evident that it is the type of aircraft which will sell. That has been stated by people who have seen the test flights of Project N. I think the Minister for Air has made favourable observations about it. As we all know, representatives of the French aviation industry have said that they could sell the aircraft in France. Other people who witnessed the first public demonstration in August 1971 have said that the aircraft is more than a match for a counterpart in the STOL aircraft which is currently being produced in another part of the world. 
What surprises members on this side of the chamber is the fact that no Government department has yet placed a firm order for Project N. Only recently the Minister stated that the Royal Australian Air Force has not a requirement for the aircraft. He stated that the Minister for Defence  (Mr Fairbairn)  and the Minister for the Army  (Mr Katter)  are studying the position and that investigations are being conducted. But the investigations are taking too long. 1 put to the Senate because it has been put previously - it has been put months ago - this question: Why are not our departments which have requirements for light aircraft and which purchase and run aircraft which are necessary for their operations told by the Government to order the Project N aircraft? I know of some 10 or 12 departments which use aircraft. The Government has already spent a bit over $3m on developmental work for the aircraft. It is an exceptionally good aircraft. It would seem to me, on the expert advice of  Sir Frederick  Scherger and  Mr Abbott,  that there is a market for it in Indonesia if appropriate financial arrangements can be made. It is evident that it can be placed and used as part of our defence capacity. It is evident that arrangements might be made with France to sell the aircraft to France and that arrangements could be perfected about coproduction in respect of certain requirements. That will get the project going. 
I have mentioned the reported merger of the Government Aircraft Factories and the Commonwealth Aircraft Corporation. I know that recently the Minister has said that the merger might not take place. One of the things I want to mention is the concern which has been shown by the staff associations - the workers in the industry - which have made representations to all parties, I believe, and to the Government. It may be useful if I quoted the submissions because the associations make sensible points which should be considered and which supplement the kind of proposition which we are putting. Their comments were prepared by the deputation to members of Parliament on 2nd February. I understand - I may be wrong - that they met all parties. In part the submission states: 
The Combined Committee believes that rationalisation should initially be based on a system whereby a common executive is created to: 
Develop a common marketing organisation. 
Develop a common tendering body. 
Arrange for co-ordinated installation of capital equipment. 
Phase out the areas of overlap (estimated to be 40 per cent of total). 
The GAF and CAC should retain their separate identities and certain areas of competition for the purpose of providing price comparison and competition. 
Initially that is where the Opposition stands. We cannot see any reason why  an  effective Government enterprise whose capacity has been demonstrated amply should be submerged in any way. We believe that the real need in the aircraft industry is to give sufficient work to ensure that in our requirements and in our ordering both the Government section and the private section of the aircraft industry get the share of work which they should get. 
It is clear that following debates in the Parliament the Minister for Defence and, I think, other Ministers in this place have said that they believe in a viable industry. We have been rather concerned because we felt that they did not believe in it. The scale of activity has gone down. Recently the Minister for Defence said that a relatively small but viable aircraft industry was essential in Australia and that there were some studies now being made as to the extent to which increased work might be given to the industry. I suggest that the position is getting very serious. Something more than study is necessary. It is urgent that the Government bring to a head its consideration of what aircraft it wants to replace present Service requirements. The Minister for Air is probably in a better position than most to estimate how long it would take, but it would seem that a very good stimulus would be given to the industry if the Government and the Minister in his own right or in his capacity as Minister representing the Minister for Defence could determine quickly some of the outstanding questions which are arising today. We know, as he reported only yesterday, that there are 6 or 8 proposals from overseas firms offering what would be suitable replacements for Australia. Some of the offers involve co-production, which would be a very suitable arrangement for Australia. 
The Government has to consider not only the urgent task of giving work to the industry but also the long range requirements which will be necessary for the country. I hope that the Government will consider as urgent what I am talking about. Honourable senators on this side of the chamber are sure that there is not the note of urgency that there should be. For 2 or 3 years we have been talking about the state of the industry and we have got little or no satisfaction. We have got the acceptance of principles. We have got the Minister for Air to say that the Government believes in offset orders and in coproduction where possible. The industry wants some practical support, and it should be possible to plan for that support. 
From questions I have asked and from other inquiries I have made I have ascertained that the Government even now is not insisting on co-production or office orders when it purchases aircraft or when it allows Trans-Australia Airlines or Ansett to order aircraft for the domestic industry. The Italian Government insists on that. The Australian Government is not like the Italian Government, which says: 'If you supply the aircraft we want to produce a certain amount of it'. It is only on that basis that the Italian Government takes the aircraft. If the Italian Air Force wants a special type of aircraft produced in Italian factories the Italian Government pays all the costs of development. The situation in Sweden is similar. Recently I had the pleasure of seeing the Saab aircraft factory in Sweden. Sweden must be a perfect example for Australia to follow - a small country competing with the great countries in the production of an effective aircraft at a low cost. In that country, of course, the Government so backs the aircraft industry that the industry can pay for developmental costs. 
As 1 mentioned earlier, our offset complements are very small. Little by little, over a period of about 14 months, we have built up a small amount of offset work. The total amount of work in this field is made up of small amounts from $50,000 to $600,000. As I have pointed out. we are importing over a period of 10 years aircraft worth nearly $600m. But all we are getting out of this sort of deal is minor work. Up to now we have never received any substantial aircraft frame work. We were doing some fibreglass work for window frames and so on. Now we are getting some air frame work, but we are not getting enough. I suggest that the Government ought to show clearly a continuing interest in this matter. 
Let rae quote some of the things which Ministers belatedly have said. The Minister for Defence  (Mr Fairbairn)  has repeatedly said that he believes in a viable aircraft industry. However, he has yet to recognise that there is a need to establish an industry of this kind for Australia. The 'Australian Defence Review' which has just been issued states at paragraph 31: 
Where the cost makes production in Australia uneconomic, opportunity should be sought for Australian industry to participate in a coproduction or reciprocal purchasing arrangement with the overseas supplier. The extent to which these opportunities are converted to contracts will depend very largely on the enterprise and competitiveness of our industry. The Government has Already negotiated with the United States and, to a lesser extent, the United Kingdom and other large suppliers of defence equipment, such opportunities for Australian industry. 
If negotiations have been carried out on that basis what surprises me is why the bill is not larger, and why the Government Aircraft Factories and the other 2 main Australian producers are not getting the volume of work which would satisfy them and keep them going. 
I have referred to the example of Italy where the Italian Government and Italian air force have a hard fisted policy which we might well adopt. Also I have referred to Sweden. While it is true that Australian air force specifications have to be met, it seems to me that what the Swedish Government has proposed to Australia might be considered. At least the Minister should be able to tell us why the Swedish aircraft is not going to be accepted or why other types may not be accepted. 
Let me come back to the point that was made by  Mr Abbott,  the Manager of the Commonwealth Aircraft Corporation, about assistance to the industry. This has been mentioned here before, but I mention it again. What the Government ought to bc doing - because certainly a Labor government will do it - is to make sure that financial assistance is provided when we have the ability to produce aircraft of the type required for the market here. The Government should make sure that these aircraft can be properly and easily produced. I refer to something which is perhaps more basic than that. For many years we have been producing highly sophisticated defence requirements, including aircraft. 1 think we are just settling down to acceptance of the notion that we might be suited to produce such equipment. Our private manufacturers now are going out to see to what extent they can sell smaller aircraft to adjoining countries. It seems to me that we ought to be rethinking the sort of rat race psychology in which we are engaging and we keep buying aircraft which are just off the production line. 
In this connection I want to mention an important statement made by  Sir Henry  Bland in September 1970, some time after he retired from his important post as Secretary of the Department of Defence. As honourable senators know, before he held that position he was the Secretary of the 
Department of Labour and National Service.  Sir Henry  talked about the sophisticated requirements that we have in Australia. 
The ACTING  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Cant)  - Order! The honourable senator's time has expired. 
The Minister has not risen. I think that this Committee and the unions which are involved are entitled to an answer. If the Minister says that he wants consideration to be given to this aspect or something like that, it is a reasonable proposition. This is an important matter which is now the subject of contention between the unions concerned, the Public Service and the Government. I suggest that it ought to be answered. (Quorum formed.) 
My question, also addressed to the Minister representing the Minister for Foreign Affairs, follows on from the question asked by  Senator Rae.  Is the Minister saying in his answer to  Senator Rae  that the great detente accomplished by Willi Brandt, the Chancellor of West Germany, which has been applauded by all governments of the world, by which he has established a working relationship between the East and West and which augurs well for peace in the world, is bad for the world? Is he aware that the photograph referred to in fact shows officials dealing with minor matters relating to this new relationship between East and West Germany? 
 I had hoped that we would have raised this very real problem of the absence of reply by the Minister for Health  (Senator Sir Kenneth Anderson),  to the questions raised by various speakers from this side of the chamber. This leaves us in the position that the point taken by  Senator Cavanagh  seems to be appropriate. If the Bill is to operate, it should operate in a clear manner. The real position is that the unions which represent the officers in the Public Service and, to some extent, ourselves on the Opposition disagree with what the Minister states to be the purpose of the Bill. A number of propositions have to be answered. Most of them were put either in my contribution or in the contributions made by other speakers. It might be useful for those who are to answer them if perhaps at this stage I mention them I do not mind because we can start with clause 3. There are some very substantial differences in the interpretation of the Bill which have been given by the Minister and which have since been analysed by legal people representing the unions. 
For the Bill to be effective in operation it ought to be clear. So at this stage, in respect of clause 2, 1 leave my comments on that basis. It is very necessary for the Minister to deal in detail with the questions which will arise. If these questions are put, I want to put it clearly to the Minister and to the Committee that it is not the intention to prolong the debate for that purpose in itself. The clear position is that the Bill ought to be understood by all concerned before it passes through this place. Of course, as is known, the Opposition intends to oppose the Bill at all stages. I will deal with my first objections when the Committee comes to deal with clause 3. 
 The purpose of clause 3 is to define 'industrial situation'. The traditional description of 'industrial dispute' is not used. The definition is a wider one. Ministers and supporters of the Government have stated that this definition will restrict the application of the provisions of the Bill to Commonwealth employees only, that is, to officers or employees who are employed in the Commonwealth Public Service. 
The Opposition has contended that the definition creates a situation, particularly in relation to clause 4 which deals with the industrial situation concerning the Commonwealth Public Service, in which the meaning is widened to include the provision that any dispute which is considered by the Arbitrator to be a dispute which affects the Commonwealth Public Service can be a reason for standing down Commonwealth employees. Tn short, as the Minister for Health  (Senator Sir Kenneth Anderson)  stated in his second reading speech: 
These are strikes, bans or limitations on work engaged in by officers or employees o£ Commonwealth departments or instrumentalities. 
What I am putting to the Minister is a request for him to explain to us how he justifies the notion that the interpretation in clause 3 means that the provisions of the Act can be applied only in respect of those situations which occur within the Commonwealth Public Service. If that is so, I direct attention to clause 4 and ask why proposed new section 12b reads: 
Sections 12c to 12f, inclusive, of this Act apply in relation to an industrial situation only to the extent, if any, to which officers or employees of the Public Service are concerned in or affected by, or are likely to be concerned in or affected by, that industrial situation or would upon the occurrence of that industrial situation, be likely to be so concerned or affected. 
So, an important difference in points of view arises. The Council of Commonwealth Public Service Organisations, the Australian Council of Salaried and Professional Associations and various unions affiliated with those bodies after consideration of the Bill - and the Minister will know that they had time to consider its provisions - met the Minister for Labour and National Service  (Mr Lynch).  They saw the Bill. They believed that its provisions meant that any Minister of the Government could apply to the Arbitrator in relation to a dispute involving employees of an electricity commission or employees working on the waterfront, in the railways or in the private transport industry and that, under the terms of the Bill, Commonwealth public servants could be stood down in those circumstances. The Minister has not answered the question precisely but has used in the second reading speech, as I have mentioned, the words 'by officers or employees of Commonwealth departments or instrumentalities'. 
 I ask the Minister whether it is not a fact that sections 28 and 29 of the Commonwealth Conciliation and Arbitration Act have been used either by the Public Service unions or by the Public Service Board in relation to disputes which occurred in the Commonwealth Public Service. I know of at least 4 such cases. So the question that we are trying to clarify is whether already the Commonwealth Government, the Minister in charge of a department, the Commonwealth Public Service and the Arbitrator have access to the Conciliation and Arbitration Act and whether at times they have used it. I would like the Minister to clarify that point for us for a start. 
If that is the position, why is it necessary to insert in the Public Service Arbitration Act what the Minister states to be something like the sections in the Conciliation and Arbitration Act when, as I have stated and as I think  Senator Cavanagh  stated, the Council of Commonwealth Public Service Organisations has said: 'It might have been appropriate for these 2 sections to be put into the Bill'? There are wider issues related to these 2 sections to which I have not adverted as yet. For example, although proposed new section 12e is supposed to represent section 29 of the Conciliation and Arbitration Act, it is entirely different from that section. That section points out very clearly that the people called into conference are those persons who have the greatest authority. The proposition contained in this Bill is that any person can be called into conference. It may be a breakaway group from the union; it may be a fragment of the Public Service, and so on. There are some other wider issues to which I will refer later. 1 return to the proposition that I put to the Minister, and I ask him again to clarify the position. The clause which contains the definition of 'industrial situation' surely must be the basic interpretation clause. But none of its sub-clauses refers to these socalled unauthorised actions and unusual actions in a particular manner as matters which must arise only within the confines of the Commonwealth Public Service. As I have pointed out also, the Bill goes on to prescribe special clauses which establish that wider net to which we have referred. The Minister has not given an answer on that point either. 
There is also a related question which is very pertinent to this matter. Does the interpretation of the Bill encompass this situation: Within the Public Service at the present time there are many matters which cause concern to the staff. For example, they are complaining about unhygienic, old-fashioned accommodation. In many cases the unions have gone to the department concerned and said: 'This room is no good. We will not allow our members to work in it. There is no air-conditioning or no proper ventilation. The light is poor'. I would like the Minister to tell me whether, in circumstances where there is a disagreement between the employees and the local management, under the prescription which is now in the Bill those people or some other people can be stood down. But my essential point is whether it is clear in the Minister's mind or in the minds of his advisers that this proposed new section forms the basis for dealing with upsets within the Commonwealth Public Service as such. Will he consider also the question I put to him in relation to sections 28 and 29 of the Conciliation and Arbitration Act; that is, why, as they were availed of, they were not considered to be appropriate to be inserted in this Bill? 

 Senator Sir KENNETH ANDERSON (New South Wales - Minister for Health) (12.44)  -  Perhaps I could clear up this matter before the suspension of the sitting. The sections of the Conciliation and Arbitration Act to which  Senator Bishop  referred have been dealt with, as I understand it. But, in fact, they have not been availed of because no determination has been made under them. That is the situation as I understand it. 
They have been used but the action has not been followed through. Is that it? 
This is a different position, is it not? 
The honourable senator is asking me for the facts and I am giving them to him. They have not been used and no determination has been made on that basis at all. 
lt it a fact that applications have been made under sections 28 and 29? 
As 1 understand the position, applications were made under sections 28 and 29, but in fact no decision was reached because it was never accepted that those sections could be used validly. The applications never proceeded to finality. 
Sitting suspended front 12.45 to 2.15 p.m. 
I was also asked  -  I think by  Senator Cavanagh  - where it was provided in the Bill that the Arbitrator's powers in relation to industrial situations were restricted to dealing with industrial situations involving the Public Service. The answer is to be found in the proposed new section 12b. As I understand the effect of this new section, the powers conferred by proposed new sections 12c to 12e relate only to industrial situations where those situations involve the Public Service. I hope that the information which I have given in reply to the points raised will be helpful. I feel bound to say that we are dealing only with clause 3 at the moment. 
 I refer to the proposition which we of the Opposition advanced before lunch but which has not been answered. Surely the Government is obliged to tell the Parliament what it intends in regard to this legislation. What we want to know is whether clause 3 of the Bill, which relates to the definition of industrial matters, encompasses or relates to proposed new section 12d. For example, where the Bill refers to the Public Service being 'concerned in or affected by' an industrial situation, does this definition encompass the intention of the Government that in respect of a dispute which occurs outside the Commonwealth Public Service that warrants any action, the Public Service Arbitrator or the  Deputy  Arbitrator could order a stand-down of Commonwealth employees? The second reading speech of the Minister for Health  (Senator Sir Kenneth Anderson)  indicates that this affects only officers or employees of Commonwealth departments or instrumentalities. That is the first thing which has not yet been answered. 
Let me make the position clearer. In legal cases lawyers often say: 'It is not even what the legislature intended'. That is what we should ascertain now. What does the Government intend by introducing this legislation? If we understand that then at  least  the parties to disputes, the Commonwealth Parliament, the Public Service and the unions, will know exactly what was intended. But even in that regard the lawyers say that this does not cover the position because the courts must act in accordance with what the law prescribes. 
It seems to me that the first thing we have to find out is what is intended by the Government. The Government's intentions are not clear. The Minister said in his second reading speech that it is intended only to cover officers and employees within the Commonwealth Public Service. The unions say, however - and after all they are specialists in this legislation - that from their inquiries and investigations this legislation could cover a situation involving a dispute among people outside the Commonwealth Public Service. That dispute having been created there can be circumstances in which the Arbitrator can stand workers down. In order to carry this matter a bit further and to make sure that we get proper answers to our questions I want to quote from the March 1972 issue of the ACOA'. This statement appears at page 10: 
The impression given in the Minister's Second Reading Speech that only strikes and bans on areas of Commonwealth employment can constitute an industrial situation is not borne out by a careful reading of the definition. 
Any strike or ban on work outside of the area of Commonwealth employment can constitute an industrial situation' and could lead to the stand down of officers and employees of the Commonwealth. 
A power strike or other industrial action originating outside of Commonwealth employment that resulted in a closedown of plant and equipment or limited the flow of work could result in all officers and employees being stood down without pay. The scope of the Bill is such that innocent victims of industrial action generated from within or outside of Commonwealth employment may be penalised. 
The wide net is the general feature of the complaint by the unions to which we refer, ls it a wide net? ls it intended that it should be a wide net? We are still waiting for the Minister and his advisers to tell us about this. 
The other distinctive characteristic of this Bill is the fact that there is an importation of sections 28 and 29 of the Conciliation and Arbitration Act although this Bill and that Act are different in respect of the matters referred to in those sections. 
The Minister said that proposed new section J 2k is similar to the provisions of section 29 of the Conciliation and Arbitration Act. But when we read those words it becomes very evident that there are these distinctions: Firstly, under the Conciliation and Arbitration Act the commissioner, in calling a compulsory conference, is obliged to tell the people with the greatest authority that there is a dispute and then to canvass areas for a solution of the dispute. That is the meaning in simple terms, although not in the languge of the law. But under the proposed new section 12e prescribed by this Government the Arbitrator in fact can advise all parties concerned. The unions want to know whether the Arbitrator is going to advise some malcontent group of unionists. Does the Government propose to discard the concept of organised labour and speaking to their leaders? Can the Arbitrator speak to an odd scab or a group of people who have broken away from the unions? Can the Arbitrator then decide in secret - and this is the real test - to order a return to work and a stand-down of employees? If these propositions are not true then the Minister and his expert advisers can tell us how they interpret the law. 
 I wish to follow up what the Minister has said in answering our questions about a stand down. He said that the Arbitrator, after hearing the parties concerned, could then decide whether a dispute inside or outside the Commonwealth Public Service might require a stand down. One advantage has come from our canvassing of these points until now, at a quarter to three, because we have found out from the Minister and his advisers that they agree with us that in some circumstances disputes outside the Commonwealth Public Service can occasion a stand down in the Commonwealth Public Service. That being so, the other point 1 want to take up with the Minister concerns the words 'after hearing the parties concerned'. I put to the Minister that we are not prolonging this debate simply to cause frustration. This is a very serious piece of legislation. It has been prepared in a hurry in order to catch the members of the Amalgamated Postal Workers Union. However, in doing so it casts a wide net which involves every other Commonwealth officer, and possibly, in some actions, it could involve officers of this Parliament. 
The Minister for Labour and National Service  (Mr Lynch)  has said that the proposed new section 12e(3.) substitutes for section 29 of the Conciliation and Arbitration Act. Tt provides: 
A direction under sub-section  (1)  of this section may be given to any person whose presence at (he conference the Arbitrator or Deputy - Arbitrator thinks is likely to conduce to putting an end to, or preventing th; occurrence of, the industrial situation. 
Obviously it differs from section 29 of the Conciliation and Arbitration Act which refers to directions to the parties with the greatest authority in settling a dispute. I think that departure ought to be noted. There is not complete correspondence between the 2 provisions. I am not criticising the Minister in a personal sense. I merely suggest that what we are talking about now is something which flows from an examination of the legislation which is necessary on behalf of the union members. 1 think it is important to find out whether the unions who represent the workers are in fact right. 
I will restate what we have found out up to now: Although before lunch the Government argued that disputes arising outside the Commonwealth Public Service could not be affected by this measure, it is clear now that there is agreement that any dispute outside the Commonwealth Public 
Service could occasion a stand down inside the Public Service. In our view that is unjust and legislation should not so provide. My second point is the one I have just raised and I will be interested to find out what the Minister has to say about the related provisions in the 2 pieces of legislation. (Quorum formed) 
One question has not yet been answered by the Minister for Civil Aviation  (Senator Cotton).  I think it may have been raised when the Minister for Health  Senator Sir Kenneth  Anderson, was present. I spoke about a situation in the Commonwealth Public Service - I am told that this happens fairly frequently - in which officers complain to the department and the union that their place of work is not satisfactory. The lighting is bad. There is no artificial light. There is no ventilation or air conditioning. Prior to the suspension of the sitting I asked the Minister for Health whether, the Minister for Labour and National Service having advised the Arbitrator of an industrial situation, some employees in those circumstances might be stood down. It is not a silly question. It is an important question. The matter arises frequently in outside industry, but it is always settled by negotiation. People do not need recourse to an arbitration law to make them see sense about working conditions. That is the first question. 
The Minister for Civil Aviation referred to section 29 of the Conciliation and Arbitration Act. That states which people shall be invited to a compulsory conference. I remind honourable senators that under that section people have to be ordered to a conference. Under proposed section 12d of the Public Service Arbitration Act, once the Minister has advised the Arbitrator of an industrial situation, the conference can be called forthwith, hurriedly and without the proper investigations which are normally carried out under the Conciliation and Arbitration Act. Does the Minister consider that the sections are the same? For example, section 29 (2.) of that Act states: 
In determining the persons to whom directions are given under the last preceding sub-section, the Commissioner shall take into consideration the persons having the highest degree of authority on behalf of the parties to the industrial dispute, to negotiate for the settlement of the dispute. 
The point which the unions make - after all, they deal all the time with departmental heads, Ministers and the Commonwealth Public Service - is that this prescription is different. For example, clause 12e (3.) states: 
A direction under sub-section (1.) of this section may be given to any person whose presence at the conference the Arbitrator or Deputy Arbitrator thinks is likely to conduce to putting an end to, or preventing the occurrence of, the industrial situation. 
The Minister for Labour and National Service said in the other place that the prescription is the same. Obviously, it is not the same. If the Government wanted to insert the equivalent of section 28 or 29 of the Commonwealth Conciliation and Arbitration Act, why did not it use the prescriptions in that Act which I have already read and include them in the same context? Of course, the incidental question which arises is this: The unions say that either they or the Commonwealth Public Service Board have had recourse to sections 28 and 29 over the years in some circumstances. The nearest we can get to that is that although applications were lodged the compulsory conferences were not finalised. Of course, that does not mean that the 2 sections mentioned are not available to be used. Having read the sections, I would like the Minister to tell me whether he thinks they are the same. 
 You will excuse me,  Mr Temporary Chairman,  for persisting with this matter but no answer has been given to the question which I put to the Minister for Civil Aviation  (Senator Cotton).  If we do not get an answer while this clause is being considered it will be lost sight of and, as a result, there will be some conflict between the people concerned in regard to what the legislation means. I again put the question to the Minister because he has not replied to it. He stated that in his opinion, and in the opinion of his advisers, clause 12e. of the Public Service Arbitration Bill and section 29 of the Commonwealth Conciliation and Arbitration Act are the same. Even if he now decides that there is a different prescription. it should certainly be interpreted for the record. I have pointed out that clause 12e. (4.) applies to compulsory conferences. It is declared by the Minister for Labour and National Service to be an importation from the Commonwealth Conciliation and Arbitration Act. Clause 12e. (3.) states: 
A direction under sub-section (1.) of this section may be given to any person whose presence at the conference the Arbitrator or Deputy Arbitrator thinks is likely to conduce to putting an end to. or preventing the occurrence of, the industrial situation. 
Section 29 (2.) of the Commonwealth Conciliation and Arbitration Act provides: 
In determining the persons to whom directions are given under the last preceding sub-section, the Commissioner shall take into consideration the persons having the highest degree of authority, on behalf of the parties to the industrial dispute, to negotiate for the settlement of the dispute. 
This is a very serious matter. It means that what is contained in allegedly similar legislation, the Commonwealth Conciliation and Arbitration Act, has been now imported into the Public Service Arbitration Bill and that for that reason we ought to accept it. In considering the proposition, the Council of Commonwealth Public Service Organisations said: 'If the Government wants to put in sections why did not it ask us and put them in as they are printed in the legislation?' We have not received an answer. When we read the 2 different prescriptions the essential differences are these: Under the Public Service Arbitration Bill, if it is passed, the Arbitrator can, in fact, direct notification in relation to compulsory conferences which arise not from an industrial matter. He can direct that to anybody. It might be the secretary of the union or an ordinary member of the union, lt could be a nonunionist. But under section 29 of the Conciliation and Arbitration Act, a Commissioner is required to send notification to the persons holding the highest degree of authority. This simply means that the Government, the courts and everybody else recognise freedom of industrial relations in Australia. Trade unions, being registered organisations, have authority to act for their members. I ask the Minister to tell us now whether the prescriptions are the same. 
 I wish to reply to what the Minister for Civil Aviation  (Senator Cotton)  has said because I do not think that this is the way in which we should deal with the legislation. The Minister is saying that we must rely upon the advice of the people advising him- 
I want to say something about this matter because the legislation is most important. 
1 thought it necessary to make some comment on what the Minister said. It seemed to me - and I may be at this stage greatly involved in the legislation - that what the Minister was telling the Senate was that his advisers had said what the purpose of the legislation was and that he was satisfied with their interpretation. 
May I point out the conflict here- 
Yes, I will. I am talking about clause 3. I am talking about the basic interpretation upon which the other clauses of the Bill are founded. The interpretation which we canvassed before the sitting was suspended was in respect of whether bans and limitations as provided under section 3 of the Act mean that- 
You might listen.  Senator Sim  - Your blokes are not here to listen to you. 
They are here. The TEMPORARY CHAIRMANOrder! 
Before the sitting was suspended, my colleagues and I had asked whether the interpretation of clause  3  which we are discussing now was the basis upon which bans and limitations might be pronounced to effect a stand down of Commonwealth employees. At first, the Minister said, yes, only disputes within the Commonwealth Public Service were encompassed in this interpretation. Later on, the Minister or his advisers decided to widen the interpretation by saying that it was possible for disputes outside the Commonwealth Public Service to affect employees in the Commonwealth Public Service. In defending that sort of prescription the Minister argued that the powers available under the present Conciliation and Arbitration Act were not available to the Public Service Board or to unions representing employees in the Commonwealth Public Service. 
In discussing that related question, we found that section  29  of the Conciliation and Arbitration Act and proposed new section  12e  as set out in the Public Service Arbitration Bill are quite different. Yet the Minister rises to tell us that his advisers say that they have explained the position correctly. It is very clear from the explanation of the position that the  2  prescriptions are quite different. As I have pointed out before - this ought to be recognised because the unions will be asked to work with the Commonwealth in the administration of this law - under new section  12e  the Arbitrator can instruct or can advise not only a party but also any person concerned. Under section  29  of the Conciliation and Arbitration Act, the Arbitrator is required to tell the person with the greatest authority. So the situation is that one authority is required to tell the organisation and the other authority can be required now to tell any person in the Commonwealth Public Service. That is the difference. It is no good trying to tell me that an adviser to the Minister thinks that the prescriptions are the same. They are not the same. They are quite different, and this ought to be recognised. Obviously this will not be the end of the matter. 
I wish to raise a matter in relation to this clause. Proposed new section 12c, which deals with the action that may be taken in respect of an industrial situation reads in part: (1.) Where- 
it appears to a Minister or to the Board that an industrial situation exists or is likely to occur; 
I ask the Minister: Does the 'Minister' referred to in that proposed new section have to be the Minister in charge of the department in which the industrial situa tion occurs or is developing? It is claimed by the Opposition and by the unions that the legislation brings in a completely new aspect in this regard; that is, that it is now possible for a Minister who is not connected with the department in which there is an industrial situation or, as we commonly call it, an industrial dispute, to advise the Public Service Board that in fact there is an industrial situation. It seems that the Minister may be the AttorneyGeneral or the Minister for Air when the Departmentof Shipping and Transport is engaged in a dispute. It is claimed that in so advising the Board the Minister is reflecting Government policy. The former situation was - and the situation ought to be - that the Minister represents the management. He is the officer representing the Department of Shipping and Transport if there is a dispute within the Department of Shipping and Transport and he has some basic identity with the dispute which occurs in that department. I am canvassing this matter only because it arises later in respect of other clauses of the Bill. It is an important part of the Bill which ought to be canvassed now. Does this proposed new section mean that any Minister can advise the Board even though his department is not involved? If this is the case, why is that necessary? Is not the commonsense object of the Bill to allow the Minister concerned with the dispute to applyto the Board in order to have the Board take some action? 
There is contained in this legislation provision for a change of designation of the Minister who will advise the Board. The question that concerns me is raised more strongly in regard to proposed new section ISa, but my query is related also to the clause under consideration. Proposed new section 15a makes a different prescription from that which is contained in the Public Service Arbitration Act but which will be replaced by proposed new section 15a. Sub-section (4.) of that prescription provides that an application made 'under the last preceding sub-section' may be made by a Minister affected by the claim or application. Proposed new section 
I 5a (4.) (b) reads: 
a Minister by whom the application was made or who is affected by the claim, application or matter. 
In relation to the clause which we are now discussing it seems to me that the same tendency has developed. I ask: Why is it that a Minister who may not necessarily be the Minister whose department is involved in the dispute should be given power to advise the Board of the dispute? 
 I want to ask some questions about proposed new section  12d  which deals with orders relating to industrial situations. Under the terms of that proposed new section, where the Arbitrator has been informed he shall 'forthwith call a conference'. That conference will not only include the organisations concerned and the Ministers and departmental people but any other person. Very wide power is given in proposed new section  12D(l.)(b)  which states that the Arbitrator or Deputy Arbitrator:  may, subject to the next succeeding sub-section after hearing such evidence (if any) as he thinks fit, make such orders as he thinks necessary or desirable for putting an end to, or preventing the occurrence of, the situation or preventing the occurrence of further industrial situations or such other orders as he thinks necessary or desirable by, reason of the existence or likely occurrence of the situation. 
The Council of Commonwealth Public Service Organisations and other bodies claim that this is a very wide power, that the ambit is too wide. It allows the Arbitrator to make up his own mind. He does not have to engage in the tests usual in ordinary arbitration practices. He is not required to do what is required under section 30 of the Conciliation and Arbitration Act by, for example, a conciliator appointed to settle a dispute. He can act as he thinks fit. The unions contend, and after reading this proposed new section I think they are right, that not only can he do these things without canvassing the propositions but he can then issue an order and also hold discussions in private and in secret. People concerned in the issues could be kept out of the talks because this proposed new section gives the Arbitrator extraordinary power. 
A restriction on the powers of the Arbitrator should be spelt out. There should be provisions for procedures relating to hearings. Proper procedures should be spelt out, as is the custom in the ordinary industrial laws outside the Public Service. I would like the Minister for Civil Aviation  (Senator Cotton)  to tell the Committee whether the complaints of the Opposition and of the unions involved in the Public Service are justified. Can the Arbitrator forthwith, without consulting the unions concerned and without following any form of rules of evidence, decide that a situation requires some action by him and can he then go on to stand down workers? If he can do this, it is a very wide power. It should be reviewed. This probably is one of the most important clauses of the Bill. If the powers are as wide as the unions say, there ought to be some restrictions in the legislation. 
 I should like to follow up the matter raised by  Senator Brown.  It seems to me that the 2 relevant provisions cannot be reconciled. The existing subsection which the Minister read refers to the Arbitrator's obligation to act according to equity, good conscience and so on. This is the usual industrial prescription in arbitration Acts and in most State industrial legislation. I draw the Minister's attention to proposed new section 12d, which provides in paragraph (b) of sub-section (1.) that the Arbitrator or a  Deputy  Arbitrator - may, subject to the next succeeding subsection, after hearing such evidence (if any) as he thinks fit, make such orders as he thinks necessary or desirable for putting an end to, or prevailing the occurrence of, the situation or preventing the occurrence of . . . the situation. 
That shows the difference between section 13 of the principal Act and the provision that is now being written into the Act. I suggest that they conflict. We ought to be told the exact intention of the Government in seeking to introduce new sections 12d and 12b. Our criticism has not yet been answered. The unions, having obtained legal information, contend that this sort of discussion in relation to the orders can in fact be heard in secret. It need not be in public. The Minister has said exactly that. He said that, if necessary, the Arbitrator can decide whether the discussions shall be in public. The other glaring injustice lies in subclause (2.) of proposed new section 12d, which sets out the orders that may be made by the Arbitrator. It provides: (2.) The orders that may be made under the last preceding sub-section are - 
orders relating to conditions of employment of officers or employees (whether members of an organization or not) who are concerned in or affected by, or are likely to be concerned in or affected by, the industrial situation; or 
orders directing the cessation of conduct that constitutes, or encourages the continuation of, the industrial situation or prohibiting the engaging in conduct that would constitute or bring about the industrial situation. 
According to the legal advisers of the unions and according to the way that we read the provision, the Arbitrator or  Deputy  Arbitrator can issue an order against a union which is not concerned with Commonwealth employment generally. It is an extremely wide power. It seems to me to be an area which should not concern the Commonwealth Public Service at all or the Arbitrator. It should be strictly limited. We agree with the unions that something ought to be done about it and if we are correct in our view there is every reason to delay the legislation, particularly if the advisers are uncertain as to what is meant. The Minister has not answered our queries on this point. A document has been circulated containing the contentions of the Council of Commonwealth Public Service Organisations. I believe that it has been put to  Mr Lynch,  the Minister for Labour and National Service. It is a very wide power to give an Arbitrator in respect of an organisation which is not involved in Commonwealth employment and we would like to have the advice of the Minister on that question. 
1 again raise a question which has not been answered. The Minister may recall that 1 referred not only to the conflict between the proposed new section 12D(2.)(b) in the Bill and section 13 of the principal Act, but also to the meaning of paragraph (a) of sub-section (2.) of section I 2d. It reads:   . . orders relating to conditions of employment of officers or employees, (whether members of an organisation or not) who are concerned in or affected by, or are likely to be concerned in or affected by, the industrial situation; 
The complaint of the unions concerns section 3 of the Public Service Arbitration Act, which includes this definition: 
Organisation' means an organisation within the meaning of the Conciliation and Arbitration Act 1904-1950;  lt seems to me that the union correctly claims that the Arbitrator or a  Deputy  Arbitrator can enforce upon an organisation which is registered under the Conciliation and Arbitration Act an order in relation to a matter which, after all, concerns only Commonwealth public servants. Organisations not involved in the Commonwealth Public Service could be affected. That is the legal advice given to the unions. Some explanation should be furnished and I would be interested to learn whether the Minister or his advisers have yet considered that principle. 
I am sorry that I have to follow this up at this late hour, but 1 think it is necessary. I will quickly restate the contention of the unions. In this matter the unions are almost as well equipped as the Minister's advisers because the unions have had legal advice. Proposed section 12d (2.) reads: 
The orders that may be made under Dic last preceding sub-section are - 
orders relating to conditions of employment of officers or employees (whether members of an organisation or not) who arc concerned in or affected by, or are likely to be concerned in or affected by, the industrial situation; or 
orders directing the cessation of conduct that constitutes, or encourages the continuation of, the industrial situation or prohibiting the engaging in conduct that would constitute or bring about the industrial situation. 
The unions say that those orders by the Arbitrator can be issued upon the unions because of the definition of organisation in the Public Service Arbitration Act. It reads: 
Organisation' means an organisation within the meaning of the Conciliation and Arbitration Act . . . 
We know from answers on this score that it is possible for the Arbitrator, on an application by any Minister, to enforce an order to stand down workers because of a dispute outside the Commonwealth Service. The dispute does not have to be within the Commonwealth Service. That is one thing we learned today. That is one benefit of these Committee deliberations. We have also learned that a Minister may act although he is not the Minister concerned with the management of the section in which the dispute occurs. That is an extraordinary new power. There is a new question which might be answered by the Minister. Can the Arbitrator enforce or try to enforce such orders upon organisations which are not concerned or are only partly concerned with Commonwealth employment? 
 To some extent proposed section 12e has been canvassed because it is related to other proposed sections. I refer particularly to proposed section 12e (3.). I think I should re-state very quickly the opinion of the unions and the Opposition, lt has been stated by the Minister for Civil Aviation  (Senator Cotton)  and in the other place that proposed section 12e, which applies to a compulsory conference, is the same as the provision contained in section 29 of the Conciliation and Arbitration Act. In our opinion, it is quite different. The 
Minister has made some comment on it - or his advisers have told him what their opinion is. He may want to say something else. Proposed section 12e (3.) states: 
A direction under sub-section (1.) of this section may be given to any person whose presence at the conference the Arbitrator or Deputy Arbitrator thinks is likely to conduce to putting an end to, or preventing the occurrence of, the industrial situation. 
That is what is proposed. Section 29 of the Conciliation and Arbitration Act reads: 
In determining the persons to whom directions arc given under the last preceding sub-section, the Commissioner shall take into consideration the persons having the highest degree of authority, on behalf of the parties to the industrial dispute, to negotiate for the settlement of the dispute. 
That Act recognises the well established principle that registered unions have a status and have to be recognised. Although the departments or the managers might not like the unions, they are forced by law to consult the officers who have the greatest authority. The proposed section uses different terms. The direction under proposed section 12e (3.) 'may be given to any person whose presence at the conference the Arbitrator or  Deputy  Arbitrator thinks is likely to conduce to putting an end to, Or preventing the occurrence of, the industrial situation'. In the opinion of the unions, that is a very weak sub-section because it may result in the development of relations which are not consistent with the standard of relations that have obtained until now. 
 Section I 5a (4.) of the Principal Act reads: 
An application under the last preceding sub-section may bc made by - 
the Board; 
a Minister affected by the claim or application; or 
the organisation by which the claim or application was submitted to the Arbitrator. 
Proposed section 1 5a (4.) reads: 
A request under the last preceding sub-section may be made by - 
the Board; 
a Minister by whom the application was made or who is  affeced  by the claim, application or matter . . . 
We contend that the alteration is a substantial one. The great weakness of the Bill is that it relates too closely to Government policy. Under the present Act, obviously a Minister who is in charge of the department in which the dispute occurs has some status, some identity with the dispute. One would expect that Minister to be active when there are some problems in industry. That section is deleted. The old prescription that the Minister must be 'a Minister affected by the claim or application' is to be deleted. In its place there is a provision that the Minister must be 'a Minister by whom the application was made or who is affected by the claim, application or matter'. So there is a new and wide power which we think is related too much to the Government's political and economic aims. As I have said, it is certainly positive that when a Minister is involved in administering a department in which a dispute occurs he should have some reference in the matter. But when the Government allows the reference to be made by some other Minister, the power is too wide because the other Minister - it may be even the Prime Minister or the Treasurer - can decide to advise the Public Service Arbitrator that there is some industrial situation. The dispute may concern wage claims or anything relating to Commonwealth employment. He may not be as intimately aware of the dispute as would the Minister who runs the department, but he now is able to advise. He can make the application. It seems to me - this is so in the eyes of the unions also - that in this clause the Government is identifying too closely the role of government with the role of management in respect to industrial relations. I would like to know from the Minister the reason for which the definition was so prescribed and whether it has any relevance to the points that I am making. At any rate, I would certainly like to know his explanation of this position. 
I thinkI should raise this question at this time because this is the last clause we will deal with in Committee. I have been asked to raise the question of what the Government proposes to do about superannuation payments, for example. This matter could be related to any one of the clauses.It is pertinent to the Bill generally. I put a hypothetical situation in which there is a stand-down which extends over a fortnightly period. It would mean that officers of the Commonwealth Public Service would not meet their obligations under the Superannuation Act and would not, in fact, be paying their share of contributions to the Commonwealth Superannuation Fund which they should be paying. It seems to me that if the Government has not thought about this proposition it ought to do so. If there is a stand-down - it is not unlikely that it may occur - and it runs through the course of a fortnight, those officers in the Commonwealth Public Service who would normally be able to pay their superannuation entitlements for so many units of pension would, in fact, be in arrears. 
There are also other matters related to this. Not only superannuation is involved. They are entitled to other benefits under the regulations of the Public Service Act which probably would be encompassed in the same question. I want to know, and certainly the unions want to know, the attitude of the Government or of any department in circumstances in which, because of the action of an arbitrator, employees are suspended so as to make them unable to meet their superannuation commitments. In those circumstances, they may be in default. What consideration has been given to this situation? 
My question, which is directed to the Minister for Civil Aviation, refers to his recent statement regarding parallel flights, but more particularly to the unsatisfactory and largely parallel jet services to Darwin. Is it a fact that presently parallel flights operate on Mondays, Fridays and Saturdays, generally from Brisbane or Adelaide, and will not be completely eliminated with the revised timetables? Will he endeavour to arrange a more equitable distribution of jet flights to Darwin and generally a more improved service for Northern Territory residents and tourists generally? 
My question, which is directed to the Minister for Civil Aviation, refers to the issue of reduced airline fares for tourist travel within Australia. Is the Minister able to report upon moves to institute reduced air fares for tourist travel within Australia, particularly when the air travel is related directly to international flights - for example, to and from Darwin and other cities? Is it a fact that the move is now dormant within the domestic airline industry? 
I ask the Minister for Civil Aviation: Since his recent answer about investigations into the question of low cost domestic airline fares in relation to the new low fares for international charter services, has it been decided as reported currently in the Press that no further action will be taken by the domestic airlines on this matter? 
I ask the Minister for Air whether he is able to give any further information concerning the aircraft accident and the loss of an aircraft which arose from operations recently carried out from the Darwin air base? 
My question is directed to the Attorney-General. I ask: Is it a fact that he has acted to frustrate pay claims by Public Service unions representing 83,000 Commonwealth public servants in applications before the Public Service Arbitrator,  Mr Chambers,  which seek for Commonwealth public servants pay rates similar to those that have been awarded to Victorian public servants? Has the Attorney-General acted in this matter only as the Minister directly affected? If so, who authorised similar objections to the Public Service Arbitrator by 6 other Commonwealth departments? How does the Attorney-General justify this action whilst legislating to increase retrospectively the salaries of Conciliation Commissioners by over 30 per cent? 
My question to the Minister for Air relates to the current estimate of the total Fill aircraft project costs, stated by the Minister for Defence to be $US344m. Does that figure include any estimate for storing the. aircraft during the evaluation and modification stages? If so, what is that amount? Is it a fact that the cost of maintaining Royal Australian Air Force teams in the United States of America and the expenditure on training will be additional to this estimated cost? 
My question, which 1 direct to the Minister representing the Minister for Labour and National Service, refers to lack of uniformity in the compilation and reporting of industrial accident statistics, a situation which has been known for some years. I ask: Is it a fact that the Department of Labour and National Service and other departments have reported this situation to the Commonwealth Government and to other governments? What action is now being taken to correct this bad position which impedes any improvement in the compilation of statistics of accidents on the job? 
My question is directed to the Minister for Air. Is it a fact that a Department of Defence report recommends a production run of 12 to 20 Project N aircraft? If so, does this indicate that orders have been received from (he 
Services or other Commonwealth departments? When is it likely that an announcement about this aircraft will be made? 
My question is directed to the Minister for Civil Aviation and relates to his current statements regarding dismissals from Qantas Airways Ltd and the recent deputation from trade unions representing workers employed by Qantas. I ask: Since the joint deputation to  him of those unions has it been possible to obtain information from Qantas or other sources which would indicate that the position of the Qantas workforce will be more stable in the future? 
My question is directed to either the Minister representing the Minister for Defence or the Minister representing the Minister for Supply. What is the present position relating to proposals to merge the Government Aircraft Factories and the Commonwealth Aircraft Corporation? Has the Government made a decision? If not, when is it likely that the matter will be determined? I also ask the Minister: As any such scheme would vitally affect the aircraft industry, its skilled workers and the future role of the Government Aircraft Factories in the national scheme, does he consider it necessary that a decision be made before the Federal election is held? 
 This Bill is the second legislative step within a few weeks towards imposing reactionary laws on trade unions and their members. The Government has used a fine tooth comb technique to make trade union activity more difficult and complex. That may account for the presence in the chamber tonight of the Attorney-General  (Senator Greenwood).  It is unusual for him to be in charge of a Bill of this nature. The Minister who represents the Minister for Labour and National Service is the person who usually handles Bills of this nature in the Senate. It may be because of the Attorney-General's particular interest in this legislation and the fact that I understand, he drafted some of the clauses of this Bill that he has responsibility for the passage of this legislation through the Senate. I wanted to make that point early because my colleagues and I thought it was rather significant that the Minister for Works  (Senator Wright),  who usually looks after legislation in this chamber concerning the portfolio of Labour and National Service, is not in charge of this Bill tonight. 
This Bill follows closely upon the recent restrictions imposed upon the. Government's own servants. I refer to the recent enactments within the framework of the Public Service Arbitration Act. Honourable senators will remember that under that legislation, which the Labor. Opposition strongly opposed, extraordinary powers were given to the Government and its Ministers to stand down all classes of public servants. In that legislation the Government put into effect its policy of creating tighter laws not only to break strikes but also to ensure that maximum limitations possible were placed on the efforts of the 
Australian Council of Trade Unions and the white collar organisations to maintain the wage standards of their members. That is on record. The Bill is also an indication of the Government's double standards in its philosophy because it will enforce harsher laws designed more and more to reduce conciliation. The Government's double standards apply to wage increases on the one hand and cost increases on the other. That is very significant. lt is rather strange that a government which reacts to wage increases should run to the arbitration machinery in order to make tighter laws and yet do nothing about increased costs. By its own actions the Government is increasing prices. It has no prices policy and its Ministers give only lip service to the stabilising of prices. It sanctifies its free enterprise policy, which it often refers to, by the so-called philosophy of law enforcement of industrial relations. The Government influences employers to resist agreements with their counterparts in industry. As the ACTU has stated, the Government has produced an Alice in Wonderland situation of fighting inflation by raising prices. Costs are increased by the Government's economic policies. The Government sets the economic climate. It is the arbiter of what should be done within the community and what should be done within the economy. Invariably there are increased costs in every commercial, industrial and governmental activity, both State and federal. These have resulted from policies which from year to year the Government says are designed to correct the inflationary spiral. Every budget we have had in recent years has added increased charges to every activity in the economy. The State governments, which suffer from insufficient federal funds, add their quota to the spiral. Before the arbitration tribunals, the Government always warns against excessive wage increases; yet it imposes heavier burdens on citizens, industry, producers and the State governments. That is what these laws are all about. 
This Bill is designed to stop the resistance by workers - the members of the socalled militant unions, as they are referred to in the other place by the Minister for Labour and National Service  (Mr Lynch)  - who are attempting to maintain standards in a period when costs are rising. I suggest that the present actions by the tottering coalition Government are designed to throw on the shoulders of not only the blue collar workers but also the white collar workers in business and Commonwealth employment all the burdens which have resulted from its mismanagement of the economy. I shall repeat what has happened in the past few months: We had the position where the Government was going to run a law and order campaign. It was going to declare that all the problems in the economy resulted from the pressures of the wage earning section of the community. Belatedly, it came down with 2 Bills. The Public Service Arbitration Bill was the first one. In it the Government had what could be called a dummy run on the arbitration question. More and more people in the Commonwealth Public Service are only just realising the great impact of the Public Service Bill. They are only just appreciating that any Minister, including the Prime Minister can, under that legislation, order a stand down if it is considered that there is in existence a dispute which affects the Commonwealth Public Service. When the Commonwealth public servants realise the impact of that Bill and this Bill they will certainly react more strongly against the Government than they have in the past. 
I think the Government intends to tie down the unions completely, to subvert the traditional role of the conciliation and arbitration tribunals and generally to make it more difficult for organised labour to maintain wage and industry standards. There is no other group in our community which is subject to so many restrictive laws. One could go through the names of all of the groups which are confronting the Government about increased costs without finding one which is subjected to the same sort of restrictive laws to which the trade union movement is now being subjected. The trade union movement is being subjected to many attacks from the Government and its spokesmen. Statements have been and are frequently being made by not only the present Prime Minister  (Mr McMahon)  and the present Minister for Labour and National Service but also by the former Prime Minister and former Ministers for Labour and National Service in which attacks are launched on unions that are out to maintain the wage rates of their members or to get something for them in a period of inflation or because of increased productivity. The Government sees the real inflationary pressure as coming from the wage-earning section of the community. Act after Act is promulgated to impede the functions of the trade unions. After all the functions of the trade unions are primarily to protect the standards of their members and to maintain wage levels. The Government says that it encourages the trade unions. What the Government wants is tame cat unions; it does not want active unions. The role of a trade union in Australia is no different to the role of a trade union in any other country, lt is to maintain the standards of and protect its members. As we know, in many countries the unions are doing that in a more militant manner than it is being done in Australia. 
The Prime Minister has staled that in recent times the Commonwealth has intervened in arbitration hearings in recognition of the increasing gravity of the problem of wage induced inflation and that the intervention has been more frequent and more vigorous than for many years past. We know that. But for years there has been no vigour by the Government or its Ministers in respect to time lost through industrial accidents, which by far exceeds the time lost in industrial disputes. In 1970. 2.4 million man days were lost as a result of industrial disputes. At least 3.4 million man days were lost 'that year and are lost every year as a result of industrial accidents. The Government has not even achieved a uniform statistical scheme to record and report on industrial accidents Jet alone a strong policy to reduce the number of accidents on the job. I know that most honourable senators seek the services of the Legislative Research Section of the Parliamentary Library for statistics on certain matters. Anyone who has tried to obtain  from  it figures in respect to industrial accidents will confirm what I. am about to say. 1 have just sought from it some up-to-date figures on this subject. The following preamble was given to the figures with which I was supplied: 
The statistics shown below for industrial accidents are those supplied by, State authorities. Workers compensation legislation differs in the several States. Therefore there is a lack of uniformity in coverage from State to State. This seriously impairs the comparability of these statistics and it is not reasonable to draw conclusions regarding the incidence of industrial accidents among the States. 
The Government has known of this situation for years. Specialists in its own Department have advised it in writing, lt has been made public that these figures are not available and that there should be at least a base of figures on which to make the calculation. The Minister makes a calculation with which we do not disagree. But 1 am pointing to the fact that the Government, with the employees and the employers and everybody in the community could make great savings because every Party and everybody in the community declares their objective to be to reduce accidents on the job. But nothing is done. The Government singles out unions for harsher laws. I shall repeat what the Minister for Labour and National Service.  Mr Lynch,  said recently about accidents: 
Approximately 270:000 workers each year suffer injuries which cause them to be away from their jobs for one or more days and the total time lost from these injuries amounts to about 680,000 man weeks per year. When related to the employed work force these accidents occur at a rate approaching 40 cases for every, million man hours worked and claims in connection with these injuries totalled over $!06m in 1968-69. 
So the figures are there for the Government to see. It announced them and did nothing about them. 1 suggest that this is an area where there ought to be common activity and where some correctives could be made. The production of wealth which would result from the application of the extra man power would be quite immense. Instead, the Government takes the oldfashioned remedies. The Government goes back on its former declaration of modifying the arbitration laws. It introduces new, repressive laws. In addition we have the economic loss due to unemployment. We know that the Government's policy has created a new pool of unemployed. In fact - these figures are acknowledged by everybody - there is a loss of 13.8 million man days for every 60,000 unemployed workers. I ask honourable senators to consider this pool of lost production because of industrial accidents and unemployment hundreds of millions of dollars a year are lost. This could be corrected by a government. Why has not the Government taken the stand that it should take? This is an area where with co-operation from other sections of the community, from the great trade union movement and from the employers a satisfactory result would be produced. The Government should turn its attention to this matter. It could take corrective action against increasing costs. But it does nothing. It points to the fact that the cost of industrial accidents in Australia for 1968-69 was $106m. 
 The Australian Labor Party makes no bones about its attitude to industrial accidents. 
I ask the honourable senator not to talk about inflation to me. I am talking about what the Government proposes to ask the workers to do in a period of inflation. We want to know what the Government is going to do about the economy without imposing burdens on the workers. Of course, then we receive information about strikes and stoppages. The Minister has said that the actions of militant unions become a threat of wage induced inflation. That is the great crime in the community. The great crime of the workers is to try to achieve something like a decent wage standard  in an  expansive economy which has been hamstrung by this Government. The Minister, in his statement of December, referred to the great losses of time in other countries. He puts this down to a collective bargaining system. But let me refer to what he said in paragraph 25 of his December document which reads: 
In many countries where the alternative of collective bargaining operates the industry situation is far worse than in Australia. Statistics compiled from ILO sources indicate that for the 5 years 1965 to 1969 the average annual number of man.days lost per 1,000 employees in the mining, manufacturing, construction and transport industries in Australia was 4S6, compared with 1,556 for Canada, 1,232 for the United States and 1,574 for Italy. Furthermore, most countries are showing a rising trend in time lost through industrial disputes. For example, the number of man-days lost in 1970 was at least 30 per cent higher in the United States, about 60 per cent higher in the United Kingdom and 100 per cent higher in New Zealand than in the previous year. 
We know that there is on record statements not only by the  President  of our Industrial Conciliation and Arbitration Commission but also by former Ministers of the Government. For example, in 1969 when  Mr Bury  was the Minister for Labour and National Service he is reported to have said: 
Time lost because of industrial disputes in Australia compared favourably with most industrialised communities, . . .  Mr Bury  said yesterday. 
That was 14th March 1969. The report continues: 
We can justly claim that Australia has evolved an orderly system of dealing with industrial problems,' he said. . . . 'The smooth functioning of the system and the encouraging record of agreement and co-operation within it have provided an industrial relations climate favourable to economic growth and industrial development.' 
But we know that since that time the views of the Government have changed, it no longer supports employee-employer agreements except on a restricted basis. That sort of system in industrial relations has lost its weight with the Government. No longer will it agree to agreements and consent awards being made to provide favourable conditions in industry despite the fact that some of these agreements and consent awards will provide a very stable situation. In 1969 and 1970 the Government accepted the overtures of the Australian Council of Trade Unions and white collar organisations to relax penal powers. Of course this has gone into recess. I shall quote a statement made by the  President  of the Commonwealth Conciliation and Arbitration Commission for the year ended 13th August 1971. At page 10 he said: 
I am well aware that most Australians accept as a fact that strikes and threats of strikes have been increasing over recent years but I doubt if this acceptance is well based if increased population and work force are taken into account. Nevertheless although there is cause for some concern in this regard it should be remembered that the important thing for Australia as a trading nation is how the rest of the world with which she is competing is behaving in similar fields. Most of our competitors have been plagued by; strikes just as much if not more than we have and there can be no proper suggestion that over recent years our position is becoming worse than that of our competitors in this regard. This does not mean that we should not do everything in our power to prevent strikes but it should not be forgotten that Australia has not, generally speaking, had the long drawn out strikes which other countries have had in the last few years. This is largely because  the Commission has managed to bring parties together and has had strikes settled at a much earlier time than they would have been settled if the parties had been left to 'slog it out' for themselves. This is, from the community and industrial point of view, a service by the Commission generally taken for granted although it is of immense value to the community, needs patient and efficient organisation and dedication, and takes up a great portion of our time. . . . 
Reading that statement, can anybody believe that the Arbitration Commission or the specialists in the community have supported what, the Government proposes in these laws? That sort of relationship, as far as the Government is concerned, is dead. The proposition advanced by the  President  of the Commonwealth Conciliation and Arbitration Commission in 1965 in relation to prosecuting agreements being a good thing - 1 have referred to what  Mr Bury  said when he was Minister for Labour and National Service - is also dead. But let me read what the  President  said in 1965 and repeated in the following year. He said: 
So far as stoppages are concerned and particularly those in the over-award payment area I still have the opinion I reported last year that sufficient use is not being made of the provisions of Part X of the Act allowing for industrial agreements containing grievance procedures being entered into and certified pursuant to the Act. This year there were no Agreements of this type filed in the Commission. In view of the importance I attach to the subject I repeat in part what I said last year: 
The only industrial agreement contemplated by Part X ia one for the prevention and settlement of industrial disputes by conciliation and arbitration. For some reason there have been in the life-time of the Commission comparatively few agreements filed pursuant to Part X. This seems a pity because the provisions of this Part give employers and employees even in an "off" period when they are not in disputation an opportunity of arranging amongst themselves a code to be followed for the prevention and settlement of disputes in an orderly and peaceful manner without loss of work and pay. As an example of such a code agreed upon in a particular case 1 paraphrase summarily an agreement filed under Part X this year in which a number of unions were parties. This agreement provided that the principle of conciliation by direct negotiation should be adopted for the purpose of the prevention and settlement of any industrial dispute that might arise between the parties; that the Federal and State officials of the unions would do all in their power to prevent precipitate action by employees and would lake early and active part in discussions and negotiations aimed at preventing or settling disputes in accordance with the agreed procedure set out in the next paragraphs; that any dispute or claim should be dealt with in the following manners - 
The matter should be submitted by the shop steward or accredited representative of the union concerned to the Industrial Officer or other appropriate representative of the employer. 
If not then settled the matter should be formally submitted by the State Secretary or other appropriate official of the union to the General Manager or his representative. 
If agreement had not been reached the matter should then be discussed between the General Manager or his representative and State officials of the union. 
In the event of discussion failing, the Senior Commissioner to be advised and requested to arrange for a Conciliator or Commissioner to consider the matter and the parties agree hereby to abide by any resultant decision. 
During the above procedure work would continue at the instruction of the employer and no party would be prejudiced as to final settlement by such continuance of work.' 
He continued: 
It would appear that bargaining about overaward payments Ls going to continue in certain industries. Irrespective of whether this is a good thing or not it is in my opinion highly desirable that when it does occur it be conducted in as orderly a manner as possible and without industrial disruption. The practice of having agreements with codes similar to the one I have paraphrased should help in these respects. The community should gain but surely it would be helpful also to organized employers and employees. The interests of other unionists and employers than those directly concerned are often Involved and Industrial strength should not be the deciding factor. 
This has been reported by the  President  of the Commission on many occasions but the Government has never taken notice, lt is now acting to prevent such agreements in certain areas. The Labor Opposition supports the ACTU and other organisations - the Commonwealth Council of Public Service Organisations and the Australian Council of Salaried and Professional Associations - in pressing for a greater degree of conciliation. The system should in law and in practice be based on conciliation. Employers and unions should be encouraged to settle their differences by these processes. In recent years and under a different Minister for Labour and National Service some recognition was given to the failure of sanctions, and in fact some amendments were made because of this, but now the clock is being turned back. 
I am sure honourable senators are fully aware of what our shadow Minister for Labour,  Mr Clyde  Cameron, has stated to be the policy of the Labor Party. We believe in that basic principle. He will be the Minister for Labour after the next election, and in that case he will revert the whole thinking on legislation back to conciliation, where it should be based.  Senator Gair,  who is seeking to interject, has had difficulties in his own Party. He will continue to have them. He will have electoral difficulties, too, I suggest, in respect of his policies. I suggest that anybody with a long experience of union affairs should be the first to do as your counterpart,  Mr Deputy President,  did in ACSPA, lt is on record that  Mr Maynes  objected to the legislation, and we would like to know whether you intend to accept his viewpoint. Let me refer to what the Government is saying, lt always says that inflation is wage induced. It talks of nothing else, with the possible exception of the Minister for Labour and National Service  (Mr Lynch)  on 6th September 1971, who, when talking of the problems of full employment, said: 
Full employment can contribute to inflation by generating sectional labour shortages, by strengthening the bargaining power of organised labour and by creating market conditions which facilitate price increases. 
There are not many statements by Government spokesmen on these matters, but when they do speak, they always talk of costs being pushed up by workers and unionists. They say nothing about costs being increased by the Government's action or mismanagement. However, that does not apply to all its members. We know that some members in the other place and others in this place have hit the jackpot in respect of this issue and got to the real kernel of the argument. I refer to a statement by the honourable member for Hindmarsh  (Mr Clyde Cameron)  on 29th February 1972. At page 365 of Hansard,  Mr Cameron  is reported as saying: 
Wage increases are the reflection of inflation that already has been brought about. They do not come before inflation; they come after inflation, and unless the workers receive an increase in wages once inflation is rampant, their living standards must go down. The Minister for Education and Science talked about public interest and said that the Government would invervene and oppose the 9 per cent flow on to the Third Division of the Commonwealth Public Service. I remind the Minister that some of the people in the Third Division of the Commonwealth Public Serive now receive only $68 a week and they cannot live on this wage. This Government has no right to tell people living on $68 a week that they have no entitlement to a flow-on, because how can people live on this wage? If the Government cannot show how people can live on it it has no right to tell Third Division officers receiving  a  miserable $68 a week that they should not receive a flow on. This Government does not mind pushing up the salaries of the tall poppies. It does not mind pushing up the salaries of those who have incomes of the order of $400 a week. They get their increases. There was no question of wage restraint in that instance. But as soon as the bottom rung of the Third Division asks for a 9 per cent increase on a miserable $68 a week the Government calls out for wage restraint, ls it any wonder that people - particularly the 64 per cent of the work force or 3 million employees in Australia - have 'had' this Government and are determined that they will throw it out? 
There is no doubt that that is the real truth of the situation. I compliment  Senator Townley  on his maiden speech in this place only a few days ago. It was a great speech. He referred to some of the matters that cause inflation. At page 1762 of Hansard he is recorded as saying: 
High rates of profit by Australian companies are due in part to high tariffs combined with a lack of effective or proven legislation concerning restrictive trade prcatices. The link between absence of competition and rate of price increase has been demonstrated. For industries that are dominated by a few firms, increases in price have more to do wilh excess tariffs than with excessive wage rises. We cannot stop inflation by just bashing the unions. Measures to reduce tariffs and increase competition and efficiency are infinitely more important. 
These are some of the things that the Government always avoids in these areas. Recently, the  Chairman  of the Tariff Board,  Mr Rattigan,  in a speech to members of the Swedish Chamber of Commerce in Sydney, said: 
Unused' tariff protection was responsible for about 40 per cent of price increases in highly concentrated industries during periods of peak activity, according to the results of a study by the Tariff Board which were published yesterday. 
The article continues: 
An empirical study of the importance of unused tariffs as a factor in generating price increases in Australia was recently undertaken with the Board',  Mr Rattigan  said. The results indicate that for highly concentrated industries the existence and extent of unused tariff protection has a marked influence on price changes, especially during periods of buoyant activity.' 
One of the few statements which a Minister has made about this matter was delivered on 17th December 1970.  Mr Snedden  was then Minister for Labour and National Service. In a Press release, we read, amongst other things: 

 Mr Snedden referred to 2 speeches he made in October this year in which he said that responsibility for controlling cost-push inflation was not one simply for the unions. In a speech to the Institution of Credit Managers he said: 'Employers must demonstrate that they are willing to play the rules of the game themselves. A policy of "charging-what-the-market-can-bear" is no more justifiable when practised by businesses than by unions'. 
In March of this year, the Secretary Gen  eral  of the Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development,  Mr Emile  van Lennep visited Australia. On the question of inflationary policies an article reported a Press conference that he held states: 

 Mr van Lennep said at a Press conference that the organisation's secretariat and member countries had come to the conclusion that it remained essential to avoid excessive demand in national economics in order to maintain a proper cost-price performance. 
The report continues: 
This would include not only price-incomes policy but also manpower policies, effective policies against restrictive business practices or more generally effective policies to promote competition both within the economy and from outside. 
Tariff policies and more generally Government policies in agriculture, including subsidies, could also play a role in this. 
The 'Manufacturers News' reported part of his speech on 15th April 1972. It referred to it in these terms: 
In a comprehensive report entitled: 'InflationThe Present Problem' the OECD said: 'A characteristic feature of the last 18 months has been the way inflation has been transmitted from country to country via foreign trade, capital movements and the spread of inflationary expectations. There is no single or simple panacea for inflation. What is needed is a global approach in each country encompassing not only firm demand management, prices-income policy, active manpower policy and competition policy but also intensified efforts to identify and eliminate inefficiency. . . . 
It continued: 
Its wages policy is a farce and more likely to increase industrial tension and wage demands than reduce them. What union is going to accept restraint on wages in a situation where the Government will do nothing about prices and incomes other than wages? At best such a policy might shove some of the burden of fighting inflation on to the shoulders of some public servants and weaker, low-paid workers. 
I referred earlier to some of the recognition over the years of the defects in the present arbitration system by former Ministers. They have accepted with the Australian Council of Trade Unions and other people the need to reform that system. The Labor Party has moved in this place for improvements to that system based on measures proposed in our policy. I consider that what the Government is doing is exploiting the ACTU and the national white collar organisations. On the one hand, the Minister is making use of the constructive abilities and experience of the trade union movement, including the ACTU and other unions. We find, after the Government seeks the intervention of the ACTU in national disputes - which it does often, as we know and which always succeeds in settling those disputes - that the organisations representing national employers have more success in getting the ears of the ministry than the Labor group has. The Minister and his supporters in the Government always seem to be able to effect what the employers want or what a particular employer wants in respect of laws. Then the ACTU and the white collar workers' organisations are told that the talks are concluded. 
I refer to some of the things which the ACTU has done. Everybody knows that one of the arguments that the Minister for Labour and National Service used in his statement on the need for harsher laws was the State Electricity Commission strike which was initiated in Victoria. The person who solved the SEC strike was Bob Hawke. The person who has solved most of the other national strikes in recent months is Bob Hawke. It is not precise to say Bob Hawke alone; the qualification, President of the Australian Council of Trade Unions, should be added to his name. In addition, every day of the week the trades and labour councils in the various States work to avoid and to minimise stoppages. This is a mechanism of the ACTU. They are carrying out this work constructively. On most occasions, their work is felt also in getting agreement with employers because, extreme right wing employers apart a great number of employers in the community are willing to do a deal with the trade union movement. They would prefer to do this than to have a Government such as this one intervene because all that this Government is doing in respect of these matters is playing a political game. 
The Minister talks about demarcation. It was only within the last few weeks that the ACTU, after efforts over a long period, advised on the methods to be adopted within the trade union movement with respect to demarcation. Its discussions with the shipowners to establish recommendations which will cut out demarcation disputes in the shipbuilding industry have continued for more than 2 years. No courts can do this; if a reduction is to be achieved in the number of demarcation disputes, the unions and the employers will do it, and they will do it much better with a government which believes in industrial relations and peace in industry and conciliation. 
The Australian Council of Trade Unions took part with the Government in the meetings of the National Labour Advisory Council. The ACTU is always ready to lend its experience and its skills towards solving the important problems of the day. It took part in discussions in respect of training apprentices. techncological changes and industrial safety. What sort of consideration did it get when these matters were discussed? As a matter of fact, the consultations to which I have referred in respect of this Act commenced during 1970 and continued in 1971 but were never conclusively discussed and considered by the trade union movement but were terminated. The Minister terminated the discussions and said: 'Here is the new law'. On 18th November, close to the date when the Minister announced what he was going to do - he had all the prescriptions written out, of course - the ACTU executive made this statement: 
The Executive considered  a  report from the officers on the tripartite conferences concerning the operation of the Commonwealth Conciliation and Arbitration Act. It is clear from the evidence of those conferences, confirmed by a further statement made on 17th November by the Minister for Labour and National Service,  Mr P.  Lynch, of the Government's intention to retain penal provisions within the Act that the Government never had any intention to conduct impartial openminded discussions on these issues. 
I have said that the Government is moving backwards. That is the fact. In 1970, the Government with the ACTU agreed on guidelines for the settlement of industrial disputes on a procedures clause. Our movement went along with them, supported them and thought that the agreement was a good thing. So, in that respect, we support what the ACTU has done. In a report of the statement issued in July 1971 by the Minister, referring to a review of the conciliation and arbitration system, we read: 

 Mr Lynch said that all parties recognised the fundamental importance of maintaining conciliation and arbitration in Australia. Equally, the Minister said, there is an acceptance of the need for an intensive review of the system, particularly as there has nol been a review in depth for the past 15 years. 
I  have  told the Senate of the type of review which the Minister has given us.  Mr Souter  has reported publicly that the conferences proceeded until the stage when the ACTU, the Australian Council of Sala  ried  and Professional Associations and the Council of the Commonwealth Public  Service  Organisations were urging agreement  with  the spokesmen for the employers organisations.  When  the Government saw  that there  was a  very  good chance that some sort of collective agreement would be made by  these  2 bodies, it initiated a  lot  of activity  to  persuade other employers to come in and to upset  these  conferences. The Minister decided  what  he would do and gave 12 hours notice. He has claimed in his statements that at all times, our people knew that this would be a matter for the Government. In paragraph 38 on page 10 of his December statement the Minister  said: 1 must make it clear that this conference was in no sense a negotiating body from which some agreed to comprise proposals for amendment of the Act would emerge. The parties understood that its purpose was to give them the opportunity to put their views to Government as to amendments to the Act they believed desirable to improve the system and that the question of what amendments would be made was solely a matter for the Government to determine. 
I suggest that that is not a correct report of the proceedings. The ACTU has always entered these discussions considering that its good offices, intelligence and experience would have the effect of producing a common understanding. That is why the ACTU is on the National Labour Advisory Council. We wonder why it stays on the National Labour Advisory Council while the Government is taking such actions.  Mr Souter  does not agree with the Minister. Following the statement made by the Minister for Labour and National Service, a report in the Adelaide 'Advertiser' stated: 
The ACTU secretary  (Mr H.  J.  Souter) said last night that the unions had been 'double crossed' by the Minister for Labour  and  National Service  (Mr Lynch). 
He said  Mr Lynch  had told the unions his review of the Conciliation and Arbitration Act in Parliament on Tuesday night would be only  a  statement of intent, with further talks to follow. 
Instead, he presented us with a 14-day ultimatum on the fines,'  Mr Souter  said. 
The ACTU, the Australian Council of Salaried and Professional Associations, and the Council of Commonwealth Public Service Organisations yesterday condemned  Mr Lynch's  proposals. 
At that time even that conservative newspaper in South Australia, the Adelaide Advertiser' had this to say- 
Let me read what it said before the honourable senator comments on it. The issue from which I am quoting is dated Thursday, 9th December 1971. The leader was headed 'Updating Arbitration'. It read: 

 Mr Lynch would have been on firmer ground had he confined his statement on Tuesday night to the actual changes which the Federal Government proposes to make to the Arbitration Act. He made it more difficult for the public to assess the merits of those proposals by referring to curbs on political strikes, which will be dealt with in quite separate legislation, and to the collection of $4,200 in unpaid fines on unions, which is an administrative matter and will have no place in the proposed Bill. Both subjects must create controversy. It would be regrettable if this were to lead to industrial disorder or prejudice prospects of improving the arbitration system. 
No one will deny that  a  review of that system ls overdue, lt is well over  a  decade since major changes were made to the Act. Meanwhile, strike losses have risen and there has been a growing tendency to bypass arbitration in favour of direct bargaining. 
One of the aims of  Mr Lynch,  as Minister tor Labor and National Service, is to ensure that the Arbitration Commission's influence in industrial affairs is maintained and possibly increased. This aim is to be pursued by placing greater emphasis on the role of conciliation commissioners. . . . 
Employers and unions may well be more inclined to adopt an 'all-cards-on-the-table' attitude and to go to the limit in seeking an understanding, if they know that, should negotiations fail, the arbitrator will not be aware of what happened in the conciliation stage. 
As far back as December of last year the Adelaide 'Advertiser' hit on the real fault of this system, namely, that unions will not accept the situation. As has been declared at their recent meeting, they will continue to make collective agreements with employers. Despite the laws that this Government is enacting, it will be found that that type of action within the economy will increase and the effect of the laws which have now been promoted by this Government will be, in fact, to increase the amount of militancy in the union movement, because the whole concept of conciliation is not used to the extent to which it should be used. The ACTU also made this statement on the Minister's action: 
To reject completely any attempt to limit the trade unions' right to organise and seek the enrolment of all wage and salary earners into the trade union movement, and in accordance with the 1971 Congress decision to resist any legislative action designed to prevent unions using their industrial right to ensure that those who enjoy the benefit of award and agreements obtained by unions join with their fellow worker to help bear the costs. 
That is ACTU policy. In December 1971 the ACTU Executive decided: 
Noting the overall policy of the Government of trying to weaken unionism we direct attention to ACTU policy of strengthening unionism by amalgamations and membership recruiting and urge affiliates to take all necessary steps to build membership and conclude amalgamations by taking appropriate steps consistent with ACTU policy to overcome existing barriers to amalgamations. 
In answer to an interjection earlier I referred to a request which we had had from the Australian Council of Salaried and Professional Associations. A copy of the letter dated 21st March 1972 was sent to every honourable senator. One was addressed to me and it asked me, as well as other members of the Opposition, to oppose this Conciliation and Arbitration Bill. The letter gave good reasons for doing this. As I mentioned earlier, one of the persons who took part in shaping this policy within the confines of ACSPA was  Mr Maynes.  A report which appeared in the 'Canberra Times' on the following day reads: 
That was in March 1972. 
That is the point. We did not have the Bill, but we had the declaration. 
 Yes, of course it does, and the honourable senator can tell us more about that than we know already. We now get to the kernel of what  Senator McManus  is talking about, namely, the amalgamation procedures. Up to this time the Minister for Labour and National Service said: 'Well, the procedures for amalgamation being engaged in by those unions are bona fide'. He defended them. He supported what they were doing. He said that amalgamations were beneficial to the community. As is known, employers supported them. Let me read some of the things the Minister said in a speech delivered on 2nd March 1972 at the Central Industrial Secretariat Dinner of ACEF and ACMA in Melbourne: 
The legislation provides certain criteria to be  fulfilied  by the organisations which seek to deregister. This criteria includes the holding of ballots of members, in accordance with the rules of the organisations and that the  de-registration  should be approved by a majority of those voting. 
Ballots were held by the Sheet Metal Workers and the Boilermakers and Blacksmiths and, indeed, although not required to do so by the legislation the AEU also held a ballot because its rules provided for this. 
The results of the ballots showed that almost 86 per cent of those voting in the AEU ballot favoured amalgamation, 73 per cent in the Boilermakers and Blacksmiths Society and almost 70 per cent in the Sheet Metal Workers Union. The percentage of total membership of the union of those voting were 9 per cent AEU 40 per cent Boilermakers and Blacksmiths and 36 per cent Sheet Metal Workers Union. 
It is, I believe, pertinent to note that there are safeguards in the legislation to prevent unions from having oppressive, unreasonable or unjust rules and to ensure that rules are properly observed by officials. If any members of these three unions considered that the rules relating to the amalgamation ballots were not satisfactory, they could have taken action before the Commonwealth Industrial Court. 
As to the suggestion which has been made that there is a history of ballot rigging in these 3 unions, the Minister went on to say: 
The record does not hear this out and it is supported, 1 believe, by the fact that there has not been a request from the membership of any of the 3 unions for a court controlled ballot for  a  considerable number of years. 
That is the tenor of the statement which  Mr Lynch  made at a time when he was satisfied with the existing legislation. We of the Labor Party can see no need for this measure and we oppose it. it is wrong, lt places a great burden on the union movement. The situation of the Minister has since changed. He went into reverse gear and nobody knows exactly why he did so. Guesses in newspaper reports attributed the change to threats by the Democratic Labor Party about the merger of the unions. In the 2nd March edition of the Canberra Times' an article staled: 
DLP renews threat on union merger. The Federal Secretary of the Democratic Labor Party,  Senator Kane,  said yesterday that the DLP would not support Arbitration Act amendments in the Senate if the Government failed to act against the merger. 
That is probably the reason why the DLP tonight will support this reactionary legislation. I cannot understand why people with considerable experience in the trade union movement should let themselves be hoodwinked by this sort of rubbish - and it is rubbish. Anything can be so regarded which imposes strictures on the unions at a time when they are battling to achieve proper standards and when there is a great need for increased conciliation to follow the pattern in other countries. Had the Government wanted to review in a proper fashion the Australian arbitration system it could have consulted the Australian Council of Trade Unions and employer bodies. In conducting a proper review it could have looked outside of this country and not thrown the burden on the workers by saying that the real threat to the economy is wage induced inflation. We have become used to consistent attacks on the trade union movement not only by the present Prime Minister  (Mr McMahon)  but also by Ministers who have made similar attacks on the Arbitration Commission. When  Mr Gorton  was Prime Minister he attacked the  President  of the Arbitration Commission. 
Most senators are aware of the way his statement was rebutted by the logic of the  President  of the Commission. 
The Labor Opposition is satisfied that none of the prescriptions of the Bill reflect the thinking of people with experience of arbitration tribunals. About the only people who would be impressed by this legislation would be the conciliation commissioners who are to receive salary increases of about 33 per cent at a time when workers appearing before the Commission cannot get a weekly increase of more than $2.50. 
He will receive an increase of 33 per cent on what he is now paid. It will be in the legislation and nothing can be done about it. 
We are voting against all the provisions of the Bill and I hope that the DLP will also vote against it. As I said earlier, 1 want to direct attention to the present Conciliation and Arbitration Act. There can no longer be any pretence by the Government, the Minister for Labour and National Service and the partners in the shaky coalition. Section 2 of the present Act provides: 
The chief objects of this Act are - 
to promote goodwill in industry; 
to encourage conciliation with a view to amicable agreement, thereby preventing and settling industrial disputes; 
to provide means for preventing and settling industrial disputes not resolved by amicable agreement, including threatened, impending and probably industrial  disputes  wilh the maximum of expedition and the minimum of legal form and technicality; 
to provide for the observance a-nd enforcement of agreements and awards made in settlement of industrial disputes; and 
I suggest that the concept expressed in that provision is attacked by the new legislation, the essential object of which is to separate conciliation and arbitration. No longer will the experienced conciliator and commissioner who knows all the matters affecting disputes be able to determine disputes. For example, he will not Le able to make agreements unless they meet the criteria laid down in the new measure. The new legislation will disable the person who sets out to settle disputes. I suggest that it is a negation of the experience of people who have worked in industrial relations. Everybody knows one of the main obstacles to settling disputes has always been the difficulty in dealing wilh the person who can solve the dispute. Trade union secretaries and employer representatives find they must talk to 10 people before settling a dispute. In our opinion the separation of the conciliation and arbitration functions is a bad step. The Minister defends it by saying that it makes more attractive to the parties the prospect of settling their differences within the system. It seems to me that some of these matters will have to be drawn out and dealt with at greater length. This will be done more particularly at the Committee stage. The proposed new section 31 makes it possible for only a Full Bench to deal with these matters, lt provides:  (1.) The power of the Commission to make an award, or to certify, under section 28 of this Act, an agreement - 
making provision for, or altering, id.- standard hours of work in an industry; 
making provision for, or altering, rales of wages, or the manner m which rates of wages are to be ascertained, on grounds predominantly related to the national economy and without examination of any circumstance pertaining to the work upon which, or the industry in which, persons are employed; 
That provision throws a responsibility onto the Full Bench to decide matters in respect of the national economy. Why should they not be tested in the usual way before the Commission? Agreements which might be reached between consenting bodies will be held up if they do not meet the criteria set down by this Government. The proposed new section goes on: 
making provision for. or altering, a  minimum  wage that is to he  payable  *o adult males without regard to the work performed or to th' industry in which they are employed. 
Many other provisions of the Bill impose onerous conditions on the workers. They will be dealt with in detail at the Committee stage. I would like now to refer briefly to the question of amalgamations. The Labor Party is strongly opposed to the amalgamation procedures. Our shadow Minister for Labour today made a statement setting out the view of the Labor 
Opposition. He said that the Labor Party will revoke the present laws in relation to amalgamation and will ensure that agreement between the parties can be made more easily in future. That is the sort of system which will be operated by the Labor Party. During the course of this debate the intentions of our leader will be made clear. 
In conclusion, i say that many experts have condemned the use of penal powers within the arbitration machinery. Criticism came from the much respected former Commonwealth conciliation commissioner,  Mr Terry  Winter. When he retired on 19th May 1971, a Press report stated: 
A former Commonwealth conciliation and arbitration commissioner,  Mr T.  C. Winter, said yesterday he did not know of one case in which the operation of penal provisions had assisted industrial relations. He described the present compulsory arbitration systems as 'something like David confronted by not one but many Goliaths of present economic and industrial pressures." ... He said: The penal provisions, considered as a unit, have been found to be a small, ineffective pebble. Reviewing the years I spent as commissioner assigned to the metal trades industry, 1 cannot think of one case in which the operation of penal provisions assisted industrial relations.' 
My question, which is directed to the Minister for Civil Aviation, refers to developments following the adoption by Qantas Airways Ltd of low charter fares between Australia and London. l£ it likely that these low fare flights will be available in future only on special non-scheduled flights by Qantair, the Qantas charter subsidiary? Will these arrangements or any other adjustments arising from acceptance by the United 
Kingdom and other countries of the new low fare in any way result in travel delays for the increasing number of passengers booked on those flights? 
My question is directed to the Acting Leader of the Government in the Senate as the representative of the Minister for Defence. What is the current position relating to Government and Royal Australian Air Force investigations into replacement aircraft for the Air Force? Have all firms who wish to tender according to the specifications of the Air Force now submitted their tenders? When is it likely that this matter will be determined? Has the Government firmly based its programme on co-production or offset ordering? 
 The Labor Party wanted the debate on the Bill adjourned. The honourable senator voted with the Government. 
Did not the Minister say that the amalgamation of the metal trades workers was a good thing? 
No, I am not. The honourable senator should tell the Senate what  Mr Maynes  moved at an ACSPA meeting about the arbitration system. The honourable senator should tell the Senate how he is supporting a government- 
The honourable senator is distorting the facts. He knows that the Labour Council condemned Mundey's statement, but he does not say that. 
Why do you not read what he said about stoppages? 
I wish you would take his advice. 
I can suggest no significant area where amendment is required without bringing myself within the area of party political conflict. 
That statement comes from the 1 5th annual report of the  President  of the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission which is dated 15th December 1971. 
 The Labor Party has an alternative proposal. 
 I take this opportunity to point out that clause 5 is the first step in the new procedures that are to be established. It provides for the new interpretations and definitions of 'Commissioner' and 'Conciliation Commissioner'. Of course, this is not the appropriate point at which to contest the new machinery. I. have risen because 1 want lo make the point that  Senator Greenwood's  earlier statement that this was purely a piece of legislation to improve the Conciliation and Arbitration Act was disproved by his own references. He talked about sections in the Act at present which impose all sorts of restrictions on the unions. This Bill is designed to impose added restrictions on the unions. These definitions, of course, indicate that a conciliation commissioner is different from an arbitration commissioner. This clause is the first step in the setting up of the new machinery to which the Opposition objects. Of course, it is agreed that the main argument about this matter will take place in the consideration of clause 13. 
Clause agreed to. 
Clause 6 (Certain offences in relation to members of organisations, &amp;c). 
 I support what  Senator James  McCelland has said and point out that we have been informed that at least one of the parties to the first conferences conducted under the auspices of the National Labour Advisory Council - it was the Australian Council of Salaried and Professional Associations - suggested on  a  fairly formal basis that the Commission might be constituted with a recognition of both sides of industry, namely, that it include representatives of employees and employers. This refers, of course, to  deputy  presidents. The point taken by  Senator McClelland,  which I support, is that this may exclude from appointment to the Commission a person with the necessary qualifications. He might be a trade union official. In fact he may be a very accomplished legal person, such as those we have in the Australian Labor Party, who has had long experience in trade union matters and industrial relations. The preliminary statement of first intention by the  Chairman  in December contained the following equally vague words in paragraph 71: 
The Government has decided to broaden the basis for appointment of presidential members of the Commission to allow for the appointment of persons who have an accepted standing by virtue of experience at senior levels in industry or government service or, where appropriate, tertiary qualifications in economics, industrial relations or commerce. 
It will be noted that the  Chairman  mentioned tertiary qualifications. The trade union movement is interested in the implications of this statement because after all it represents substantial sections of the work force, and it is a body with which the Government has to deal if there is a national crisis. Even now the Government is required to consult with the top organisations in the movement. It certainly would be helpful if the Minister could throw some light on what he considers to be the intention of the Government in respect of members of the Commission and also on what the clause really means. 
My question, which follows the question asked by  Senator McManus,  is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Labour and National Service. I refer to the answer given by the Minister in which he said that the matter would be considered. I ask the Minister whether, at the same time as he puts to the Minister for Labour and National Service the consideration of the statement by the national  president  of the metal trades employers' organisation, he will take note of  Mr Morgan's  statement that a failure to meet the unions will aggravate industrial relations and be used to justify strikes. Will he also notice that  Mr Morgan  has referred to the inequalities and disparities between the rates of pay for many employees in private industry and the rates prevailing in many Government fields, including the Commonwealth, which have been allowed to pass by the Commonwealth Government? 
My question to the Acting Leader of the Government in the Senate refers to the offset work becoming available from the Boeing company and other foreign suppliers of aircraft to Australia. Is it a fact that no offset orders are being placed with Hawker de Havilland Australia Pty Ltd, one of the Australian aircraft manufacturers affected by a lack of orders? Will the Minister investigate this matter in particular and also take whatever action is possible to ensure that all the Australian capacity in this industry is used to the maximum extent? 
 This clause amends section 12 of the principal Act by adding new sub-sections which will have the effect of preserving the rights of those who are appointed to the Commission from the Public Service. I ask the Attorney-General  (Senator Greenwood)  or his advisers to inform me what has been done about the proposition which was advanced by  Mr Gorton,  when he was Prime Minister, and which has since received some substantial support, by declarations anyway, about the portability of pensions? The Senate and the Minister will no doubt remember that at that time a great need existed to ensure that recognition was given to the right of people who wanted to transfer from one industry to another or from one job to another particularly where their services might be more advantageous to the community or to the Government in the new position. 
That is a point too. 
 The honourable senator is quite right. The basic question is raised of the right of any person in the Commonwealth Public Service to do this. Those who are members of the Commission would be affected. But I ask what is being done by the Government to give expression to that declaration of policy, which at the time was a constructive one, in respect of these appointments which will be made? What is proposed to be done in respect of people who are selected from industry outside the Public Service and who may not be able to take up the position because they would lose substantial benefits if they accepted appointment to the Commission? 
 The Opposition intends to oppose clause 12 which, in part, provides: 
Sections 16 to 21, inclusive, of the Principal Act are repealed and the following sections inserted in their stead: 
(1.) A Commissioner shall be paid salary at the rate of Sixteen thousand two hundred and fifty dollars a year, and the Consolidated Revenue Fund is appropriated accordingly.' 
A transitional provision is to be found in clause 57 of the Bill which prescribes in sub-clause (1.): 
The rate of salary of a Commissioner to be fixed by section 16 of the Principal Act as amended by this Act shall be deemed to have taken effect on the fourth day of November, One thousand nine hundred and seventy one. 
The Opposition opposes this provision and intends to divide the Senate on clause 12. Here is a glaring example of the state of confusion which the Government gets into and the double standard of its attitude to the increase of Commissioners' salaries and that which it adopts to the whole question of wage increases. I remind the Senate that the basic purpose of this Bill, as is persistently advocated by the Attorney-General, is to attempt to stop wage induced inflation and its consequences and to provide further restrictions to that end on trade union organisations. Yet at the same time, under the guise of this Bill, the Government is attempting to introduce a measure which increases by $4,400 a year - that is the equivalent of approximately $84 a week - the salary of a commissioner as well as including this great little package in the form of retrospectivity. Whether this increase has some real connection with the difficulties which may be involved in getting the Conciliation and Arbitration Com- mission to work in its new form is another thing. But it is obvious that this sort of increase is out of all proportion to the action which the Government is taking in respect of its own public servants. 
I remind the Senate that only a few weeks ago we were discussing similarly restrictive arbitration legislation which was designed to prevent the Public Service unions from becoming too active in seeking wage increases for their members. Recently the 6 Public Service unions had applications before the Public Service Arbitrator,  Mr Chambers,  seeking what they claimed to be reasonable salary increases. The Commonwealth Government opposed those applications and made an offer to the unions which was small by comparison with the claim. Not only did the Government oppose the claim but also it asked that the matter be referred to the  President  of the Arbitration Commission. This request was very smartly rejected. The Government is saying on the one hand that its own employees shall not proceed for increased salaries on a formal basis but on the other hand it is saying that the arbitration commissioners shall be given this very useful hand-out. The Opposition cannot see the need for it. However, we can see the sort of anomaly and inconsistency that could arise. The Government's attitude in relation to national wage claims is rather strange. Previously it has been before the Arbitration Commission and advocated minimum wage increases. 
I wish to refer to some relevant facts which illustrate and give more emphasis to the points I am making. I have before me a document which compares the salaries of conciliation commissioners with the salaries of Level 1, Second Division officers of the Commonwealth Public Service and the salaries of parliamentarians. I include parliamentarians in the comparison because it at least gives us a chance to compare the level of our salaries with those of a section of the Public Service whose salaries are adjusted at the same time as legislation is introduced to impose more restrictions on the freedom of unions and organisations to make collective agreements. It will be noted that as at 8th October 1947 a commissioner's salary was £1,500, the salary of a Second Division officer was £1,533, and the parliamentary salary was £1,500. The commissioner's salary was £33 less than the Level 1 officer's salary, which was the same as the parliamentary salary. As at 6th November 1947, a commissioner's salary was £1,500, the Level 1 officer's salary was £1,539 and the parliamentary salary was £1,500. Making the same comparison as at 6th May 1948, the Level 1 officer's salary was plus £51 and the parliamentary salary was the same as before. As at 4lh November 1948, a commissioner's salary was £1,500, the Level 1 officer's salary was £1,563 and the parliamentary salary was £1,500. The comparison at that time was minus £63 for the commissioner in relation to the Level 1 officer's salary and the parliamentary salary was the same. 
As at 29th December 1949, the commissioner's salary was still £1,500, the Level 1, Second Division officer's salary was £1,844 and the parliamentary salary was £1,500. Again a comparison with the commissioner's salary shows that the level 1 officer's salary was plus £344 and the parliamentary salary was the same as before. In the next year, on 4th May 1950 the relationship with Level 1 of the Commonwealth Public Service was minus £356. The relationship with the parliamentary salary was the same. On 14th January 1971 the commissioner's salary - in dollars now - was $11,850 and the Level 1 Second Division salary was $12,538. The parliamentary salary was $9,500. The commissioner's salary therefore became, on the basis of Level 1 of the Commonwealth Public Service Second Division, minus $688 but in respect of the parliamentary group it became plus $2,350. On the proposal now before us it would be $16,250, the Level 1 salary would be $14,375 and the parliamentary salary $9,500. So in relation to the Level 1 of the Public Service Second Division salary the commissioner's salary would be plus $1,875 and in relation to the parliamentary salary it would be plus $6,750. 
We could debate this matter for a long time. There is no justification for this increase. I mentioned previously how absurd it is to provide for a salary such as this when the Government, in every tribunal, is taking wholesale action to restrain wages. All the declarations by the Minister for Labour and National Service  (Mr Lynch)  which preceded this legislation and which are contained in his second reading speech point to the need to take these measures that have now been proposed in the Commonwealth Arbitration Commission to restrain wages. Yet the Government is at the same time providing for this great handout to the commissioners, probably having in mind, of course, that the new Commission is going to run into some difficulty in attracting staff. I have yet to be told by any Minister the answer to the question we have raised: Did any members of the Commission, in advising the Government, take account of and consider what the proposed measures were and what ought to be done not only with the scheme itself but also with its officers? 
I want to refer briefly to what were the basic complaints of the 9 members of the Australian Labor Party who spoke in the second reading debate and gave very good reasons for refusing to pass this legislation. The Labor Party voted against the second reading of the Bill and intends to vote against the third reading. We do not agree with the proposed legislation, but especially at this stage we are pointing to what  Senator Turnbull  states to be the hypocrisy of the Government in providing for one classification an increase of $4,400 a year, or $84 a week, with great retrospectivity, while at the same time bringing in a Bill to stop trade unions settling their wage claims in concert with the employers. 
Only this morning  Senator Wright,  as Minister representing the Minister for Labour and National Service, in answering a question pointed out that the  president  of the metal trades industries group, the main employer group, said: 'We intend to deal with the trade unions and to make  agreements'. That is substantially what he said. But this Bill is designed to restrict as far as possible the trade unions meeting on common ground with the employer to settle disputes or to agree on hours of work. All the prohibitions possible are being imposed by this Government on this activity. What is the reason for it? 
1 rise merely to enable  Senator Cavanagh  to continue his remarks. 
 I rise to allow  Senator Cavanagh  to continue. 
My question, addressed to the Minister representing the Minister for Shipping and Transport, follows other questions during this session relating to Commonwealth assistance to complete the bituminising of the Eyre Highway. Has the Minister's attention been drawn to the continuing number of serious accidents on this portion of the Eyre Highway since the most recent proposal by the South Australian Premier, in February this year, which has been stated to be under consideration? Is the Minister able to give us any information about any further discussions between the Commonwealth and the State on this question and whether this would indicate that it is possible for the Commonwealth to come to some arrangement to finish the project? 
 I believe that the proper parliamentary procedure for the proposition moved by the Attorney-General is to connect it with the amendment to be proposed by the Australian Labor Party. The AttorneyGeneral had warning of this. He knew that we intended to move that the following words be added to clause 68: 'Or substantial bona fide steps had been taken towards amalgamation'. I believe that the Minister for Labour and National Service  (Mr Lynch)  clearly understands the position and knows that at least 3 main organisations are proceeding towards amalgamation. I am quite sure that his Department is fully aware of what is going on. I would be greatly surprised if any top official of the Department of Labour and National Service does not keep his Minister advised of what is doing in the union movement. We know that any information about any report of a stoppage is fed through the Department. 
The only question one has to consider in this regard is whether the AttorneyGeneral is putting the proposition up on behalf of the Minister for Labour and National Service without his knowing the background to the situation. I believe he does know. If the Attorney-General did not know this before he moved the amendment proposed on Friday, which would king hit the whole question of amalgamation, he knows it this afternoon. He knew yesterday because 3 propositions were put to him. Three large organisations made their intentions known, together with the processes they had undertaken towards amalgamation. If the Minister was not satisfied with that information,  Senator Cavanagh  today indicated the long processes which the plasterers union had been engaged in with the building workers union in trying to establish and complete their amalgamations. If that is not a reasonable proposition, I do not know what is. 
This legislation has been hotly contested by the Australian Labor Party and it is most alarming to me that the Government should expect the union movement to accept such an arrangement. The Government is attracting more contempt from the trade union movement and this Opposition because of the way in which the AttorneyGeneral produced his arguments and dealt with these matters. The correct thing for the Attorney-General to do at this stage would be to volunteer to let the matter stand over until we reach clause 68 of the Bill. It must be evident to him that to do otherwise imposes absolutely unfair arrangements on those 3 organisations which are proceeding substantially towards amalgamation. If he continues in the way he proposes he will knock out 3 years work by the plasterers union. If he proceeds with the amendment and it is supported by the Government parties and the Democratic Labor Party - I hope they will not support it - it will mean that the work of the managers' organisation, which, as he was advised, commenced proceedings in November 1971, will be lost. It will mean that the Federated Ironworkers Association, which has proceeded a long way towards its amalgamation with the chemical workers union, will be prevented from concluding its agreement. In addition, of course, under this Bill thousands of members of the ironworkers union will have to engage in a ballot in order to take in the small chemical workers union. 
How can anyone believe otherwise than that the Government's action is scandalous? I only wonder at its motives. Is the Government becoming frantic about the whole situation? It wants to rush this Bill through and get it out of the way so that it will be another net around the trade union movement. The Government is concerned not only about the basic net in the form of the new panel, the new task force; it is concerned also about amalgamation. If the Government is not panicking, what are its motives? Is it just becoming more aggressive every day? I am surprised that such a device as this should be used in the early stage of discussion on legislation in this Parliament. The proper course surely ought to be to stand this matter over until we reach the clause which covers it and when the Opposition's amendment will be moved. 
 Mr Chairman,  before I discuss clause 13 I ask you whether the Minister intends to answer the question that I put to you in respect of the procedures affecting the Federated Ironworkers Association amalgamation 
I now deal with the matters dealt with under clause 13. However, I say that when the Minister is given the opportunity of clarifying a position and does not take that opportunity it is obvious to the Labor Party that the Democratic Labor Party has taken an action which is against the interests of the Federated Ironworkers' Association of Australia. That is all 1 have to say on that matter. 
For the convenience of the Committee, may I suggest that a certain procedure be followed in relation to clause 13?  Mr Chairman,  it may be noted that in the other place this same procedure was adopted: The proposed sections contained in clause 13 were separated into 2 groups because related matters can be conveniently divided into these 2 groups. I suggest that it might be convenient if the Committee were allowed to discuss proposed sections 18 to 31 in one group. I think it would be convenient if honourable senators were able to relate their arguments to those proposed sections because they are related. The Opposition intends to divide the Committee in respect of this group. After the vote has been taken on proposed sections 28 to 31 we can then deal with the remaining proposed sections 32 to 35, in relation to which the Opposition also will divide the Committee. The Opposition is opposed to both these groups of sections. 
I suggest that clause 13 be divided into 2 groups because it deals with 2 different matters. It ought to be possible to divide clause 13 into these 2 groups. It was done in the other place and there was no complaint from the Government. The only suggestion I make is that it might be convenient to take proposed sections 18 to 27 of the first group first of all so that we could save time. But we wish to have a general discussion on proposed sections 18 to 31 and it will be necessary for the Committee to divide in respect of proposed sections 28 to 31. 
I will not take too much longer because I know that this is a long debate. I also wish to refer to proposed section 31(l.)(e) which relates to agreements that make provision for or alter a provision for annual leave or long service leave. One of the first bases for long service leave was promoted by the Chamber of Manufactures, organised employers generally and the trade union movement and later was incorporated in legislation. One of the best exercises in industrial relations took place during those years when I happened to be secretary of the Trades and Labour Council in South Australia. By agreement, the employers and the unions effected a basic form of long service leave which has now become almost universal. It was an example of the relationships which can be formed between the workers and the bosses. 
These sorts of matters ought to be able to run along normally. That is the sort of position which ought to obtain - not the restrictions which this Government now seeks to impose. I can see no reason for the extensions of responsibility, other than the position which we outlined in our speeches in the second reading debate. The Government is setting up what almost amounts to a pentagon of task forces. The Minister says that with these task forces the Commission will work more efficiently. All that will happen is that bit by bit the activities of the trade union movement will become more circumscribed and its liberties will be reduced. Of course, the effect will be that the ability of the Commission to make awards which are in conformity with the objectives of the Conciliation and Arbitration Act will become less and less. 
Proposed sections 32, 33, 34 and 35 enact provisions for the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission to include in an award a bans clause or procedures for settling disputes. They take away from the commissioner the existing discretion to insert or remove a bans clause. That ability presently lies within his discretion under the Act. The commissioner is primarily responsible for the industry concerned. He has an intimate knowledge of the industry and knows and understands the parties involved. It is a backward step to do other than allow that present discretion to operate. In future it shall be mandatory for a presidential member to issue a certificate for prosecution. Proposed section 33 (7.) reads: 
Where - 
proceedings in relation to any conduct have been commenced before a Presidential Member in accordance with sub-section (3.) of this section; and 
the conduct is still continuing notwithstanding that the Presidential Member has taken all steps that appear to him to be appropriate for bringing about its early cessation, the Presidential Member shall not refuse an application for a certificate under sub-section (5.) of this section in relation to the conduct unless he is satisfied that a prompt settlement of the matters giving rise to the conduct will be effected or that the conduct is otherwise about to cease. 
So there are these mandatory provisions under which he has to act. In fact the presidential member almost has to issue the prosecution certificate on application. Once that certificate is issued there is only one step to the imposition of fines under section 119 of the Act. The proposed new section reduces the capacity of the presidential member to be anything like a conciliatory member, or even appear to be so. 
The provision relating to conduct in contravention. proposed new section 33 (6.), is weighted against the organisations, if anything, because the presidential member has increased power to refuse a certificate. It is a fundamental section of the sanction provision and the trade union movement is opposed to it. We know what the bans clauses do. We have been told on many occasions how sections of the Conciliation and Arbitration Act can be used to punish the unions heavily by imposing a fine of Si, 000, and $500 a day for every repetition of an offence. 
We have been told, too, of the very light fines which were imposed for breaches by employers. Breaches by employers become almost ridiculous if one considers the great impost of fines on the trade union movement. It was estimated in recent years by  Mr Woodward,  Q.C., as he was then, that up to 1968 $100,000 had been inflicted in fines on unions because of offences under the Act. The Minister for Labour and National Service  (Mr Lynch),  in the statement he made in December 1971 when he indicated the intention of the Government to amend the Conciliation and Arbitration Act, said that several unions had not paid fines totalling $37,950. These fines were legally imposed and he said that he expected the unions to pay them. They have been paid. However, since 1970, when sections of the Act were relaxed, fines totalling $10,200 have been imposed on the Unions. 
If honourable senators follow the questions asked of the Minister in the other place they will find that since that time penalties for breaches of awards by employers have been light indeed. For example I point out that on 24th February this year  Mr Clyde  Cameron asked the Minister for Labour and National Service in the other place the following question: 
What is the maximum penalty that the Commonwealth Industrial Court can impose upon an employer who fails to comply with the terms of an award and on how many occasions has this Court imposed the maximum penalty provided for under the Conciliation and Arbitration Act for breach of an award by an employer? 
The answer was as follows: 
The maximum penalty that the Commonwealth Industrial Court can impose for a breach or non-obscrvan.ee of an award is fixed by section 119 of the Conciliation and Arbitration Act. That section provides that if the breach of the award is a separate breach by virtue of a provision of the award to the effect that engaging in conduct in broach of a specified term of the award shall be deemed  to  constitute the commission of a separate breach of that term on each day on which the conduct continues the maximum penalty is $500 and where the breach is not of that nature, $1,000. 
A total of 97,680 breaches of federal awards have been detected by Commonwealth Arbitration Inspectors and State Inspectors exercising the powers of Commonwealth Inspectors between 1st January 1957, and 30th June 1971. 
and (4) As to prosecutions instituted by Arbitration Inspectors since the commencement of 1957, I would invite the honourable member's attention to the answer given to his question No. 1026 (Hansard, 25th February 1969, pages 73-80), for the period ending 1968. Since that time, Inspectors have launched three proceedings in the Commonwealth Industrial Court and 92 proceedings before other Courts. Thus for the inclusive period, Inspectors instituted 248 proceedings against employers for breaches of federal awards. The Registrar instituted no prosecutions for breaches of awards in this period. Details of prosecutions before the Commonwealth Industrial Court instituted by Commonwealth Arbitration Inspectors since 1968 are as follows: 
There were two. The first was on 10th August 1970. The award was the Transport Workers (General) Award and the name of the employer was Fast Freight Ltd, of Footscray, Victoria. The case involved 2 underpayments and the penalty was as follows: 
Withdrawn on payment and undertaking to comply; $200 costs. 
The second prosecution was on 15th September 1971. It was brought under the Metal Trades Award and the employer was GEC Ltd, of Brisbane, Queensland. The prosecution was for failure to observe the award provision regarding tools for apprentices. There was a fine of $50 plus $30 in costs. 
That broadly is the position. There is no doubt that the total of fines imposed on the union movement since the date of the figures f read has increased probably to $150,000 or $200,000. Therefore we of the Opposition say that these are very bad provisions. We intend to divide on them and will vote against them. Referring to appeals, the provisions relating to appeals have been made easier by this Government's legislation. There will be greater delays and more frustration and in fact the provisions are directed away from the advantages of conciliation. The provisions of proposed new section 35 relating to appeals permits a party to a superseded award to appeal against a new award. This will lead to great complications. We have no hesitation in saying that these are bad provisions and that they should be opposed. We will divide on them. 
1 oppose the proposal advanced by the Attorney-General  (Senator Greenwood),  not because 1 do not believe that an arrangement cannot be worked out between  Senator Murphy  and  Senator Drake-Brockman  - I think that the leaders in the Senate should decide the question - but because I object to the way in which the motion was introduced in the Senate. In my opinion it is a substantial breach of parliamentary procedure at a time when the tensions of honourable senators are very high. What we should guard against - and 1 hope you,  Mr Temporary Chairman,  and the  President  are listening - is a repetition of the situation which occurred some years ago late in a session when important Bills were being debated and honourable senators took a very great and deep interest in the matters. Honourable senators were becoming more and more concerned and on occasions became personally involved with one another. I remember the Willesee-Gorton incident which is on the literary records of Australia. 
On this side of the chamber we have at least 8 honourable senators who have spent years as trade union leaders and we also have some very accomplished legal people. I am not patting myself on the back, if honourable senators think that is what I am doing. But many honourable senators on this side, such as  Senator Cavanagh, Senator Milliner, Senator Brown, Senator Cameron,  have for 20 or 30 years been protecting the rights of union members in shearing sheds and furniture factories, night and day. Would anybody expect them to sit here like robots while the Minister in charge of this Bill in a most aggressive and militant way deals with the points that they raise. That is the issue that is developing in the Senate tonight and let us recognise it. The Minister in charge of the legislation in this place is a most unsuitable person to have charge of the legislation. He is most aggressive and seems to engage in these personal activities with honourable senators, as a result of which senators with great experience resent him. We have some difficulties occasionally with the Minister for Works  (Senator Wright),  who represents the Minister for Labour and National Service  (Mr Lynch),  but at no time can I remember dealing with former conciliation and arbitration Bills as we have dealt with this Bill. lt comes down not to discussing what progress we will make but to an important Senate procedure. The person who is handling the Bill - young enough to be brilliant in many respects but with an almost minimum amount of industrial experience - is trying to tell people on this side of the House who have had years of experience that they do not know what they are talking about or they are repeating themselves. This legislation contains matters important to everybody in Australia and particularly to unionists. I hope that when we proceed tomorrow there will be some arrangement between the Minister for Air  (Senator Drake-Brockman)  and the Leader of the Opposition  (Senator Murphy).  After all,  Senator DrakeBrockman  is currently the Leader of the Government in the Senate, most of us respect his efforts and I hope he and  Senator Murphy  will work out an arrangement which will be fair. We should nol let develop in this place a situation which could lead to worse tensions than there have been tonight. 
My question is addressed to the Attorney-General and follows his answer to  Senator Jessop  in which he attacked the South Australian Premier,  Mr Dunstan,  for statements in connection with practices which apply in South Australia with respect to the gaoling of those who have offended against the National Service Act. 
I support what  Senator Murphy  has said and I point out- 
This has to be stated. 
 I wish to comment on clause 16. I take it that senators will be allowed to roam over all the clauses from 14 to 40,  Mr Chairman.  The Opposition is opposed to clause 16 which alters section 39 of the Conciliation and Arbitration Act. The clause reads: 
Section 39 of the Principal Act is amended by adding at the end thereof the following subsection: - "(2.) In proceedings before the Commission under section thirty-one, section thirty-four or section thirty-five of this Act, the Commission shall in considering the public interest, have regard, in particular, to the state of the national economy and the likely effects on that economy of any award that might be made in the proceedings.". 
These provisions relate to the sections of the Act concerning industrial agreements-; for example, I refer to section 31 of the existing Act, which relates to the reference of disputes to the Commission and to appeals from awards. The proposed new sub-section 2 of section 39 reflects again the intention of the Government to tie down as rigidly as possible every action which might be taken by the trade unions in an attempt to obtain decent awards and agreements in order to match the escalation of inflation and prices. This provision emphasises the economic effects of arbitration decisions and lawyers such as  Senator Murphy  and  Senator James  McClelland could spend hours debating the present use of the so-called wide ambit of public interest. Now we are considering the question of economic effects in this provision which is certainly contrary to the intentions and main aims of section 2 of the Conciliation and Arbitration Act, which states, in part: 
The chief objects of this Act are - 
to promote goodwill in industry; 
to encourage conciliation with a view to amicable agreement, thereby preventing and settling industrial disputes; 
to provide means for preventing and settling industrial disputes not resolved by amicable agreement, including threatened, impending and probable industrial disputes, with the maximum of expedition and the minimum of legal form and technicality; 
to provide for the observance and enforcement of agreements and awards made in settlement of industrial disputes; and 
The effect of clause 1 6 is to import into the Act legal prescriptions and inhibitions recommended by this Government which are in fact political. The Commission will be tied down by this and other provisions to the sorts of limitations we face today. We think this is a backward step. Normally we would ask the Senate to divide on the motion but in this instance we simply say that we intend to vote against it. 
Clauses agreed to. 
Clause 41. 
Section 104 of the Principal Act is amended by inserting after paragraph (a) of sub-section (2.) the following paragraph: - "(aa) proceedings for an offence against section forty-six of this Act;". 
 Mr Chairman,  as you allowed debate to proceed on all these issues it might be appropriate to move the Opposition's amendment as circulated. As we intend to embark upon some discussion on section 119 of the principal Act, which is to be amended by clause 42 of this Bill, perhaps at this stage I should move the amendment circulated by the Opposition in that regard. The Government is well aware of our views and also of those of the organisations that we on this side attempt to support. I am referring, of course, to the Australian Council of Trade Unions and the other organisations that do not accept penalties imposed under the Conciliation and Arbitration Act. Yesterday I referred to the fact that penalties imposed on trade unions had aggregated to between $100,000 and $200,000, whereas penalties imposed on employer organisations are quite minor. Since 1968 only 2 penalties have been imposed on employers for failing to observe awards, and those penalties involved only some hundreds of dollars.  Mr Chairman,  I suggest that we take together the next 2 amendments proposed by the Opposition. Therefore, I move: 
In clause 42, leave out the words '"section thirty-two  a  " and inserting in their stead the words " section thirty-three ", insert " or, except in the case of a breach or non-observance of a term of an order or award of the kind referred to in subsection(1.) of section 32a of this Act.' 
After clause 42, insert the following new clauses: 42a. Section 119 of the Principal Act is amended by adding a new sub-section: "(1e.) In sub-section. (1.) of this section a breach of non-observance of an order or award shall not include a strike ban or limitation of work in furtherance of any claim by an organisation or person in or in connection with an industrial dispute".' 
If these 2 amendments are agreed to, section 1 19 of the Principal Act would then read: 119.(1.) Where any organisation or person bound by an order or award has committed a breach or non-observance of a term of the order or award, a penalty may be imposed by the Court or, except in the case of a breach or non-observance of a term of an order or award of the kind referred to in sub-section (1.) of section 33 of this Act or, except in the case of a breach or non-observance of a term of an order or award of the kind referred to in sub-section (1.) of section 32a of this Act . . . 
Section 33 of the principal Act deals with powers of the Commonwealth Conciliation and Arbitration Commission to make awards and to certify agreements. Section 32a deals with actions to hinder the observance of an award. In recent years fairly satisfactory discussions have been held between the national trade union centre and the responsible Minister representing the Government. As a result of those discussions the sanctions provisions in the Act were accepted by the responsible Minister, then  Mr Bury.  Later his successor has modified the position. The Opposition claims that employers have used these provisions generally for 'king hit' purposes. However, the sanctions were modified, indicating a good trend, but the amendments to the law did not go as the trade union movement wanted. At least there was this trend to which the Opposition referred earlier. Our attitude is the same as it was then: We oppose sanctions in the Conciliation and Arbitration Act because we believe that they are unnecessary. They create a lot of bad feeling in the trade union movement. Moreover they are discriminatory in their application. I have already referred to the hundreds of dollars in fines imposed on employers compared with the many thousands of dollars in fines that have been imposed on trade unions. In addition, there is continuing argument between the Government and the unions over these provisions. The Opposition's amendment will have the effect of ensuring that penalties will not be imposed on trade unions in respect of disputes involving general matters such as wages claims and working conditions. However, penalties could still be imposed on employers for non-observance of awards for failure to pay appropriate wages, and so on. 
I revert to the subject which was raised by  Senator Jessop.  I wish to deal with road works in South Australia and also the urgency of railway construction there. First, 1 reply to  Senator Jessop  who inadvertently stated that as far as he was aware the Government of South Australia had made no applications for assistance for the reconstruction or upgrading of the Stuart Highway. I know what the South Australian Government has done over the period; most honourable senators do. The South Australian Government has been endeavouring to get the Commonwealth Government to make some reasonable arrangement for bituminising the surface of the Eyre Highway. As most honourable senators will know, senators from both sides of the chamber have directed questions on this matter to the Minister for Civil Aviation  (Senator Cotton)  who represents here the Minister for Shipping and Transport  (Mr Nixon). 
No clear decision has yet been announced following the last application by the Premier of South Australia,  Mr Dunstan,  for such an arrangement except a reply from the Minister for Shipping and Transport last week to a question asked by the honourable member for Grey  (Mr Wallis)  who represents the Port Augusta area. Most national automobile or tourist authorities have agreed that the Eyre Highway is not a State highway at all; that it is a national highway. It should be classified as such and should not be covered by the normal appropriations which are given to the State governments under the Commonwealth aid roads scheme. The Minister for Shipping and Transport has suggested that what  Mr Virgo,  the the Minister in South Australia responsible for roads, should do is to make arrangements to reallocate some of the moneys which are for essential work on internal roads in the State to work on what are national roads. 
Surveys have been carried out on these roads. The survey of the Eyre Highway has shown that the greater proportion of vehicles using that road are interstate vehicles. On 26th May the Adelaide Advertiser', in an article reporting what  Mr Nixon  had said on this subject, stated: 

 Mr Nixon said that the South Australian Government set its own priorities on how the money was spent. 'For my part I would like to see it meet more responsibility as far as the Eyre Highway and the Alice Springs road are concerned'. 
As a prelude to trying to get the Commonwealth Government to adopt a more reasonable attitude to the work on the Eyre Highway, recently the South Australian Government provided another $3m for its part of the work. It then made a request to the Commonwealth Government for some funds to complete that work. The South Australian Government was supported in its request by many people other than members of the Labor Party and by the national organisations which are concerned about the state of this road. Recently, as honourable senators know, in common with other honourable senators I have drawn the attention of the Minister to the road accidents which continue to occur on this highway. They include many fatal accidents. Only recently a priest was stranded on the highway for a long time as a result of the road conditions and many of the hazards there. 
This state of affairs is continuing despite representations by State governments. After all, State governments have heavy responsibilities particularly at a time when the level of inflation is rising constantly. Their financial commitments are very heavy and they are unable to make appropriations for extra works of this special nature. Surely an obligation to try to work out a deal in respect of these South Australian roads in particular rests on the Commonwealth Government. I support  Senator Jessop's  notion that some sort of plan ought to be worked out for South Australia in relation to the Eyre Highway and the road to Alice Springs. 
In addition, there are other related works. Let me refer to the difficulties that we have had and the troubles that have arisen. Over the years, the State Government has been asking for additional Federal money. Honourable senators and members of the other place have been raising this question and asking for some consideration of it. But it would appear that, at this stage, no communications exist between the South Australian Government and the Commonwealth Government which would induce the hope that work on the Eyre Highway will be completed within a reasonable time. It ought to be, not only for the safety of Australia as a whole but also for the safety of road users. 
I turn to the Alice Springs road.  Senator Jessop  has faithfully reported the conditions of this road and the surveys and the inspections which were made by  Senator Wright,  the Minister for Works. After the Minister's visit, some works were carried out on the road. The ultimate situation is not satisfactory. The Commonwealth Government ought to adopt a plan in respect of this road particularly at a time when unemployment of quite a magnitude exists. The estimates are that the unemployment level will not be 60,000 but 100,000. These are the times when such a plan ought to be adopted. 
I mention the figures given to the Senate Estimates Committee D on this matter. The cost of bituminising the Eyre Highway from Penong to the border of Western Australia would be $10m and the cost of bituminising the Stuart Highway from Pimba to the Northern Territory border would be $16m. That is the story with respect to those roads. Nobory can say that the Government of South Australia or members representing South Australia in this Parliament have not tried to raise this matter to a higher place in the priorities. 
I know that time is running away but I wish briefly and quickly to revert to the highly important topic of railways. We had a great battle to obtain a financial arrangement on the broadening of the railway gauge between Adelaide and Port Pirie. The arrangement in that respect now is fairly formal. That has been settled. But no undertaking has been given in respect of the Commonwealth's obligation to rebuild the railway line to Alice Springs. Our information is that the surveys that are being undertaken will be completed before too long.  Mr Smith,  the Commonwealth Railways Commissioner, has stated that the new line could be completed at a cost of $60m. This is not a large sum. The work has to be done sometime. Each season frequent troubles caused by washaways and floods occur. AH sorts of devices are used to get the trains through. Passengers on those trains are fed in their emergency situation by air lifts of food by aircraft and helicopters.  Senator Jessop  has said that he believes that a plan for such a scheme ought to be advocated. I fully support that proposal because we on this side of the House have been pressing for many years for such a vision on the part of the Commonwealth Government. 
The purpose of this Bill is to extend the operation of the Stevedoring Industry (Temporary Provisions) Act 1967- 71 for a further 12 months. The basis for the legislation is in the acceptance of the scheme for permanent employment developed from the national conferences which produced the 1967 national stevedoring industry report of April of that year. All the parties applauded the report and the idea of the conference and the national agreement. This is a subject which no doubt not only members of the Opposition but also some supporters of the Government would have liked to discuss probably at very great length. In view of the situation in which we are placed I do not intend to cover much of the area except to say, of course, that the Opposition is very much concerned, not only about the statement of the Minister for Works  (Senator Wright)  in his second reading speech, but also in relation to the Governments' overactive role in relation to the activities of trade unions. I refer here to its legislative restrictions and more recently the tough line taken by the Minister for Labour and National Service  (Mr Lynch)  in regard to the waterfront agreement, his Department's intervention before the commission and its attitude generally towards this type of agreement. 
As you know,  Mr President,  the Senate has discussed at length over recent days, in debates on the Public Service Arbitration Bill and the Conciliation and Arbitration Bill, the Government's attitude in industrial matters, and I do not wish to restate what has been said. I conclude my comments on the Bill before us by posing a question to the Minister about which he has been pre-warned and which concerns the situation in respect of Darwin. I ask the Minister whether the Minister for Labour and National Service gave consideration to the authority performing the functions of allocation of labour in the Port of Darwin that will now be handled by the employers with a State government instrumentality as agent? If such consideration was given and the proposal was rejected, what were the grounds of such rejection? Is this a move towards the complete phasing out of the authority and its functions? With those comments the Labor Party does not oppose the proposition. 
I shall be brief. I refer to  2  paragraphs of the report of the Australian  Stevedoring  Industry Authority for  1970-71  The report states: 
Waterside workers at Australian ports handled 46.56 million tons of cargo during 1970-71. This was an increase of 4.37 million tons (10.4 per cent) compared with the previous year. The increase in the total cargo handled was due largely to an increase of over 3 million tons in exports of bulk grain. 
Cargo handled at permanently manned terminals increased by 3.43 millions tons (66.4 per cent). Non-bulk cargo handled at other berths decreased by 1.94 million tons (10.1 per cent). The proportion of all non-bulk cargo handled at terminals increased from 21.1 per cent of the total in 1969-70 to 33.1 per cent in 1970-71. 
A marked increase in the number of voyages, and cargo carried, by cellular container and rollon/rolloff vessels was accompanied by a corresponding decline in conventional vessel trade. 
Bill agreed to. 
Bill reported without amendment; report adopted. 
My question is directed to the Minister for Civil Aviation in his capacity as Minister representing the 
Minister in Charge of Tourist Activities and it refers to the recurring failure of some travel agencies. I ask: What action has been taken by the Commonwealth Government to promote uniform Commonwealth controls over travel agencies to prevent distress to and loss of savings by those persons who have paid deposits to travel agencies which have failed? Has any such legislation or scheme for licensing been put to the State governments for joint action with the Commonwealth? 
I ask the Minister for Air whether a total of 13 Mirage aircraft have been lost, including four this year, plus another severely damaged. Have a considerable number of these losses been caused by or related to engine malfunction? Further, as a result of these losses, is it a fact that the Royal Australian Air Force has carried out certain re-evaluations of the replacement of the Mirage with a single engine aircraft? When is the Minister likely to report to the Senate on these matters including the recent accidents to Mirage aircraft? 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Labour and National Service and it follows the Minister's reply to a question concerning unemployment in Western Australia. Can the Minister explain why the Liberal-Country Party coalition Government has been unable in the 20 or so years it has been in control of the Australian economy to secure a policy of full employment to which allegedly it is wed or to prevent the current trend towards increasing unemployment? I also ask: Even in view of the latest Budget, does he consider that the current payments for unemployment benefits are sufficient? 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Labour and National Service. I ask the Minister: Did he state in answer to my question yesterday that he considered that the current unemployment benefits were satisfactory? Did the Minister state also in relation to the percentage of unemployment in Australia that it was not a serious position compared with that in other countries? I ask the Minister whether he recalls that the Leader of the Government in the Senate,  Senator Sir Kenneth  Anderson, on 18th May 1972, as reported in Hansard said: 
Even allowing that the figure of 90,000 persons unemployed is intermittent, I believe that in the foreseeable future it will be significantly reduced. 
 In addressing a question to the Acting Leader of the Government as Minister representing the Minister for Supply I refer to the proposal which was advanced some time ago of rationalising the aircraft industry by merging the Government Aircraft Factories with other private manufacturers. Has the position in the industry improved to such an extent that the chances of this notion being carried out are reduced? Does the Government still intend to proceed with the rationalisation? 
Is the Minister representing the Minister for Shipping and Transport aware that various Australian shipbuilders have recently stated publicly that the current Commonwealth Government attitude to shipbuilding subsidies is producing a crisis in Australian shipyards now suffering from lack of orders and is resulting in a dependence upon foreign shipbuilders? Is it a fact that foreign countries, including Canada, the United States of America and Japan, insist upon a substantial portion of their national trade being carried in their ships and that since October 1970 the United States programme puts its target at 17 per cent while the comparable Australian quota is 1.7 per cent? Will the Minister consider to what extent these policies might be revised in order to assist Australian interests? 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Labour and National Service or to the Attorney-General. I refer to their answers to questions relating to  Mr John  Ducker. I ask either Minister: Is he aware that  Mr John  Ducker is an influential member of the Australian Labor Party, a member of the Federal Executive of that Party, and the Secretary of the Labor Council of New South Wales which has consistently condemned acts of violence such as those that have been mentioned today and has taken decisions against them? Is the Minister aware also that most State Trade and Labor Councils have similarly criticised such violence? Does he now acknowledge that the Australian Council of Trade Unions, which is headed by  Mr Hawke,  who is also an influential member of the ALP, has condemned such acts and that that policy will be the policy of the Australian trade union movement? 
Yes, it does bind the State Labor Councils. I ask the Minister further whether he is saying, contrary to what has been said before, that the ACTU is not a responsible national trade union body. If so, why is it that over the years thi.s Government has collaborated with the ACTU on a number of matters including representation on the National Labor Advisory Committee? 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Labour and National Service, lt follows his answer to the question by  Senator Carrick  in respect of collective bargaining. When asserting that Australian Labor Party policy and the idea of collective bargaining increased the incidence of industrial disorder, did the Minister have regard to the systems operating in the Scandinavian countries, including Sweden and also in the Republic of West Germany, where collective bargaining and national agreements are consummated between the unions and the employers and where the industrial record is one of the best in the world? If he did not have regard to these conditions which apply to a system of collective bargaining, will he take notice of the question and consider these when he is replying to questions or criticising ALP policy in the future? 
My question is directed to the Minister for Air and it follows questions asked by  Senator Willesee  relating to the alarming disclosures by the Auditor-General and the newspapers in connection with overcharging of Australia by the United States Armed Forces to the extent of $1m. I ask the Minister: Is it a fact that there had been an inadequate checking of billings by the Department of Air and other departments? Is it also a fact that a complete audit examination is likely to reveal more than the$1m overcharging? Has his attention been drawn to the Auditor-General's statement that the Department of Air acknowledges that the only checks performed in Australia to date on such charges have related to ocean freight charges? If the Minister is not in a position to advise about this matter today, will he attach the questions I have raised to the questions asked by  Senator Willesee? 
Like  Senator Wright,  I do not usually talk on the motion that the Senate adjourn. 
I am sorry;  Senator Young. Senator Wright  will reply shortly I hope. I rise only to say that I listened to what  Senator Primmer  said last night and I think that any honourable senator who listened to  Senator Primmer  will acknowledge that all he was talking about was a number of faults in vehicles. The honourable senator talked about reports made to him by constituents. He talked of matters about which we all know. These are matters that have been brought to the attention of the Minister for Shipping and Transport  (Mr Nixon)  in this Parliament. If one reads the Hansard of the other place one will see the record of where Liberal members, including  Mr Donald  Cameron, have raised with the Minister the question of safety standards of motor vehicles and have mentioned defects in motor vehicles. As we know, the automobile associations of the various States have most recently been very active to get proper workmanship in the manufacture of motor vehicles.  Senator Primmer  certainly did not criticise the workers who produce 'the cars. He said that the fault was in the management, the manufacture and in the system of production. 
The whole motor vehicle plant manufactures the vehicle. However, I would know more about it than does the honourable senator because I have lived in the industry; I have seen the industry throughout the world. There is no doubt that it . is the responsibility of management and supervision to see that a good car is turned out. 
If one reads the evidence in Hansard one will see that a lot of Liberal supporters believe, as we do, that cars ' are not being produced, as they should -be. :This is the basis of what  Senator Primmer  .is talking about. However, it is quite unfair for honourable senators opposite to . put- forward an argument with a political twist in it. Of course, that is to be expected. Honourable senators opposite should read, what their Minister had to say about this. He said that a co-operative body in the. manufacturing group provides a design standards organisation that is partly composed, of manufacturers and partly by people nominated by the government. Their job is to ensure that the safety features of motor vehicles are kept on the highest plane. 
No, it is not. 
It consists only of representatives of the manufacturers. 
If the honourable senator will listen to me, I will tell him that the Government has approved the design standards body, as has the automobile industry. That design body meets from year to year to ensure that cars are- made safer and closer to perfect. The Australian 
Transport Advisory Council, which consists of representatives of this Government and of State governments, checks the extent to which safety of motor vehicles can be improved. That is the kind of mission which  Senator Primmer  spoke of. That is all we are saying, that there is a need to maintain the highest standards in motor vehicle manufacture. Nobody disputes that the same kind of fault may be found in some imported cars. I find it very strange that both  Senator Webster  and  Senator Jessop  should suggest that  Senator Primmer  had criticised the workers. He did not. 
Next, 1 should like to speak to the subject  Senator Young  raised - the strike by our own transport drivers. I know what happened. The drivers had complained about a fault, a lack of safety, in the vehicles, as  Senator Young  well knows. 
Yes. 
Let me tell the honourable senator what really happened. I was advised by the 6 drivers who began the campaign to have the windshields supplied that they had had tentative verbal approval from the Minister for the windshields to be fitted. The shields were not fitted; so the drivers approached their supervisors. The supervisors came down and inspected the cars and said the windshields were not necessary and would not be fitted. As a consequence the drivers struck, and within 2 hours of course the matter was reported through the supervisors to the Minister. The Minister gave instructions immediately that the shields were to be fixed. The failure there was lack of communication. 
It was not the drivers' fault. 
It was not the fault of the drivers. 
What I am telling the honourable senator is what happened. The Minister had agreed, and I was told that  Senator Young  too had agreed, that the shields should be fitted. The drivers were refused the shields by the supervisors of the Department, who had inspected the cars. The supervisors got into the cars with the drivers, the cars fogged up and the rain came in, but the supervisors still said the shields were not to be fitted. The drivers decided that the only way to get the shields fitted was to stop work. They did so, and got approval from the Minister within 2 hours. What is the purpose of this sort of canvassing? Every time we talk about matters such as these, it seems that a number of Liberal senators attack the workers. They say the workers stop work.  Mr Acting President,  I rise only to point out these facts because I am aware of the problem about the shields. Everybody now acknowledges that it was an unsafe practice which should have been corrected quickly. 
Right. It has been fixed up but it should have been fixed up much more quickly. 
If your supervisory personnel were better trained, the stoppage would not have occurred. The only other point I want to make- and there has been plenty of comment about it - is that the Department of Labour and National Service now says there is a case for training government personnel to ensure that they are more adept at locating these faults and ensuring that there shall be no stoppages over simple questions of safety. 
I want to say quite clearly that I understood  Senator Primmer's  contribution simply as being a contribution to current safety campaigns. Not only senators on our side of this chamber but many other people, including members of the automobile associations, intend to see that when motor cars are produced they will be in good condition and safe to drive on the roads. We ought to respect  Senator Primmer's  contribution. If we want to criticise it, let us criticise the cases he has cited and try to fault the evidence he has produced. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
My question to the Acting Leader of the Government in the Senate follows on the questions asked by  Senator Dame  Nancy Buttfield and  Senator Laucke  concerning handicapped persons and their employment in the Commonwealth Public Service. Is it a fact that the relatively high medical and efficiency standards applied by the Department of Health and the Commonwealth Public Service Board restrict Commonwealth employment as an avenue of useful work for handicapped persons and that these standards do not apply in respect of private employment? Will the Minister refer to the appropriate departments the need for revising these standards to ensure that the Government's policy of promoting the employment of handicapped persons is related to Commonwealth employment avenues? 
 I ask the Minister for Civil Aviation a question. Has his attention been drawn to the frequency of accidents involving light aircraft? Can the Minister or his departmental officers identify any common cause in such accidents? As the accident rate of light aircraft is considerably higher than that applying to heavier aircraft, is the Minister satisfied that the various maintenance, safety and training codes at present operating are satisfactory? 
My question is directed to the Acting Leader of the Government in the Senate, lt refers to fatal accidents involving school cadets. Is the Minister in a position to give any information about the sad news that a Royal Australian Air Force Caribou has crashed in Papua New Guinea killing 25 school cadets? ls the Minister aware that this accident follows closely upon 2 fatal accidents to school cadets training with the Army in South Australia, the most recent death being one on 20th August of a cadet aged 15 years? Will the Minister make urgent investigations into the existing training exercises to ensure that maximum safety and medical procedures are rigidly applied during training periods? 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Health. Firstly, has the Minister's attention been drawn to the reference by the Government of Victoria to the National Health and Medical Research Council of the question of the standards set for mercury in fish? Secondly, in view of the fact that the situation in Victoria and South Australia is affecting the whole of the fishing industry will the Minister do what he can to facilitate the inquiry and have a proper determination made immediately? 
My question, which is directed to the Minister for Works, refers to the building of a Commonwealth centre in Adelaide and to the Minister's own support for this project made in answers to questions some years ago. I ask: Has any progress been made in investigating the early possibility of building such a Commonwealth centre to house the 27 departments which are now in premises leased from private persons? Has any consideration been given to developing with the State Government a joint building which might as a temporary measure accommodate some of those Commonwealth departments and some of the State departments now housed in private buildings? 
My question which is addressed to either the Attorney-General or the Minister representing the Minister for Labour and National Service follows on the answer to the question asked by  Senator Webster  in relation to the trade union organisation. I ask: Does the Minister believe that trade unionists should not receive the protection afforded by most modern democratic states in regard- to legitimate acts in pursuance of their registered aims as trade unionists? Is he aware that the codes of the International Labour Organisation affirm such protection in various conventions and recommendations, and that this Government is a party to that Organisation? I also ask the Minister: In his opinion should a unionist member of a registered organisation be liable for action under the civil law and also for penalties provided in. the Acts relating to arbitration in the various States of the Commonwealth? Should he, in short, be subject to 2 penalties for legitimate activity as a trade unionist? 
I do not think anyone would be surprised at the speech made by  Senator Hannan  who has just resumed his seat. During the honourable senator's term in the Senate most of us have observed that he takes a very hard line. He is against reform and when he becomes concerned about the threat of progressive ideas many of his comments can be likened to those of  Senator McCarthy  in the United States. 
This is what has happened tonight. 1 propose to refer only to 2 points made by  Senator Hannan.  The honourable senator dealt with 2 questions which are not related directly to the Budget Speech or the strategy of the Budget. 
-Of course it is. The honourable senator talked about the Australian Broadcasting Commission and concentrated most of his remarks on that organisation. It is rather significant that in this election year  Senator Hannan  and other Liberal senators, including  Senator Greenwood,  have concentrated their attack on the Australian Broadcasting Commission. Most people in the community believe that the ABC is carrying out an independent role and most will agree that it must be independent. 
I want to draw  Senator Hannan's  attention to the fact that as late as February this year the PostmasterGeneral  (Sir Alan Hulme)  defended the ABC. He said that the ABC was in fact producing balanced programmes. 
Of course. But recently there has been a change in his attitude. What is happening of course is that this Government which has been in office for 23 years is, as always, conscious of what the electorate thinks. The McMahon Government knows at this stage that it is very much suspected by the electorate, and it wants to raise issues which will create the illusion that some force in the community is persuading people against their will to do certain things or is subverting their opinions. But no Government senator said anything about Packer when he claimed that he got rid of John Gorton. There were no complaints then. 
The honourable senator made no complaints. I have never heard him complain in the Senate about Packer slating that he had got rid of  Mr Gorton  when he was Prime Minister. It seems to me that  Senator Hannan's  role in this place is fairly well established. He is not a progressive senator. Most people seem to reconcile his views with reactionary views -I think the honourable senator's views are reactionary. The honourable senator said nothing about the Budget. Permit me to comment on the honourable senator's references. 
Of course you are reactionary. 
Of course  Senator Hannan  is reactionary. May I refer to the second question raised by  Senator Hannan.  He talked about the debate on revaluation between the  Deputy  Prime Minister  (Mr Anthony)  and the Leader of the Opposition in the other place. Of course nobody has reminded the  Deputy  Prime Minister of what he has said about tariffs and protectionsin speeches he made before this debate. Permit me to read to the Senate what the  Deputy  Prime Minister said to the Australian Institute of Management in Victoria on 25th March 1971. This was his serious contribution to the question of tariffs and protection. I shall quote from a copy ofhis speech which was circulated to all members of this Parliament. The  Deputy  Prime Minister said: 
MayI offer some general observations. It seems to me that too much attention has been paid to the tariffs' role in Australian industrial development. It is as if the only thing that mattered toindustry was the protection afforded it against overseas competition. 
Who said that? The Deputy Prime Minister. Under the sub-title 'Excessive Protection Must be Avoided' he went on to say: 
The sixth fact is that protection brings with it costs as well as advantages to the nation. So we must avoid excessive protection. We must be discriminating. We cannot afford any feather-bedding of industries. Nor can we afford the luxury of giving protection, as of right, to any firm which wants it. We are not in the situation of needing industry at any price. 
What is going on today is that the Government, knowing that the electorate is sick and tired of it, is raising both in the House of Representatives and in the Senate every contentious issue that it can. It is raising every gimmick it can which it thinks will gain a response from some section of the community. I am sure that the voters are getting sick and tired of hearing Ministers of this Government referring to what the unions want, such as the 35-hour-week and civil rights. 
There was no surprise in what  Senator Gair  did tonight. He applauded the Government. 
Of course. Who is surprised by that?  Senator Gair  has been doing it all the time.  Senator Gair  is on record as leader of a splinter party which can dictate the policy of the Government. The simple conclusion to arrive at in these matters is that on every test the DLP supports the Government. That is no surprise to anybody; it is no surprise to the electorate. When  Senator Gair  or any other DLP senator speaks in this chamber we see smiles on the faces of the Ministers on the other side of the chamber because they know that the DLP senators will say the right things. It is unfortunate that people like ourselves, who have come up through the ranks of the Labor movement and who have spent many years of their lives advancing the cause of Labor and have sought reforms, should at this late stage decide to support a Government which is on its way out. 
It is a sinking ship. Very soon  Senator Gair  will have to accommodate himself to a new climate in this place, for then it will not be the Liberal Party which is making the decisions. 
No, it is not a threat. 
No, it is not a threat. What I said about the DLP was certainly not a threat. Rather, it was an inducement. I simply say to  Senator Gair  and to the other DLP senators that before long they will have to accommodate themselves to a Labor government and that I hope they will. I hope that the traditions they knew in their early days will be respected and that they will assist the Labor government to govern this country.  Senator Gair  will have the option to do this. In commenting on the issues of the election, because these arc election issues, I would say that most people in the community realise that the Budget which has been brought down by this Government is an election Budget. They realise that in offering what are in fact improvements to the community - social welfare improvements - the Government is offering a pant of policies which the Labor Party has been advocating for many years. As often happens in an electoral contest, the party in government, which is afraid of its position in the community, pinches the policies of the Opposition. That is exactly what the Liberal Party has done on this occasion. 
But I would remind honourable senators that in previous years this was not the position. If honourable senators will look at the strategy of the Budget they will see that on every occasion of an evaluation of what the Government should do, the Government finds very elaborate words to decide what it should do. In the years that have preceded this election the Government has generally put the brakes on the economy. Honourable senators must remember that the Federal Government has complete control over the economy of Australia and that whatever targets it sets for the economy are the targets which State governments have to match; that is its role. The Federal Government says 'We do it', and if unemployment increases as a result, it tries to pass the buck to the State governments. But if one challenges the Government it will deny that it is its responsibility to ensure that the economy will work and that there is a satisfactory decrease in unemployment. 1 remind honourable senators of what happened as a result of the last Budget brought down by the Gorton Government. It was a depressive one. It placed sales tax and other heavy increases on the community because it claimed that there was a need to depress the economy in order to reduce consumer spending. That situation was like the situation which earlier Liberal governments had occasioned when they had stop-go policies. We do not believe in stop-go policies. The Australian Labor Party says that the economy ought to be geared to make sure that there is proper economic growth each year. There should be a plan. In the past a number of Liberal governments have decided in a haphazard way how the economy should work. We had the Gorton 
Government applying pressures against demand. It increased sales tax on motor cars. It increased all the things which make up- 
That is a silly question, as the honourable senator ought to know. This is the funny thing: There is a strange method of logic about the Australian Democratic Labor Party senators and Liberal Party senators because as soon as we talk about unemployment or sales tax or the Government stopping consumer demand they say: 'What would you do if you were in government?' I say to the Senate that this Liberal-Country Party Government has been in power for 23 years. If it believes in the sorts of things it is putting up at this election such as social welfare, the need to control overseas investment and the need to plan the economy, why has it not done these things during those 23 years? All of a sudden it discovers thai the things it did in earlier years are wrong. I told honourable senators in 1970-71 that the Budget was depressive; it stopped the industries in every State, but particularly in my State of South Australia where a quarter of the manufacturing potential is vested in consumer production, motor cars, refrigerators and consumer goods, lt stopped these industries by placing heavy imposts on them. We have not recovered from that. 
Last year the Treasurer  (Mr Snedden)  came along and said: 'Things are still bad. There is wage-induced inflation which has to stop. The unions have to be told not to make extravagant wage claims. We are going to put the brakes on again.' That has been the Government's continuity of thought. Its actions have been centred largely against the trade unions and workers. Honourable senators may ask why. Of course this year the Government has changed its tune, lt has said that it is time to increase consumer spending. In doing that it has not vindicated its stand of previous years because it has gone against its activities over all those years when it has charged that the trade union movement and the workers have been making extravagant claims and that their role in the community has produced wage-induced inflation. I remind the Senate that we have been used to this sort of tactic for many months. Not only did the Government make these claims, as honourable senators know, but also the Ministers said: 'We will go before the arbitration tribunals on every occasion and resist excessive wage claims.' Of course they did not only do that. This comes back to what they are doing now. Now they are saying that people have to spend more. If we stop workers from obtaining wage increases and if we stop economic activity workers will not spend more. 
Of course they do not have it to spend. So we have the sort of recession which produces the 112,000 unemployed which we have. The Government attacks the trade union movement even though it has changed the law of the Land. I want to refer to the changes in the law of the land. On 2 occasions this Government has introduced extraordinary laws against unions, not only against the traditional unions such as the metal workers and the railway workers but also against its own public servants. Everybody remembers that the Commonwealth Public Service Act was amended early this year. It was a thrust, a tryout for legislation against the union. The Government introduced a law which provided that its own Commonwealth servants could be stood down, put off from gainful employment, if there was a dispute outside Commonwealth departments. That was the first try-on. We resisted that amendment. We were the only Party in the Parliament which said that this was not right. We asked: 'Why should you put heavy imposts on people in the Commonwealth Public Service, particularly when they are not involved in disputes? Why should you book them off?' But Parliament carried the law. The Act was amended following repeated petitions by the Minister for Labour and National Service  (Mr Lynch),  the Prime Minister  (Mr McMahon)  and many other Ministers who attacked the unions for their wage claims. They attacked the waterside workers and the stevedores in the maritime industry for settling a 35-hour week with the stevedoring authorities. While the Government was doing that it said: 'We are going to bring in a new law in relation to conciliation and arbitration.' What have we had? In recent months by Acts which this Party opposed this Government has brought in more restrictions against the workers than have ever been introduced in the life of the Australian Constitution. It has introduced more laws to stop the workers from obtaining increases. The Government, to defend its position, has tried to relate union activity on every occasion to communists or militants. 
 Senator Gair  is living in the past except that in relation to the present day he is supporting the wrong Party. We have said that the Labor Party believes in settling disputes between employers and unions across the board, around the table. We are satisfied that in the Australian community today most of the organised employers are in favour of that process. That is the process that we ought to use. 
Yes, but when we bring up the matter of price control the Government says: 'Look; the threat of inflation is because the workers are getting too much in salary increases by arrangement or through the courts.' When we ask about price control honourable senators opposite say that the Liberal Government does not believe in price control, that it is a free enterprise party. The Government says: 'We cannot do anything about this because the Commonwealth Government does not have the power. It cannot work with the States.' But it does not even try to work with the States. The Commonwealth Government does not believe in price control. 
You might, senator. 
Yes, I know. Why do you not support-- 
The ACTING  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Byrne)  - Order!  Senator Bishop,  you will address the Chair. 
Yes,  Mr Acting Deputy President.  In this day and age, everybody knows that prices are settled between the managers and other people in the community. They are set by arrangement. This is done in secret deals? They are settled like the price controls which were introduced in February by Broken Hill Pty Co. Ltd. Nobody says anything about that. The Government says: 'We cannot do anything about it'. Of course the correct policy, the Labor Party policy, is to have a prices justification committee of some sort. We have also pointed out that in the States where the Labor Party reigns at least there is some semblance of price control.  Mr Acting Deputy President,  I put it to you that this Government believes that action should be taken against workers who want to increase their wages. The Government says that on every occasion it will go before the tribunals of the land and resist excessive wage increases. We know that it has done this. We know that it has carried on a campaign in relation to the issues confronting the waterfront industry. What happened in relation to the waterfront industry is that we had a situation where the employers, the unions and the court finally said to the Government: 'Mind your own business, because the matter has been settled. They have received near enough to a 35-hour week but in return an arrangement has been made 'between the bosses and the workers to ensure that there will be no unnecessary loss of work because of disputes.' That is the sort of situation that ought to obtain. We find the same situation in relation to the oil industry dispute. There was a proposition by the  President  of the Australian Council of Trade Unions,  Mr Hawke,  who now becomes infamous from the point of view of the Government. In previous years the ACTU was always the respected brother of government activity. The Government always used to talk to the ACTU- 
It is now,  Senator Webster.  Despite what the Government says in this chamber, often Ministers telephone Bob Hawke or Harold Souter and say: 'What about this dispute? What can you do to shorten it?' The ACTU does what it has always done. It says: 'Yes, we will help you settle the dispute.' But in the oil industry dispute the Government made up its mind about the rates of pay that might be awarded in relation to maintenance workers and people in the industry. That is the Government's fixation and that is the point of view it adopts so the Government made no efforts to solve the dispute. In fact, it resisted what the ACTU sought to do, namely to supply fuel to the community. The Government said that it was not possible to allow any outside body to solve this problem by arranging to supply petrol to the community. What was more, the Government said that the workers should return to work. 
I point out to the Senate that the oil dispute was settled by negotiation. What this community needs is the relationship between the unions, the employers and the Government which existed years ago when any dispute which arose was instantly the subject of investigation. Past governments did not carry on with the sort of nonsense which this Government has carried on with for many years. 
I could give honourable senators a great many examples of this fact. The evidence is on the record. For many months now, every member of the Parliament has been plagued by statements on industrial matters from Ministers. Almost every week members receive Letters from Ministers, particularly from the Minister for Labour and National Service in relation to industrial matters, propagandising the Government's position and trying to persuade people that the Government's point of view which is designed to stop increases in wage rates is correct. What has happened? Despite the attention currently being given to this matter and despite the amendments to the conciliation and arbitration law, the Government has suddenly changed its mind, lt has said in its Budget: 'Now we must increase consumer spending'. If consumer spending was increased - we advocate this, it is true - industries would be geared again for production and the rate of growth would increase. 
Some references have been made in this Senate to the unemployment position in States controlled by Labor governments where the unemployment ratio to a small extent is proportionately higher than the national average. Let us not be unfair in this respect. The Commonwealth Government obviously must accept responsibility for unemployment levels, lt has stated in the past - the Treasurer is on record in this respect - that unemployment will not increase to the extent that 100,000 workers will be registered for employment. The facts have disproved that statement. In February of this year,  Mr Snedden  said: 
The fullness of these facts has not been picked up by some observers. But the facts are as I have stated them; and those facts make nonsense of some  irresponsible  predictions 1 have seen reported. For example, one earlier this month was to the effect that another 50,000 people could be out of work within 2 or 3 months. 
He went on to say that unemployment would not reach the level which it did reach later in the year. The Leader of the Government in the Senate,  Senator Sir Kenneth  Anderson, said that the Opposition was plucking a figure out of the air when we suggested that by the end of June this year 100,000 workers would be out of work. In fact, by the end of June, 1 12,000 workers were out of work. 
No, not all unemployed were registered. 
And there are other incidental matters, too. In fact, there are a great many of them. Another glaring point to consider is that the unemployment benefits paid presently to unemployed workers are below the level of poverty determined by the person who has been selected by the Government to conduct the survey into poverty. Yet, on 2 occasions in this chamber  Senator Wright  has said that the amounts for unemployed registrants were not only satisfactory but also gracious. But these payments are below the poverty line. How can anyone do business with a government which believes that a payment below an established poverty line is fair for people who are kept out of work? What is more important is the loss of production resulting from unemployment. 
That is right. There are losses through strikes and through accidents on the job. Losses occur in production but the reasons for these losses can be corrected. I have said often in this place - I have drawn the attention of  Senator Wright  to this fact - that the Commonwealth Government has not yet, in cooperation with the States, demanded the establishment of a uniform system of keeping industrial accident statistics. The loss of production last year through unemployment totalled 20 million man days whereas the loss of production resulting from strikes was only 3 million man days. 
Yes. Loss of production resulting from accidents on the job amounted to 4 million man days. This loss can be corrected through the use of properly kept statistics and proper organisation. The Government can correct problems arising from 2 matters that I have mentioned. It can introduce policies to correct the loss of time caused through industrial accidents. It can take decisions, too, to reduce unemployment because unemployment stops the production of essential materials. It wastes wealth and manpower. Estimates based on the current economic situation show that the loss of production caused by unemployment will run at approximately 24 million man days this year. 
What I have tried to point out to the Senate is that the Commonwealth Government, being the arbiter on how the economy should work, has responsibility for the manner in which the States operate. If the States are able to gear their industries to the economy, the necessary consumer demand will eventuate. For instance, in South Australia people in the motor vehicle industry and people engaged in producing refrigerators and washing machines will enjoy full employment and full production. They will ensure that other workers in industry spend their money and create demand. I turn to Western Australia. If the Labor Government of Western Australia found it possible to gear economy to what it desired, the problems caused by the decline in the mineral industry, for instance, which was no fault of the Labor Government, could be adjusted by some other type of work being undertaken. There is no reason why the Federal Government should not assist in this respect. lt always seems odd to mc that the Commonwealth Government in trying to defend the growth in unemployment talks about the fractional rate of unemployment in the various States. I have pointed out to the Senate that in my own State much of the downturn in the past has been caused by the policies of the Commonwealth Government. This is not contested today because, as we know petitions are presented to the Parliament day after day showing that each State Government, be it Labor or Liberal faces great problems in running its economy. On most occasions when the Federal Government gives handouts to the States, the States must increase taxes on their citizens. This means that greater burdens are imposed within the States. 
As everybody knows the Stale governments and local government authorities have written to the Government and to honourable senators and have asked for example, for changes in departmental arrangements. I refer, of course, to what the Postmaster-General's Department decided with respect to regrouping ils various offices and associated industries. The Postmaster-General's Department is not the only department involved. Many workers have been taken from country areas - Mount Gambier is an example - and shifted to positions closer to metropolitan areas. In doing so, these departments have placed additional burdens on local authorities. But, in addition- 
The ACTING  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Withers)  - Order! The honourable senator's time has expired. 
My question to the Acting Leader of the Government as Minister representing the Minister.' for Supply refers to the publicity given to statements by the Minister for Supply about a consortium to run the Australian aircraft industry. Is it a fact that the Government has determined the organisational form of that consortium? Has the  Government accepted in principle the absorption of Australia's efficient and long-established Government Aircraft Factories in a consortium to include foreign companies? If not, will the Minister give a clear indica- tion that the Government Aircraft Factories and their skilled work force will remain an important and foundational part of Australia's defence capacity, continuing under the control of the Australian Government and Parliament? Is the Minister able to indicate when these matters might be reported to the Parliament? 
My question, which I direct to the Attorney-General, follows from the answer that he has just given. Is the Attorney-General aware that the Australian Council of Trade Unions, which is the national trade union body and is recognised as such by this Government with which it sits on the National Labour Advisory Council, has condemned violence in industrial disputes? Is he aware that its policy binds not only the members of the Australian Council of Trade Unions but also the State trades and labour councils? When the Minister is discoursing on these subjects will he give due regard to the policies of the national trade union movement and indicate that it does not encourage such acts? 
My question is directed to the. Minister for Civil Aviation. I refer to a question which I asked the Minister last Thursday in connection with the frequency of accidents to light aircraft and as to whether any main cause could be identified. Does the Minister have any further information in connection with this query? 
My question, which is directed to the Minister for Civil Aviation, refers to the congestion and delay which took place at the Sydney international airport last Sunday as a result of the arrival of 4 Jumbo jets within 60 minutes of each other. Is it a fact that the problem was caused mainly by the failure of the authorities concerned to roster sufficient staff? If so, what action is proposed to overcome similar occurrences in the future? Was the delay attributable in any way to the actions of the Department of Civil Aviation? 
My question is directed to the Minister for Air and refers to aircraft replacement.  I  ask the Minister: Has the Royal Australian Air Force finalised its recommendations to the Government with respect to its choice of aircraft to replace the Mirage, or are new and additional aircraft types now under consideration?  I  also ask the Minister whether it is intended to finalise this matter before the forthcoming elections. Finally I ask whether it is still a requirement that Australian manufacturers will get a substantial part of any manufacture within this country. 
My question is directed to the Minister for Air. I ask: Has his attention been drawn to the publicity currently being given to the role of Fill aircraft in the Indian Ocean region? Can the Minister say whether any proposed operations are likely to involve a substantial deployment of the Fill aircraft available during the years 1973, 1974 and 1975? Will the operations be dependent upon any proposed airfield alteration, including possible extensions to the airfield on the Cocos (Keeling) Islands or the use of foreign bases? What is now calculated to be the range of this aircraft fully loaded and with external fuel tanks? Is in-flight refueling considered to be necessary for such aircraft? 
My question, which I direct to the Leader of the Government in the Senate, has been answered in part by 

 Senator Wright, I refer to reports from Paris of the possibility that France will resume nuclear testing in the Pacific. But I refer also in my question to the proposal that Australia might continue to show an interest in an Australian-French project for the replacement of the Royal Australian Air Force Mirage aircraft. Is it still Government policy to consider the AustralianFrench project for the RAAF Mirage replacement? Has the attention of the Leader of the Government been drawn to the strengthening opposition to nuclear tests not only by Pacific countries but also by people within Australia including members of the trade union movement and others? Will the Government consider giving a clear indication that the Australian Government not only is opposed to any future tests but also in the circumstances will reject any future Australian-French collaboration in the manufacture or supply of Australia's defence requirements? 
In the first place, the honourable senator has linked his question to matters which are on the perimeter of the responsibilities of the Department of Supply. As he knows, and as we are all aware, the Mirage aircraft presently in service in the Royal Australian Air Force were built under licence by Australia in conjunction with the French. The Mirage has proved to be a magnificant aircraft. The honourable senator then connects discussions that apparently have been taking place with the French aircraft industry in relation to the future requirements of the RAAF with the question of an alleged increase in nuclear testing. Here the honourable senator enters an area of policy which, quite obviously, I am not competent to answer and which, in any event, it would be contrary to traditions and practice to answer. I do not suggest that the question should be put on notice, but I will refer it in the appropriate way to the responsible Minister. 
My question, which is directed to the Minister for Air, refers to Press reports and much speculation about an American offer to sell to Australia 23 Phantom bomber aircraft at socalled bargain prices. Is the Minister in a position to give us any information about the offer to Australia and whether it has been accepted or rejected? 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Supply upon notice: 
Has the Government accepted in principle the absorption of the Government Aircraft Factories at Fishermen's Bend and Avalon, Victoria, into a consortium which will include foreignowned companies; if so, what will be Australia's equity. 
Where Avions Marcel Dassault of France and the Boeing Company of the United States of America each offered an equity in the proposed consortium. 
Did the Boeing Company decline to join the proposed consortium; if so, was the McDonnell Aircraft Company of the United States of America then invited to share in the proposed consortium. 
Will the proposed consortium be finalised before the next federal election for Members of the House of Representatives. 

 Senator DRAKE-BROCKMAN - The Minister for Supply has provided the following answers to the honourable senator's question: 
Various alternatives for the future operation of the Australian aircraft industry are under examination and joint discussion between the parties engaged in this industry - the Government Aircraft Factories of the Department of Supply, Commonwealth Aircraft Corporation Pty Ltd, and Hawker de Havilland Pty Ltd. One possibility being examined and discussed between these parties is the formation of a consortium, including possible participation in some way by overseas aerospace interests in order to improve the future prospects of the industry. No specific outline of such a consortium has been formulated. 
No. The possibility of these companies participating in such a consortium has been discussed with them in principle, without commitment on either side. 
No. 
No. 
I direct a question to the Leader of the Government in the Senate. Has the Australian Government received any confirmation of reports which were issued this morning that France intends to resume nuclear testing in the Pacific area later this year? What action is proposed by the Government? In an attempt to resist such tests does it, intend to take any joint action with countries in the Pacific area which are now  greatly concerned about the French action?  

 Senator Sir KENNETH ANDERSONI am not in a position at this moment to respond to the question. Possibly I will be able to obtain some information during question time because I have my brief with me. With your concurrence,  Mr President,  I will respond to the question in a few moments. 
My question, which is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Shipping and Transport, refers  to representations from State Transport Ministers and the Australian Transport Advisory Council in relation to the affairs of urban, public and railway transport systems in each State. As the Minister will be aware, a request for Commonwealth Government assistance has been made. Is the Minister aware that the State Ministers are now claiming that a crisis situation is developing in relation to both urban and railway finances, and that some urgent assistance from the Commonwealth Government is necessary? Will he pass on these matters to his colleague, the Minister for Shipping and Transport, to see whether an early statement may be made by the Commonwealth Government about assistance for this purpose? 
My question, which is directed to the Leader of the Government in the Senate, also refers to the files to be tabled concerning the dealings with Jetair Australia Ltd. Will all the files, including the Department of Civil Aviation files, covering both DC3 and Viscount aircraft, be tabled in either the Senate  or  another place? 
My question, which I  direct to the Minister for Civil Aviation, concerns the review commenced into parallel flights by the domestic airlines and which seems to have resulted in some minor improvements. As the Minister is well aware, there are matched flights almost every evening by the main companies. I ask the Minister: Is the review of these flights continuing? Will the Minister again look into the matter with a view to providing improvements in the options for travel between the State capitals? 
I wish to take this opportunity to support the proposals contained in the amendment moved by  Senator O'Byrne  to the motion before the Senate. I point out first that, in my opinion, the point taken by  Senator Webster  is correct and that the amendment moved by the Australian Labor Party contains a far better proposition than that embodied by the Australian Democratic Labor Party in its motion. I have no great objection to what the DLP has put 
CouldI  draw attention to the original motion that we are considering, which reads: 
That there be referred to the Standing Committee on Industry and Trade the following matter - The report that the Australian Gas Light Company is proposing to conclude a contract with a Japanese corporation for the manufacture and supply of steel pipes for the proposed natural gas pipeline from Moomba natural gas field in South Australia to Sydney, and whether this would deny Australian steel producers and suppliers the opportunity to fabricate and supply therequired steel or any part of it. 
It seems to me that that motion contains 2 propositions. If the Senate by its vote refers this matter to the Senate Standing Committee on Industry and Trade and if at the time when that Committee comes to consider the reference, the details of the contract, as  Senator Webster  has pointed out. have been concluded the only thing thatthe Standing Committee could do would be to say: 'Yes, the contract has tobet eermined. That is the answer to the first proposition'. So the concern and con fusion in respect of this matter could not be examined or canvassed. 
A great deal of concern has been expressed by the industry itself and by the trade union movement because such a contact is proposed and because of the failure of the Government through its respective departments to assist in establishing proper procedures in relation to this matter. Certainly the Senate Standing Committee would not deal with a question which is of great concern to Australians now, that is, the growing ownership by foreign operators in all sectors of the Australian economy. That is one of the related questions. The first proposition in this motion may be short lived. 
The second proposition obviously must be determined in circumstances where, the contract having been consummated the industry and Australian producers couldbe shown to have been unfairly dealt with, Tubemakers of Australia Ltd has declared that it could supply if not all at least a great quantity of this steel pipe. As I have said, most of the organisations representing workers engaged in the industry including the Australian Council of Trade Unions have expressed concern about the consummation of such a contract. A greatdeal of consideration is called for to remove these doubts which have not been eliminated by questions which have been put to the responsible Ministers and to the Government. Those doubts have not been removed in the course of this debate. 
In considering the amendment moved by the Australian Labor Party, I remind the Senate that on 27th September last, the Leader of the Opposition  (Senator Murphy)  initiated a discussion in the Senate on this matter by moving for the adjournment of the Senate to discuss the following matter of urgency: 
The failure of the Government to take action to protect Australian employment and industry in the supply of the Moomba-Sydney pipeline. 
In the course of that discussion, as has been mentioned by  Senator Webster  and from my recollection of reading what the honourable senator said in that debate.  Senator Webster  laid grounds for a great deal of concern about the arrangements which were made in relation to the specifications and in relation to opportunities for Australian industry to bid properly for the work. I leave that question aside for the minute and I turn to the amendment moved by  Senator O'Byrne  which, I suggest offers the best chance for a thorough investigation of this matter. The Opposition's amendment reads: 
Leave out all words after 'the following matter', insert 'Legislative and administrative action which should be taken by the Commonwealth alone or in co-operation with the States in relation to the construction of the natural gas pipeline system of Australia (including the Moomba-Sydney pipeline) to ensure, inter alia, maximum utilisation of Australian employment and industry', 
I do hope that the Australian Democratic Labor Party will accept what is proposed by the Australian Labor Party in its amendment. A greater opportunity will be available to the Senate Standing Committee to carry out its inquiry in relation to the general question of pipelines and Australian enterprises if the Senate adopts what the Labor Party proposes than if it supports the motion moved by the DLP. Every possibility exists that, by the time the matter comes to be considered by the Senate Standing Committee if the reference proposed by the DLP is carried - it appears that the Government may support it - the contract will be agreed to. 
I remind the Senate that, in the earlier debate.  Senator Murphy  referred to the complaints by Tubemakers of Australia Ltd about the unfair treatment accorded it  and the lack of opportunities available to it to bid in respect of this pipeline. To some extent, those remarks were supported by what  Senator Webster  said in his contribution to that debate. I wish to refer briefly to what  Senator Webster  said then because he has raised these points again today.  His  remarks must create within the minds of honourable senators and the public a great deal of concern and a good many doubts as to the way in which this matter is proceeding. 
At page 1276 of Hansard of 27th September last,  Senator Webster  said that he had been told by the industry, which has since made the matter public, that: 
The Australian industry has had scarcely sufficient specification on which to quote at any stage. 
He referred to a document which had been submitted to the Department of Customs and Excise and which we were told by the Minister for Civil Aviation  (Senator Cotton)  was being considered, amongst other things. The document referred to these disabilities. The document stated: 
Most organisations when calling public tenders for works of some magnitude, establish a proper administrative procedure, for their own protection as well as that of tenderers. One of the most elementary steps is to issue a proper description of the General Conditions of tender, a proper specification of the work to be done. . . . 
I interpolate that in this case that was not done. This document stated also: 
The documents issued by Williams Bros.  are not dated. They are not in consecutively numbered pages. Some paragraphs are crossed out by hand. 
The complaint is made: 
It must be stressed that this unconventional method of documentation makes it possible for different suppliers to receive different tender documents. . . . 
The evidence is obvious - it has been produced - that at no time was there a specification for a 34-inch pipeline. 
In addition, I wish to draw attention to the points made by  Senator Murphy.  We should have some regard to what was said by the Senate Select Committee on Offshore Petroleum Resources in its report.  Senator Murphy  said: 
At pagragraph 8.55  Mr Hume,  the general manager of the Brisbane Gas Co., said: 
. that Australia is leaving herself in a somewhat unique position at this stage in not having a federal authority whereby transmission and distribution can be controlled. Whether you look at the United Kingdom where the gas industry is nationalised or whether you look at the United States of America or Canada where the industry is under private enterprise, in all cases you will find a Federal or central authority. . . . 
I turn now to what was said to that Committee by  Mr Pettingell,  ashe then was, the general manager of the Australian Gas Light Co. He told the Senate Committee: 
If the separate States impose diverging principles of control, the development of interstate transmission lines would be greatly inhibited - that has in mind America and Canada where there was bedlam. 
In a later contribution, he said: 
Uniform regulations should govern the construction and operation of interstate pipelines throughout the whole length of the country. 
So we see the type of approach which the Labor Party makes to these issues which, as yet, the Government has not made. 

 Mr Pettingell went on to say: 
A simple and practical approach by the Commonwealth Government to legislation enabling the construction and operation of interstate pipelines could possibly set the pattern for appropriate Slate legislation dealing withintra-State pipelines and associated matters such as conservation. 
The Committee made these findings: 
The evidence would suggest that regulatory and advisory responsibilities of an authority in the field of interstate Trade could include: (1.) To authorise the construction, ownership, operation and location of interstate oil and gas pipelines; 
To make orders with respect to all matters relating to traffic, tariff's and prices; and (3.) To study, review and from time to time report to the Parliament on such policies and measures as it considers necessary or advisable in the public interest for the control of transportation of oil and gas. 
I refer to the fact, which has been mentioned already by  Senator Gietzelt,  that for many months the Labor Party has had a policy of looking at this matter from a national point of view. The relevant part of the platform of the Labor Party reads: 
Labor will establish a joint Federal-State fuel and energy commission to devise and implement an integrated and co-ordinated national fuel and energy policy. The Commission will: 
Regulate the exploration, development, transportation, marketing and use of oil, natural gas, coal, fissionable materials and generative water and prevent the depletion of fuel and energy resources needed to match Australia's requirements . . . 
For those general reasons it would seem to me to be a sensible move if the DLP were to consider the position that would arise  from adoption of the amendment. I agree completely with what  Senator Webster  said. The motion, if carried, would mean that in the event of the contract being consummated there is nothing more to answer in respect to it. The amendment would mean that the Senate Standing Committee could extend its inquiries to ensure that Australia's interests are best served. I refer particularly to the interests of manufacturers such as Tubemakers who have accomplished a great deal of work in relation to pipelines, who have the expertise and who, 1 believe, could have done the work if they had been given the proper opportunities. They say that they were not given the opportunity. As far as I am aware, that position still stands. lt seems to me that the answers that the Minister has given do not answer the propositions which have been raised in the debate today and on 27th September. He said that inquiries are being made and that discussions are taking place. He mentioned, I think, that the Department of Trade and Industry was rather concerned that if there were any interference in the present discussions it might be considered to be an interference in the ordinary arrangements for commerce. He restated the old Liberal principle that commerce should operate as it thinks fit - freely - provided that it operates within the law. These days most of us are starting to accept and understand that commerce has to operate in the general context of the value of commence to the Australian country and the Australian people. More and more people are accepting that principle, and more and more people are concerned about the intrusions of foreign owners into this country. I refer not only to the Japanese, who are very skilled in their operations and who have a fairly substantial dependency upon Australian raw material and mineral resources, and will have in the near future, but to others also. 
Everybody is concerned about the sort of arrangements made with the Japanese. I point out that the Japanese are backed by expert government departments. The position is different from that which operates in Australia. In Japan, whether it is aircraft, minerals, motor cars, trade or whatever one likes to name, there are expert government departments allied closely to the commercial and manufac turing enterprises. The departments have  a  special knowledge. They give the manufacturer or producer that extra push, that national drive which we in Australia do not have. We have to watch these developments. We have to ensure that our country, our manufacturers and the standards enjoyed by employees are protected. Honourable senators will remember that in the past  Senator Mulvihill  and myself drew attention to the arrangements that were made about the supply of Japanese railway rolling stock. In circumstances in which large sections of our engineering plants had redundant labour, Australia was making arrangements to have railway rolling stock built in Japan. 
The trade between Australia and Japan is not the real indicator. The real indicator is what will happen in 10 or 15 years time. That is the general background of the debate. In Australia there is a great concern about these matter, particularly the aspect that I have just mentioned. It seems to me that the only way in which the Standing Committee can do a thorough job on this matter will be for it to have referred to it the matter contained in the Labor Party's amendment. Consequently I would like to see the DLP change its attitude to the amendment because I suggest that its motion is fairly limited. 
My question, which  is directed to the Attorney-General, follows the questions asked by  Senator Hannan  and  Senator Mulvihill  about the editing of television programmes and political censorship. Is it not a fact that the Prime Minister has laid down strict guidelines in rela tion to any television appearances he might make which would inhibit and restrict the news media, on the basis of the Minister's earlier ruling? Is it also a fact that the Prime Minister, publicly and by representations to the news media, has refused to be interviewed by certain interviewers, including  Mr Carleton?  Does the Minister consider that these prohibitions do not constitute a form of political control? 
My question which refers to the loss of F111 aircraft in the Vietnam area is directed to the Minister for Air. 1 ask the Minister whether he or the Royal Australian Air Force has sought information from the United States of America in connection with the loss of F111 aircraft and its limited withdrawal from operation in South East Asia following the first crash in September. If so, what are the details? In view of Australia's heavy commitment resulting from the purchase of this aircraft will the Minister institute thorough investigations into these matters and advise the Senate? 
My question, addressed to the Minister representing the Minister for Shipping and Transport, refers to concrete sleepers. Has the Minister's attention been drawn to the strong criticisms of the Commonwealth Minister for Shipping and Transport contained in the editorials of 2 morning newspapers, the Australian' and the Adelaide 'Advertiser' as a result of  Mr Nixon's  decision to order timber sleepers for the Trans-Australian Railway although the cost advantage of concrete sleepers would be $2. 8m? Has the Minister noted that the newspapers suggest that the decision is occasioned and motivated by political reasons? What are his observations on that statement? Has the Minister noted that on page 66 of the report of the Bureau of Transport Economics there is a reference to social questions? Has he noted the comment that the evaluation indicates that there is little difference, either in commercial or in social terms, between concrete sleepers and 10-inch by 5-inch jarrah sleepers? The reference concludes on the basis that the matter should be judged on technical reasons. In view of those matters will the Minster be good enough to request the Minister for Shipping and Transport to review his decision? 
 I wish to raise a matter related to the second reading debate on this Bill, concerning what  Senator Jessop  said about the Minister of Education in South Australia. This is probably the only opportunity that I shall have to refer to it. I intend to quote from some letters which have been written by the Minister in South Australia to a person who apparently gave some secondhand information to  Senator Jessop.  I refer to the debate on this Bill which occurred on Thursday 19th October 1972 which appears at page 1745 of Hansard.  Senator Jessop  said: 
A friend of mine told me that as  a  member of  a  deputation he approached the Minister for Education in South Australia with regard to this critical problem. 

 Senator Cavanagh interjected: 
Who was the friend? Who told you? 

 Senator Jessop continued: 
My friend happened to be a member of the Port Augusta Outback Parents Committee. He went along to the Minister in a very sincere and, I may say, humble way to request the South Australian Government to devote more money to the education of outback children in South Australia. Are honourable senators aware of what the Mnister said to these people? I have only my friend's statement to support this, but according to him the Minister said: 'If we gave you extra money for the education of outback children you would probably spend it on booze'. What an attitude for a Minister of a State Government to adopt with a deputation. I remind honourable senators that these people - 
At that point a number of honourable senators -  Senator McLaren, Senator Poyser, Senator Cavanagh,  myself and others - raised objection to the comments and referred - 
Would the honourable senator allow me to proceed? Why does not he listen for a while and see whether he agrees with the comments that have been made about people who are unable to defend themselves in this chamber and with the waste of time in such a debate to make an allegation concerning a deputation in a State which cannot be verified except with much trouble? I am trying to put the record straight. I told  Senator Jessop  that I would be quoting some letters which have been sent to these people by the Minister for Education. 
-I ask  Senator Webster  to listen to me and give me a chance to say what the Minister for Education has said. I am trying to put the matter in some logical order so that honourable senators can understand the position. In the debate last Thursday evening  Senator Cavanagh,  and I, referred to standing order 418 and the Acting  Deputy President, Senator Wilkinson,  ruled: 
I do not consider that any of the argument put by  Senator Bishop  about his personal relationship with the person mentioned by  Senator Jessop  comes into consideration in this matter. Standing order 418 specifically states: 
No  Senator shall  use offensive words against either House of Parliament or any member of such House, or any House of a State Parliament. I do not think I need go any further than that. 
The standing order also states:  all imputations of improper motives and all personal reflections on members shall be considered disorderly. 
I uphold the point of order. I ask  Senator Jessop  to withdraw his remarks in relation to the South Australian Minister of Education. 

 Senator Jessop said: 

 Mr Acting President, I respect your point of view. 
Finally he said: 
Very well, I withdraw and defer to your ruling. 
There are needless communications that have to be commenced in relation to these matters when you think that a person has been unjustly treated. It was necessary for us to tell  Mr Hudson  what had been said about him. Also it was necessary to tell  Senator Jessop  that we intended to take up the matter. As a result of the copy of  Senator Jessop's  remarks that was sent to  Mr Hudson,  he has sent to us - he hopes that they will be accepted by the Senate - these 2 letters which were sent to 2 people in July, one of whom  Senator Jessop  apparently accepts as the informant upon whose information he made his statements. 
He did not indicate at the time who had told him or how it was told. It was told out of context. I think that it is reasonable that I should read what was stated by the Minister. For my part, that is as far as I want to go. I shall read from a letter dated 16th July 1971. It has a reference E.D. 6.1.10. It is signed by  Mr Hugh  Hudson, Minister of Education. It is addressed to  Mr M.  I. McTaggart, Oakden Hill Station, via Port Augusta, South Australia, 7500. It reads: 
Dear  Mr McTaggart, 
I refer to the deputation to me on Wednesday, 23rd June, 1971, of which you were a member. Subsequently, as a result of your statement made to parents over the School of the Air, I have received several letters expressing concern over the Government's attitude to the matter as reported to the parents by you. 
The following are extracts from the letters - We were made aware of your complete lack of interest in the educational welfare of the children of the outback.' 
I think your attitude is singular and unfair.' 
This statement (that there would be no assurance that the money would be spent on education, it would probably go in "booze") I feel is a personal insult to each family living in the outback.' 
One reason given for the apparent lack of interest in our request was that the allowance would probably be spent on "booze". The members of our club felt very insulted to think that the Minister for Education could make such an unfair remark. 
Perhaps  Senator McLaren  will give the honourable senator a copy to read. A copy could have been made available to  Senator Wright.  1 simply told  Senator Jessop  earlier that we would be referring to the matter. We did not think it was necessary to supply copies and  Senator Jessop  did not ask for them. The letter continues: 
I must say that I was alarmed to receive this unnecessary critism in view of the discussion which I had with you. As I recall the matter, I explained to you that we would not be paying a governess's allowance for the following reasons - 
If it were confined only to those parents who actually employed a governess the allowance would assist only those who were best off among the outback parents. 
If the allowance were paid to all parents whether or not a governess was employed, some of the money could be used for other than educational purposes. As Minister of Education it is not possible for me to make money available in circumstances where some portion of it would not be used for for educational purposes. Indeed, if I went ahead anyway, the Auditor-General would certainly criticise the whole procedure publicly. 
In the course of our meeting, I informed you confidentially of a new scholarship scheme that was under consideration. This scheme involves the payment of a sum up to $370 over and above the existing boarding allowance to help parents meet the costs of secondary education where no facilities are provided by the Education Department. The scholarships which will be tenable at any secondary school, will be paid by the application of a graduated means test so that for students in first, second, third or fourth year, of secondary schooling, the sum available would vary between $180 which is the existing boarding allowance, and $550, while for fifth year students the sum available would vary between $230 and $600. I pointed out that the money the Government would be spending on this scheme would be considerably greater than any expenditure that might have been involved in a governess allowance. I might add thatin awarding scholarships special account will be taken of the problems of applicants who have spent all, or a significant proportion, of their primary school years on correspondence lessons. 
Since you had access to this information, you ing scholarships special account will be the problems of outback parents, and I can conclude only that your report of the meeting was motivated either by a complete lack of understanding or by sheer malice. 
On Monday last State Cabinet approved the introduction of this scholarship scheme. A public announcement has already been made on the matter. I attach a copy of my Press statement. When the form of application has been prepared, I will be issuing instructions to my officers to send the forms to all outback parents. 
In view of the situation which has arisen, I would appreciate a written apology because the statements which you have made have had the effect of misrepresenting completely and unjustly the terms of our interview. 
On 14th July  Mr Hudson  wrote a letter to  Mrs P.  M. Nicolson,  President,  Outback Parents Club, Roopena Station, Box 330, P.O., Whyalla, South Australia 5600. The letter reads: 
Dear  Mrs Nicolson, 
Thank you for your letter of 8th July. I am afraid that  Mr McTaggart  has been less than just in relation to the interview that he had with me. In the course of the interview I explained to  Mr McTaggart  that we would not be paying a governess's allowance for the following reasons - 
If it were confined only to those parents who actually employed a governess the allowance would assist only those who were best off among the outback parents. 
If the allowance were paid to all parents whether or not a governess was employed, some of the money could be used for other than educational purposes. (I presume this is where  Mr McTaggart  gets his statement about 'booze'). As Minister of Education it is not possible for me to make money available in circumstances where some portion of it would not be used for educational purposes. Indeed, if I went ahead anyway, the Auditor-General would certainly criticise the whole procedude publicly. 
In the course of our meeting, I informed  Mr McTaggart  confidentially of a new scholarship scheme that was under consideration. This scheme involves the payment of a sum up to $370 over and above the existing boarding allowance to help parents meet the costs of secondary education where no facilities are provided by the Education Department. The scholarships which will be tenable at any secondary school, will be paid by the application of a graduated means test so that for students in first, second, third or fourth year of secondary schooling, the sum available would vary between $180 which is the existing boarding allowance, and $550, while for fifth year  students  the sum available would vary between $230 and $600. I pointed out to  Mr McTaggart  that the money the Government would be spending on this scheme would be considerably greater than any expenditure that might have been involved in a governess allowance. I might add that in award  ing  scholarships special account will be  taken of the problems of applicants who have spent all, or a significant proportion, of (heir primary school years, on correspondence lessons. 
As  Mr McTaggart  had access to this information, he must have known that I was very sympathetic to the problems of outback parents, and L can conclude that his report of the meeting was motivated either by a complete lack of understanding or by sheer malice. 
I am pleased to be able to inform you that on Monday last State Cabinet approved the introduction of this scholarship scheme. A public announcement has already been made on the matter.  1  attached a copy of my press statement. When the form of application has been prepared, i will be issuing instructions to my officers to send the forms to all outback parents. 1 am writing separately to  Mr  McTaggart  demanding a written apology for the statements he has made misrepresenting completely and unjustly the terms of our interview. 
I  wish to thank you for your kind invitation to attend the annual meeting of the Outback Parents Club to be held in Port Augusta on  4th  and Sth December.  1  am not sure of my movements in December at this stage, and I shall write to you again later regarding this. 
Yours sincerely, 
That is all I want to say at this stage. I let the documents speak for themselves.  The  only point that I make now is the one that I made to  Senator Webster.  I cannot see why the business of the Senate should be reduced in quality because of some snide comments which people make because they think it is a political issue.  As  1 said in reply to the interjection of the Minister for Works, I mentioned to  Senator Jessop  that I would be explaining  Mr Hudson's  statements in the correspondence. I do so to put the record straight. 
I will take only a few minutes to support the remarks of  Senator O'Byrne.  and perhaps to make one or two comments on what  Senator Byrne  has said. First of all, J want to direct his attention to the fact that for a long time now - I instance the motion which the Opposition put forward in the Senate and in the. other place last year - we have been very concerned about the future of Qantas Airways Ltd. Arising out of long representations over almost the whole of last year and again this year, the Minister for Civil Aviation  (Senator Cotton)  recently brought down a summary of the operations of Qantas. I think it is fair to say that there has been some improvement of which we are all very pleased. I remind  Senator Byrne  of what the Minister said in his statement when referring to the annual report. He said: 
July showed an almost break even result and good profits were earned in August and September. The company has consistently bettered ils operating Budget in this period. The benefits gained from overseas currency revaluations have been mentioned in the annual report . . . and these gains will be brought into account each year as they are realised. It should not, of course, be assumed that these promising signs indicate an end to the problems facing Qantas.  In  particular, the international airline industry is a seasonal one. and some of the months to follow are not normally good traffic months.  1 appreciate what the Minister has put in writing about the. future of Qantas, and that is why the propositions contained in the amendment moved by the Opposition are related. Surely it not irresponsible to talk again about the need to have a firm form of co-production in Australia. I remind the Senate that on at least 3 occasions the Opposition has promoted this proposition. There is no doubt that this agitation has earned for the Australian industry an increasing share of offset orders. Although we have declarations from Ministers, we have not yet got what we assume to be a firm policy of coproduction. 
I come now to the question of Qantas management. It can be argued, as the Minister often argues in his own policies - other honourable senators, maybe including yourself,  Mr Deputy President,  have also put forward this argument - that Qantas has to be allowed to operate its own business. It will be recalled that during the past 12 months there have been certain erratic indications from Qantas management in relation to the problems of Qantas and the international industry. There were glowing reports early in the year and then later there were such actions as to occasion gloom, and during the year there were dismissals. Frequently statements were made by Qantas management which caused a great deal of concern as a result of which the Minister, as he well knows, received deputations at different times from the pilots and also from the mechanical staffs. Some of those deputations have continued during this year. We on this side of the chamber questioned the Minister and asked: 'What can be done about dismissals of crews? What can be done about the termination of training programmes? What can be done about the termination of the services of skilled staffs?' The only indication we have had in relation to what Qantas might do appeared today in a Press report. It says that Qantas again will look for some of the crews that it dismissed. So we do not know exactly the general policy of Qantas management. 
I want to refer very briefly to some of the points which were made by the air pilots. I think they ought to be noted. We still say that they have not been answered completely. In relation to what 1 said about  Senator Byrne's  point of view, I remind him that at about this time last year we moved an amendment which closely follows the aims that we as the Labor Opposition would like. 
The Loans (Qantas Airways Ltd) Bill (No. 2). The amendment we moved on that occasion reads:  but the Senate is of opinion that firm arrangements should have been made for substantial co- production procedures for imported aircraft and a joint select committee should be appointed to inquire into and report upon the effectiveness of Qantas management in relation to crew retrenchment, migrant carriage contracts, the future role of Qantas in the major international aviation scene both from commercial and defence aspects, the question of Qantas' role in Australia's balance of payments, entry into and extent of activity in international charter operations- 
No. The difference between our objective then and  what  obtains today is that, as we see it, we  will  not take delivery of the aircraft until about March next year. I think that is the date. The Minister can correct me. 
The year after next. In the second instance, the fact is that the financial operations have not yet been completed. About one-half of the money has been raised by the Export-Import Bank of the United Stales, but the transaction is still to go on and the Government still faces the difficulty about accepting that transaction when it takes place in accordance with the arrangements made by the Treasurer on the basis of what the Labor Party has moved in the past and what  Senator O'Byrne  has mentioned. We contract with the supplier of an aircraft not to use it in certain circumstances, although the builders of that aircraft use it as they choose in communist and non-communist countries. But there are some other matters which ought to be looked into. As I have said, we are as much concerned about coproduction, about getting a share of the production, and about arrangements with the suppliers of aircraft, as we are concerned about the future of Qantas. All of us here are very happy about what appears to be a temporary recovery of Qantas. We do not want to see Qantas aircraft only partly filled - sometimes only one quarter filled. Does not the issue of  the  sixth Boeing aircraft coming into service become important in relation to loadings? As 1 have mentioned, those matters are related. 
I want to refer to what are still some of the outstanding problems in relation to Qantas management. The Minister has stated that the management has been modified and that the Board has been increased by an additional 2 members. 
What the pilots have said to the Minister by deputation, privately and publicly, is that there is still a need to modify and reform Qantas management. It seems to me that the arguments that are put forward are sound. I have never yet seen those arguments properly inquired into. For that reason it seems to me that a proposition from the Opposition to support the request that a select committee be set up certainly is not irresponsible, lt is reasonable. Let me outline to the Senate some of the requests made by the air pilots. As late as June this year they put out documents which were the substance of representations to management and, I believe, the Minister. After conducting surveys of traffic possibilities in the future, they came down with these conclusions: 
The Qantas management has failed to appreciate the changed market conditions which now prevail in the aviation industry. Reaction to competition has been slow and inadequate. Instead of reacting aggressively, the management, blaming ils troubles on a largely imaginary market downturn :ind crying unfair competition, is proposing to withdraw from competitive areas. The Government has shown little concern for Qantas" £,roblems and indeed if the last year's actions may be taken at face value, even appears content to let Qantas fail. 
Another of their conclusions refers to this proposition: 
The Government should examine the relationship of Qantas to the overall Australian economy and the importance of overseas earnings balanced against airline profits and in the light of this examination, redraft the financial directives under which  Qantas  operates. 
The Federation's eighth point was: 
Qantas should use a portion of its reserve funds to purchase shares in overseas agencies to feed Qantas aircraft with overseas tourists. 
The tenth point was: 
The sixth B747 ordered should be cancelled. 
The Federation then referred to these propositions, which seem to me to be reasonable in relation to who should comprise the management of Qantas: 
One member with management experience in the international hotel industry. This requirement has become urgent in the light of the current swing to recreational travel and all-inclusive tour marketing. 
One member with extensive experience in the travel agency business. Travel agents and tourist agencies handle over 80 per cent of Qantas business. A board member appointed to be responsible for this area would be invaluable. 
One, or possibly, two, members of the present TAA Commission should be appointed to the Qantas Board. Sections of TAA and Qantas could possible be amalgamated at some future date. 
They are the propositions which have been put and they ought to be examined. Certainly they are put in the latter part of an 18-months period when the performance of Qantas has been much in doubt, although the Minister for Civil Aviation  (Senator Cotton)  has assured the Senate that they are now on the up and up. However, the Senate has been very concerned, as the Minister well knows, with this performance for nearly the last 2 years and we have the problem where - belatedly, of course - the Government or Qantas has accepted the idea of low cost charter fares which the Federation of Air Pilots and others in the industry had been thrashing for a long time, lt seems to me that what has been referred to by the Minister in his current report are matters which were put to Qantas management over 12 months ago. 
Let me refer to one last point on this, the relationship between Qantas management and the staff. This must continue io receive some consideration by the Government. lt would seem to me that the best of all the suggestions that have been put up about the Qantas management is the need to have staff represented on the management itself. The trend throughout the world is for staff to be represented. By this method one does not see the clumsy negotiations that usually result from upsurges and difficulties over redundancy of staff. Staff representatives properly appointed to management to represent employees' organisations can be of great value. The Australian Federation of Ail Pilots had this to say also, and I hope that the Minister, even if he does not reply at this stage, will consider it at some subsequent time. The Federation has said that the staff relationships policies of the management have been designed to create fear and insecurity among the staff and are more suitable for the 19th century than the 1970s when enlightened management is working towards inspiring active support and co-operation of staff. The Federation said that retrenchments last year were made as inhumanly as possibly: Pilots were notified of seniority numbers only and that after the announcement dozens of wives, many crying and distraught, whose husbands were overseas, rang the Federation to find out whether they were affected. The company at the same time warned the balance of the staff of possible retrenchments. I shall not continue to build up that argument because the Opposition expanded it to a large extent last year and to some extent this year. 
I shall be as brief as I can in putting the arguments which the Opposition has put continually about the need to get a firm undertaking for co-production in Australia. It has been improved and I suggest that much of the improvement results from the agitation of this Opposition and of the people in the industry. However, I should like to quote from a recent statement by the General Manager of the Commonwealth Aircraft Corporation,  Mr R.  L. Abbott, which is published in the magazine Aircraft' of October 1972. This is what he said: 
Whatever is proposed, the question of workload is the key factor, said  Mr Abbott.  The Government talks about 'a small but viable and effective industry' but whatever they do it has got to be a commercially viable industry. Compared with that central fact the form the industry takes is, from the national viewpoint, of secondary importance. Before that can be discussed with any reality we must know what are the Government plans to provide a basic and a continuing workload. We must know the range of skills we are required to maintain, so that we can assess what numbers and types of qualified people we will need, what sort of equipment. There has to be an understanding of all these questions. . . . 
So the position is that even though there has been some increase in the total quantity of co-production - and figures have been bandied about, but there are no complete answers, that range between SI Om and $9m; certainly the share is becoming greater - there is still a feeling of uncertainty in the aircraft industry. There have been some substantial orders resulting from the Nomad project which may turn into an active work load, but what the industry needs is not the consortium which is under examination by the Government, but what was mentioned by  Mr Abbott  - work load in all enterprises both public and private. 
May I briefly wind up by again referring to the quantity of imports into the country and the small share of co-production we get. One must remember that our share of co-production certainly does not at pre sent exceed $9m for future commitments. We do not know what will result from the requirements of the Royal Australian Air Force, but that is the ticket at present. These figures have been quoted before, but they are up to date and have been provided by the statistical service of the Commonwealth Parliamentary Library. I shall quote from a summary table headed Imports into Australia, Aeroplanes etc. in Millions of Dollars'. In 1969-70 the total value was $127,182,000, in 1970-71 $159,040,000 and in 1971-72 $73,469,000. That is apart, of course, from whatever importation of other war requirements and war stores were brought into the country. By taking those years together a total of nearly $182m worth of equipment came into this country, lt is true that various specialists have been sent overseas to try to get bits and pieces of orders, but with this country's aircraft industry, which is a very capable industry with capacity and capability and which still has skilled employees, although some have gone as a result of retrenchments and redundancies, it is still possible for us to cope with a substantial volume of work. Our provisions are not adequate and the Government should be insisting on a much greater quantity of co-production and offset orders. We are not getting them. That is the reason for the second main proposition of the Opposition. 1 take the opportunity of thanking honourable senators for having listened to these rather lengthy arguments and I hope that as a result of the representations the Government may see fit to bring out before the elections a firmer proposition about co-production. 
My question, which I direct to the Minister for Civil Aviation, refers to recent representations made to him by the South Australian Premier and Minister of Roads and Transport in connec  tion with the operations of TransAustralian Airlines within South Australia, the request being made that TAA should be allowed to operate freely in competition with Ansett Airlines. In view of the newly introduced legislation in relation to the 2- airline policy, has consideration of the application by the South Australian Government been cancelled out? Is the matter still receiving consideration? Can the Minister indicate when he may be able to determine the matter? 
My question, which  I  direct to the Minister representing the 
Minister for Shipping and Transport, follows upon the question asked by  Senator Jessop  on the use of concrete sleepers on the Trans-Australian railway.I ask the Minister: Will he take up with the Minister for Shipping and Transport, who has announced that concrete sleepers will not be used on the Trans-Australian railway, the proposal that because of the unemployment in Port Pirie particularly consideration might be given to having some quota of the sleeper requirement for that railway supplied in concrete as this would assist also in utilising the unused machinery capacity now available in South Australia? 
I direct a question to the Minister representing the Minister for Labour and National Service. Has his attention been drawn to a reported statement by  Mr John  Young, the managing director of a leading executives' placement agency, that 30,000 executives are unemployed in Australia and that they would not be registered as unemployed for reasons related to their occupation? As it appears clear that unemployed executives face serious re-employment problems and related disabilities and that these would tend to flow into other sectors of the community, which would not be good, will he take up this matter with the Minister for Labour and National Service to see whether some specialised employment service could be made available to them? 
I support what the Leader of the Opposition  (Senator Murphy)  and  Senator McLaren  have said. This debate brings back the arguments which followed the 1970 Budget of the former Prime Minister,  Mr Gorton,.  Honourable senators will recall that prior to that Budget the wine industry and many spokesmen on both sides of this Senate claimed that the industry was in bad shape although it was showing some profitable tendencies. That Budget imposed an excise of 50c a gallon on wine. This was greatly resented and there was great concern in the industry, particularly in South Australia, with the result that following the Budget many representations were made to South Australian senators on both sides of this chamber. All I can say in reply to  Senator Laucke's  comments is that frequently on that occasion he got up in the Senate, like other honourable senators, and complained about the proposed duty. We were against it then because we thought it would impede the development of an industry which in the future would be not only profitable but also stable. Of course it is a matter for the judgment of each Government senator as to what he should do about voting on  Senator Murphy's  request. 
I agree with  Senator Murphy  and  Senator McLaren  that we now have an opportunity to make a decision which will indicate to the industry that we are against the impost and that it should not have been struck in the first place. Its removal certainly would affect the Commonwealth's revenue. The estimate of the Leader of the Government in the Senate  (Senator Sir Kenneth Anderson)  is that it will amount to something like S6m. But the responsibility surely is on the Government for doing something in the first place which a former Prime Minister now states was a mistake. As  Senator Murphy  has stated, as recently as 5th October 1972 when speaking at Renmark - the 'Murray Pioneer' carried his remarks - the former Prime Minister said: 
I have a confession to make. I was the man who brought in the wine tax but am now prepared to admit that it was a mistake and have made this clear in my recent statements in the House. 
As  Senator McLaren  has pointed out, candidates for the coalition parties in that area are now saying that they are in favour of the abolition of the excise duty. Honourable senators opposite cannot have it both ways. 
This matter certainly raises a great financial problem but it is not the Opposition's fault if the Government decides to introduce this legislation before the Estimates have been dealt with by the Senate. It is its own decision to bring in legislation and its imposition of some financial burden is not the responsibility of the Opposition. Surely the Government knew that the Opposition would take the first opportunity to do something about it in a positive way. All I wish to say in conclusion is that it is a matter of record that members of the coalition parties in the Senate and in the other place have regularly said that they are against the duty. They take some pride in saying that their efforts have helped to reduce it, but they still campaign for its abolition.  Senator Murphy  now is doing what he said he would do. On 3rd November 1970 he gave a very clear indication to the Government, the Senate and the people of Australia of what was proposed when he said:  1 say that after consultation with  Mr Whitlam  and the wine industry of Australia. The Australian wine industry may take it that the ALP is pledged to the repeal of this excise. 
Briefly that is the issue and it is now the responsibility of those who claim that they are against it to decide which way they should vote. 
We have been listening to a case which concerns a representation to the Minister for the Interior  (Mr Hunt).  We have been told that a delegate from Darwin has come to Canberra to put a case to the Minister and that the Minister has refused to see him. If that is the case, it seems to me to be quite unfair and improper, and that the Minister should arrange- 
I am not. I listened to  Senator Webster  and to  Senator McLaren. Senator McLaren  said that  Mr Phillips  had come to Canberra to put a case before the Minister. If that is the position, surely there is some vehicle to ensure that early representations are made to the Minister. If the position has been made known to the Minister, there is no excuse for him not receiving the delegate from Darwin. I do not see why we should have to listen, for 25 minutes or half an hour, to a case which ought to have been put to the Minister. T hope that when  Senator Wright  makes the inquiries, which no doubt he will make, he will present that circumstance to the Minister, because that is how the case appears to those of us who have listened to it as a new matter. We have been told that, although the Public Works Committee has made a decision on the matter, a representation was sought to be made and the Minister could not see the individual concerned, nor did he indicate when he might see him. I think there has been some lapse of communication or some discourtesy shown to the person from Darwin. 
asked the Minister representing the Prime Minister, upon notice: 
Do the relatively high medical and efficiency standards set by the Department of Health and the Public Service Board restrict employment opportunities in the Public Service for handicapped persons. 
Is the Commonwealth currently promoting the employment of handicapped persons by private employers, who do not usually demand such rigid medical and efficiency standards as those which are applied by the Commonwealth to handicapped persons seeking entry into the Public Service. 
When was the last review into medical and efficiency standards conducted by the Department of Health and the Public Service Board, and were the standards modified or relaxed in any way. 
What medical and efficiency standards are required of an applicant who is handicapped and seeks employment in the Public Service. 
Does the Commonwealth propose to relax the existing medical and efficiency standards, so as to increase the employment opportunities available in the Public Service to handicapped persons. 

 Senator Sir KENNETH ANDERSONThe Prime Minister has supplied the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
The Public Service Board has advised  me  that both the Public Service Act and the Superannuation Act require that appointees should undergo a medical examination and satisfy health and physical fitness standards for entry into the Commonwealth Service and for acceptance  to the 
Superannuation Fund or Provident Account, as appropriate. One medical examination serves the purpose of both Acts. 
The medical standards, set by the Superannuation Board and the Public Service Board acting on the advice of the Department of Health, are relatively high for Superannuation Fund acceptance, but persons who are not able to meet these standards are often eligible for appointment under Provident Account conditions. 
Over the years, the Service has been able to cater for substantial numbers of handicapped persons seeking employment and during 1971 these efforts were placed on a more formal and systematic basis. The Public Service Board has nominated an officer in each State or Territory who is responsible for matters involving the recruitment, placement and employment of handicapped persons in the Commonwealth Service. This officer acts as a point of contact for voluntary organisations representing handicapped persons for the employing departments, and for the Departments of Social Services and Labour and National Service. In addition, a system of reporting on the placement of the handicapped was introduced during 1971 to allow the Board'sOffice to observe trends and to assist with further developments in the area. 
The Commonwealth is now, and has been for many years, promoting the employment of the handicapped by private employers. The Minister for Labour and National Service advises me that medical and other standards set by private employers usually vary according to the nature of the work to be performed, the existence of a retirement benefit scheme, the training required, and the type of career structure provided. In this context, the Commonwealth, especially through the efforts of the Department of Labour and National Service and the Department of Social Services, has been encouraging all employers to adopt a positive and non-discriminatory policy towards the employment of the handicapped. It encourages employers to engage handicapped persons who can perform efficiently when selectively placed in employment and it has been noticeably successful in this regard. 
(4) and (5) On1 October 1972 the Government approved, on the recommendation of the Public Service Board, made after consultation with other interested Commonwealth authorities, a further relaxation of the basic medical standard for permanent appointment to the Commonwealth Public Service. 
Subject to maintenance of the requirement of efficiency for the duties to be performed, greater flexibility will be observed in assessing the medical fitness of candidates for permanent appointment. 
At present the general practice is to expect appointees to the service to meet a medical standard designed to ensure a period of at least seven years' efficient service. 
In future, a three-year minimum period will be used as a general guideline. This guideline will be flexibly administered according to the duties to be performed and any other relevant factors so as to allow consideration, in their particular merits, of borderline cases. On the other hand, as at present, a longer period may be required in some cases - for example, where lengthy training as a Cadet is involved. 
This decision represents the second general relaxation of the basic medical standard. 
Until 1962, the general rule was that permanent appointees to the Service (other than returned soldiers) should be in sound health and likely to remain so until retiring age. In May 1962. the Government approved a recommendation of the Public Service Board which gave opportunities for many handicapped people to be permanently appointed. These people contribute to the Provident Account. 
My question, directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Shipping and Transport, follows the question asked by  Senator Webster.  I ask: Is it not a fact that the South Australian Premier has made representations to the Minister for Shipping and Transport pressing that concrete sleepers be used on the Trans-Australian Railway and also that a policy should be adopted to use them now on the new connection between Adelaide and Port Pirie? Is it not also a fact that concrete sleepers are accepted internationally as being more suitable than timber sleepers for modern railway construction? Has the Government now considered the representations of the State Premier? 
 I direct my question to the Minister representing the Minister for Shipping and Transport. I ask: As the Government has announced a policy related to a national highway system, will the Minister make public or available to honourable senators the report of the Commonwealth Bureau of Roads on this subject? Also, in view of the report by the Expert Group on Road Safety, which identified the importance of safe roads in reducing accidents, has the Minister sought or received a report from the Commonwealth Bureau of Roads on the matter? If so, will he make this report available to honourable senators or make it public? 
Because of the time I will be very brief, but I want to refer to something in respect of which I asked the Minister and his officers in the Estimates Committee hearing to supply some further information. I refer to the first aid facilities provided for railwaymen stationed on Commonwealth lines. I refer to a serious incident which occurred and to the comments of the Port Augusta coroner in relation to the death of a railway man on the Trans-Australian Railway. I refer to an  article in the Adelaide 'News' of 14th June 1972 headed 'Railways Gets Blame for Death'. The report continues: 
A Port Augusta coroner said the 'monstrous irresponsibility' of the Commonwealth Railways caused the death of a young Vietnam veteran working on the Trans-continental railway line, last October. 
The Coroner,  Mr K.  J. Sowry, attacked the Commonwealth Railways for the lack of first-aid training it gave workers in outback areas. 
Handing down a report in Port Augusta yesterday,  Mr Sowry  said the Railway was entirely to blame for the death of Ian Robert Lee,  24,  at Deakin, on the Western Australia side of the border between Western Australia and South Australia. 
He said the cause of death in all probability was heat exhaustion. 

 Mr Sowry said: 'That man needn't have died. 
Of 25 people at the fettlers camp not one of them had the vaguest idea how to treat him.' 
The question of what the railways do about first aid matters has been raised most recently by the honourable member for Grey,  Mr Wallis.  He asked the Minister for Shipping and Transport  (Mr Nixon): 
How many (a) maintenance fettling gangs and (b) special gangs are operating along the Commonwealth Railways, east-west and northsouth railway lines. 
How many of these gangs have a fully qualified first aid man as a member of the gang. 
The reply given was that there were 75 main fettling gangs and in only 1 4 of them were there first aid attendants. The explanation from the railways, through the Minister, was: 
One gang has a fully qualified first aid man as a member. Fettler gangs work on line locations in remote areas where conditions are generally harsh and inhospitable. Under such conditions staff turnover is high and Commonwealth Railways experience considerable difficulty in the employment of labour of any kind at line locations. This makes it highly impractical to attempt to provide a qualified first aid man with every gang. 
The reply went on to explain that the men who are qualified get an allowance of $15 for being competent in first aid. I refer to that because there seems to be no solution to the problem of giving first aid treatment or ambulance attendance to isolated workers, particularly in the Commonwealth Railways. Therefore, I am offering the suggestion which 1 made before. Perhaps provision of such services by the Railways might be too slow for emergency cases. But consideration might be given to an association between the Royal Flying Doc tor Service and the Commonwealth Railways in relation to lines the locations of which do not afford proper first aid facilities when men cannot be trained in first aid. Also, it may be possible to increase the allowance paid. 
Recently the Royal Flying Doctor Service indicated that it is considering using a Nomad aircraft. These aircraft are produced in a government aircraft factory and they are very suitable for outback conditions. I hope that the Minister will arrange for the Department to give special consideration to what action might be taken to meet emergencies. In such situations where first aid men are not available and nobody will accept training the Commonwealth 
Railways surely should set up at intermediate and regional centres some sort .of special services and where possible use the Flying Doctor or other suitable services. 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for the Interior. I refer to the announcement that the policy of transferring to Canberra Commonwealth officers now located in Melbourne, which was previously deferred, is now likely to be recommenced. Can the Minister give any details of the number of officers so affected and can he say whether accommodation will be available for them? Also, is it a fact that after 5,000 single persons in Canberra had lodged applications for bachelor flats, the National Capital Development Commission decided to stop construction of them? Is there any policy being commenced by the Government to provide homes for single officers in the circumstances 1 have mentioned? 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Foreign Affairs. It refers to the possible resumption of nuclear testing by the French. Has the Minister any definite information as to whether France is likely again to explode a nuclear device in the Pacific later in the year as reported? Referring to the statement today by the responsible New Zealand Minister concerning a further protest by New Zealand, 1 ask: Are any new moves proposed by Australia, New Zealand or other Pacific countries to initiate efforts to prevent such tests going on? 
1 would like to say a few words on the purpose of the amendment and to respond to what  Senator Little  had to say. As most honourable senators know, the Australian Labor Party, like the Government Parties, meets to consider what should be the policy of the Party in relation to legislation. When the Labor Party committee met to consider this legislation it had in mind, firstly, that the proposition contained in the Bill was too closely allied to industry. As everybody knows, the provisions of the Bill are to be administered by the Department of Labour and National Service. The Secretary of the Department has the right to decide certain questions and, in some cases, to make awards of up to $26,000. I think that is the figure. But in actual fact, as we all know, the whole proposition stems from the question of the entry of married women into the work force and so on. the  Labor Party believes that to accept the principle of the Government's proposal without trying to persuade the Government to do something else would have the result of getting away from the social objective, which should be to do what the amendment provides. 
The amendment states that child  care centres  should be within the province of he Department of Education and Science and should be part of a pre-school system developed progressively throughout the nation. Having this in mind, it is possible in a rationalised and industrialised society to place too much accent on industry and on the requirements of industry and to leave the obligations on employers and people who are too closely related to industry. That is the reason for the amendment. It certainly does not have the connotations that  Senator Little  talked about, namely, that these centres would become institutionalised. What we put forward is the very reverse of such a system. We want the Commonwealth Government to have child care centres as one of its priorities, but certainly we want it to separate them from the close relationship which in the future they will have with industry. As 
I pointed out, the provisions of the Bill will be administered by the Department of Labour and National Service, and there is no doubt that, bit by bit, the administration of these centres will be dovetailed into the aims, obligations and needs of industry. That is why we have moved the amendment, which is certainly not the reason put forward by  Senator Little. 
Before I commence my remarks, may I suggest that we debate together this Bill, the United States Naval Communication Station (Civilian Employees) Bill 1972 and the Seamen's Compensation Bill 1972 as they are related measures. This is a practice which has been adopted in the past. 
 Mr Chairman,  may I suggest that that should be the procedure to be followed? As the document before the Senate is a complex one, no doubt there will be some questions about it. The range of the Opposition's amendments is from section 5 to section 100 of the Act and I suggest that it would be advisable to take them in globo after questions relating to any of the clauses have been put. Unless there is any objection, that should be the procedure to be followed. 
 I wish to reply briefly to what the Attorney-General  (Senator Greenwood)  said in his speech because I think he has distorted the objectives of the Australian Labor Party. I refer firstly to the last matter which he raised, vocational training. I take the case of a man who is a paraplegic and is confined to a wheel chair. After rehabilitation in a centre such as St Margaret's Convalescent Hospital in Adelaide, he can be equipped with certain devices to assist him to earn a living or part of a living for himself. As a result of this treatment he may be able to manipulate objects or to make objects. 
What the Government is saying is that the promises that it has made about abolition of the means test - this is a policy that it has copied from the Australian Labor Party - are nonsense and are to go by the board particularly in relation to handicapped people. The Attorney-General is saying that a handicapped person is to be discriminated against if he is able to earn $2 or $3 a week by making such items as souvenirs or bracket fittings for homes. That is what his remarks mean. It is as simple as that. The Minister's advisers may laugh about the example that I have given. But the issue concerns a man, who is hardly able to carry out any manipulation, being deprived of any small amounts that he may earn. This is the principle involved. We are against the Government's attitude. We think that our proposal is reasonable. We can justify it to the community. We certainly can justify our stand to those who represent these handicapped people. 1 turn to sick pay and the no loss of pay principle. As the Minister's advisers obviously well know, and as the trade union movement and, no doubt, government departments know, many agreements providing for that now exist in the community. The principle does not relate to sick pay because sick pay represents the minimum earnings of the person injured. The Government's legislation specifically excludes any defined benefits. I invite the Minister to consider any classification of work - fork lift drivers, crane drivers, boilermakers or fitters. The award rate of payment for any classification that the Minister may choose is the minimum rate of pay for that classification. The rates of pay paid on the job to people in such classifications are almost double the award rates. In the face of the situation confronting us. we have no hesitation in saying that we can defend these objectives before the public. We hope that we will have the opportunity to do so. 
Question put: 
That the amendment  (Senator Bishop's)  be agreed to. 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Shipping and Transport. I refer to the meeting of State Transport Ministers held earlier this month at which they called for urgent action to upgrade urban transport and mainline railway systems. They also asked that funds for this purpose be supplied by the Commonwealth Government as funds  were not available from State sources. As responses have been made by the Minister for Shipping and Transport, and to some extent by the Prime Minister, about considering these demands, can the Minister advise whether any discussions have been held with the State Ministers, because they claim that there is a crisis in State transport finances? 
I remind the Minister for Air that I asked him questions last week about losses of aircraft in Vietnam and whether the Royal Australian Air Force had sought information from the United States of America or whether the United States had supplied information to the Minister regarding the loss of the first aircraft and the temporary withdrawal of aircraft following that crash. Since that time there has been a second crash. Has the Minister received any information from the United States or does the Air Force intend to investigate those matters to see whether there are any technical problems which ought to be considered by the Air Force? 
 I take it that  Senator Cavanagh  suggested that he be allowed to deal subsequently with Clause 6. 
The amendments that I will move relate to the following clauses which read in part: 
Clause 4. 
Section 5 of the Principal Act is amended by inserting in sub-section (1.), after the definition of medical treatment', the following definition:  "Overtime" includes - 
any duty on shifts or on Saturdays, Sundays or other holidays; and 
excess travelling time;'. 
Clause 7. 
Section 39 of the Principal Act is amended by omitting from sub-section (11.) the words 'any of the last 4 preceding sub-sections, and inserting in their stead the words 'sub-section (6.) (7.), (9.) or (10.) of this section'. 
Clause 8. 
Section 45 of the Principal Act is amended- 
by inserting after sub-section (2.) the following sub-sections: (2a.) Notwithstanding the last preceding subsection, but subject to the succeeding provisions of this section if the prescribed amount applicable to the employee under the next succeeding subsection in respect of a week, being one of the first 26 weeks of the period, or of the aggregate of the periods, of the incapacity, is greater than the amount of compensation that would, but for this sub-section, be payable to him in respect of that week under the last preceding sub-section (including sub-sections (3.) and (4.) of this section, if applicable), the amount of compensation payable to him in respect of that week is that precribed amount. (2b.) For the purposes of the last preceding sub-section, the prescribed amount applicable to an employee in respect of a week is - 
in the case of an employee who is, during that week, employed by the Commonwealth under conditions of employment providing for sick leave payments - an amount equal to the sum of - 
the sick leave payment that he would receive in respect of that week if, during that week, he were entitled to, and were granted, sick leave on full pay by reason of an illness that is not attributable to an injury in relation to which this Act applies; and 
the amount, if any, that was payable to the employee under the next succeeding section in respect of the week that ended immediately before the commencement of the period of the incapacity or, where there are 2 or more periods of incapacity, the last of those periods; 
in the case of an employee who is not employed by the Commonwealth during that week, but was, immediately before he ceased to be employed by the Commonwealth, employed under conditions of employment providing for sick leave payments - an amount equal to the amount that would be applicable to him under the last preceding paragraph if he has continued in that employment; or 
in any other case - an amount determined by the Commissioner, having regard to the following: 
if the employee is, during that week, employed by the Commonwealth - the amount of the earnings, if any, payable to him in respect of that week in respect of that employment; 
if the employee is not, during that week, employed by the Commonwealth - the amount of the earnings, if any, that, if he had continued in the employment in which he was engaged immediately before he ceased to be employed by the Commonwealth, would have been payable to him in respect of that week in respect of that employment; and 
any other matter that the Commissioner considers to be relevant. (2c.) For the purposes of the last preceding sub-section - 
an employee who would be, or would have been, employed but for his incapacity shall be taken to be employed, or to have been employed, as the case may be; 
a reference to a sick leave payment is a reference to a payment by way of salary, wages or pay in respect of a period during which the employee concerned is absent from bis employment by reason of illness; and 
a reference to earnings, in relation to an employee - 
includes a reference to the earnings that would be, or would have been, payable to the employee but for his incapacity; and 
does not include a reference to a payment in respect of overtime or a reference to an allowance that is intermittent or is payable in respect of special expenses incurred or likely to be incurred by the employee in respect of his employment'; and 
by omitting from sub-section (3.) the words the last preceding sub-section' and inserting in their stead the words 'sub-section (2.) of this section'. 
Clause 9. 
Section 46 of the Principal Act is amended by omitting from paragraph (b) of sub-section (2.) the word 'sub-section' and inserting in its stead the words 'sub-sections (2a.) and'. 
Clause 10. 
Section 50 of the Principal Act is amended by omitting from paragraph (a) of sub-section (2.) the words 'in pursuance of this Act' and inserting in their stead the words 'under a provision of this Act, other than sub-section (2a.) of section 45'. 
Clause 11. 
Section 99 of the Principal Act is amended - 
by omitting from sub-section (6.) the words so much of and 
by omitting from sub-section (6.) all the words after the word 'dependant' (second occuring). 
Clause 13. (1.) The amendments made by this Act, other than sections 8, 9, 10 and 11, apply in relation to any weekly payments of compensation made in respect of a period occurring on or after the date of commencement of this Act notwithstanding that the compensation is payable in respect of an injury sustained, a disease contracted, or an aggravation, acceleration or recurrence of a disease suffered, before that date. 
C2.) Where, on or after the date of commencement of this Act. an employee - 
dies; 
suffers a loss of a kind referred to in section 39, 40 or 42 of the Principal Act; 
suffers facial disfigurement of a kind referred to in section 41 of that Act; or 
becomes liable for any cost of a kind referred to in sub-section (3.) of section 37 of that Act, the amendments made by this Act, other than sections 8. 9, 10 and 11, apply in relation to any compensation payable in respect of that death, loss, disfigurement or cost, notwithstanding that it results from an injury sustained, a disease contracted, or an aggravation, acceleration or recurrence of a disease suffered, before that date. (3.) The amendments made by sections 8, 9 and 10 of this Act apply in relation to - 
an injury the date of which is the date of commencement of this Act or a subsequent date; and 
the contraction, aggravation, acceleration or recurrence of a disease, the date of which is, by virtue of sub-section (2.) of section 29 of the Principal Act, to be deemed to be the date of commencement of this Act or a subsequent date. (4.) The amendments made by section 1 1 of this Act apply in relation to damages recovered on or after the date of commencement of this Act. (5.) Expressions used in this section have the same respective meanings as in the Principal Act.  1 move: 
 Clause 4, leave out the clause, insert the following clause: - "4. Section 5 of the Principal Act is amended - 
by omitting from sub-section (1.) the definition of 'child in relation to whom this Act applies' Sind inserting in ils stead the following definition: -  "child" means a son, daughter, grandson or grand-daughter, whether legitimate or illegitimate, or child by adoption, or other child in the custody, care or control of the employee, who is not self-supporting, and includes a son or daughter, whether legitimate or illegitimate, who is born after the employee's death;'; 
by omitting from sub-section (1.) the definition of 'dependant' and inserting in its stead the following definition: -  "dependant", in relation to a deceased employee, means the widow of a deceased person and such persons as were wholly, mainly or partly dependent upon the employee at the date of the death of the employee or would, but for the incapacity or death due to the injury, have been so dependent;'; 
by inserting in sub-section (I.), after the definition of 'medical treatment', the following definition: -  "overtime" includes - 
any duty on shifts or on Saturdays, Sundays or other holidays; and 
excess travelling time;'; 
by adding at the end of sub-section (1.) the following definition: - 1 "widow" in relation to a deceased employee includes a woman who, although not legally married to the employee, lived with him at the time of his death on a bona fide domestic basis and, in relation to a deceased aboriginal native of Australia or of a Territory of the Commonwealth not forming part of the Commonwealth, includes a person who was recognised as the wife of that aboriginal native by the custom prevailing in the tribe or group of aboriginal natives of Australia or of such a Territory to which that aboriginal native belonged.'; 
by omitting from sub-section (4.) the words other than sub-section (5.) of section 43*3 and 
by omitting from sub-section (10.) the words 'an impairment of speech of the employee referred to in sub-section (10.)' and inserting in their stead the words 'a partial loss referred to in sub-section (4.)'.". 
 Leave out clauses 7, 8 and 9, insert the following clauses: - "7. Section 25 of the Principal Act is repealed and the following section inserted in ils stead: - 
For the purposes of this Act, the average weekly earnings of an employee before an injury shall be calculated in accordance with this section: - 
a reference in the succeeding provisions of this section to earnings of an employee in relation to any employment shall be read as including a reference lo any allowance payable to the employee in respect of that employment other than an allowance that is intermittent or is payable in respect of special expenses incurred or likely to be incurred by the employee in respect of that employment; 
where an employee was, at the date of the injury, employed by the employer only in part time employment or in employment in respect of which he ( employee was not paid, any earnings of the employee from any other employment shall be treated for the purposes of this section as if they were earnings of the employee from his employment by the employer; 
subject to the succeeding provisions of this section, the average weekly earnings of an employee before the injury shall be calculated in relation to the period immediately preceding the date of the injury in which he was continuously employed by the employer but any part of that period that was earlier than 12 months before that dale shall be disregarded; 
subject to the next succeeding paragraph, if, during the period ascertained in accordance wilh the last preceding paragraph, the minimum amount per week payable to the employee in respect of his employment by the employer was varied as a result of the operation of a law of the Commonwealth or of a State or Territory of the 
Commonwealth, or as a result of the making, alteration or operation of an award, order, determination or industrial agreement, or of the doing of any other act or thing, under such a law, so much of that period as occurred before the variation took place or, if there was more than one variation, before the last variation took place, shall be disregarded for the purposes of the last preceding paragraph; 
where - 
as a result of a variation in the minimum amount per week payable to the employee in respect of his employment by the employer, a period that occurred before the variation took place would, by reason of the last preceding paragraph, be disregarded for the purposes of paragraph (c) of this section; and 
if that period were so disregarded, it would be impracticable to calculate the average weekly earnings of the employee before the injury in accordance with paragraph (c) of this section, or the average weekly earnings as so calculated would not fairly represent the rate per week at which the employee was being remunerated in respect of that employment before the injury. that period shall not be so disregarded but the average weekly earnings of the employee during that period shall be taken to be the amount that would have been his average weekly earnings during that period if the variation had taken effect at the commencement of that period; 
if, during any part of the period in relation to which the average weekly earnings of the employee before the injury are required to be calculated by virtue of the last three preceding paragraphs, the earnings of the employee were reduced, or the employee did not receive any earnings, by reason that he was absent from his employment owing to illness or otherwise, that part of that period shall be disregarded for the purposes of paragraph (c) of this section; 
where, by reason of the shortness of the period during which the employee has been employed by the employer, it is impracticable to calculate the average weekly earnings of the employee before the injury in accordance with the last four preceding paragraphs, or the average weekly earnings as so calculated would not fairly represent the rate per week at which the employee was being remunerated in respect of that employment before the injury, the average weekly earnings, as calculated in accordance with the preceding provisions of this section, from employment by the employer before the date of the injury of an employee who was performing comparable work shall be taken to be the average weekly earnings of the first-mentioned employee before the injury; 
subject to paragraph (k) of this section, if the minimum amount per week payable to the employee in respect of the employment by the employer in which he was engaged at the date of the injury would, if he had continued in that employment, have been increased - 
upon the attainment by the employee of a particular age; or 
upon the completion by the employee of a particular period of service, a reference in this Act to the average weekly earnings of the employee before the injury shall be read as a reference to the amount that is, by virtue of the preceding provisions of this section, to be taken to be the amount of those average weekly earnings, increased by the same percentage as the percentage by which that minimum amount would have been so increased if the employee had continued in that employment; 
subject to the next succeeding paragraph, where - 
the relevant employment of an employee is employment referred to in subsection (4.) of (5.) of section 7, or sub-section (2.) of section R, of htis Act; and 
the employee is not in receipt of earnings from any other employment at the date of injury, a reference in this Act to the average weekly earnings of the employee before the injury shall be read as a reference to an amount determined by the Commissioner to be the amount per week that the employee would have been able to earn at the date of the injury (including any amount that he would have been able to earn in respect of overtime) if he had engaged in suitable paid employment; 
if the minimum amount per week payable in respect of employees included in a class of employees in which the employee was included al the date of the injury is increased or reduced on or after thai date as a result of the operation of a law of the Commonwealth or of a State or Territory of the Commonwealth, or as a result of the making, alteration or operation of an award, order, determination or industrial agreement, or of the doing of any other act or thing, under such a law, the amount that is by virtue of the preceding provisions of this section, to be taken to be the amount of the average weekly earnings of the employee before the injury shall be increased or reduced by the same percentage as the percentage by which that minimum amount was so increased or reduced, as the case may be; 
in this section, "earnings" includes earnings in respect of overtime; and 
where the employee deivers to the employer a statement in writing verified by statutory declaration setting out the amount of his earnings during any period, that statement shall be prima facie evidence that that amount was the earnings of the employee during that period.'. 
Section 38 of the Principal Act is amended by omitting sub-section 5.). 
Section 39 of the Principal Act is repealed and the following section inserted in its stead: - 
( - 1.) Where an injury sustained by an employee arising out of, or in the course of, his employment is a loss specified in the first column of the table in sub-section (9.) of this section, a lump sum of compensation equal to the percentage of special compensation specified or referred to, in relation to that injury, in the second column of that table is, subject to this Act, payable to the employee. (2.) For the purpose of this section, special compensation is an amount calculated by multiplying the minimum weekly wage for adult males as fixed from time to time by the Commonwealth Conciliation and Arbitration Commission by five hundred and twenty. (3.) For the purposes of this section and the table in sub-section (9.) of this section, the permanent loss of the efficient use of a joint, organ, faculty, power, sense, limb or member, shall be deemed to be the loss of that joint, organ, faculty, power, sense, limb or member. (4.) Where an injury sustained by a employee arising out of, or in the course of, his employment is the partial loss of speech, eyesight, hearing, taste or smell, or of the use of a faculty, organ, limb, member or joint, a lump sum of compensation equivalent to such percentage of the amount of special compensation payable under sub-section (I.) of this section in respect of total loss of a similar nature as is equal to the percentage of the diminution of the efficiency of the faculty, sense, organ or part of the body concerned is, subject to this Act, payable to the employee. (5.) Where an injury sustained by an employee arising out of, or during, or in the course of, his employment is the loss of genital organs or the permanent loss of the capacity to engage in sexual intercourse or of the procreative function, the amount of compensation to be paid to the employee, shall be fair and reasonable having regard to the nature of the injury, the age of the employee, and any circumstances relevant to the injury or the consequences of the injury, but the amount of compensation shall not be less than SO per centum of, or more than the amount of, special compensation. 
) Subject to this Act, the compensation payable under this Act in respect of an injury that is facial or bodily disfigurement to an employee is such amount of compensation, not exceeding the amount of special compensation, as is fair and reasonable having regard to the nature of the disfigurement, and any circumstances relevant to the injury or the consequences of the injury, and that compensation is payable to the employee. (7.) Where an employee sustains more than one injury in relation to which this section applies, he is entitled to payment of a lump sum of compensation equal to the aggregate of each lum sum payable under the preceding provisions of this section in respect of each of those injuries. (8.) The amounts of compensation provided in this section shall be in addition to any other compensation prescribed by this Act. (9.) For the purposes of this section, the table is as follows: 

<graphic href="054232197210310_40_0.jpg"></graphic>


<graphic href="054232197210310_41_1.jpg"></graphic>

"9a. Section 43 of the Principal Act is repealed and the following section inserted in its stead: 
 (1.) Where the death of an employee results from, or is contributed to by, an injury, compensation is payable in accordance with this section. (2.) If the deceased employee leaves - 
more than one person who is a widow for the purposes of this Act, with or without any dependent children, but no other dependants; or 
a widow or dependent widower and one or more dependent children, but no other dependants, a weekly payment of an amount equal to the employee's average weekly earnings before the injury is, subject to sub-sections (7.) and (8.) of this section, payable - 
in a case to which paragraph (a) of this sub-section applies - to the widows, or, if there are any dependent children and the Commissioner so determines, to the widows and dependent children, in such shares as the Commissioner determines; or 
in a case to which paragraph (b) of this sub-section applies - to the widow or widower, or, if the Commissioner so determines, to the widow or widower and dependent children in such shares as the Commissioner determines. (3.) If the deceased employee leaves a widow or dependent widower but no other dependants, a weekly payment of an amount equal to seventyfive per centum of the payment prescribed by the last preceding sub-section is, subject to sub-sections (7.) and .(8.) of this section, payable to the widow or widower. (4.) If the deceased employee leaves one or more dependent children, but no other dependants, a weekly payment or payments of such amount or amounts, not exceeding in the total the maximum weekly payment prescribed by subsection (2.) of this section, as is reasonably necessary to ensure the proper maintenance and education of the child or children is payable to the Commissioner for the benefit of the child or children. (5.) If the deceased employee leaves one or more dependants including any dependant in relation to whom sub-section (2.), (3.) or (4.) of this section does not apply, a weekly payment of such amount as is fair and reasonable, having regard to the extent of dependency of the dependent concerned, is, subject to the next succeeding subsection, payable to each dependant. (6.) The amount payable under the last preceding sub-section shall not exceed in the aggregate - 
if there is more than one dependant the maximum weekly payment prescribed by sub-section (2.) of this section; or 
if there is only one dependant the maximum weekly payment prescribed by subsection (3.) of this section. (7.) Weekly payments under any of the preceding sub-sections of this section are not payable to a widow or other female dependant, or dependent widower (as the case may be) of a deceased employee after her or his marriage after the death of the employee, but, if immediately before the injury or death of the employee, the widow or other dependent female or dependent widower (as the case may be) was wholly, substantially or partly dependent upon the employee's earnings, a lump sum equal to the total of one hundred and four weekly payments, at the rate payable to her or him immediately before her or his marriage, is payable to her or him upon her or his marriage. 
(8.) U- 
the deceased employee leaves one or more dependent children and, thereafter - 
the widow or dependent widower of the deceased employee or another person caring for the child or children marries or dies; or 
the Commissioner considers that circumstances have arisen that affect the proper maintenance and education of the child or children; 
any variation of the circumstances of any of the dependants of a deceased employee has occurred; or 
there is, in the opinion of the Commissioner any other sufficient cause, the Commissioner may vary any apportionment or, subject to the maximum weekly payments prescribed by sub-sections (2.) or (4.), or subsections (5.) and (6.), of this section, as the case requires, vary the amount of, or cancel, weekly payments that are the subject of a determination under any preceding provision of this section, but where the widow, dependent widower or another person caring for the child or children marries or dies, the weekly payments payable to each child shall not be less than one-sixth of the compensation that would have been paid to the deceased employee had he survived and been totally incapacitated. (9.) Notwithstanding anything in this Act - 
the Commissioner may, in respect of a child of a deceased employee who is not self-supporting, authorise the continuation of weekly payments until the education of the child is completed; 
where two or more employees die as the result of injury at or about the same time, and at the time of injury they were contributing towards the support of the same dependant or dependants, nothing in this Act shall be construed as preventing the Commissioner from determining that those dependants were dependent upon the earnings of each or all of the deceased employees; and (c) the amount of any child endowment paid under Part VI. of the Social Services Act 1947-1972 shall be disregarded in determining the extent of any person's dependency.'. "9b. Sections 45 and 46 of the Principal Act are repealed and the following sections inserted in their stead: 
Where an employee is totally incapacitated for work by an injury, a weekly payment of a sum equal to the employee's average weekly earnings before the injury is payable to the employee for the duration of the period for which he is so incapacitated. 
Where an employee is partially incapacitated for work by an injury, a weekly payment of the sum (if any) by which the weekly amount that he is earning in some suitable employment or business after the injury is less than his average weekly earnings before the injury, or. if he is not engaged in paid employment, a weekly payment equal to his average weekly earnings before the injury, is payable to the employee for the duration of the period for which he is partially incapacitated. 46a.  -  (I.) In assessing the amount of the weekly payments to be made under either of the last two preceding sections, the Commissioner shall, subject to the next two succeeding subsections, have regard to any payment, allowance or benefit that the employee receives from his employer during the period of his incapacity, and the amount of the weekly payment otherwise payable under whichever of those sections is applicable shall be reduced to such amount (if any) as is just and proper in the circumstances of the case. (2.) The weekly compensation payable under either of the last two preceding sections shall not be reduced as a consequence of any earnings received by the employee during or after vocational training. (3.) Child endowment under Part VI. of the Social Services Act 1947-1972, a pension or allowance in respect of a child dependant upon the earnings of the employee, a payment other than that part of a pension not attributable to contributions for the pension paid by the employee under the Superannuation Act 1922-1971. the Defence Forces Retirement Benefits Act 1948-1971 or the Parliamentary Retiring Allowances Act 1948-1968, deferred pay, a payment under section 74 of the Public Service Act 1922-1972 or under section 8 of the Commonwealth Employees' Furlough Act 1943-1968, and payments for public holidays, annual leave or long service leave under any other law, award, determination or agreement, are not payments, allowances or benefits to which regard shall be had under sub-section (I.) of this section. "(4.) Where an employee is, subject to subsection (I.) of this section, entitled to weekly payments in accordance with either of the last two preceding sections and by reason of his retirement on the ground of invalidity caused by injury or disease, is also entitled to a pension under the Superannuation Act 1922-1971, the Defence Forces Retirement Benefits Act 1948-1971 or the Parliamentary Retiring Allowances Act 1948-1968, the liability for the weekly payments shall, if the employee so elects, but subject to the regulations, be redeemed by the payment of a lump sum of such amount as is determined by the Commissioner, having regard to the nature of the injury and the age and occupation of the employee at the date of the injury, and that lump sum shall be paid to the Commissioner for the benefit of the employee. 46b. Subject to sections 47 and 50 of this Act, where a determination is made that the liability of the Commonwealth to make further payments to the employee under section 46 of this Act in respect of an injury is to be redeemed, compensation is not payable to the employee under section  45 or section 46 of this Act in respect of a period of incapacity for work resulting from that injury, being a period occurring after the date of the making of the determination'. "9c. Section 47 of the Principal Act is amended by omitting from paragraph (b) all the words after the words 'as the case may be'.". (3.)- Clause 10, leave out the clause, insert the following clauses: "10. Section 50 of the Principal Act is amended by omitting from paragraph (a) of sub-section (1.) the words 'section 39 or'. "10a. Section 51 of the Principal Act is amended - 
by omitting sub-sections (1.) and (2.); and 
by omitting from sub-section (3.) the words sub-section (9). of section 45, sub-section (5.) of section 46' and inserting in their stead the word and figures 'section 46b'.". (4.) In clause 1 1, leave out 'and'. (5.) Clause 11, at the end of the clause, add the following word and paragraph: "; and (c) by omitting from sub-section (9.) the words 'under sub-section (5.) or (7.) of and inserting in their stead the words 'in respect of a child under'.". (6.)- After clause 11, insert the following clause: - "11a. Section 100 of the Principal Act is amended by omitting from sub-paragraph (ii) of paragraph (a) of sub-section (4.) the words 'under sub-section (5.) or (7.) of, and inserting in their stead the words 'in respect of a child under'.". (7.) In clause 13. sub-clause  (t.)  leave out 'sections 8, 9, 10 and', insert 'section'. (8.) In clause 13. sub-clause (2.), leave out 'sections 8. 9, 10 and', insert 'section'. (9.) In clause 13, leave out sub-clause (3.). 
J wish again to state briefly what 1 said in my address at the second reading stage of this Bill. Honourable senators will note that on the first page of the amendments relating to section 5 there are a number of definitions including the definition for child, dependant and widow. The Australian Labor Party has broadened these definitions on the basis of the advice received from those experts to whom I have referred. The bases are taken largely from the Victorian prescriptions and we have included in that section the overtime prescription which is now recommended in this Bill. There are also 2 consequential amendments relating to this matter. Section 25 is the section in which the Labor Party wants to provide, if not now, at some future time, the basis of the average weekly earnings for employees in respect to the compensation payments they will receive. The various clauses are related to how those average weekly earnings will be compiled and, of course, they are different from the bases proposed by the Government in relation to sick pay. There are various determinations as to how to calculate the average weekly earnings where an employee is only partly employed, and so on. 
The next important amendment relates to section 39 of the principal Act and deals with specified injuries. By its amendments the Labor Party seeks to insert into the legislation its own principles. Apart from the amounts of compensation and the calculations which I have mentioned, we propose that the lump sum payment should be $26,000 as against the Government's limit of $14,500. In addition on page 6 of our circulated amendments we have listed some permanent injuries which are not specified in the Bill although, as I have mentioned, they are covered in the South Australian Act. The last injury mentioned on our list is the loss of or the loss of the use of any other faculty, organ or part of the body not elsewhere covered in the Act, or partial loss of sense of taste or smell. For injuries falling into this category we say that the percentage of special compensation should be assessed by the Commissioner. Our intention is to remove section 38 from the principal Act. This section relates to vocational training. There is a later related section in the Act which provides that if a person who is doing vocational training has some earnings those earnings will be deducted from the compensation which he would ordinarily get. 
I turn now to another important section of the principal Act, section 43, which deals with compensation for death. Our approach to compensation for death is entirely different to the approach that is taken in the principal Act. I think that our approach is different to almost all of the legislation. Our proposal is that a widow whose husband has been killed as a result of an accident on the job should be provided for as long as she lives with continuing payments equal to the amount her husband would have ordinarily earned whilst he was on the job. We would provide that a woman who remarried would receive a payment limited to 104 times the weekly payment that she would have received under the Bill, and we would make provision to continue the allowance for her dependent children. They are the main provisions which we want to include in the legislation. 
There are other related matters which are more or less consequential to the objectives we have. It has been said, of course, by the Attorney-General  (Senator Greenwood)  that the Australian Labor Party believes that its amendments cannot be carried. We are not silly enough to believe that at this stage that, with the objections raised by the Democratic Labor Party, our amendments will be carried. I only repeat what I said earlier. The Labor Party since 1964 has been preparing what it considers to be a model code which ought to replace all other codes, particularly those in relation to Commonwealth employment. In the past the Government has failed to bring down a code. It will be remembered that in 1964, 1968 and at other times there were announcements that certain things would be done, but it was not until 1970 that  Mr Bury  brought down a Bill which was subsequently withdrawn because it was obvious that many of the prescriptions and particularly the definitions in that Bill were out of date and inconsistent with the best legislation which had been tested. I refer particularly to the Victorian legislation, which has been tested in the courts. There is no ambiguity about it and it provides the sort of cover we are looking for. After the announcements were made, of course nothing was done, and the Labor Party worked on its own Bill. It announced its own comprehensive Bill, which is now Labor Party policy, and the facts are that if the Labor Party wins the general election, as has been announced by the shadow Minister for Labour and National Service the honourable member for Hindmarsh  (Mr Clyde Cameron),  that Bill will be the basis for future legislation. We believe that when compensation Acts are amended the appropriate parts of that model Bill ought to be written into the legislation. It cannot be said that we are putting up our model Bill for political reasons. It is a studied Bill. 
We have met many of the officers who worked on the Government Bill and talked to them about what the codes were and how to translate them at various times, because as everybody knows, when we get an amendment to the compensation legislation it means one thing. For instance, in the case of this Bill, we might find that in 12 months time, some of the things that  Senator Greenwood  has said and which we believe, may not apply and amendments will have to be made. Specialised staff has to be engaged on this task. We are sure that our model Bill was largely the spur for the Government, whether it likes it or not, to bring in the code which we have already applauded. There is no secret about that. As the Minister has stated, the honourable member for Hindmarsh made the point that the Commonwealth legislation was only the second best piece of legislation. We are saying that with inflation and changes in legislation bit by bit and year by year State governments will go ahead of Commonwealth legislation unless there is a committee to make a regular review of it. It will be remembered that on the last occasion on which we debated compensation legislation we recommended that a parliamentary committee be set up.  Mr Chairman,  because of the stage we have reached in the sittings of the Senate, I merely state that for the reasons I have mentioned we believe it is necessary to promote the principles we have in mind. I repeat what the shadow Minister for Labour has said: In the event that Labor wins the election, such amendments as I have moved would be put into legislative form at an early stage. 
 Mr President,  1  seek leave to make a statement concerning United States defence installations in Australia. 
There are some grammatical differences, but basically the guidelines are the same as those which  Senator DrakeBrockman  set down when he was Minister for Air. They are operated by  Mr Barnard  and he is assisted in that capacity by my Secretary. 
No, I do not have the final figures of cost. There has been a slight variation to the . estimates which were given by the previous Government. I will obtain that information for the honourable senator and supply it to him. It might interest the Senate to know that there will .be  4 ferry flights of these aircraft to Australia: The first will commence on 28th May, the second on 26th July, the third on 24th September and the fourth on 26th November. I shall provide the honourable senator with the information he. has sought. 
The honourable senator has asked me about the issue of D notices.  I  am informed that the Press Broadcasting and Television Defence Committee, a voluntary committee, has in the past co-operated with the Department of Defence. It meets and decides what its attitude will be towards D notices. It was set up in  1952  during the reign of the Menzies Government.  I  understand there were some new considerations in relation to D notices, which have been fairly minimal since that date. I will obtain the information for the honourable senator and give it to him. 
I told the honourable senator that the guidelines were basically the same, and they are. There are now some different grammatical expressions in the document. I am prepared either to table the guidelines or show them to  Senator DrakeBrockman.  Of course, he is very familiar with the practice followed in relation to these matters. 
The answer to the first part of the question is yes, the Government agrees that Australia has to have effective air power. For example the honourable senator may bc aware that the evaluation teams concerned with the replacement of the Mirage aircraft have been meeting, but since the Labor Government assumed office there has been renewed activity, and instructions have been given to send a mission overseas to consider 4 aircraft designs as the possible replacement. Arrangements have now been made concerning the complement of that mission which has in mind, of course, the essential matter of keeping the Air Force properly equipped. Another example is that since the Labor Government has come to power we have ensured that the question of Australian capacity should be carefully considered. In turn we have instructed that a meeting of the people concerned - the 2 aircraft manufacturers and representatives of the Department of Supply - be held to consider to what extent Australian capacity might be involved in respect of the replacement of the Mirage. 
Yesterday  Senator Brown  asked me questions about the cost of the Fill aircraft. My Department has informed me that the cost approved by the previous Government and announced in December 197.1 for the F111C project was $US344m. My Department states that there is now a good indication that the final project cost will be lower than $US344m but the final amount has not been determined. The Government will be considering the related questions through negotiations. The present Government was very critical of the commitment entered into in 1963 by the previous government. We were critical of the adoption of the programme for this particular aircraft but when the aircraft arrive we will see thai they are properly used in their most effective capacity, and that stores, equipment and replacements will be maintained to see that the Fill aircraft can take their place properly in the Royal Australian Air Force complement. 
In answer to the last part of the honourable senator's question, I point out that the Labor Government, of course, is committed as a matter of policy to equal pay for equal work. In respect of the other matters which will be dealt with at the national wage case hearing, the Government will make submissions and, in making those submissions, will have regard to our own policies. It will give support where it may be given to legitimate claims by . the union movement but it will also have regard to the general economic factors. If the honourable senator would like some more information I shall seek it from the Minister for Labour. 
The honourable senator has been misled about this matter. The pay arrangements which have now been made, and for which legislation will be soon forthcoming, provide the first occasion upon which pay for the Services has been rationalised and the pay rates between the different services brought into line. These have been related- 
This covers everyone. The fact is that all are bound up with the same issue. For the first time these officers and men have been related to their counterparts in civilian employment, 
You cannot take only one section. The fact is that our pay propositions have been welcomed by the servicemen, by their representative bodies, by the Returned Services League and by everybody else. As happens in all great new ventures in pay arrangements, there are some who will not get the increases which they expected when the review was made. However, I assure the honourable senator that, as I think he well knows the pay provisions have been stated to be a breakthrough in conditions for servicemen. It is one of the foundations of Labor Party policy. We suggested that to attract effective volunteer professional officers we would need new pay arrangements. The committee of inquiry which was set up included very specialised officers of great experience in arbitration. One was  Mr Deverall.  I know from my own contacts with the Services, including officers, that the arrangements will be welcome. The honourable senator will of course have an opportunity to examine the anomalies he has mentioned when the legislation is introduced. 
1 am quite surethat honourable senators will not be surprised at the attitude of  Senator Greenwood.  He has frequently in the Senate chamber talked on arbitration matters or on union matters and has produced what he called today the testament of the Australian Labor Party'. He criticises the ALP for not having open government which it has declared to support. He comes into the Senate chamber with our document. He oan read from that document our policy on the preference to unionists. He reads from it our policy in regard to 4 weeks annual leave. But honourable senators have never seen him  reading anything from the policy book of the Liberal Party of Australia. On frequent occasions be talks about the secrecy of the ALP. It is the only document on which he is well read. The chances are that he has read the Labor Party policy and programme so much and used it so much in the Senate that one day he may be. converted to our point of view. There are some who have grave doubts about that because we have found him to be a most anti-union minded senator. 
I am quite sure that  Senator Greenwood  would be the first to acknowledge the position that he took up in connection with the Commonwealth Conciliation and Arbitration Bill the drafting of which was his responsibility; On that occasion he gave great support to giving the free-booters the right to go to court even though they had not paid union fees. No limitations or qualifications were imposed on the basis of being conscientious objectors. In fact, the honourable senator is advocating the same sort of principle today, namely, that people who do not pay towards a union organisation should receive the benefits or that organisation. Of course, that is only part of the double standards of the Opposition. Let me show what the honourable senator is talking about. What he has been saying in this context is this: 'Nobody should be forced to join a union. Preference should not be given to unionists and there should be rights, for non-unionists'. He quotes the Declaration of Human Rights but he forgets to quote the International Labour Organisation Conventions. But he and his government, provided for 23 years the vehicle of conscription to unionism in many industries. The honourable senator's Party, when it formed the government, brought about the inquiry into the national stevedoring industry in 1963. He took part in the debates and said that, only members of the Waterside Workers Federation of Australia could work in the industry under that agreement. The honourable senator knows about this. It was his Party's legislation. Under that agreement a man has the right to work in the industry only if he is a member of the Waterside Workers Union. He has a right to special pay and leave conditions only because he is a waterside worker. The honourable senator understands that and knows of the position. He has never complained about it. The honourable senator, when he was a Minister, and his colleagues of the former government rose in. the Senate chamber to defend ' the national agreements. Of course, he also knows that since 1947 a Commonwealth Public Service determination has existed for Commonwealth' railwaymen which provides that only members of the union shall . receive the leave entitlements under that determination. These things are not new to the honourable senator. He knows also of numerous determinations for the Public Service which provided preference to unionists, which means exactly what it states - that a member of a union is given preference. In some cases preference applies not only for employment but also for regression, leave and pay. When the Minister for Labour  (Mr Clyde Cameron)  was shadow Minister he asked the then Minister for Labour and National Service the following questions: 
In which awards made  by  the Conciliation, and Arbitration Commission is provision made for preference of employment to the applicant or respondent union. 
In which of these awards is provision made for conscientious objectors to be granted exemption from Hie preference provision. 

 Mr Lynch replied: 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
I am advised that, From Information available to my Department as at the 15tb February, 1972, the awards making provision for preference of employment are those contained in the following schedule. The schedule does not include: 
awards 'which, although not making specific prevision within them for preference, nevertheless contain provision for a system of engagement which operates to give preference of employment to union members; 
Then follows the titles of some 50 or 60 awards which give preference to unionists. The document makes clear, and the former Ministers know it, that such a system has been in operation both in the Public Service and in private industry for many years. I ask leave to have the document listing the awards incorporated in Hansard. 
The  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Prowse)  - Is leave granted? There being no objection, leave is granted. (The document read as follows): 
Schedule of Awards Making Provision for Preference 
Abattoirs and Slaughteryard Employees (A.C.T.) Determination No. 11 of 1948. 
Ambulance Staff (A.C.T.) Award 1972. - 
Australian Coastal Shipping Commission (Terminal Supervisors) Award 1970. 
Australian Foremen Stevedores (Container Terminals) Award 1969. 
Austral-Pacific Fertilizers Ltd (Agricultural Chemical Industry) Award 1968. 
Automotive Service Station Attendants (A.C.T.) Award 1968. 
A.W.U. - Breeding and Raising of Pigs Award 1969. 
A.W.U- Construction and Maintenance Award 1969. 
A.W.U. - Construction and Maintenance (Corporations and District Councils of South Australia) Award 1967. 
A.W.U- - -Hardboards Industry Award 1971. 
A.W.U. - Queensland Oil Refineries Pty Ltd Award 1963. 
Bakers (A.C.T.) Award 1964. 
Bottle Merchants Award 1970. 
Bread Sales Personnel (A.C.T.) Award 1967. 
Brickmakers (Commonwealth Employees - A;C.T.) 
Determination No. 2 of 1947. Builders Labourers (A.C.T.) Award 1963. Builders Labourers (Construction on Site) Award 
1962. 
Builders Labourers (Construction on Site) Award. 1969. 
Butchers Carters (A.C.T.) Determination No. 15 of 1949. 
Butchers Shops, etc. (Private Employees - A.C.T.) 
Determination No. 10 of 1948. Canberra Mothercraft Society (Nursing Staff) 
Award 1964. Chemists (A.C.T.) Award 1968. Clerks (A.C.T.) Award 1966. Clerks (Meat Industry) Award 1969. Clerks (Oil Companies) Award 1968. Clothing Trades Award 1964. 
Club ' Managers and Club Secretaries (A.C.T.) Award 1971. 
Concrete Pipe Makers (Northern Territory) Award 1967. 
Concrete Pipe Makers (Alice Springs, N.T.) Award 1969. 
Confectioners Award I9S9. 
Country Priming Award' 1959. 
Denominational Etc. Schools (A.C.T.) Award 1969. 
Dried. Fruits Industry Award 197'1. 
Dry Cleaning and Dyeing Industry Award 1966. 
Electrical Trades Union, of Australia (Container 
Terminals) Award 1970. Engine Drivers and Firemen (A.C.T.) Award 1957. Engine Drivers and Firemen (Breweries) Award 
1948. 
Engineering (Oil Companies) Award 1970. 
Federal Meat Industry Interim Award 1965. 
Federated Miscellaneous Workers Union of Australia C.S.R. Chemicals Ltd Mayfield Factory Award 1970. 
Fellmongery Employees (The Angliss Group) 1968. 
Fire Brigade Employees (A.C.T.) Award 1965. 
Foremen Stevedores Award 1970. 
Foremen Stevedores (Northern Territory) Award 1970. 
Fruit Growing Industry . Award 1965. 
Gas Industry Award 1970. 
General Clerks (Northern Territory) Award 1961. 
Glass Workers Award 1971. 
Gold and Metalliferous Mining (Northern Territory) Award 1968. 
Groote Eylandt Mining  Company  Award 1971. 
Gypsum Procurement (Colonial Sugar Refining Company Ltd) Award 1965. 
Hairdressers (A.C.T.) Award 1965. 
Hardman Chemicals Pty Ltd (Interim) Chemical Award 1970. 
Hobart Tramway and Omnibus Award 1955. 
Hop Industry Award 1965. 
Hospital Employees Act. (Nursing Staff- A.C.T.) Award 1966. 
Hospital Employees (Professional and General Staff - A.C.T.) General Terms of Employment Award 1967. 
Hospital Employees (Dental Staff- A.C.T.) Award 1967. 
Hospital Employees (General Staff- A.C.T.) Award 1967. 
Hospital Employees (Pharmacy Staff - A.C.T.) Award 1967. 
Hospital Employees (Medical Officers- A.C.T.) 
Award 1967. Hospital Employees (.Radiographers - A.C.T.) 
Award 1970. 
Hospital Employees (Administrative Staff - A.C.T.) Award 1966. 
Horse Training Award 1968. 
Hotels and Retail Liquor Industry Award 1971. 
Hotel Employees (Northern Territory) Award 1967. 
Hydrocarbons and Gas (Production and Processing Employees) Award 1971, 
Insulation Materials Manufacture (Bradford Insulation (Victoria) Pty Ltd) Award 1964. 
Insurance Officers (Clerical Indoor Staffs) Award 1969. 
Insurance Officers (Life Superintendents) Award 1969. 
Journalists (Copley News Service) Award 1970. Journalists (Commercial Broadcasting) Award 1971. Journalists (Herald Gravure) Award 1951. Journalists (Metropolitan Daily Newspapers) Award 1971. 
Journalists (National Press Pty Ltd) Award 1947. Journalists (Newton Publications) Award 1970. Journalists (Northern Territory) Award 1971. Journalists (Press Agencies) Award 1971. Journalists (Provincial Non-Daily Newspapers) 
Award 1971. Journalists (Provincial Television) Award 1969. Journalists (Regional Daily Newspapers) Award 
1970. 
Journalists (Television) Award 1971. Laundry Employees (A.C.T.) Award 1966. *Life Assurance Agents Award 1967. "Life Assurance Collectors Agents Award 1970. Liquor Trades (Breweries) 1968. Liquor Industries (Yeast and Vinegar Section) 
Award 1971. Liquor Trades Hotels (A.C.T.) Award 1965. Liquor and Allied Industries Aerated Waters (A.C.T.) Award 1957. Liquor and Allied Industries Catering Etc. (A.C.T.) 
Award 1968. 
Liquor and Allied Industries Hotels Hostels Clubs and Boarding Establishments Etc. (A.C.T.) Award 1966. 
Liquor Industries (Wine and Spirit Stores) Award 1968. 
Liquor Trades (Racecourses, Showgrounds, etc. 
Casuals) Award 1968. Meat Processing Award 1968. Metal Trades (A.C.T.) Determination No. 13 of 
1947. 
Milk Treatment and Distribution Employees (A.C.T.) Award 1967. 
Miscellaneous Workers (A.C.T.) Award 1968. 
Miscellaneous Workers Union Chemicals and Plastics (Building Materials, etc. - St Regis A.C.I. Pty Ltd) Award 1971. 
Miscellaneous Workers Union - Selleys Chemical Co. Federal Chemical Award 1970. 
Motels Award 1971. 
Mount Bundey Iron Ore Mining Award 1970. Municipal Employees (Geelong Waterworks and 
Sewerage Trust) Award 1967. Municipal Officers (Brisbane City Council) Award 
1969. 
Municipal Officers (New South Wales) Award 1955. 
Municipal Officers (New South Wales Electricity. Undertakings) Award 1964. 
Municipal Officers (N.S.W. Electricity Undertakings) Salaried Division Award 1969. 
Municipal Officers (N.S.W. Electricity Undertakings) Senior Officers Award 1969. 
Municipal Officers (Queensland) Award 1968. 
Municipal Officers (Rockhampton City Council) Award 1968. 
Musicians Award 1960. 
Newspaper Printing Award 1966. 
Northern Territory (Oil Companies) Award 1971. 
New South Wales Government Omnibus Traffic Employees Award 1963. 
Oil Drilling Rig Workers Award 1971. 
Oil Refinery Employees (Ampol Refineries Ltd) Award 1970. 
Pastoral Industry Award 1965. 
Painters (A.C.T.) Determination No. 8 of 1948. 
Plasterers (A.C.T.) Determination No. 22 of 1941. 
Plaster of Paris (Colonial Sugar Refining Company Ltd) Award 1969. 
Plaster of Paris (Australian Gypsum Ltd) Award 1970. 
Plumbers (A.C.T.) Determination No. 36 of 1948. Poultry Farm Employees (A.C.T.) Award 1964. Retail and Wholesale Shop Employees (A.C.T.) Award 1968. 
South Australian Tramway and Omnibus Award 1963. 
Stonemasons (A.C.T.) Award 1952. Stonemasons (N.S.W.) Award 1950. Storemen and Packers (A.C.T.) Award 1971. Storemen and Packers (Bond and Free Stores) Award 1968. 
Storemen and Packers General Stores (Northern 
Territory) Award 1969. Storemen and Packers (Oil, etc. Stores) Award 
1971. 
Tanning (Furred Skins) Industry Award 1970. Tanning Industry Award 1968. Tenpin Bowling Industry Award 1961. Tenpin Bowling (Managers) Award 1969. Theatre Managers Award 1971. Theatrical Employees (Film Processing) Award 1971. 
Theatre Managers (Metro-Goldwyn Mayer Pty Ltd and Others) Award 1971. Theatrical and Amusement Employees Award 1947. 
Theatrical Employees (Drive-In Theatres) Award 1956 and 1962. Theatrical Employees (Motion Picture Production) 
Award 1959. 
Theatrical Employees (Recreation Grounds, etc.) Award 1968. 
Theatrical Employees (Sound Engineers) Award 1954. 
Theatrical Employees (Stadiums) Award 1950. Timber Workers Award 1970. Tramway Employees (Melbourne) Interim Award 1958. 
Transport Workers (Airways) Award 1968. Transport Workers (Oil Companies) Award 1970. Transport Workers (A.C.T.) Determination No. 18 of 1947. 
Transport Workers Garbage (A.C.T.) Award 1970. Transport (Interstate Drivers) Award 1963. Transport Workers  (Oil  Stores) Award  1958. 
Transport Workers  (Passenger  Vehicles) Award 196K. 
Uranium and Metalliferous Mining (NT.) Award 1971. 
Waterside Workers (Container Terminals) Award 1968. 
Watchmen. Caretakers. Cleaners and Lift Drivers (A.C.T.) Award 1967. Wineries Award 1969. 
* Awards containing a clause under the heading "Preference- which, although not truly preference clauses, provide that  there  shall be no discrimination against workers of the relevant union or prospective members of such union. 
I shall refer also to another subject that has been canvassed, namely, the policy of the Labor Party. The Labor Government believes that it has a mandate to grant 4 weeks leave. 
No. It has a mandate to grant 4 weeks leave, and its policy is to give preference to unionists. Later I shall mention some of the things  Senator Gair  said when the Senate discussed the Conciliation and Arbitration Act as it affected closed shops and the big unions. I hope that before the debate ends  Senator Gair  will have thought over what 1 am about to say and will have second thoughts about what is proposed by the Opposition. The Opposition is putting today that there ought to be a change of front by this Government. We have pledged to give 4 weeks leave. We were the only Party lo make such a pledge. We have done that for many years. The organised union movement put a case for 4 weeks leave both to the Labor Party when in Opposition and to the previous government. It spent many thousands of dollars in order to tell the previous government and ourselves as the Opposition what it wanted. That money was the unions members' money. The great national organisations for labour which were involved in this included the Australian Council of Trade Unions, the Council of Commonwealth Public Service Organisations and the Australian Council of Salaried and Professional Associations and many other organisations whose members worked in the Commonwealth Public Service and elsewhere. Those who comprised those unions and organisations paid for these submissions. That is why the Prime Minister has said that the benefits of our policies ought to be given to those who paid for them. We believe in preference to unionists, not compulsory unionism. That is our policy.  Mr Deputy President,  I seek leave to incorporate in Hansard for the information of honourable senators the history of the policy of the Labor Party on compulsory unionism and preference to unionists from 1928 to 1969. 1 point out that for only a very short period, in 1942, was compulsory unionism part of Australian Labor Party policy. 
The  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Prowse)  - ls leave granted? There being no objection, leave is granted. (The document read as follows): 

<graphic href="055232197303010_31_0.jpg"></graphic>

(!) New paragraph 10 (w) read: 'That the Platform be amended to provide for compulsory unionism and that the Commonwealth Government be requested to provide for compulsory unionism by regulation.' It was introduced into the Federal platform but appears to have been omitted from the 1948 platform. 
Following a request from the Western Australian executive that the Arbitration Act be amended to automatically provide a Preference to Unionists clause being inserted in all awards and determinations, an opinion on the constitutional power in this regard was sought from  Dr Evatt. 
As I have said,  Senator Greenwood  is one who would know exactly what has been canvassed in the area of compulsory unionism, because he was involved in many discussions on the latest amendments to the Conciliation and Arbitratioin Act. Honourable senators will recall that in those discussions the principles of the then government were being examined as to whether some action might be taken to prevent compulsory unionism and to stop the principle of closed shops. The then government adopted that policy, and my information is that  Senator Greenwood  was involved in the discussions during whicih the then government affirmed the principle that free hooters or non-unionists should be allowed to take their cases :o the courts; that there should be no pressure by unions to force people to join the unions; that there should be no pressure in regard lo the closed shop policy, and that neither right wing nor left wing unions should be allowed to encompass large numbers of people. All those things were discussed and the then government came down with that sort of policy. But it re-thought the policy when it received representations from the Democratic Labor Party and from  Mr John  Maynes, a well known official of the Federated Clerks Union. Although the then government said that it would do all those things - that it would stop the strong unions - my information is that it commissioned a minute from its own Department of Labour and National Service, asking the Department how such legislation would affect right wing unions. Here I should like to repeal what has been represented to me as being the views of one of those very important persons whom I have named -  Mr John  Maynes. These views are not secret.  Mr Maynes  made the point which I made earlier, that in the waterfront industry and the stevedoring authority every person who wishes to work in that industry joins the Waterside Workers Federation.  Mr Maynes  said: 
Whilst a small percentage, but sizable number  iti  people claim an objection to joining a union, a big majority »f these are concerned purely with having lo pay for (he benefit they enjoy instead of remaining as free loaders. 
He also said: 
In practice, what is really in issue today is not the right to refuse lo join a union but the effective right to join. The major growth areas of employment and union potential is in the white collar field. There is substantial evidence available relating to overseas as well as Australia to demonstrate the determination of employers - particularly those in the multi-national corporation area - to ensure that their white collar employees do not join unions. It is the knowledge of the opportunity, for victimisation of those who join or advocate joining of unions in the white collar sphere which prevents large numbers from being the first to join. 
Of course that legislation, as we now know, was aimed not only at the left wing unions but also at the right wing unions. In fact, it occasioned some prominent members of the 
DLP to comment on what was taking place. For example, in the 'News Weekly' of 22nd 
December- 
The 'News Weekly' of 22nd December, lt is reckoned to be the voice of the DLP. 
Certain honourable senators are quoted in this newspaper, and they can speak for themselves.  Senator Kane  is quoted under the heading 'No Safeguards' in this way: 

 Senator Kane criticised the Government's proposed Arbitration Act amendment proposals on the grounds thai they: 
Provided no safeguards against Communist union officials strengthening their position through amalgamation of unions and threatened to weaken the position of Right-wing unions through the proposed ban on compulsory unionism. 
Then be went on to say: 
The major effect of the Government's proposed action will be on those unions such as the Federated Clerks and the Shop Assistants Unions, who constitute the Right wing in the ACTU. 
This seems a strange way to improve industrial relations by helping the Communists and weakening their opponents'. 
I am told that  Senator Gair  made statements on those lines. Let me refer now to the Shop Assistants Union. Since all these events took place, honourable senators know that the Shop Assistants Union, which in this document is calculated to be a right wing union, has since become widely organised and has established closed shops in many areas of Australia. That is an accomplished fact. The government of the day would have taken action against that union but because it proposed such action, of course, it received the brunt of the attack from the DLP. I hope that the DLP members when thinking about this matter today will have regard to the statements which their group made to the former government when that legislation was initiated. 
All of a sudden  Senator Greenwood  comes before the Senate as an advocate of  4  weeks leave. During the 29 years in which the present Opposition was in Government it refused to grant  4  weeks leave. After all these prominent unionists, who represented a majority of the people in the Commonealth Public Service, had come to him and to us with expensive submissions relating to the standard then prevailing throughout the world and to the International Labour Organisation standards, about which one never hears  Senator Greenwood  speak, the Government decided: 'No, we will not give you 4 weeks leave because of the flow-on effect through industry'.  Senator Greenwood  comes into the Senate today and says: 'Yes, but if you change your mind about the way you are going to give 4 weeks leave, we will come along and support you'. 
What  Senator Greenwood  actually is doing in this move today is to disallow something which provides for 4 weeks leave. The determinations in question all carry this prescription: 'The following terms and conditions shall apply to officers employed by the respondents who are members of the claimant organisations'. Also, as  Senator Douglas  McClelland has pointed out, it is possible for those employed by the Australian Broadcasting Commission to settle with their staff association, as they have done, the basis for extra leave without recourse to the Public Service Board. Some other statutory authorities are in the same position. Why should we take away from those employees something which has already been given to them?  Senator Greenwood  has not made out a case; rather, he has put up objections to levels of improvements, which has been his role in the past. I do not think there is anybody on the other side of the chamber who has been so trenchant and who has taken a greater initiative in attacking the union movement.  Senator Greenwood  does not recognise the authority of the national union group. He does not want to talk to the ACTU or to other top bodies in the way in which they should be consulted. 

 Senator Greenwood quoted  Sir Frederick  Wheeler who was a great authority in the arbitration field. He is now in the Treasury. He was one of the appointees of the Chifley Labor Government. He is a well known authority. But  Senator Greenwood  has quoted  Sir Frederick  out of all context. He talks about something with which we all agree, and that is the question of consistency. Of course there has to be consistency in any Public Service. There has to be a base; some sort of reconciliation between the standards of one group and those of another group. After all, the union movement, which is a part of the arbitration machinery in Australia, is essential. As an appointed authority it brings into some control and some representational form the views of all the members over which it has control. It has power to tell those members in a democratic fashion what they should and should not do. The union movement consists of the people who have promoted, fought for and tried to gain the standard of 4 weeks leave. Of course a Labor government would do what we are doing now - giving 4 weeks leave to those who are entitled to it on the basis of preference of trade unionists. 
I have told  Senator Gair  before - and he should be the first to know - that the Labor policy set out in that document - which  Senator Greenwood  refers to as the 'New Testament' - has to be applied by the Party looking at the document. The Labor Party - the Government - has decided to award 4 weeks leave on the basis of preference to unionists. That is the pattern which keeps the union movement together. I ask  Senator Gair,  when he speaks and votes on this matter, to consider the objections that he,  Senator Kane  and  Mr John  Maynes took to the original proposals of the previous Government when it decided late in 1971 to impose all the strictures on the union movement which would have stopped the right wing unions as well as the left wing unions. It would have stopped what has now been accomplished by the shop assistants in having company unions and by the ironworkers in having closed shops. Although the Government had pledged to do this, after the outcry from the Australian Democratic Labor Party the existing situation was maintained and the Government's policy was changed. It was changed because  Senator Gair, Senator Kane  and  Mr Maynes  criticised it. They wanted a system applied, as did the unions in the automobile industry or in the Public Service. 
I suggest that all we are getting now is a duplication of the double standard role which the Opposition adopted when it was in government. Honourable senators opposite  aTe  saying that they want everybody now to get 4 weeks leave. But when they were in Government they said: 'We won't give you 4 weeks leave'. When they were in Government they also said: 'We don't believe in compulsory unionism', but they allowed the waterside workers, and many others, to have compulsory unionism. They allowed their Minister for Shipping and Transport to operate under  the  terms of the 1947 Commonwealth Railways determination which provided benefits in respect of leave only to employees who were members of a union. Very serious consideration should be given to this matter before any support is given to what is nothing more than a political move. It is not a serious industrial move. It is a political move in the terms which  Senator Greenwood  is so well versed in putting forward. It is clothing what is a very dextrous political stunt with a lot of refinements.  Senator Greenwood  knows the things about which I am talking, including the variations in the Cabinet policy and the change in attitude by  Mr Lynch  and others. 
Honourable senators will remember that for 18 months the ex-Prime Minister and  Mr Lynch  started a course of attacking all of the unions, not just one group of unions, and they finally brought forward very harsh alterations to the Act. But then they refined 
I he in because the members of the Democratic Labor Party, with their potential political strength, said: 'You cannot do that to our friends in the union movement", and they did not do it. They accepted the established position in industrial society. They accepted industrial unionism as it existed throughout the various sectors pf industry. 
Those who have been in industry for years know that you have to accept and work with people. Sometimes you organise on a compulsory basis, sometimes you organise on a freebooting basis and sometimes you organise on the basis of preference. In my earlier years I was engaged in the railways industry, and as far back as 1947 preference was given to unionists. We had preference not only for pay but also for promotion and for leave. If anybody was going to be put off from the job because of redundancy, the first man to go off was the non-unionist. That is well established.  Senator McAuliffe  knows that from his experience in the railways union. 1 remind the Senate that this is a very serious matter. The Government has made a pledge to the people and to those for whose point of view we have strong regard. The Labor Parly always has been a party which has taken strong notice of the national union bodies. As everybody knows, I have always been a strong advocate of the ACTU's point of view, having been on the ACTU interstate executive. I know that no government can afford not to take notice of the ACTU. I would expect that while we are in Government we will do more than was done by the Liberal governments in talking with those national bodies in order lo reconcile differences between unions, the Government and employers. Already we have done that. For example, the figures relating to time lost through industrial disputes in South Australia show that the State has one of the finest records in the world, lt has that record because it is working clasely with the central trade union body, the Trades and Labour Council, as it ought to do in order to resolve disputes. 1 put to you,  Mr President,  that we are discussing a very serious matter. Nobody should seek to prevent union members from getting 4 weeks annual leave. Nobody should seek to alter the established method of arbitration within this country. Employers are organised; the unions are organised. They form the basis of the system. A man who is a member of an organisation pays for the system and for the expenses of Federal officials who come to Canberra to talk to us. Such members get the benefits of any prescriptions announced by the Government. I ask the Senate not to support  Senator Greenwood's  disallowance motion. 
Pursuant to section 70 of the Conciliation and Arbitration Act 1904-72, I present the 16th annual report of the  President  of the Commonwealth Conciliation and Arbitration Commission for the year ended 13th August 1972. 
The matter is one for the Minister for Defence, but I can say that within my own knowledge the answer is no. 
As a preamble I would like to indicate to  Senator McManus  .that this afternoon T will be tabling guideline's for the use of VIP aircraft. The answer to his question, is yes. . 
When  Senator Young  began to ask his question I thought it was on a subject which was mainly within the responsibility of  Senator Cavanagh,  who, as the honourable senator knows, is the representative in this chamber of the Minister for Transport,  Mr Charles  Jones. The Minister for Transport has met representatives of Adelaide Ship Construction and has attempted to reach some agreement with them as to a continuation of orders in the area. All I can say about general defence requirements is that the Minister for Defence,  Mr Barnard,  has on 2 occasions recently assisted 2 important shipyards. 
One was Cockatoo dock. On Friday he visited Williamstown with the object of placing as far as possible, additional orders in that area for defence requirements. 
I know. Let me answer the question. The present Government has great difficulty in meeting the downturn of shipbuilding capacity brought about by the long standing inability of the previous Government to provide additional orders to all the shipyards. There is a downturn - there is no question about this - and there are proposed retrenchments in the area of defence, which the Minster has refused to accept. I refer to both Cockatoo dock and Williamstown. That has been stopped. It is impossible to provide short order work to each shipyard which is becoming redundant at present, but 1 can assure the honourable senator that the Minister for Transport and  Mr Barnard  are conscious of the need for Australian shipyards to have an increased workload and to be kept at full capacity. We shall do all we can to provide assistance where shipyards are becoming affected by the downturn. 
Al] I can say to the honourable' senator is that he has indicated the policy of' the previous government, arid that as far as I am aware the 'final points have not been concluded. I will get the information for the honourable senator.  
For the information of honourable senators I present the following paper: 
Rules for the use of Royal Australian Air Force VIP aircraft- Ministerial statement, 1st March 1973. 
I ask for leave to make a short statement in connection with the paper. 
For the information of honourable senators I present the final report of the Committee of Inquiry into Financial Terms and Conditions of Service for Male and Female Members of the Regular Armed Forces. 
As the honourable senator knows, because it has been announced by the Minister for Labour, the Labor Government will be shortly introducing amendments to the Commonwealth Conciliation and Arbitration Act, the provisions of which run into the question that he has raised. The general philosophy of the Labor Government at present, as  I  think the honourable senator knows, is that voluntary agreements should be made. We are at present working on the basis that they ought to be able to be maintained in cooperation with the Australian Council of Trade Unions and the State trades and labour councils because we have in mind, of course, as the honourable senator knows, taking out of the Commonwealth Conciliation and Arbitration Act all penal provisions. 1 suggest,  Mr President,  that until the amendments are prepared  I  cannot answer specifically the questions which  Senator Greenwood  has raised. 
I think that  Senator Cavanagh,  when speaking on the matter, was simply expressing what he considered to be a logical appreciation of the situation. That is the way I took it. At this stage I can indicate that the Government intends to bring before the Parliament a Bill to provide for 4 weeks leave and to relate it to those matters. 
I do not agree with the honourable senator's suggestion that people receiving unemployment relief are satisfied to remain in that position. In South Australia a drastic fall in unemployment has occurred and is having a local effect. I have been informed that the unemployment figures for February last show a drop of 28.2 per cent, the greatest drop in February for 25 years. The Minister for Labour is examining means which possibly could be adopted to induce people to go to work in areas where labour shortages have occurred, including the areas to which the honourable senator referred. The matter is receiving very deep examination by the Minister for Labour, from whom I will attempt to get some more information for the honourable senator. The difficulties facing fruit growers in South Australia to which the honourable senator referred may be related to the very rapid improvement in the employment figures there. 
I hope the honourable senator is not asking me or the Minister for Labour forcibly- to take unemployment benefits from people who have been considered by this Government and by the previous Government to be eligible for them. I answered  Senator Jessop  . and advised him that the situation probably is related to the improved employment position in South Australia. I told him also that I would take the matter up with the Minister for Labour,  Mr Clyde  Cameron, to see to what extent that industry might be assisted to obtain employees. 
As the honourable senator probably knows, there were some excesses of VIP travel permitted by the last Government and perhaps that is so in regard to the issue he raises. I do not know the particulars of the case about which he seeks information. Today I will be tabling lists and the manifests of VIP aircraft and the honourable senator will have the opportunity of examining them to see to what extent the use of VIP aircraft was abused under the old guidelines by the last Government and to what extent this has happened under this Government.  Senator Drake-Brockman  well knows that there have been abuses in the use of VIP aircraft. Only yesterday I tabled guidelines for their use. The guidelines have been tightened and the use of these aircraft has been made more definite. I will seek information from the Minister about  Senator McManus's  question. 
I have already replied to this question to some extent in answering the same sort of question asked by  Senator Jessop  and  Senator Young.  The only fresh matter that  Senator Davidson  raises is that in the Adelaide hills some people are making sure that they are sacked in order to receive unemployment relief. I would be pleased if the honourable senator would be good enough to give me any information he has about that matter. I do not accept the proposition that people who are unemployed are unemployed because they want the unemployment benefit. I agree that we need to adopt some new methods to deal with this problem, and I have mentioned this before.  Mr Cameron  stated recently that he is exploring to what extent people on the unemployment benefit and those receiving unemployment assistance from Commonwealth grants might be engaged more directly in useful jobs. My belief is that every person who is unemployed is unemployed because of the problems in the economy. However, I shall inquire into the matter raised by the honourable senator, and if he has special information which he can give me about the areas mentioned I shall see that it is examined. 
Yesterday  Senator Drake-Brockman  directed a question to me in my capacity of Minister representing the Minister for Defence. The question related to the purchase of basic trainer aircraft by the Royal Australian Air Force. I indicated at that time that I would get the information which the honourable senator sought, and 1 am now in a position to provide it. A defence statement of 24th July 1972 pointed out that before the contract could be signed 2 factors were required to be resolved. Firstly, a definitive specification had to be agreed with the manufacturing company and, secondly, the prototype aircraft was required to be satisfactorily modified to meet RAAF requirements. The stage has now been reached where the modified prototype aircraft has been evaluated by a RAAF team in New Zealand in the last 10 days and a definitive specification has been written in conjunction with the company. The matter is currently being considered with the Department of Air, and it is anticipated that a contract will be signed within the next 2 months. 
I wish to give a further reply to a question asked earlier by  Senator McManus  concerning VIP aircraft used by  Mr Whitlam.  The information which I have received since the question was asked is that'  Mr Whitlam  asked the then Prime Minister,  Mr McMahon,  whether  Mr M.  J. Young could accompany him on the aircraft. It was an electioneering tour aircraft, and the Prime Minister of the day,  Mr McMahon,  approved the flight. 
Yesterday  Senator McManus  asked me a question without notice regarding the tabling of travel documents for Royal Australian Air Force VIP aircraft since 2nd September 1972. Details of travel in Royal Australian Air Force aircraft up to 17th August 1972 have previously been tabled in the Parliament. The documents I now table embrace all details of VIP travel from 18 th August 1972 to 4th February 1973 and include flights within that period approved by the previous Government. These flights have been included so that the Parliament is informed of all details of travel in RAAF VIP aircraft. 
1 think the question calls for a policy statement to be made by the Minister for Labour. J ask the honourable senator to put the question on notice. 
The honourable senator may recall that recently I answered a question asked by  Senator Drake-Brockman,  I think, in which I said that the Royal Australian Air Force will use the Fill aircraft. It will become a part of the RAAF's complement and it will be used as effectively as it can be in that context. The Government has no intention of not making full use of the aircraft, although, as I stated at the time of the original purchase in 1963, the then Labor Opposition thought that the selection was a bad one. I gave some figures to  Senator Brown  this week. At present new evaluations of cost and liabilities are before the Cabinet. Until that information is available, I cannot give  Senator Maunsell  the figures. When they are available I will give them to him. 
Of course I agree with  Senator O'Byrne.  He has asked me some questions about the drop in unemployment figures. 
Just let me answer. The Government feels that the fact that its Ministers met quite quickly after the election and its quick action in proposing certain aid to the States have resulted in improvements which have been reflected in the employment figures. Yesterday  Mr Cameron  gave preliminary employment figures which showed that in February 1973 there was a drop of about 31,900 or 23.5 per cent in the number of persons registered with the Commonwealth Employment Service. Those figures compare with a decrease of 15,084 or 11.6 per cent during the same period in 1972, 12,860 or 14.4 per cent in 1971, and 19,946 or 24.5 per cent in 1970. As the Senate will recall, yesterday in answer to a question asked by  Senator Young  about the problem of getting employees to go to the Riverland area of South Australia, I indicated that the South Australian figures were very good. I believe they reflect the good economic policies of the Labor Government, and I believe that what is happening now is an indication that the Labor Government is doing all it can to assist the economy and that its policies are bearing fruit. 
I think the first thing I should say is that it is a sad commentary on the Opposition that  Senator Withers,  as Leader of the Opposition in the Senate - a very important place - should commence his speech by saying that the intention of his Party in the other place was to flush out the differences between the left and right wings of the Australian Labor Party. Here we have the Queen's Opposition, which claims that it was defeated unfairly in the election and which is competing with us for the management of this country on the basis that it is better able to run this country than the Labor Party is, debating a very important national issue, namely, United States bases in Australia; and the Leader of the Opposition in the Senate says: 1 must admit that  Dr Forbes,  in leading for the Opposition in the other place, had the intention of flushing out the differences between the left and right wings of the Labor Party'. He does not accept that this is a national question. 
Would not anybody believe that the responsibility of the Leader of the Opposition is to state what the Opposition feels about the policies of the Government, particularly in respect of defence and foreign affairs matters, to make a studied complaint about what the Labor Party has done and to give some reasons for his objections? But he has not done that. He has not even advanced the reasons given by  Dr Forbes  in his amendment, it is shocking and a disgrace for the Leader of the Opposition to come into the Senate and take that attitude. All he is worried about in this instance is being divisive in relation to the Labor Party organisation. The Labor Party is like the Opposition parties in this respect. If we look across the chamber we can see the strata of differences in the group of senators who vote against us. We hear from them views ranging from the extreme right to the more moderate right. 
Very right. In fact they are too right. They have a very shaky coalition. We know that the coalition is strained very much tonight. The best that  Senator Withers  could do was talk about trying to divide the Labor Party. He did not answer the questions that have been posed by the Minister for Defence  (Mr Barnard).  I was shocked to hear him discuss the matter in the way he did. Honourable senators opposite should be thinking of Australia and the national interest. They should be contesting, if they want to, the position of the Labor Party in respect of United States bases. They should be saying to us: 'You are right about one thing and wrong about another'. But the best they can say is that they do not see any differences between the Labor Party and the Liberal Party in this instance. We do, and I shall show them the differences. 

 Senator Withers complained that  Senator Willesee  had made a new statement.  Senator Willesee  has made no new statement. He has simply amplified something the Minister for Defence said in his statement, which was rather brief. It had to be brief because it was designed to present in a short document the issues as the Labor Party sees them. Honourable senators will remember that, in the statement which [ read in this place on his behalf, the Minister for Defence made the point that there had been too much secrecy about the United States installations; that it was an obligation of the Government to give the Parliament more information about them, which we are doing; and that it was an obligation of the Government to identify the differences between the previous Government and ourselves on some matters. That was done by the Minister for Defence in a very brief but very clear statement. For instance,  Mr Barnard's  statement included this passage: 
For example, there are 2 installations which have been in Australia for many years, at Amberley in Queensland and at Alice Springs, both of which have operated with a degree of secrecy which has led to quite unnecessary speculation and mystery about their purpose. The US Air Force detachment at Amberley has been described as 'measuring the physical effects of disturbances in the atmosphere or in space, with particular emphasis on the effect on radio communications'. 
For many years the previous Government went along with the American concept that such information, which was well known to many of our government departments, should be kept secret. We have said clearly - this is the first time this has been said by any Australian government - that, where such devices, instruments and stations are patently of advantage to the public and the nation because they study underground disturbances and are useful in checking on nuclear explosions, that information should be made public and members of the Parliament should be allowed to visit the stations. Is not that a clear identification of an Australian interest? Is it not a good interest? Obviously we as Australians have an obligation to protect this country. If the information is made public, we will all be better informed. We have said that such installations should be open to members of the Parliament, and we intend to see that they are. Apparently the United States Government now accepts the proposition that such installations should be open to members of the Parliament. We believe that members of the Parliament should be encouraged to become acquainted with these matters. 
The second point of difference is that, whereas the previous Government would not even brief the then Leader of the Opposition,  Mr Whitlam,  on these bases, we take the view that  Senator Withers,  as the Leader of the Opposition in the Senate, and the Leader of the Opposition in the other place, if they want to, should be able to find out all the facts about these installations. My own view is that any member of the Parliament who so chooses should be able to be briefed on these matters. Of course, he would have to accept the responsibilities of the briefing, and I think he would do so because he is an Australian. That is our viewpoint. The next point is that the Parliament must be advised on these matters. Very soon after we came into government we presented a report to the Parliament. But the best the Leader of the Opposition in the Senate can say is: 'We are out to divide the left and right wings of the Labor Party'. 
As honourable senators know, I accompanied the Minister for Defence and certain advisers on the visit to the installations at Woomera and Pine Gap. I know something about the system now. I know that Australians are sharing in those operations. We believe that the Australians who are at those installations are getting important information which is valuable to Australia. We want that sort of thing to happen to make sure that Australia's defence facilities and abilities are the best we can have. Having visited them, we say that those installations are not part of a weapons system. This is a clear indication to the Parliament - it is the first clear indication to the Parliament - that not only is the position opened up and revealed but we will allow and encourage members of the Parliament to visit those places. Some aspects of the operations of those stations will not be revealed to members of the Parliament - there are some things which cannot be told to members of the Parliament - but at least members of the Parliament will be able to visit the areas, will know the environment and will be better equipped to debate matters concerning them in the Parliament and to say whether in their opinion co-operation between Australia and the United States in those areas is a good idea. In my opinion and in the opinion of the Government it is a good idea. 
In our view, the Minister for Defence has made a progressive statement in respect of those areas and it is good that he has become involved in promoting visits to them by members of the Parliament. It is good not only for the Parliament but also for Australia. I am sure that all honourable senators, whether they are on the Government side of the Parliament or on the Opposition side, want to see Australia in a position of having the best defence capability. Secondly - and I have argued this as a member of the Opposition, as honourable senators know - I want to see Australia equipped in the best possible way. I want it to have the best technology available to any country. 
Referring now to the sharing of those installations with the United States of America, we are satisfied that it is a good thing. Australians take part in those operations and we are able to analyse and interpret what is going on, which is a good thing for the country. It would be a good thing for this Parliament if members of Parliament visited those places. The Minister for Defence said that he intends to have arrangements made so that members of Parliament might visit them. That demonstrates the progress that has been made by the Labor Government in the short time that we have been in office. The Minister dealt with this matter in addition to his other very important duties. He said that this is an issue that we have to face up to because we want to know whether Australia is purely a satellite of another country or whether  we  are standing on our own feet as Australians, as we have always been so proud to do. 1 make no bones about saying, as an Australian, that I want to see Australia perform its duties and accept its responsibilities as it has done always. We can do that only if we have the fullest knowledge. I am satisfied that what we are doing is the best thing for our country and I am satisfied also that it conforms with Labor policy. 1 refer now to the second proposition under which there is some obligation upon the Australian Government to meet the Americans. This concerns the United States Naval Communications Station at North West Cape. This was dealt with in the document presented to the Parliament.  Senator Willesee  pointed out thoroughly that when the Agreement was made to set up this installation it was recognised, certainly by me as a backbench senator at that time, that we would be bound by article  3  of the Agreement which states:  (11 The two Governments will consult from time to time at the request of either Government on any matters connected with the station and its use. 
Except with the express consent of the Australian Government, the station will not be used for purposes other than purposes of defence communication, and appropriate Australian authorities nominated by the Australian Government shall at all times have access to the station. 
I have told honourable senators that in respect of the other stations I have referred to we are satisfied that Australians are sharing in their operation and control. The only point which the Minister for Defence made in respect of Pine Gap and Woomera is that he would like to see our responsibilities upgraded. That does not mean that we are not getting full information and that our experienced servicemen do not know all about the operations. They do know about them but we feel that a case could be made to upgrade our establishment at those bases. Generally speaking, however, we are sharing those facilities and the Australian defence organisation knows what is going on. The Government knows what is going on and the leaders of the Opposition parties can know what is going on if they want to be briefed about the bases. I am satisfied that these bases are not part of a weapons system. 
In relation to the North West Cape base, the Government feels that it should talk to the United States Government about some matters. We want to talk to the United States Government as equal partners.  Senator Willesee  made the point that we are equal partners in the ANZUS pact. We are not subordinates; we are not juniors; we are Australians. We are a young nation but we have carried out our obligations in every situation. We want  to  speak man to man with  the  Americans about what is taking place at North West Cape and what sort of controls should be employed. 
The distinction between the point of view of the Opposition parties and our point of view is this: The Minister for Defence said that he believes that Australia should take up with the United States Government the issue 01 control at North West Cape.  Senator Willesee  pointed out that the Agreement which was presented to the Parliament represents a reasonable sort of arrangement. There was an exchange of letters between the Governments but in those letters the purpose of consultation was limited. There was a qualification and this raises the question that Australia and its Government leaders ought to be able to talk to the Americans about the operations of this base. Our leaders should be able to say: All right, you have a base on Australia's coast which could become a very important and vital base in any sort of offensive operation. Therefore we want to know about it. We want to be involved because it is on our shoreline'. The Government is doing that. We do not want any restrictive propositions, as were moved by  Dr Forbes  in the other place. I noticed that  Senator Withers  did not move such prohibitions in this place but simply referred to what  Dr Forbes  said. I refer the Senate to the amendment moved by  Dr Forbes. His  amendment was: 
That the following words be added to the motion: and recognising that the paper acknowledges (i) that the installations in central Australia are not part of a weapons system and are not able to be used to attack any country and that the United States Naval Communications installation at North West Cape is used for the purpose of defence communication; . . . 
May I point out again the difference in the point of view of  Dr Forbes  and that of the Government. We agree that the installations in central Australia are not part of a weapons system but in respect of North West Cape we say exactly what the Minister for Defence said in his statement, and what he said was no different to what  Senator Willesee  stated.  Senator Willesee  simply drew out for the benefit of honourable senators the extra points which were not developed by the Minister for Defence. In his statement the Minister for Defence said: 
I expect later this year, at a mutually convenient time, to visit the United States. When I go there. I shall further discuss these and other aspects of management and control of the installations with the United Slates Defense Secretary and his advisers. 
Honourable senators would expect Australia to do so. When in Opposition we said that nobody respects a satellite; nobody respects a partner in an arrangement which cannot speak for itself, a partner which does not have the strength and conviction of the nation. Why should we Australians, either in Opposition or in Government, not do the sort of things that we did in the war years? Why should we be less audacious than Billy Hughes was in the First World War and John Curtin in the Second World War? Why should we not adopt a strong Australian point of view? That is exactly what the Labor Government is doing. I cannot understand any honourable senator of the Australian Parliament coming into the Parliament and being more concerned about the politics of a defence matter, something which concerns this country's welfare, and talking about separating the left and right wings of the Labor Party. On that question, all I can say is what I have said earlier. In every wide, strong party there are shades of opinion and shades of emphasis. The Australian Labor Party is a party of long standing. It is a very important mass party. The people have supported our policies and those policies are well known. Honourable senators on the opposite side have often referred to the testament, the policy of the Australian Labor Party. In addition, the Prime Minister and the Minister for Defence have stated our policy and that policy has been re-affirmed by the Federal Parliamentary Labor Party. 
We intend to discharge our duties in the way that we feel they should be discharged. We do not want to be a junior partner. We want to be treated as Australians; as people living in an important country. In my opinion no Australian should feel that in some way he is inferior in respect of technology, administration, productivity, defence capability or anything else. We have great and wide varieties of skills. We have the ability to produce almost all the things that we need for our defence requirements. 
In our short time in government, as  Senator Young  is well aware, our Party has already sent missions overseas to ensure that there will be a proper evaluation of the replacement aircraft for the Mirage. We have got off the stocks the doubt about the capability of the Australian aircraft industry. We have established conditions of service for defence personnel which are fair, just and modern. For those reasons we think that we are able to say that we are performing our role in ensuring that Australia will be well defended. 
We want to go a little further. We want to undo something which the previous Government did. We want to remove the veil of secrecy from these installations. As the Prime Minister and  Mr Barnard  have stated, we will preserve any information which is important and secret to both partners. Nothing will be revealed in respect of such matters. We will ensure that Australia has the greatest competence in the fields in which modern society needs competence. I suggest that  Senator Withers'  speech was a very poor excuse for bringing on the debate tonight. 
And weak. I am ashamed - I mean this - and I cannot understand how he could say, in opening such an important debate, what he said. Because of the defence connotations there will be areas of disagreement between the 2 sides, but some members of the Government say that there is not much difference between the point of view expressed by the Opposition and our point of view. I have tried to bring out to the Senate the differences that are there. I shall summarise them. We say that the central Australian station is not a weapons system. We want members of Parliament to go there. We want members of the Opposition to be briefed. This will be facilitated. We say that there is no need for secrecy about the Amberley and Alice Springs stations. Each station carries out operations which are beneficial to this country, in that they provide answers to questions about the dangers of nuclear explosions and nuclear war. The stations should be open. People should be able to ask what we are learning. The North West Cape station is a critical matter which should be left to the Government to consult its partner - the United States of America - to ensure that we are involved completely. We have a status. Under section 3 of the agreement we were to be consulted. It would appear that that is not being done. In the other place the Prime Minister stated quite clearly that if the amendment moved by  Dr Forbes  were carried shackles would be put on any Australian Minister who went to the United States to have talks about the station. I ask the Senate to consider what  Senator Willesee  and 1 have said and to look at the basic document tabled by  Mr Barnard  as being definite proof of what we are doing in relation to. defence. We want to see Australia consulted to a greater degree, to be treated as an equal partner and to have the right to say when and where we will be involved in a defensive war. 
Yes, I have seen the report of the full bench's decision and I understand that it does do the things which the honourable senator has mentioned and that there shall be preference to the many thousands of members of the Federated Clerks' Union and that that judgment has been the result of Jong and earnest work by the Federated Clerks' Union which has spent many thousands of dollars to get that decision. 
As the honourable senator knows, preference to unionists is fairly widespread in industry. Many decisions applying to workers both in the Government and private sectors provide that sort of basis. May I simply add that I am rather surprised to hear  Senator McManus  say 'Hear, hear' in view of the attitude he adopted to the 4 weeks annual leave argument. 
As the honourable senator probably knows, the previous Government committed Australia to a policy of producing this aircraft in co-operation with New Zealand. Since this Government came to power - as I think has been well publicised - the Minister for Supply early in January took action to bring the 2 main Australian manufacturers, Hawker Siddeley Australia Pty Ltd and the Commonwealth Aircraft Corporation Pty Ltd, into consultation with him. The Australian Industry Development Corporation also is co-operating. A meeting was held and these bodies were charged with looking at the stability and viability of the Australian aircraft industry. They were asked to report not later than 30th June on how best the Australian aircraft industry could be served. Last week, I think in answer to a question asked, by  Senator Drake-Brockman,  I pointed out that the Government had already sent a mission overseas. It is now in Europe looking at a replacement for the Mirage aircraft. The Government has told that mission, which is comprised of specialists, that it should have regard to the importance of Australian manufacturers sharing in the production of such an aircraft. 
I know. I am telling the honourable senator about these other matters, which are just as important. As is well known, as a result of promotion there have been sales of the Nomad aircraft. Recently the famous Australian racing driver, Jack Brabham, purchased one and he has options on some others. There have been publicity campaigns, including a recent demonstration by the Army at the Holsworthy Army base of the Nomad aircraft. Everything possible is being done quickly by the Government. I shall see to what extent the other information for which the honourable senator asks in relation to the light aircraft industry can be supplied. 
I do not think that is a serious question. I am sure  Senator Young  does not believe it to be so. My answer is no. I am quite sure that  Mr Barnard  will support that. 1 will get his answer, as the Minister for Defence. 
1 move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
This Bill amends the principal Act to recognise for pension and other purposes the same classes of de facto wives and widows and ex-nuptial children as recognised by the amendments to the Repatriation Act contained in the Repatriation Bill 1973. The Bill provides for the payment of war pension to student children over the age of 21 years. The principal Act is amended also to incorporate a provision enabling payment of pensions and other amounts unpaid at the date of death of the claimant. The opportunity has been taken to delete definitions identical with those of the Repatriation Act and to provide that these terms shall have the same meaning as in the Repatriation Act. I commend the Bill to the Senate. 
Debate (on motion by  Senator Rae)  adjourned. 

 - Mr President, after full reflection on what  Senator McManus  has said, 1 recall that frequently  Senator McManus  has told us what took place in the Labor Party when he was a member of it. He frequently told us what its history was. He knows that there is a document called "The Platform, Constitution and Rules of the Australian Labor Party*. He knows well that that document contains a policy of 4 weeks annual leave for Commnowealth employees and also, of course, preference to unionists. It seems to me that this is the real issue. I think on reflection that that is the complete answer to the question asked by  Senator McManus.  We were surprised that the Democratic Labor Party, having accepted preference to unionists - to right wing and to left wing unionists - would want to disturb the application of that principle to any sector of the economy. 
The Minister for Labour has said already that he intends to bring in legislation to provide for maternity leave for officers and employees of the Commonwealth Public Service in conformity with International Labour Organisation standards. The honourable senator will have the opportunity of analysing this legislation to see to what extent it is related to other Labor Party policy. 
The only information I have for the honourable senator is that I know that the Australian Council of Trade Unions has resolved to enter the housing field with the idea of giving workers low cost housing. I am not aware of the particular arrangements which the ACTU has made with another country, but I would be greatly surprised if it did otherwise than protect the Australian workers. 
As I recall what happened on the last occasion that this matter came before the Parliament,  Senator Wright,  acting then for the Minister for Foreign Affairs, laid papers before the Parliament for consideration. There were some exclusions for reasons which he specified. I think that the question might more properly be directed now to the Minister representing the Minister for Foreign Affairs who may choose to follow up what  Senator Gietzelt  has asked. 
In answer to the last part of the honourable senator's question, of course it does not. As I tried to explain earlier, the instructions to the mission were that it had to have high regard for the Australian capability to produce part of whatever aircraft was selected. Obviously, as specialists, they will be guided in their choice by the requirements of the Royal Australian Air Force. They will report back to the Minister. I said previously that since the Australian Labor Party has come into office - the honourable senator would know about our agitations when we were in Opposition - it has tried to promote the need to support to every extent the Australian aircraft manufacturing industry. We have given that some fillip. This is related to the agitations  we  carried on, when in opposition, in support of the Commonwealth Aircraft Corporation, the Government Aircraft Factories and Hawker Siddeley. I can assure the honourable senator that when these documents come before the Minister every opportunity is given to Australians to produce whatever requirements there are, including parts, where that is possible, convenient, efficient and not too expensive. 
The honourable senator has asked what we can do about the transfer of some of the effective manufacturers who left Australia as a result, I think, of the previous Government's policy. We will try to do all that we can. But I think that the die is cast. What I mentioned to the honourable senator was that, resulting from the placement of those industries in New Zealand, we have since made arrangements with New Zealand to produce the aircraft which, of course, we could have made in Australia. As to what extent it is now possible to give further assistance - we are doing that to a large extent - I will obtain further information for the honourable senator. 
Pursuant to section 10 of the Royal Australian Air Force Veterans' Residences Act 1953-1965, I present the annual report of the Royal Australian Air Force Veterans' Residences Trust for the year ended 30th June 1972, together with financial statements and the Auditor-General's report on those statements. 
 I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
As you know,  Mr President,  the Government is moving quickly on a broad front to implement the policies for which it received a mandate on 2nd December 1972. Among those policies were a number of proposals related to repatriation. The Bill currently before the Senate is designed to give legislative effect to important Government proposals relating to improvements in pension rates and conditions of eligibility. In saying that they are important, I do not intend it to be taken that other matters in the repatriation field are necessarily placed in lower order of priority. They will 

 Repatriation Bil! 357 be kept continually under review. In fact, honourable senators will be aware that the funeral benefit payable on the death of entitled ex-servicemen has already been increased from S50 to $100. Regulations giving effect to this increase were notified in Gazette No. 16 of 8th February last. I will now outline to the Senate the provisions of the Bill. 
The Special Rate War Pension 
The Government's view is that the special or total and permanent incapacity rate payable to a man or woman who has been classified as totally and permanently incapacitated because of war related incapacity should not be less than the adult Commonwealth minimum wage. Accordingly, the Bill provides for an increase of S3. 10 a week in the special or TPI rate, taking it from $48 a week to $51.10 a week, lt should be remembered that the minimum wage is a gross wage, subject lo income tax. All war pensions, on the other hand, are tax free, so that the real value of the special rate is far greater than it first seems. But we must add also the value of any special allowance such as recreation transport allowance or attendant's allowance for which a pensioner may be eligible. I might add that this special rate is also payable to certain tuberculosis sufferers, to the blind, to those suffering from the more serious double amputations and to those who are classified as being temporarily totally incapacitated. A total of 21,104 pensioners will receive this increase, at a cost of $3. 4m in a full year. 
The Intermediate Rate War Pension 
The intermediate rate is one of the different rates of war pension designed to cater for the various degrees of war related incapacity, lt is payable to those whose incapacity permits them to work only part time or intermittently and will be increased by $2.55 a week, taking it from $34 to $36.55 a week. The cost for a full year for the 1,900 pensioners involved will be $0.25m. 
The General Rate War Pension 
The Government's policy is that the general rate of war pension should be progressively increased until it has reached the equivalent of 50 per cent of the adult Commonwealth minimum wage and that it should be maintained at that level. Bearing in mind that over 190,000 ex-servicemen and women receive a 13 March 1973 war pension within the general rate scale, we have always maintained that the Government's goal in this direction would have to be reached in stages as resources permit. As  a  first step, this Bill provides an increase  of  $2 a week at the 100 per cent rate, taking the maximum of this pension from $14 to $16 a week. Honourable senators will be aware that the general rate presently scales down from 100 per cent to 10 per cent according to the assessed degree of incapacity. All general rate war pensioners will benefit from this increase. There are 190,880 general rate pensioners and the cost of this increase for a full year will be $8.34m. 
The War Widow's Pension 
The Government is acutely aware of the loss endured by the nation's war widows and the difficulties they have faced, and are still facing in their daily lives without the assistance, comfort and support of a breadwinner. As a first step in the Government's program in this area, the Bill increases the basic war widow's pension by $1.50 a week, taking it from $20 to $21.50. The cost in a full year of this proposal will be $3.94m affecting some 50,500 widows. Additionally, most war widows are eligible for a domestic allowance of $8.50 a week and many may also qualify for a means test pension. 
Honourable senators will notice that column 3 of the scale in clause 20 of the Bill lists a rate of $43.10 per fortnight for war widows whose husbands held ranks higher than Captain (Navy),  Colonel, Group  Captain and relative ranks. This rate is the last vestige of the former practice of paying war widows' pensions according to the ranks held during war service by their deceased husbands. It will be phased out in future pension movements. 
Cost of Increases 
The total cost of these increased war pension payments will be $15.93m in a full year, and $8.5m for the 1972-73 financial year. 
War Pensions for Student Children 
The Government's policy on war pensions for student children, which is reflected in the Bill, is that they should be continued until completion of full-time education in respect of dependent children who are not receiving  a  maintenance or living allowance or salary from Commonwealth sources that equals  or  exceeds the allowances payable under the Repatriation Soldiers' Children Education Scheme. 
Service Pensions in respect of Student Children 
In relation to children of service pensioners, the Bill also reflects the Government's policy that a child should continue  to  be recognised for service pension purposes irrespective  of  age, for as long as the child continues to undertake full-time education. 
Service Pensions Generally 
Those who suffer from pulmonary tuberculosis, or who have served in a theatre of war and are over 60 in the case of men, or 55 in the case of women, or, permanently unemployable, qualify for service pensions, if they satisfy the existing means test. As you know,  Mr Deputy President,  the Government is committed to abolishing the means test within the life of this Parliament, but 1 will not dwell on that particular point at the moment. 
The proposed increases in age and invalid pensions will, under the provisions of the Repatriation Act 1920-1972, apply automatically to service pensions and there is no necessity to amend the Act in order to honour the Government's commitment to increase immediately means test pensions by $1.50  a  week. The increase will take the maximum service pension to $21.50 a week for a single ex-serviceman, and to $18.75 a week for  a  married ex-serviceman or an eligible wife. The cost of these increases will be, $6m for a full year and $3. 15m for the 1972-73 financial year. 
Removal of Certain Disadvantages Suffered by Dependants of  Ex-Servicemen 
In the repatriation legislation as it stands there are certain dependants of ex-servicemen who suffer disadvantages which the Government considers unjust, and the opportunity is being taken to remove, these disadvantages. 
First, where a claimant for a pension dies after a decision on his application has been given by the Repatriation Commission, his legal personal representative has not been permitted to lodge and prosecute an appeal with an entitlement appeal tribunal or an assessment appeal tribunal. A legal personal representative should  be  allowed this right and this is the purpose of clause 5 of the Bill, lt should be borne in mind, however, that action taken under this new provision will be subject to other provisions of the Act that govern and place time limits on claims and appeals procedures generally. For example, a decision of an appeal tribunal cannot be expressed to operate from a date earlier than 3 months before the date on which the claim for pension was lodged. In certain other limited cases, the decision can have effect from a date not earlier than 4 years before the date of decision or determination. There is also a time limit for the lodgement of appeals with an assessment appeal tribunal. 
Secondly, where an ex-serviceman lodges an application for service pension, but dies before a decision is given, the claim lapses and no pension is payable to his estate in respect of the period up to death, in spite of the fact that, bad he lived, the pension would have been paid as from the date of implication. Under the Social Services Act payment of arrears of pension can be made in the circumstances described and the Bill currently before the Senate inserts in the principal Act a provision similar to that of the Social Services Act. 
Thirdly,  Mr Deputy President,  at the present time some de facto wives and some exnuptial children are recognised under repatriation legislation. Other Commonwealth Acts such as the Compensation (Commonwealth Employees), the Social Services and the National Health Acts recognise additional categories of these dependants. The Government is of the view that the present provisions of the repatriation legislation are too restrictive and should be brought into line with these other Acts. 
The Bill therefore embodies proposals to recognise for war pension and associated benefits a de facto wife or widow who has lived continuously with an ex-serviceman on a bona fide domestic basis for at least 3 years preceding consideration of her status, or the member's death, as the case may be, if she is or was wholly or partly dependent on him and any ex-nuptial child of an ex-serviceman. 
The Bill also recognises for service pension purposes a de facto wife who has lived with an ex-serviceman on a bona fide domestic basis for at least 3 years preceding consideration of her status and any ex-nuptial child, foster child or ward in the custody, care and control of an ex-serviceman. 
Review of Entitlements 
In view of the substantial improvements to be introduced by the Government, some of the present entitlements under the Repatriation and Social Services Acts have been reviewed. These entitlements, which have their origins well back in the history of these pieces of legislation, have to date allowed some people eligibility for means test pensions from both departments. This dual eligibility has placed these people in a more favoured position than other members of the community, and the substantial improvements being effected, and to be effected, make it advisable that steps be taken to gradually correct this situation. Therefore, on this occasion, where dual means test pensions are already being paid, no pension will be reduced, but only one department will give effect to the proposals, and the other will continue its pension at the current rate. 
The dual means test pensions which may presently be received under the Repatriation and Social Services Acts are those payable to the widow or deserted wife of a service pensioner - such a widow or wife can continue to receive her repatriation service pension at the same time as she is receiving a civilian widow's pension under the Social Services Act - and a service pensioner suffering from pulmonary tuberculosis - such a pensioner can also receive at the same time an age or invalid pension under the Social Services Act. 
The Bill provides that, where a widow or deserted wife of a Service pensioner is also receiving a civilian widow's pension under the Social. Services Act, her Service pension will not be increased on this or any future occasion. Service pensions payable to persons suffering from pulmonary tuberculosis will be increased under the general provisions relating to Service pensions. For the future, any person who has an eligibility for means test pension under both the Repatriation and Social Services Acts will have to elect to receive a pension under one or the other. 
Another anomaly which this Bill removes from the Repatriation Act is that preventing a person, otherwise eligible for service pension as an ex-servicewoman, receiving it if she receives a war widow's pension. Such an exservicewoman will now become eligible for service pension, even though receiving a war widow's pension. A war widow currently in receipt of an age or invalid pension in addition to her war pension may, if she is eligible for a service pension, and so wishes, transfer to the Repatriation Department and receive her full entitlement under the Repatriation Act. 
The increased pension rates will be retrospective to 7th December 1972, the first pension pay day after the recent elections for the House of Representatives. The Bill appropriates the Consolidated Revenue Fund to the extent necessary to provide during the current year the additional payments to which it gives effect. It gives me great pleasure,  Mr President,  to introduce this legislation. It represents major steps in the Government's provision for those who have served the nation in time of war and it adds a further dimension to the large and varied legislative program upon which the Government has embarked. I commend the Bill to the Senate. 
Debate (on motion by  Senator Rae)  adjourned. 
 I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
This Bill amends the principal Act to recognise for pension and other purposes the same classes of de facto wives and widows and ex-nuptial children as recognised by the amendments to the Repatriation Act contained in the Repatriation Bill 1973. The Bill provides for the payment of war pension to student children over the age of 21 years. The principal Act is amended also to incorporate a provision enabling payment of pensions and other amounts unpaid at the date of death of the claimant. The opportunity has been taken to delete definitions identical with those of the Repatriation Act and to provide that these terms shall have the same meaning as in the Repatriation Act. I commend the Bill to the Senate. 
Debate (on motion by  Senator Rae)  adjourned. 

I move: 
That the Bill be now reod a second time. 
The Bill amends the principal Act to include provision for pension, allowance or other benefit under the Act or regulations that is unpaid on the death of the claimant to be paid to his estate in respect of the period up to death. The amendment follows upon a similar amendment by the Repatriation Bill 1973 in respect of payments under the Repatriation Act and Regulations. I commend the Bill to the Senate. 
Debate (on motion by  Senator Rae)  adjourned. 
I do not think it is possible to give a blanket cover to these people because, as I think the honourable senator knows, persons who left national service last year and who were unable to obtain employment for a period between discharge and commencing their studies at a school or university would have been eligible for the unemployment benefit. In addition, all national servicemen who were discharged were interviewed by the then Department of Labour and National Service to see whether they wished to return to their former occupations. If they did not wish to do that, they were advised to register for the unemployment benefit. 1 would be interested if the honourable senator would provide me with particular cases which could be examined, because T do not think we could make a blanket provision for these people. If the honourable senator gives me particulars of those cases 1 will consult with the appropriate Minister and my Department to see to what extent we can help. 
The honourable senator will probably know that one of the planks of the Australian Labor Party is to provide free hospitalisation for Boer War and World War I survivors. We have accepted that as a priority which ought to follow what we are now doing with the Repatriation Act. I do not think that it is possible by any administrative act to provide the cover about which  Senator Gietzelt  asks. But it is possible under the policies of the Government, through the Minister for Social Security, to improve this position through the improvements to the means test which will be effected bv the end of 1974. I would think our first priority would be to consider as early as possible, following our now proclaimed improvements in repatriation, the giving of free hospitalisation to surviving veterans and then covering them by the general social service program of the Government. 
I do not think we have reached a situation where such an estimate ought to be made, because it depends on what approaches the unions make to the arbitration tribunals and whether those unions are in special categories. In that case I think it is rather premature to talk about what costs would be involved. Unless the honourable senator has in mind a particular industry which might be costed, I think the question is rather too general to ask for a lot of detailed work to be done. Rather, I think, we have to wait until we see what arguments are put forward in particular claims before the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission and whether the unions seek to use, as a test case, specially selected industries which have been affected by automation and mechanisation. 
The honourable senator ought to know that the recent figures as to the numbers in the defence forces have been very satisfactory. The number of those national servicemen who have decided to remain in the Army has been satisfactory. About one-third of them have decided to remain in the Army. Basically our armed forces are in a very satisfactory position. In addition, the Government had done other things to increase the size of what it wants to be a voluntarily enlisted professional armed service. As the honourable senator knows, we have provided for a new pay scale. We have supplemented and improved by the defence forces retirement benefits provisions by means which were ventilated during the administration of the previous Government and in fact rejected by it. We have done a number of other things in relation to accommodation and so on to improve the conditions of servicemen. Basically we think we are on the way to providing all the elements of a very efficient, professional armed service. 
I turn now to the last part of the honourable senator's question. I will have regard firstly to the need to provide essential aircraft and support equipment. The honourable senator would already know, as I have explained it to him more than once in the Senate, that we have taken some initiatives in regard to the aircraft to replace the Mirage, and some initiatives to make sure that our own Australian capacity is the best than can be established in these times. These actions have been promotional and effective and were taken almost immediately upon the present Government taking office. I can only repeat what I said to the honourable senator before in relation to the Fill aircraft. We criticised the selection of this aircraft in 1963. We said then that the decision to purchase it was a political decision that was taken by the Menzies Government. We were dissatisfied, not only with the aircraft but also with the financial arrangements entered into by the then Australian Government and the United States Government. I think I can say, on behalf of the Minister for Defence, that we are not satisfied now about those financial arrangements but that the aircraft will take its place in the complement of the Royal Australian Air Force. The present Government will ensure that the Fill aircraft is used in its most effective capacity. The honourable senator would be aware of the many defects which arose, the many modifications which had to be undertaken and the many decisions which had to be made before the Government could take the aircraft. What we are saying is this: Because we are in the position of having to accept the aircraft we will use it, but we are very critical of the premature decisions of that previous Government in selecting such an aircraft in the face of the general position of Australia's defence. 
 I suggest that by this time the Senate should know that what has been proposed is lamentable. We have a situation where the Opposition, which is the minority, is trying to tell the Government that it should suspend its business for the evening although its business includes some very important legislation. I am concerned in some of the legislation. Last night we passed social services legislation which awarded improved benefits to many thousands of people. Also we have introduced into the Parliament repatriation legislation which provides a lot of benefits to people. That legislation should be passed before the Senate rises tomorrow to enable the benefits provided by it to be paid by 27th March. Let me remind honourable senators that that legislation provides benefits for many thousands of people. Let me mention some of them. There are 21,104 pensioners on the special rate war pension who will benefit from that legislation and there are 190,880 Australians on the general rate pension who will benefit as will many other people in other categories. Unless we do something about those repatriation Bills tomorrow it will mean that payment will be delayed. If they are not dealt with until the week after next it will not be possible to have the payments made on the normal pay day, 27th March, and this would be inconvenient. Primarily I object to what is proposed because a minority group wants to take the control of the Senate out of the hands of the Government because this group says there is an urgent matter to debate. What is the urgent matter? The urgent matter is stated in the motion which, I would suggest, places some very strong strictures upon  Mr Burchett. Mr Burchett  can, of course, answer for himself. But in a preliminary and pro forma way it seems to me that  Senator Gair  charges Burchett with a number of offences and provides for the answer yes or no on the question whether he is guilty or not guilty. At the same time as  Senator Gair  does this, we know that some actions are pending. What are the actions pending? My information is that Burchett currently has a writ for defamation against the Herald and Weekly Times Ltd. 
I appeal to the sense of justice of the Australian people and of this Senate.  Senator Rae  is a lawyer, and it is extraordinary to me- 
Do not interrupt me before I have given you the answer,  Senator Hannan.  You are a man trained in the law. 

 Senator Rae, Senator Wright and  Senator Greenwood  who has left the chamber are also men of the law. I am a member of the Senate. I want to know why, when there is action pending in the court, the Opposition wants to precipitate a debate in this Parliament about a man whose whole reputation is to be tested in the court. I will read what my information is. My information is that  Mr Wilfred  Burchett currently has a writ for defamation against the Herald and Weekly Times Ltd and  Mr Dennis  Warner, the author of the article complained about, and that the writ was issued in Melbourne through the firm of Galbally and O'Brien on 7th February 1969. 
The  DEPUTY PRESIDENT-  Order! You must come back to the point of the debate,  Senator Bishop. 
I understand,  Mr Deputy President,  but obviously in any discussion about the order of business has to be related to what is proposed by  Senator Gair,  and what he proposes has been printed. It is public knowledge, it is within the knowledge of the Senate, and it concerns the sort of things about which we are talking, it concerns the sort of things about which we know. Why should we bring this matter before the Senate at an earlier time than normal to canvas the issues when we know the background of those issues and when justice ought to be done to the persons concerned in the proper place for justice to be done. It surprises me that lawyers in the Senate are not concerned about this. I am mainly concerned about the combination that has been formed tonight of honourable senators opposite who do not represent the majority of the people. It is the Labor Party which constitutes the Government. We have been elected as the Government of Australia and we should be able to persuade the Senate 
There is the test of it. Honourable senators opposite have arrogantly combined to tell the elected Government of the Commonwealth what it should do. 
Who is complaining now? You are going to tell us what to do. Of course you are. 
The  DEPUTY PRESIDENT  - Order! The Senate will come to order and honourable senators will cease interjecting. 

 - Mr Deputy President, let me get back to the case I put. We are the Government of Australia and we have been commissioned by the people of Australia to promote legislation that benefits them according to the mandate they gave us. We have put Bills before the Parliament. Last night the Senate passed the Social Services Bill which offers great benefits to the Australian people. We expected to have passed the Repatriation Bill tonight. It offers great benefits to ex-servicemen and their dependants. Thousands of people are involved. I have given the figures.  Senator O'Byrne  has reminded me that some great international legislation concerning the hijacking of aircraft - a thing we are all frustrated about - is being delayed. The process of legislation is being impeded by the Democratic Labor Party, supported by the Liberal Party and the Country Party who formed the previous government of this country. They have combined to tell us that we should not have the right to pass through the Parliament important legislation which benefits the people of this country. 
What is the basis of it? The basis of the action is that honourable senators opposite are promoting a case against a man who offered to have his case tried before a royal commission. I am no great advocate of  Mr Burchett.  Do not get me wrong on this; you will have to accept my word for it that every man is entitled to justice and justice is obtained in the courts of law. The courts of law are proceeding to hear these claims. 
 Senator Webster,  as a member of the Country Party, should be supporting the Government tonight and not supporting the Democratic Labor Party. The Government which has been elected by the people of Australia ought to be able to say who is to control its affairs. 
 Senator Hannan  is interjecting. Let him consider his verdict. Not only ls he a trained laywer- 
Not only has he been trained as a lawyer but also in television programs he has played the role of a judge. 
 I am surprised that tonight as a lawyer he is coalescing with the groups that are wanting to debate the motion. It the honourable senator has any doubts, surely Burchett should get the benefit of them. I am not defending Burchett. I am saying that his case is separate. He has instituted proceedings. This issue was raised in the television program 'Four Corners'. Let  Mr Burchett  be tested in the proper place. This is the national Parliament. As members of it we all are charged with the responsibility of doing our best for our country. Honourable senators opposite are members of parties that were in office for a long time. Some of them were Ministers and had a chance to do something about the Burchett case. They did nothing at all about it but tonight they say that it is urgent. The issue of Burchett involves the Korean War, not the Vietnam War. The period involved is not 1963-1972. It is earlier than that. It is the time of the Korean War. The motion rakes up a case concerning the Korean War. 
Why did not honourable senators opposite do something about Burchett when they were in office? Why did not the former Ministers take action against Burchett after the Korean War? Tonight they are supporting  Senator Gair.  If this matter comes before the Senate tomorrow, as it may do unless honourable senators opposite change their minds, they will be supporting  Senator Gair  in saying to the Senate that we ought to question Burchett on what he did during the Korean War. What hypocrisy for people who sat as Ministers! They had their chance to take action against an Australian citizen and to say whether he was paid by the Russians. I ask anybody: How can you sensibly and intelligently justify this sort of action? It astounds me that people can go along quietly in this way. 
On another occasion there may be an argument for setting up a select committee or a royal commission, but certainly not on the condition provided by  Senator Gair  today and not in the circumstances of the impending legal action of which we have been told. I want to hear from the lawyers opposite, the people trained in the law and who have a belief in justice, how they can justify what they are doing tonight. If this matter is debated tomorrow I will want to know how they can support a minority Party in such actions when the courts of the land have not decided the legal issues involved. 
 Senator Rae  sits opposite and chirps. He ought to be getting up and explaining his position. When we said that important Government business was waiting the only thing that the Leader of the Opposition  (Senator Withers)  could say was: "Why worry about mucking up the computers?' But more is involved than mucking up computers. This is a much more serious matter. A challenge is offered to the Government which is trying to run the country. The challenge comes from a combination of odd parties which are coalescing. They all agree, and we are going to put up with this for a long time. 
There is the challenge. 
The  DEPUTY PRESIDENT-  Order! The Senate will come to order. There are too many completely disorderly interjections from both sides of the chamber. I appeal to the Senate to listen to  Senator Bishop,  who has the call. 

 - Mr Deputy President, I started by saying that I thought the exercise was lamentable. I think it is wrong. I think the status of the Senate has been reduced tonight, not by the Government but by a combination of people who have quietly got together in the corridors of the Parliament and have said: 'Yes, we will support  Senator Gair.  We will have a go at Burchett and we will stop the Government from bringing in the Bills tonight.' When they take that action they must know that they are stopping a number of Australians from getting increases in pensions. That is what I am concerned about. 
Yes, they will. They will not get the increases when they are entitled to get them. I would like honourable senators of the Liberal and Country parties to tell me whether they intend to support  Senator Gair  if this motion is carried. Do they propose to support  Senator Gair  tomorrow? Combinations have been formed. Of course they will support him tomorrow. I pose this question to honourable senators opposite who were in government: If this is an urgent matter, how is it that in the years when they were in government and when the Korean War was being fought they did not take action against Burchett? 
 I challenge  Senator Rae  to answer that question. No honourable senator opposite is prepared to answer that question. They took no action during the Vietnam war. May I wind up by repeating that it is extraordinary to me that a combination of intelligent people, presumbaly intelligent that is, including some people trained in the legal profession should support a move against a person knowing now, if they did not know before tonight, that that person has taken action in the courts to defend himself. The issues that will be discussed in that court action are the issues which will be discussed tomorrow if the view of the combination to which I have referred prevails. We have been almost warned tonight by the arrogance of honourable senators opposite that they intend to act like this all the time. If honourable' senators look at the subject matter of the notice of motion they will see that it refers to statements on which Wilfred Burchett has already challenged 2 people, namely, Dennis Warner and Professor Frankel. Those statements are contained in documents that have been printed in the Press. Honourable senators opposite intend to canvass the issue tomorrow despite the fact that Wilfred Burchett has taken action in the courts, because obviously they are going to support them. I believe that what honourable senators opposite are trying to do is a disgrace to this Parliament and that there ought to be second thoughts about it. Honourable senators opposite ought to have regard to the prestige of the Senate. Let the matters which come before the Senate be those which have to come before the Senate. If, after full consideration has been given to the case which has been brought before the courts,, honourable senators want to proceed with a debate on this matter let us proceed with a debate on it in a different atmosphere and in circumstances that do not relate to current legal proceedings. 
One such case has been brought to my attention. As a result of the honourable senator's question, I will certainly investigate the matter to see to what extent the position may be improved. 
I think "that there is a certain amount of hypocrisy in the proposition that  Senator McManus  has put forward tonight. This is the second occasion in a debate on bases and the troops in Singapore that he has told us about the constructive role that is being played by the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  and the  Deputy  Prime Minister  (Mr Barnard)  and applauded that role.  Senator McManus  has asked us to ensure that members of the Federal Parliamentary Labor Party get behind  Mr Whitlam  and  Mr Barnard  and see that their moderate attitude is supported. 
When this project was accepted in 1963 the estimated cost was $US125m. 
That was for the whole deal. When  Mr Malcolm  Fraser was Minister for Defence and when he discussed this matter with  Mr Laird,  he agreed to an escalation in the total project costs which included a number of factors. That escalation was from $US124.5m to an estimated $US300m. As the honourable senator now knows, the estimated cost as at today is calculated to be $US344m. What  Mr Barnard  points to  -  I support him - is the fact that the last Government unnecessarily tied this Government to an amount which ought to be reviewed. As honourable senators know, last night he said that he intends to try to review some of the cost. The Government has said that it will accept the aircraft. However it considers that the negotiations by the last Government were not conducted in the way in which we as a Labor Government would have conducted them. Consequently we are out to see to what extent there can be a new deal. I think that when  Senator Drake-Brockman  was Minister for Air the Royal Australian Air Force insisted upon certain safety standards being rigidly applied to its specifications. We support that point of view. I suggest that that insistence was obviously promoted by the wide demand in the Australian community, from honourable senators in this place and from honourable members in the other place to ensure that this aircraft was safe enough to carry out the job for which it was first designed. 
The whole matter boils down to this: The Cabinet and the Government have said that we will accept the aircraft; we have no alternative. We are not satisfied with the financial arrangements because we are in the position that although we have guarantees from the manufacturers of the aircraft that spares will continue to be made, we do not know yet what the price of those spares will be in the future. We feel that we can obtain sufficient spares but the fact is that the United States Government has already terminated plans for its production target. We are taking action to ensure that Australia gets whatever benefits it can out of what we declare are fairly loose arrangements made by the past Government. 
The statement by the Minister for Defence has been made after consultation with his advisers from the Royal Australian Air Force and the Department of Defence. That is the clear position. There is no question but that the Government, having assessed the position as I have explained to  Senator Drake-Brockman,  considers that its view now is the correct view. We are talking about the purchase of aircraft the value of which rose from $US125m to a bill which will exceed $US350m. In that circumstance.  Mr Barnard  has made the statement that he feels that, while we accept the aircraft, we should be in the market to make some arrangements having regard to the fact, as I have pointed out to  Senator Drake-Brockman,  that this aircraft will go out of the production line in the United States of America in about a decade. 
 in reply - I thank the honourable senator and the Opposition for giving the Repatriaition Bill 1973 a speedy passage. I do not agree with his remarks about the ability of the present Government being based on the previous Government's financial policies. We have clearly promised the ex-servicemen and ex-servicewomen and their associations that we would carry out our policies. It is recognised that what we have done in this legislation will improve to a large extent the lot of those people and will introduce a fairly large slice of our promised program. 
The answer to  Senator Rae's  question is that a legal wife is classed as a dependant for war pension purposes under section 23 of the principal Act. Clause 4 of the Bill amends section 23 to provide that the term 'wife' shall include a dependent female. Therefore, subject to a dependent female satisfying the conditions of eligibility under clause 4 of the amending Bill, she may be paid a pension at the same time as the legal wife. The purpose of the amendment was to bring this legislation into line generally with workers compensation and the Social Services Act. 
Bill read a second time. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
In Committee 
The Bill. 
 The answer to the honourable senator's question is that our program for improvements to the Repatriation Act was not based on a time table. We thought that we would move towards fulfilling them in our first year of Government. But as the honourable senator can see, although we might have introduced these particular improvements at budget time, a number of them other than the pension matters, we have introduced quickly. So we intend to attend to outstanding matters progressively. The general totally and permanently incapacitated pension has been adjusted. In relation to the general rate pension, on this occasion we have made a first step towards achieving our policy. 
There are other matters of great priority that we are considering. For example, I am mindful of our undertaking to provide free hospitalisation for veterans of the Boer War and World War I. The honourable senator will remember these matters being ventilated on behalf of organisations during debates on repatriation matters in the old days. My attitude is that we should be moving towards doing that very quickly and other matters will receive priority according to what Cabinet and the Government considers appropriate. But we are very anxious to implement our policies. I say shortly that what we have done so far has been greatly welcomed by the ex-servicemen's organisations as the honourable senator knows. 
 First, I will answer the honourable senator's question concerning the dependant pension rates. These rates have not been increased at this time. Currently the Cabinet Welfare Committee is examining this particular side of our program, and in doing so it has had to have regard for what ought to be done in the social security field. So I can assure the honourable senator that presently we are examining to what extent we can increase these rates and I would expect that that step would be taken at Budget time. 
In regard to the hospitalisation matters, I can only say that as the responsible Minister I will be making a submission on them as a matter of urgency. As far as we are able, we will carry out the main reforms in our repatriation policy within the life of this Parliament, but it might take longer than one term in government to make some of the adjustments set out in our policy. It will depend on the general economic factors. But I think the honourable senator would agree that given the short time we have been in office, we have granted very substantial increases in repatriation pensions, and I would hope that the Government will support me in implementing to the fullest possible extent the program which we promised. The next matters to be considered are those to which I have referred. 
Bill agreed to. 
Bill reported without amendment; report adopted. 
On 7th March 1973 
Yes, I will make inquiries along the lines suggested by  Senator Milliner.  The complaints that he has received apparently refer to a period when the Labor Party was not in power. I know of no general campaign by anybody to investigate the claims and the pensions of ex-servicemen at the time. If the honourable senator will give me more specific information I will certainly make inquiries. 
On 7th March 1973, Senators Jessop, Young and Davidson asked me, representing the Minister for Labour, questions relating to employment in South Australia, labour shortage at Riverland Cannery and unemployment relief, respectively. I undertook to secure additional information from my colleague, the Minister for Labour. The Minister for Labour has provided the following information: 
Commonwealth Employment Service recruitment activities on behalf of growers and the Riverland Cannery began before the fruit picking season commenced with intensive canvassing of employers for projected vacancies. Vacancies were released through the C.E.S. network of offices supplemented by special measures such as recruitment of Aborigines from north western areas, extensive advertising and recruitment of weekend pickers amongst school cadets. 
These efforts resulted in the placement by the C.E.S. of more than 4,000 pickers and 200 cannery workers. 
It is difficult to reconcile with the facts the number of persons referred to in the questions as being on unemployment benefit. At the end of February 1973, only 4 males and 1 female were in receipt of unemployment benefit for the whole of the Renmark C.E.S. area. Indeed, there was a very considerable decline (nearly 30 per cent) in the numbers on unemployment benefit in South Australia as between end-January, 1973, and end-February, 1973. 
At the end of February, 31 males (including 13 school leavers) and 27 females (including 11 school leavers) were registered with the Renmark District Employment Office and there were unfilled vacancies for 130 males and 138 females. 
A decision has already been made to introduce legislation as quickly as possible. It is being prepared. I think there will be no delay. I will ascertain for the honourable senator when the legislation is likely to be introduced. 
Yes, I have seen the report which appeared recently in the Press. I can inform the honourable senator that a patrol boat was despatched to the area following a telephone call to a Darwin Navy office by a diver who had found the submarine 1/124 and who had stated that other divers might attempt to enter the wreck by the use of explosives. I am informed that the diver stated that the hull of the submarine is fractured only in the conning tower area and that it is likely that, although flooded with water, the submarine compartments have remained sealed since the date of the sinking. When the chartered vessel arrived in the vicinity the master was warned not to interfere with what is likely to be a war grave. The Japanese submarine was sunk by Royal Australian Navy corvettes and a United States Navy destroyer on 20th January 1 942. 

 Mr BIJEDIC: VISIT TO AUSTRALIA 
I have not seen the statement to which the honourable senator refers and which is alleged to have been made by  Mr Barnard,  but the honourable senator knows that the Air Force is looking for such a replacement. We are guided in all these matters by what  Mr Barnard  has stated, which is the policy of our party. We want to see the Australian aircraft manufacturing capacity extended more than it is today. The honourable senator himself knows the concern amongst the manufacturers - the Government Aircraft Factories, the Commonwealth Aircraft Corporation and Hawker Siddeley Australia Ltd. In respect of that side of the matter, we are currently trying to arrange a consortium which would be a more effective production unit than exists today. Therefore, any purchases which might be made certainly will be made with the Australian industry as the basic consideration. But of course we would have regard to the defence Services' advice about the type of aircraft that they would like. 

 Mr BIJEDIC: VISIT TO CANBERRA 
 I have seen only the Press reports of this matter which is mentioned by the honourable senator. Clearly it is a matter of industrial relations between the trade unions which have members in the area and the administration. Of course I have heard the statement that there will be consultations between the United States authorities and the Trades and Labour Council. That is the normal way in which such things are settled. Everybody hopes that arrangements can be made to settle the dispute. What was proposed was that the men would be offered leave without pay. I hope those negotiations will be satisfactory. I understand that they are still continuing. The honourable senator cannot draw any other inference in relation to the matter. It is a simple, straight out industrial problem. Most of us hope that it is settled quickly on the terms proposed by the members of the unions who are concerned about the loss of wages. 
 Mr President,  I think it is clear from the contributions to the debate by  Senator Little, Senator Wright  and  Senator Greenwood  that what they are proposing is a direct result of the debate which should take place on the statement made by the Attorney-General  (Senator Murphy)  on Croatian terrorists. Instead of taking up the debate on that statement the Opposition proposes to place upon the Senate a stricture which did not exist when it was in government. They are now putting forward something which on many occasions each of them has denied to the Senate. May I refer to what has been the practice in the past. On 26th September 1967, the then  President  of the Senate,  Senator Sir Alister  McMullin, took the chair at 3.24 p.m. and read prayers. Before 3.57 p.m., which was the time when  Senator Murphy  raised an objection, the then Leader of the Government in the Senate,  Senator Henty,  moved that further questions be put on the notice paper. The  President Sir Alister  McMullin, then said: 'The question is that the motion be agreed to. Those of that opinion say aye'. The Government supporters said 'aye' and  Senator Murphy  then challenged the  President.  That was the practice adopted in 1967 by the former Government. One of the speakers in that debate was one of  the speakers in tonight's debate, namely,  Senator Wright.  I  wish to quote the words that  Senator Wright  used on that occasion. I  ask honourable senators to contrast what  Senator Wright  said tonight with what he is reported in Hansard at pages 892 and 893 as having said on 26th September 1967.  His  words were: 
My point is this: Having taken the matter to this stage now, surely it would be better tor us to say that we accept the Minister's intimation that it was appropriate to terminate questions, as time-honoured recognition of the chamber's right to ask further questions if the chamber insists on it, and an indication that, in the Minister's discretion, the time had arrived to terminate the period allotted for questions. On the other band, we can allow this matter to occupy further time and, after due thought and consideration, pass any motion that the majority of the chamber feels is appropriate to the proper understanding of the Minister's intimation. 

 Senator Wright continued: 
If my view is right, judgment would dictate to the Senate the acceptance of the Minister's intimation in the spirit in which I have interpreted it - not as a denial of the Senate's right but as an indication that a time had been reached when it was appropriate that questions without notice should be terminated for today. With what prestige can we renew this matter if dissatisfaction is occasioned by subsequent experience without the Senate putting the matter to  a  formal vote today. 
There may be a case for considering what procedures should be adopted in the future about question time. Tonight  Senator Wright  took us on a great excursion on a new theme. He wants the Senate to be able to question a Minister, without restriction, on a matter which the Opposition is not prepared to debate. The Opposition has no excuse for not debating that matter. All the former Ministers who are now in Opposition had great experience in avoiding questions or in giving lengthy answers to frustrate the. then Opposition. They were very experienced in handling questions. 
Debate interrupted. 
That the Senate do now adjourn. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
The honourable senator will recall that I pointed out that' the Government had taken a number of positive steps to place the Australian aircraft industry on  a  sound and productive basis. I stated also that we had called for a definitive plan for the industry to be considered by the end of June 1973. In reply to the honourable senator's present question I can now state that bounty assistance was sought by Victa Ltd and Transavia Corporation Pty Ltd which wished to undertake production in Australia of their respective products, the Airtourer and Airtruk. Further application for bounty assistance was made, in 1967. This was unsuccessful and  Senator Devitt  will recall that the then Government refused to offer assistance in any respect. 
Victa Ltd sold the design rights of the Airtourer to a New Zealand firm. Therefore that project could not be returned to Australia unless the design rights were to be relinquished by the New Zealand firm. The Royal Australian Air Force is now purchasing 37 of these, aircraft as basic CT4 trainers. The work involved in manufacture of an Airtourer and its CT4 trainer version is about one man year of skilled labour. The Australian industry is benefiting to some extent from the present production. The Airtruk is being produced in Australia. 
by leave -  Mr President,  the statement 'I am about to make is on behalf of the Minister for Labour, the Honourable C. R. Cameron, M.P., and it refers to the guaranteed minimum wage levy for nonpayment ports. I want to make it clear that when I use the pronoun T it refers to the Minister for Labour  (Mr Clyde Cameron). 
Since the guaranteed minimum wage levy issue has become the subject of some particularly opportunistic politics by the Victorian State Government and, in this Parliament, by the honourable member for Wannon  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  I want to put on record the course of events which led to this statement today. The first point is that the Association of Employers of Waterside Labour chose to alter the funding basis of the guaranteed minimum wage levy only a month ago. The day after, on Tuesday, 6th March, I told this House that I was deeply concerned at the implications of the AEWL's move. I said that I was concerned because it might jeopardise the employment of some hundreds of waterside workers; because it might lead to the closure of ports in a way inconsistent with our developing decentralisation policies; and finally, because the AEWL had decided on this action without consulting me and in anticipation of the inquiry which I had initiated on 23rd February. 
I undertook to examine the effects of the change and to determine what new financial arrangements might be appropriate to offset the ill effects of the AEWL's move. That was on 6th March. The following day I sent a letter to all members of the Stevedoring Industry Council confirming that an inquiry into the industry should take place, and that 1 would expect it to include an inquiry into the effect of the changes in the method of imposing AEWL levies to finance the guaranteed minimum wage in casual ports. I now table that letter dated 7th March 1973. That letter was sent 2 days after I was informed of the AEWL decision. It is difficult to imagine the former Government, of which the, honourable member for Wannon was a member, acting with such speed. 
Over the succeeding week my Department continued to monitor the effect of the AEWL levy. On 15th March, 10 days after the AEWL decision became known, I told the House: 
The inquiries I have made have convinced me that it is not a matter entirely in the hands of the employers to correct. It cannot be corrected at all unless we alter the legislation which brought about the disaster. 
Honourable members will appreciate the significance of that comment a little later. 
During that same debate the honourable member for Wannon alleged quite incorrectly that I had not written the letter to the AEWL. The letter I have just tabled, dated 7th March, proves him wrong. The honourable member has been consistently wrong and has consistently attacked me for inactivity when, in fact, I have expended a great deal of energy in correcting the mistakes of the government of which he was a member. During my speech on 15th March 1 announced that  Mr Norman  Foster, together with 2 departmental officers, had been dispatched to Portland to make an on-the-spot investigation. 
The issue came up in the House again on 28th March, 3 weeks after the AEWL changed its levying arrangements. I said in that debate that I would be seeking leave to make a statement in this Parliament concerning the Portland situation as soon as 1 received the report from my Department, which would be reporting to me by Tuesday the following week. That is today, and I now table the report. It was on that date, 28th March, that I read to the House part of a letter which I had sent to the Honourable Murray Byrne, Minister for State Development and Decentralisation in the Victorian Government. That letter replied to the criticism of me that had been made by  Mr Byrne  in the Press, and clearly demonstrated the political opportunism of the Victorian State Government and their allies in this Parliament in vilifying me during the State pre-election period. 
I now table the full letter to  Mr Byrne  to which he has not yet cared to reply. The day after that letter was sent, 28th March, acting on advice from  Mr Foster  and other officers of the Department as to the seriousness of the situation in some smaller ports, I sent an urgent telegram to the parties to the Stevedoring Industry Council. That telegram said: 
In view of the difficulties at smaller ports I would be glad if Council could urgently advise mc of their views on the guaranteed minimum wage levy. Specifically I seek its view on the desirability of funding the guaranteed minimum wage levy in nonpermanent ports out of the uniform levy imposed under the Stevedoring Charges Act, on all ports permanent and non-permanent. 
This proposal seemed to me the only one which could advantage Portland, Cairns, Mackay, Coffs Harbour and Esperance - the ports in which the guaranteed minimum wage levy had been increased - without disadvantaging the remaining ports whose levy had been decreased. The effect of merely returning to the old system - the course advocated by the honourable member for Wannon - would have been to marginally help Portland at the expense of ports outside his electorate, like Geelong. I could not afford to be so partisan. I wish to table a copy of the telegram to the Stevedoring Industry Council. 
This afternoon the Stevedoring Industry Council informed me of its unanimous recommendation. It agreed: 
It is desirable that the costs of the guaranteed minimum wage scheme should be funded through the stevedoring industry charge, and 
That in that event the cost of this particular item of expenditure should be made from the proceeds of all 3 rates of charge which will involve a contribution from permanent ports as applies in the case of other industrial costs. 
I wish to table a copy of that telex. 
It is my intention to recommend to Cabinet that the guaranteed minimum wage levy in the non-permanent ports be funded from the charges made under the Stevedoring Charges Act. This means that all ports, permanent and non-permanent, will contribute to the minimum wage payments made in the smaller ports. This will have a very substantial effect on the viability of some- of these ports. For example, in Portland the guaranteed minimum wage levy will be reduced from $1.15 per man hour to about 2c or 3c per nian hour. AH the non-permanent ports will be advantaged by the change as this levy of 2c or 3c per man hour will be uniform. Only Geelong, whose levy has fallen to 2c now, will not gain by the change, but it will not suffer. 
I believe this recommendation represents a far better solution to the problem of the nonpermanent ports than those which have been advocated by the honourable member for Wannon or by the Victorian State Government. It is the solution advocated by  Mr Bill  Lewis, the Member for Portland, who has been indefatigable in his representations to me on this matter. I believe it is the right solution. It was the honourable member for Wannon's inability to understand the working of the levy system which led to his quite erroneous and unworthy accusation that a deal had been done between the AEWL, the Waterside Workers' Federation and the Australian Council of Trade Unions, the parties to the Stevedoring Industry Council. 
The honourable member tabled in Parliament on 28th March a letter to  Mr Murray  Byrne from the Executive Director of the AEWL,  Mr Craig,  in which  Mr Craig  said that at a Stevedoring Industry Council meeting on Friday, 16th March: 
An arrangement whereby some casual out-ports were subsidising others was rejected entirely by the parties to the discussions, including the Waterside Workers' Federation and the ACTU on the grounds that it was improper for some small ports which may well have problems of their own to be forced to carry additional costs to maintain another port or ports. 
The honourable member for Wannon implied that this was a conspiracy but I believe that the Council was quite correct in rejecting a scheme of cross subsidisation between outports - temporary ports - just as it was quite proper to recommend a scheme of cross subsidisation which could involve the permanent ports. That is just another example of the honourable member for Wannon's disregard of the facts. I believe a solution of this kind justifies the 4 weeks between the AEWL change and this announcement during which we have examined the possibilities within my Department. 
I turn now to the report on Portland prepared by  Mr Foster  and other officers of my Department. Although the report has been prepared very quickly in response to the urgency of Portland's problems, I believe it makes a profoundly important contribution to the future of smaller ports. The report makes it quite clear, as I have already pointed out in my letter to  Mr Byrne,  that the viability of smaller ports like Portland will not in the end be determined by the nature of the levying arrangements for the guaranteed minimum wage. The causes of Portland's decline go far deeper and quite beyond the ambit of my portfolio. There is, however, a great deal the Victorian Government, which has attacked me with such ferocity over this issue, could do to ensure Portland's future. My Department's report concludes in the following way: 
Having considered a wide range of views; examined submissions and documentation together wilh the results of inspections at Portland, the following matters are noted. 
The port faces a number of problems which threaten its viability. They include trends toward centralisation and containerisation, seasonal factors and special overseas customer requirements. These have not occurred suddenly - except perhaps for seasonal factors - but have been evident for several years. 
Although the Victorian Government has espoused the development of Portland as an example of decentralisation, a pattern of trade and transport has been allowed to develop which has resulted in cargoes by-passing Portland in favour of Melbourne and Geelong. These developments, depending as they do on road and rail transport, lie within the power of the State Government to correct. 
The introduction of the changed levy arrangements has caused considerable concern in Portland. This concern was exacerbated by what was seen as a cavalier attitude on the part of the AEWL, whereby interested parties were denied an opportunity to express a viewpoint on this matter prior to changes being made. The change in levy arrangements was seen as a fundamental departure from the established practice of uniform levies, and not merely an increase in the rate. It was interpreted by some parties that smaller ports such as Portland were being deliberately driven out of existence. In this context, the view was put that the AEWL represents shipping companies and was subject to control and direction by overseas shipping interests to this end. 
Having regard to suggestions that the former basis of funding the guaranteed wage should be restored, it is clear that the pattern of cargoes moving through Portland developed under the old basis of funding when a uniform rate of levy was applicable. II follows then that reverting to the former basis of funding will do nothing to encourage the future balanced- growth of the port. It was suggested that the establishment of a container facility for roll-on roll-off vessels should be given consideration as a first step in a co-ordinated approach to ensuring the future of the port. In view of the declining pattern in non-bulk cargoes, and existing competition from road-rail transport, such a step could only be justified if suitable action were taken by State and local authorities to ensure a worthwhile volume of cargoes being available for shipment 
Future employment arrangements for waterside workers m small ports, including Portland, were the subject of a communication from the Minister for Labour to the Stevedoring Industry Council on 23rd February 1973. The Minister sought the Council's consideration of this whole area and such an examination by this forum would give the -Minister guidance as to the future of small ports and place the labour aspects of this matter in the proper perspective. 
In other words, the report notes that a change to the minimum wage levy will not save Portland. Its vitality depends on action by the Victorian State Government. Figures within the report sustain the argument that Portland's decline began long before Sth March. For example, in the financial year 1967-68, 63,942 bales of wool were shipped from Portland - 38.98 per cent of the bales sold in Portland. By the financial year 1971-72 only 5,309 bales were shipped from Portland - 2.24 per cent of the wool sold. A similar situation is reflected in the export of dairy products through Portland. In 1967-68, 11,410 tons of dairy products were exported through Portland; in 1971-72, 5,930 tons were shipped. As the report notes: 
It would seem that rail and road transport organisations have been able to apply policies which have operated to oppose the Victorian Government's announced policy of decentralising trade at Portland'. 
It is for that reason that the report says that it is: 
Unlikely that a reversion to the former funding arrangements will have any significant effect in developing trade through the port. 
We have decided not to revert to the former funding arrangement. But even the new and generous arrangement which I will recommend to Cabinet will have insufficient effect on stevedoring costs to save Portland without rapid action from the Victorian Government of the kind referred to in the report. 
That the Senate take note of the paper. 
I seek leave to make my remarks at a later date. 
Leave granted; debate adjourned. 
Last Thursday, I undertook to advise  Senator Marriott  when the legislation to amend the Defence Forces Retirement Benefits Act is likely to be introduced. I have made inquiries, and whilst I am not able to state a specific date, I do confirm that we are aiming to introduce this legislation during this session. The Bill is being drafted and has a very high priority, but it is a complex and lengthy piece of legislation which requires  the most careful drafting to cover the numerous individual situations referred to by the Jess Committee. However, I repeat, we are still aiming at introducing the Bill during this session, and I am hopeful that we will be able to do so. 
One would think from the speeches of  Senator Carrick, Senator McManus  and  Senator Wright  that there had been no threats of bombing, that the life of the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  had not been threatened and that  Senator Murphy  and his wife had not been threatened. If those honourable senators had read the report which was presented by  Senator Murphy  one would have expected them to find that what  Senator Murphy  was motivated by is contained in his statement. Of course, they have not only this statement but also reference to the papers that  Senator Murphy  took from the Australian Security Intelligence Organisation. If those honourable senators only read the last page of  Senator Murphy's  statement they would have seen that  Senator Murphy  said: 
I should like to add a word about events of last week. I am advised that terrorists came to Canberra last week with the intention of killing the Yugoslav Prime Minister. The Commissioner of Commonwealth Police,  Mr J.  Davis, advised me that, frustrated in that ambition by security precautions, the terrorists might make an alternative attempt on the life of the Australian Prime Minister or other Ministers of the Government. The unanimous opinion of the federal law enforcement authorities was that it was unsafe for the Australian Prime Minister to walk through the Port Kembla Steelworks of the BHP on Wednesday last. 
Yet tonight members of this Parliament who were elected by the people in their respective States are not prepared to defend the right to protection of the Leader of the Government in the Senate, who has exposed many of the matters which were concealed by the last Government, and the Prime Minister of this country. If that does not reduce the prestige of the Australian Parliament I do not know what does. But  Senator Carrick  and  Senator McManus  suggest all of a sudden that these actions have been acts of agents provocateurs. They have not answered the case which  Senator Murphy  made. Nobody has answered this question in relation to the letter written by the honourable Phillip Lynch. Honourable senators know what Phillip Lynch said. Let me remind honourable senators what he said. The report of what he said on 3rd December 1969 reads: 
. concern at the likely serious consequences if Croat nationals in Australia are permitted to continue  unchecked their terrorist activities and outrages against representatives of the Yugoslav Government and authority generally in this country. I have reason to believe that the terrorists are endeavouring to create the impression amongst Yugoslav migrants in Australia that the Croatian extremists have the support of significant sections of Australian society and even the government. I am moreover concerned with the likely effect upon our relations with Yugoslavia, especially in terms of our migration arrangements with that country, of continued incidents of this kind and the apparent inability of the law authorities to apprehend offenders. The Minister recommended that the Government should make a strong statement that outrages 'of this kind will not be tolerated'. 
That is not  Senator Murphy  or the Prime Minister,  Mr Whitlam,  saying that; it is Phillip Lynch, who was then a Minister. Of course, honourable senators opposite know of and have seen the document which contains a statement made by  Sir Garfield  Barwick when he was Minister for External Affairs. What did he say on 6th January 1964? He said in part: 
In essence, the problem is one of 'keeping an eye' on immigrant extremists, while operating within the framework of existing law and practice. We should not abandon our democratic principles of free speech, belief and association but I would hope that migrants are left with no misunderstanding of the disfavour with which the Government would view any activities which might reasonably give rise to objections by the present governments of their countries of origin. With this end in mind, I should like to suggest that the Australian Security Intelligence Organisation should maintain some supervision over migrant groups. . . . 

 Sir Garfield Barwick on 16th December 1969 said: 
The extremists themselves may by now have come to believe that they can act with impunity and that they can therefore, without risk to themselves, step up the level and frequency of violence. 
The defence which  Senator Greenwood  put up today is not in reality a defence at all because he has not studied or considered what  Senator Murphy  has said. In fact, no honourable senator opposite has said that it is. Let me remind the Senate that this is not the first time that the Government has been frustrated by the minority groups on the other side. We have been challenged many times. The working of the Government has been frustrated previously. The proposition put forward tonight is the most unjust proposition that I have ever seen introduced in the Senate. The proposal put forward by honourable senators opposite is that  Senator Murphy  should be condemned because he attempted to mislead the Senate and tabled only selected documents. No honourable senator opposite has challenged or answered the statement made by  Senator 
Murphy. Rather honourable senators opposite have diverted the attack by saying that these incidents are being caused not by extremists in the community but by agents of the Yugoslav Government. 
The Prime Minister of Yugoslavia did not come here at the invitation of the Labor Government. Opposition senators know as well as I do that the invitation arose, as  Senator Mulvihill  reminded us tonight, out of a visit to that country by a group of Commonwealth politicians.  Senator Mulvihill  was a member of that group and the previous  Speaker  of the Parliament,  Sir William  Aston, who was a notable politician, led the delegation which went to Yugoslavia. When these politicians went there their security was not threatened. They did not have to be worried about bomb threats by groups in that community who might attack the Australians because they did not like them. While he was there  Sir William  Aston said to the Prime Minister of the country: 'Come to Australia. On behalf of the Government I issue an invitation.' It is 2 years since that invitation was issued to the Prime Minister of Yugoslavia. What has been the reaction to the visit to Australia of the Prime Minister of Yugoslavia? Everybody knows; it is common talk. One does not have to study  Senator Murphy's  statement; all one need do is listen to the news broadcasts, to read the newspapers or to watch television to know that threats were made. Everybody knew about this.  Senator Carrick  said that it was a stunt, but everybody knew that  Senator Murphy  was under great tension in this place. Anybody could see it. He had a guard all the time. No doubt he has a security guard now. 

 Senator Murphy has made it clear that he had good relations with the Australian Security Intelligence Organisation, but he made the raid for one specific purpose: It was the result of a paper which he received and which has been tabled. No-one can say that that is not the truth because it is the truth. For very good reasons which have now been supported by the Prime Minister he was justified in the action that he took.  Senator Carrick  quoted an early comment from the Prime Minister who said that he did not know about the raid. 
The honourable senator has not read the Hansard record lately. He has not been doing his homework. A few days ago the Prime Minister complimented 

 Senator Murphy and said his motives were honourable, that he was justified, but that he did not want to refer to the document for security reasons which were in the interests of our country. Opposition senators did not quote that - they quoted parts of it. They have complained that  Senator Murphy  takes pieces out of documents - and they come in here and do the same thing.  Senator Carrick  has not told us what the Prime Minister said recently; that is the fact. It is on record in the other place that the Prime Minister commended  Senator Murphy  but the only reasonable contribution which  Senator Carrick  could make was that the tour should have been cancelled; that is, if the threat to the Prime Minister of Yugoslavia, who had been invited to this country by the past Government, was so bad- 
He was a visitor to this country, an important head of a foreign country, and we. supported the invitation. 
 Senator Jessop  is trying to deflect the argument. He well knows what took place. It is well known; nobody has to debate the question- or I hope not. All that is happening here tonight is that Opposition senators just will not answer this proposition. They are not prepared to accept that there was a threat to the people I have mentioned. I would have thought that honourable senators whether Labor, Country Party, Democratic Labor Party or Liberal would be the first to defend their politicians. What have the Opposition senators done instead? They have taken the occasion to subject  Senator Murphy  to the most intensive persecution since the report was made, every day of this week diverting the course of the Government's work in this Parliament. They have subjected  Senator Murphy  to this courtroom bullying tactic; these so-called expert lawyers on the other side of the House have challenged  Senator Murphy,  who is a highly qualified Queen's Counsel; daily they have subjected him to intensive questioning - and at the end of 7 days they have got no evidence, at the end of 7 days they cannot answer the propositions. Nobody has explained the meaning of  Sir Garfield  Barwick's statement or what  Mr Phillip  Lynch was putting or what  Mr 
McMahon said. Nobody has challenged the view of the senior Commonwealth police officer, though I have read it to the Senate. (Opposition senators interjecting) 
The  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Prowse)  - Order! There are too many interjections. Please let  Senator Bishop  continue his speech. 
What  Senator Greenwood  came out with today is less positive than what he said to  Senator Mulvihill  in May last year when  Senator Mulvihill  asked him this question: 
The answer is yes. 
I know that the Minister for Labour has asked for some information from his Department and also from the State industrial departments on this matter. I have not received this information yet. When I get it I will give it to the honourable senator. 
For the information of honourable senators, I present the annual reports for 1971-72 of the following Department of Supply research and development establishments: 
The matter which the honourable senator has raised comes under the responsibilities of both the Minister for Repatriation and the Treasurer. May I say that what is being done is a result of reciprocal arrangements between the 2 countries under which Australia acts as agent for the British authorities. There is as yet, no formal request from the United Kingdom to do anything about them. I will make further inquiries to see what further information I can get for the honourable senator. 
Recently I gave to  Senator Keeffe  an answer on this matter which pointed out, as  Senator Douglas  McClelland has done, that a D notice is a self-imposed discipline arranged through the agreed representatives of the Press and the Department of Defence. They set the criteria for the D notices. Currently there is a proposition for a review of D notices. As far as I know, the Press representatives have agreed to it. When I get some further information I will let the honourable senator know. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
The principal purpose of this Bill is to incorporate in the existing legislation improvements along the lines of those that were provided for in the amendments moved in October last year during the Committee stage of the debate on the Compensation (Commonwealth Employees) Bill 1972. These amendments were moved by  Mr Clyde  Cameron in another place and by me in the Senate. The amendments embodied the Australian Labor Party's immediate objectives in relation to this legislation which provides workers' compensation cover for employees of the Commonwealth and authorities of the Commonwealth. Honourable senators will recall that at that time it was indicated that if a Labor Government were to be elected in December 1972 then a Bill providing for such improvements would be introduced this year. This Bill honours that promise. 
Injury' and 'Disease' Provisions 
Before going on to outline the main changes which will flow from giving effect to that pre-election promise, I think I should mention here that we are taking this opportunity to remove what is considered by the Government to be a serious anomaly in the present legislation. Under the existing Act, a temporal connection with the employment is sufficient to give an entitlement to compensation in the case of an injury, but it is not sufficient in the case of a disease. The amendments proposed in the Bill will allow cases involving disease to be treated on the same basis as those involving injury. Injury will be defined to include a disease or the aggravation, acceleration or recurrence of a disease and eligibility for compensation will be established if the disease, or the aggravation, acceleration or recurrence, arises out of or in the course of the employment. Though these amendments regarding injury and disease were not included in the amendments moved last year, honourable senators may recall that amendments along similar lines were included in the series of amendments moved in another place on behalf of the Australian Labor Party during the debate on the Compensation (Commonwealth Employees) Bill 1971. 
Compensation for Total Incapacity 
The major changes which the Government proposes to introduce by this Bill relate to the rates and amounts of compensation payable under the Act. In accordance with our policy that an employee in receipt of compensation should not suffer any loss of earnings, the Bill provides for the weekly compensation payment for total incapacity for work to be increased to the level of the employee's average weekly earnings, including overtime, in his pre-injury employment. Provision already exists in the Act for the amount representing an employee's average weekly earnings before the injury to be varied, from time to time, to take into account pay variations which occur after the injury. I will refer later to certain changes in this regard proposed in the Bill, but wish to point out at this stage that the provisions for variation of the amount of the average weekly earnings will have the effect of automatically adjusting weekly compensation payments based on that amount. 
Compensation for Partial Incapacity 
The Bill retains the principle that the weekly payment for partial incapacity for work should be an amount equal to the difference between the employee's average weekly earnings in his pre-injury employment and the weekly amount he is earning after the injury. However, the limitation which the existing Act places on the amount of this payment is removed. Furthermore, the Bill proposes that the Commonwealth shall endeavour to provide suitable employment for a partially incapacitated employee and, if such employment is not provided, the employee is to continue to receive weekly payments on the basis of total incapacity. 
We consider that it is fair that an obligation should also be placed on the partially incapacitated employee to act reasonably and so the Bill provides that the Commissioner for Employees' Compensation may suspend the weekly payments if the employee unreasonably refuses or fails to accept suitable employment, or to satisfactorily undertake such employment, when it is provided. 
Compensation for Death 
A major change is proposed in relation to the compensation payable where an injury results in the death of an employee. We propose to replace the existing lump sum payment with a weekly payment related to the average weekly earnings of the deceased employee. Because of this relationship, the weekly payment in a death case will be automatically adjusted from time to time, in line with variations in the rate of pay for the particular employment in which the employee was engaged at the time of the injury which resulted in his death. Under these amendments, a widow will not have to prove dependency if she was living with the employee on a bona fide domestic basis at the date of his death and, for this purpose, she will qualify if she was only temporarily living apart from him, perhaps because he was in hospital or she was merely temporarily away from the family home. 
Where there is a widow or a wholly dependent widower and one or more dependent children, or grandchildren, the weekly payment we propose is an amount equal to the full average weekly earnings of the deceased employee. On the other hand, if a widow or a wholly dependent widower is the only dependent, she or he will receive a weekly payment equal to 75 per cent of the deceased employee's average weekly earnings. In other cases, the weekly payments to persons who were wholly or partly dependent upon the deceased employee are to be determined by the Commissioner, subject to the total of such payments not exceeding the amount of the average weekly earnings of the deceased employee if he leaves 2 or more dependants or 75 per cent of that amount if there is only one dependent. 
When he is determining the weekly amount payable for the benefit of a dependant, the Commissioner is to have regard to the need to secure the proper maintenance of the dependant and, where appropriate, the proper education of that dependant. In the case of a dependant other than a widow, a wholly dependent widower or a dependent child or grandchild, the Commissioner is also to have regard to the extent to which the dependant was dependent upon the deceased employee. The Commissioner will have power to vary or cancel the weekly payments payable in death cases to take into account a change in the financial circumstances or needs of a dependant or for any other sufficient reason. The Commissioner will be required to make such a review in cases where there is a widow or wholly dependent widower and one or more dependent children or grandchildren and the widow or widower dies. 
Furthermore, a weekly payment being made to a widow or widower will cease upon her or his remarriage. However, in the case of a widow who was wholly or partly dependent upon the deceased employee, or where a widower was wholly dependent upon the deceased employee, a lump sum equivalent to 104 times the weekly payment will be payable. 
Average Weekly Earnings 
Having outlined the proposals in the Bill concerning compensation payments for total and partial incapacity, and for death, all of which will be related to the employee's average weekly earnings before the injury. I think I should mention here that several changes are proposed to remove anomalies in the existing provision - section 25 of the principal Act - that specifies how the employee's average weekly earnings before the injury are to be calculated. 
Under the existing Act, allowances of an intermittent nature cannot be taken into account in the calculation of average weekly earnings and clearly it is an anomaly that they be excluded in the context of compensation based on average weekly earnings. The Bill will remedy this. At the same time, it is proposed that the existing average weekly earnings provisions be amended to allow rates of compensation based on the employee's average weekly earnings before the injury to be proportionately increased in the light of increases in pay resulting from pay increments granted and promotions gained after the date of the injury. Honourable senators will be aware that the existing provisions enabling an employee to receive compensation at the full pay sick leave rate, the repeal of which is provided for in the Bill, allow such pay increases after the injury to be taken into account, ft is also proposed to insert in section 25 a new provision which is designed to ensure that the amount of the average weekly earnings of an employee, and hence weekly compensation based on that amount, will not exceed the amount of the weekly earnings that the employee would receive if he were not incapacitated for work and he was employed either in the employment he was performing when injured or the employment in which he was engaged when last on duty with the Commonwealth, whichever employment has the higher remuneration. 
Compensation for Specified Losses 
Another significant change relates to lump sum payments for specified losses or injuries. We propose that these lump sums be related to the national average weekly earnings, on a seasonally adjusted basis, per employed male unit as published by the Commonwealth Statistician and this will provide an automatic adjustment at quarterly intervals. The formula in the Bill provides for a maximum lump sum equal to the national average weekly earnings multiplied by 260 and, on the latest published figure, this gives an amount of $26,026 compared with the current maximum of $14,500 in the principal Act. 
Certain losses will attract the maximum amount of compensation under this section and others will attract a percentage of that amount. The existing percentages for the latter type of loss have been reviewed and increased. As well, some new losses have been provided for. These are the loss of binocular vision, the loss of the procreative function, bodily disfigurement and the loss of a part of the body or of a faculty not elsewhere provided for in the section. 
Under the Bill all losses will be included in the one section - the proposed new section 39 - and the amount calculated in accordance with the formula to which I have referred will become the maximum payable under the section even where multiple losses are involved. At the same time, however, it is proposed that these lump sums will be payable although an employee is totally incapacitated for work and also that they will no longer terminate any entitlement to weekly payments that an employee may have for total or partial incapacity for work. 
Lump Sum Redemptions 
Under the principal Act an employee who is partially incapacitated may request a lump sum payment in redemption of the Commonwealth liability to make weekly payments for his partial incapacity. The Bill proposes an amendment to the relevant section that will also allow a request for redemption to be made by a totally incapacitated employee who is in receipt of a pension, such as superannuation or defence forces restirements benefits pension, on account of invalidity due to his compensable injury. 
Vocational Training 
The Bill will insert a new section of a beneficial nature for the severely handicapped. This proposed new section will apply only where an employee is totally incapacitated and would remain so permanently but for vocational training provided under the Act. In these circumstances, any earnings by such an employee during or as a result of the vocational training will no longer result in a reduction of his weekly compensation payments. 
Reimbursement of Costs 
I come now to the question of costs incurred by a claimant in connection with a request to the Commissioner for reconsideration of a determination. At present a claimant cannot claim reimbursement for any such costs he incurs. By comparison, if a claimant institutes proceedings before a compensation tribunal or a prescribed court in relation to a determination and, before the proceedings are completed, the Commissioner varies or revokes the determination so that the proceedings are rendered abortive, then the Commonwealth is liable to reimburse the claimant for any costs reasonably incurred by him in connection with the proceedings. Under a new provision contained in the Bill the Commonwealth will be liable to meet any costs reasonably incurred by a claimant in relation to a determination which is varied or revoked by another determination as a result of a request for reconsideration. The Commonwealth will be liable for such costs when the second determination is more favourable to any claimant whose claim was dealt with by the first determination and also in the case where the second determination is less favourable to a claimant, provided he was not the claimant who made the request for reconsideration. This new provision will apply in relation to costs incurred on or after the date of commencement of the amending legislation. 
Consequential Amendments 
Honourable senators will appreciate that, with a comprehensive piece of legislation such as the principal Act, the proposed amendments which 1 have already outlined necessitate many minor amendments of a consequential nature. I should mention also that the Parliamentary Counsel has taken this opportunity to include some drafting changes in this Bill. 
Amendment of other Act 
A further matter which honourable senators might like to note concerns the United States Naval Communication Station (Civilian Employees) Act 1971-72. This is a companion piece of legislation which extends to civilian employees employed by the United States Navy in connection with the Station the terms of the Compensation (Commonwealth Employees) Act 1971-72. The Bill provides for amendments to the Schedule to the United States Naval Communication Station (Civilian Employees) Act 1971-72 so as to apply to the civilian personnel employed in connection with the Station the amendments to the principal Act that I have outlined. 
Application of Amendments 
The intention is that the amending legislation will come into operation on the day on which it receives the Royal Assent and the Bill provides for the new weekly incapacity payments to apply on and from that date, notwithstanding that the payments relate to an injury sustained before that date. The new weekly payments for death and the new basis of payment in respect of lump sums for specified losses will apply on and from the date of commencement of the amending Act in all cases where the death occurs or the loss is suffered on or after that date, even though the death or the loss may have resulted from an injury sustained before that date. Perhaps I should add that the nev/ provisions relating to disease cases will apply only where a disease is contracted  oi  the aggravation, acceleration or recurrence of a disease occurs on or after the date of commencement of the amending legislation. 
Standard Safety Code 
At this stage I think I should remind honourable senators that the Compensation (Commonwealth Employees) legislation applies not only to employees of the Commonwealth and Commonwealth authorities but also to holders of statutory offices, members of Commonwealth authorities, members of committees appointed by the Government and to certain classes of volunteers. When our proposed amendments come into operation all persons covered by this legislation will have the benefits of a workers' compensation code which will be considerably in advance of the codes applying under the workers' compensation legislation in the States and this, of course, is in keeping with the Australian Labor Party's view that the Commonwealth should be the leader in this field. 
However, we will not be satisfied simply with this. It is only right and proper that there should be a comprehensive compensation code to cover all workers who are injured. But there is another aspect of this matter of industrial or work injuries to which 
I now want to refer and this is the prevention of accidents. We are not convinced that enough attention has been given in the past to the consideration of what can be done to reduce the incidence of accidents. In fact the prevention of industrial accidents and disease is specifically mentioned in the federal platform of the Australian Labor Party. The platform notes that the toil of personal injury is one of the disastrous incidents of social progress that calls for a co-ordinated response from the nation as a whole and goes on to state the objectives of the Australian Labor Party. This is for the Government to act: 
to establish mandatory occupational safety and health standards applicable to all employees of the Commonwealth, of Commonwealth authorities, of Commonwealth contractors, in the Territories and in interstate trade and commerce; 
to provide for the effective enforcement of such safety and health standards; 
to provide for research relating to occupational safety and health; 
lo provide for training programs to increase and improve personnel engaged in the field of occupational safety and health; 
to delineate more clearly the responsibilities of the Commonwealth Government and the States in their activities relating to occupational safely and health; 
to provide grants to the States to assist them in identifying their needs and responsibilities in the area of occupational safety and health and to develop plans to conduct experiments and demonstration projects in connection therewith: and 
to provide for appropriate accident and health reporting procedures which will help achieve the foregoing objectives. 
When speaking on this legislation in another place, the Minister for Labour  (Mr Clyde Cameron)  acknowledged that some companies in Australia are doing an excellent job in this sphere. He mentioned the Broken Hill Pty Co. Ltd as one company which, through a comprehensive accident prevention scheme, has substantially reduced the time lost through accidents at its works, saying that, in fact, over the last 15 years it has reduced the incidence of accidents by no less than 93 per cent. So far as the Commonwealth Public Service is concerned, I know that some work has already been done in connection with accident prevention but I agree with the Minister for Labour that it is time for greater attention to be given to this matter throughout the whole of the Commonwealth Public Service and in its instrumentalities. The Minister for Labour has therefore decided to recommend to Cabinet the establishment of a representative committee to draw up a uniform code of safety standards for adoption by all departments. Once the terms of this new code have been thrashed out and approved by Cabinet, he will ask Cabinet to authorise the setting up of whatever machinery is necessary for enforcement of the new code so as to ensure that all departments will observe the new safety standards. Once we have a standard safety code it may become necessary to extend it to private industry, either through consultation with the States or by providing for it to be included in federal awards. in conclusion I should like to make the point that, while accident prevention is of prime importance, it is also relevant in relation to the improvements in the compensation code provided for in the Bill. It is true that under the proposed new provisions, injured employees will receive much more than they do now under the existing Compensation (Commonwealth Employees) Act. However, if we can get a worthwhile code of safety standards operating effectively, the net result will be an immense reduction in human suffering caused by avoidable accidents at work and consequently an immense saving in lost production and government expenditure. I commend the Bill to the Senate and trust it will be given a speedy passage. 
The Minister for Labour,  Mr Clyde  Cameron, has already stated that he intends to consult as soon as possible his counterparts in the State in order to set up a uniform safety code. Of course that will be a general code. All I can say in relation to particular industries is that I know that there have been consultations between Commonwealth departmental officers and State officers. As far as I am aware there has been no move yet for a uniform standard. But 1 would think that the position will be covered generally when that conference, which has been promoted by the Commonwealth, gets under way. 
I think what the honourable senator says is well known, namely, that in the general sense of the economy and profitability most industries are doing fairly well. I refer particularly, of course, to secondary industry and other areas of the economy. I notice also that the reaction of most of those people we would regard as conservative to what has been a custom and a fact of life in Western countries - that is, this inflationary trend - is to say that the way to stop it is to depress wage levels. The Labor Government does not agree with that. Our position is very clear. I would think that in an era of increased productivity and profitability the workers' share in that productivity must be increased. As to the last part of the honourable senator's question, I am aware that in a few industries in Australia there is  a  minimal form of profit sharing and that in some other industries there are minimal arrangements between the unions and the employers for bonuses related to productivity. But in a general sense there certainly is no recognised agreement by organised employers and industry generally that the workers should share in any way in profits in a particular industry. However, I would think that the general approach of. the union movement and the Australian Council of Trade Unions today - the Labor Government supports this - is that workers should be able, by collective arrangements and bargaining, to get some share of the profitability of industry. 
 Senator Laucke  will know that when I answered  Senator Gietzelt's  question I spoke in a general way. I think that my answer has been supported by the comments of honourable senators opposite who, during various debates in the Parliament, have shown that they are concerned with what they call the inflationary trend. Generally speaking, the Australian economy is in a state of prosperity. Some incidental stresses are occurring at present, but they are not symptomatic of the state of the whole economy.  Senator Gietzelt  referred to an impression which is held by most conservative elements in the community and by employers that the attack on inflation should be concentrated simply on attempts to reduce wage standards, and that was the sense in which I answered his question. 
The Minister for Labour has already laid on the table in the other place figures which illustrate that the wages paid to, and the various fringe benefits enjoyed by workers who come from overseas and from other parts of Australia to work at Whyalla are at a lower level than those which are generally applicable in other comparable industries. The facts are well known. They indicate one of the reasons why the Broken Hill Pty Co. Ltd in Whyalla is somewhat embarrassed about its work force and about productivity, which was the general basis of the question asked by  Senator Laucke.  I know that for many years in my State, in the era of the Playford Government and during part of the early years of the Labor Government, BHP was given a preferential status in the community and it had fairly liberal conditions which would not be available to employers in other States who had to compete generally on the labour markets. The simple answer to  Senator Mulvihill's  question is this: It seems clear to me that if BHP wants to get in line with the other sectors of industry in that area it should certainly lift its wage standards and fringe benefits to the levels that are granted by employers in other parts of Australia. 
 in reply - I thank the Senate for having given this Bill a fairly speedy passage and I think I ought to reply to some points raised by  Senator Durack.  The honourable senator queried whether this Government, or other governments, should be the pacesetter in annual leave. I point out both to  Senator Durack  and to the Senate that it has been traditional for the Commonwealth Government and State governments to set such standards. In fact, since 1920 the Commonwealth Act has provided for the level that we now enjoy and which will be increased to 4 weeks. The change has been the subject of representations by the general Commonwealth Public Service Organisations for at least 17 years. They put a case to the previous Government that annual leave be increased by one week. In the meantime, as most people know, State governments have increased annual leave for their public servants from 3 weeks to 4 weeks. So we have a situation in which almost as a matter of history and tradition, governments have set that standard of leave for a number of reasons related, of course, to the State organisations and to the security of State governments. I emphasise that the State governments have moved ahead and that some of them are in fact granting 4 weeks leave while others have approved extra days of leave. 

 Senator Durack, while accepting the position, because he related the Opposition's viewpoint to what the Government had decided about 4 weeks annual leave and preference to unionists, was rather reluctant about agreeing to State governments doing it. 1 think 1 have answered that point. We are meeting the traditional position of governments and what are, in our view, legitimate claims by Commonwealth officers that they should share in increased leave because in outside industry generally working conditions, if not leave, have been advanced. While one may say that in outside industry annual leave levels have not increased in some areas, a great number of fringe benefits have been applied to employees. 
Regarding the International Labour Organisation's standards,  Senator Durack  referred to a number of other things which have been and will be introduced by this Government. I refer to what the Government is trying to do. The Government is trying to apply standards set by the ILO as a pattern for the whole of the Commonwealth because, after all, we consult with other governments through that agency. We take part in the deliberations of tripartite organisations representing governments, employers, and workers organisations. Those deliberations produce recommendations and conventions. For many years we have thought it proper that governments having voted for those recommendations and conventions should apply them. One of our long standing criticisms of the previous Government was that in many cases it had agreed with recommendations and conventions but did nothing to apply them. It related its opposition to the problems of federalism within Australia. 
Most Labor governments are now trying to establish those standards so far as this is possible. Therefore, in our opinion what the Government is doing is justified. The question of any snowballing effect of the granting of extra annual leave applies also to any other movement in the economy. It might be argued that the Parliament, having recently accepted increases in parliamentary standards, in fact becomes the pacesetter for industry. I simply say that in our view the action of the Government is justified. We believe too that there ought to be, in a general sense, preference to unionists because that policy has been accepted in many industries. However, I thank the Opposition for having given this legislation a speedy passage. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time, and passed through its remaining stages without amendment or debate. 
in reply - We are rather surprised at the action being taken because in the other place the Opposition gave the legislation a speedy passage. The speakers who took part in the debate in the other place raised no objection to the legislation, except that they expressed some concern about what it might cost the Commonwealth Government and what it might cost if the principles laid down by the Labor Government flowed to the community generally. The Opposition speakers in the other place accepted the Government's position. I think that some of them pointed out, as did the Minister for Labour  (Mr Clyde Cameron),  that the Labor Party had in fact moved these amendments on 2 occasions - most recently in the Bill which was introduced last year when we announced that if we became the Government we would amend the legislation along the lines contained in the Bill we are now discussing. Having done that, the Labor Government considered that it had a mandate to include the particular provisions in this Bill. 
We have moved towards this position because on more than one occasion the Labor Party has said that we believe in the principle of no loss of earnings. We believe that regardless of whether a man earns $1,000 a week or $26,000 a week, as in the case stressed by  Senator Wright,  the widow of such a person whose death is caused by an accident in his occupation should receive what the husband was earning at the time of his death. That is our approach. While it is a higher payment than applied previously, it is not a great deal different from what some 
States provide. For example, in Tasmania  by  the accumulation of multiple amounts it is possible for the total amount to reach $26,000. But at any rate, having regard to the promise which the former Opposition made to the unions that we would introduce this legislation, we considered that we had a mandate to base our approach to workers' compensation on that principle. 
Despite the fact that  Senator Rae  and  Senator Wright  both have drawn attention to what they consider to be the excessive amount which a widow might receive, we think that the principle is sound. She has lost the wage earner.  Her  dependency is clearly established and she should receive what was normally earned by her husband. Of course, the same principle is applied to weekly payments, whether they are for partial or permanent incapacity. In the case of partial incapacity to which  Senator Wright  referred, we are ensuring not only that an employee receives what he would normally earn. If he cannot find suitable employment, which is the point raised by  Senator Wright,  we are providing that he should be paid what he would normally earn. That principle already is incorporated in a number of pieces of State legislation, including the legislation in my own State. 
In relation to redemption, which is a point to which  Senator Wright  referred, the fact is that there is a dual right to compensation and superannuation or a defence forces retirement benefits pension. I wish to make it clear that this Bill provides for the Consolidated Revenue portion of such a pension to be offset against the compensation. In the old days under the workers compensation legislation, honourable senators will remember that it was possible to offset sick leave and other leave provisions which the then Government considered to be improper and unfair. 
I refer to what  Senator Wright  said about a de facto wife and a legal wife. Already this Parliament has passed legislation in respect of the Social Services Act and the Repatriation Act which in fact establishes the simple principle, which is now to be included in the Compensation (Commonwealth Employees) Act, that where a legal wife is no longer dependent on the wage earner and a de facto wife is so dependent, payments can be made to both wives. In this case the Commissioner has a discretionary power to decide, on examining the circumstances, what amount he should give to the legal wife and what amount he should give to the so-called de facto wife. So this principle is not new in the sense that this is the first piece of legislation in which it is included. With the support of the Opposition we already have included the broad principle in other Acts. 

 Senator Wright referred to proposed new section 43 (7) which relates to a widow with a child. He referred to a circumstance which could arise where, because a widow with a dependent child is receiving the full amount of the average weekly earnings, the child would never work. My advisers from the Department inform me that proposed new section 43 (7) contains a provision which will safeguard or qualify this position. It is competent for the Commissioner to take action so as to ensure that any sort of malingering which might occur, as suggested by  Senator Wright,  can be averted. 
In regard to the question which  Senator Wright  raised about average weekly earnings, as I have said, our approach is that average weekly earnings should be based on what an employee would earn which is determined more and more by industrial agreements. State governments and some other employers are applying to workers the principle that there shall be no loss of pay. Honourable senators will recall that in the previous debate on the compensation legislation, we pointed out that in the building industry in, I think, all the States know there was wholesale acceptance by the building employers organisations of the principle that when workers, such as bricklayers, builders' labourers and plasterers, were off work on compensation they should receive what they normally earned, including overtime. The average weekly earnings will be based on an employee's own earnings: they will not be based on the national earnings or the Commonwealth Statistician's figures. 1 think that that answers most of the arguments about the general principles contained in the Bill. We have accepted the fact that there is a need to provide legislation, which we agree is model legislation. We have said this. It has always been part of the Government's policy; it has not just recently been adopted. Honourable senators will recall that we have, approached all the debates about compensation legislation on the basis that there should be no loss of pay and that there should be adjustments down the line. We have put those adjustments into effect in this Bill. We have also accepted that there was a mandate from the people who elected us to office to give effect to what we have proposed. The Opposition intends to oppose the proposition. This will cause unnecessary delay to the passage of the Bill which seeks to grant some great benefits. 
Honourable senators will know, from reading Hansard, that in the other place many Government supporters who spoke on this Bill said that the previous Opposition in fact gave a preliminary warning that we would do as we have done in this Bill. On the last occasion when the compensation legislation was before the Parliament we had no hesitation in saying that that piece of compensation legislation was the best in Australia. There is no question about that. Many months have passed since that was done. At the time we tried to improve the situation. Honourable senators will recall that in 1969 and, I think, again in 1970 we did the same thing by moving amendments. So, prior indication was given of the sorts of things we would be moving. Those are the reasons for our objection to the delay. It can be argued that it will be a short delay. It appears to me that the amendment will be carried because the Opposition has the numbers. I am sorry that the Senate is not going to do the same as was done in the other place, which accepted the Bill. 
Yes, I am sorry about the Australian Democratic Labor Party and the Australian Country Party. In winding up I point out that we had presumed that because the Opposition in the other place had accepted the intimation the Government gave of what it would move, and that whilst it might be a costly system which would overflow to the community generally the Opposition here would give a speedy passage to the Bill. Unfortunately in this case the Bill is going to be delayed. For that reason the Government opposes the amendment. 
I support the proposition put by the Minister for the Media  (Senator Douglas McClelland).  My comments will be brief. I point to something which I think is highly important as regards the Senate. To me it seems quite undemocratic to have a motion advanced in this form. The Minister for Works  (Senator Cavanagh)  has canvassed the issue. If the amendment is carried, it will actually depend upon the leaders of the minority groups as to who decides when this Senate should be assembled. It should be a matter for each senator to decide. I have heard many pleas in this chamber about the importance of the Senate. This afternoon the Senate was subject to great arguments about the importance of the Senate in relation to the other place. Honourable senators can argue that an honourable senator in this place has a very special responsibility and ability. But in the prosposal which has been advanced by the Opposition it has been left to the 3 leaders of the minority groups which are, in fact, the Opposition of the country to contest the role and powers of the Government. We are the Government, as we have been appointed by the electors of Australia to govern the country. Yet honourable senators opposite come along and say: 'Right, one leader from each of those minority groups can assemble the Senate'. The leaders would not have to assemble their members in a democratic fashion; they would not have to have Party meetings; yet on their say so it is proposed that the Senate can be reassembled. 
All honourable senators are doing is carrying out a policy of frustration of the Government. The Opposition has been experimenting with the idea of frustrating government. It has said tentatively that on every occasion it will accept whatever the Government has a mandate for. But whenever there is a Bill before the Senate the Opposition does what it can to frustrate its passage. 
Of course you do. As a matter of fact, you did it this afternoon in relation to workers compensation. But in the other place your Party said: 'Let it go through'. 
Today your acting leader,  Senator McManus  - 
Well, the coalition. It is the group opposite me acting in coalition all the time. The leaders of the minority groups say: 'We will decide when the Senate will meet'. If honourable senators are genuine about the proposal they should insert a prescription that there has to be an assembly of members of all Party groups. Then perhaps honourable senators could justify what they are doing. They may be able to justify it on the basis of democracy or as related to the role of each honourable senator who is elected from the States. But until that is done this is a most undemocratic act. It is intended to frustrate the Government. At some time the Opposition's proposal will cause a crisis within the community and within the political machinery of this country. I repeat that this procedure is most undemocratic. This is simply an exercise of a power which honourable senators have just found they have. Like all power it has to be exercised carefully. It would be a bad thing if the Senate were to have regard for this sort of thing in such a  cursory  fashion. Perhaps honourable senators could have this motion examined by one of the Senate committees. The great advocates of the Senate committees might say-- 
The honourable senator knows the situation. We are trying to exercise a democratic power by the motion which was put down by  Senator Murphy.  But the proposition advanced by the Opposition is too simple. Why, a child could work it out. It is a little puzzle whereby 3 people,  Senator Withers, Senator Drake-Brockman  and  Senator Gair,  if he is here, or  Senator McManus  telephone each other and say: 'We will put the heat on the Government. We will give an instruction to the President.' It is as simple as that. The great defenders of the Constitution opposite have said that the Senate ought to do this or do that. They are setting up a little junta within this Senate which will subvert the purposes of the Senate. I hope that due regard will be given to that fact. It is great to be happy when one has the numbers. But honourable senators opposite have the numbers only because they have agreed for the time being to work together on some specific, common platform. They do not have the numbers because of their electoral strength. 
Honourable senators opposite have agreed to run on the same policy pattern in the short term. In my opinion it is not proper for the Senate to carry the amendment. I suggest that in the long term honourable senators opposite will be sorry if they use their weight to pass this proposal. If some sort of democratic process had been written into the amendment whereby there was some sort of requirement that the leaders had to consult individual honourable senators, then I think there might have been some sub stance in the proposal. For those reasons I suggest that this is a fundamental mistake in the history of the Senate. I have no doubt that in 10 years time the person who writes the 'Senate Practice' will mention this as  a  great failure. 
 I move: 
That the Bill be  now  read a- second time. 
The purpose of the Bill is to amend repatriation legislation to enable repatriation Service and other means test pensioners to continue to receive their pensions when they leave Australia. Repatriation war pensioners, as you know,  Mr Deputy President,  rightly receive their entitlements no matter where they live in the world. The Bill will mean that Service pensioners and other means test pensioners such as widowed mothers and aged parents of deceased ex-servicemen will be entitled to continue to receive their pensions under the Repatriation Act if they leave Australia. This will honour, in the Repatriation field, the Government's undertaking to allow all Australian residents who have gained the right to receive any social security pension to enjoy that right wherever they choose to live. 
Under the amendments to the Repatriation Act to be effected by this Bill a Service pensioner will be free to leave Australia and live in another country while retaining his pension entitlement. While supplementary assistance will not be payable overseas, the Bill provides that, if one of a married couple receiving supplementary assistance travels overseas, the spouse remaining will be paid supplementary assistance at the single rate during the absence of his or her partner. Any former resident presently living overseas who returns to Australia may receive the Service pension, if eligible. However, he will not be able lo transfer the Service pension overseas unless he remains in Australia for a period of at least 12 months. This is designed to prevent persons normally resident overseas from returning to Australia just to receive a pension and take it back with them. 
In addition to providing for continuation of payments to pensioners wherever they choose to live outside Australia, the provisions introduced by this Bill will also allow a social security pensioner living overseas, if he wishes and is otherwise eligible, to transfer to a repatriation Service pension, or vice versa, thus giving him the same rights in this respect as would be available to him in Australia. Because the intentions of the population affected by this measure are unknown, it is not possible at this time to assess the overall costs but, generally speaking, they will be relatively small and insignificant in comparison to the effect of removing this unnecessary limitation on people who have earned the right to benefits in the service of their country. 
The Bill also provides for minor amendments to the principal Act. The first amendment substitutes a new definition of 'child' in section 83 to clarify the intention that a child who has attained the age of 16 years must be undertaking full-time education and be wholly or substantially dependent upon the pensioner parent before being recognised for service pension purposes. The second amendment authorises the extension of benefits under the repatriation regulations to student children over the age of 21 years. Parliament has given its approval in the Repatriation Act 1973 to the recognition of these children in the Repatriation Act itself and this amendment will enable the relevant provisions of the repatriation regulations to be extended to them. The third amendment applies to the principal Act new drafting principles which are being introduced by the Parliamentary Counsel. I commend the Bill to the Senate. 
Debate (on motion by  Senator Withers)  adjourned. 
 The Government does not have any objection to this reference to the Senate Standing Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence. Maybe I should refer very quickly to the sorts of things the Government has tried to do in relation to these matters. I accept what  Senator McManus  has said, namely, that some of the matters probably would be better examined by that Committee. But may J refer briefly to some of the things which the Government has tried to do? As everybody knows at present 2 reviews are being conducted, initiated by the Government. One of the reviews, of course, is into the necessary strength and the efficiency of the Australian Army and the other one is that announced by the Minister for Defence,  Mr Barnard,  some weeks ago in relation to the efficiency and so on of the Citizen Military Forces. There are a number of specified criteria for the examinations. 
In addition to the reviews being conducted by our defence advisers and experts, the Government has initiated a number of basic reforms which will have the effect, we think, of establishing the Australian armed Services, as a completely efficient and professional; body. I refer, of course, to the new pay scales, the new Defence Forces Retirement Benefits Fund agreements and other procedures which have been instituted by our Ministers and our Government which have given the Services a number of new aspects which are complementary to the idea of having a new professional service. Having made those brief comments, I repeat that the Government has no objection to the reference as proposed by  Senator McManus  being made to the Committee. I simply mention those matters as a preamble to the matters which might be investigated. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a first time. 
The .statement that 1 have seen in the Press is purely speculation. It is not correct. As a matter of fact, the parties which have conducted the investigations are continuing their investigations and the Government is very anxious that we should get a determination soon so that not only are the aircraft replaced but also our plans for the rationalisation of the aircraft industry can be . put into effect. ] can assure  Senator DrakeBrockman  that whatever inferences he has drawn from the speculation in the Press are not correct. 
 I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
The Bill proposes an increase in the statutory maximum rate of charge which can be imposed on the employment of class A waterside workers. The Stevedoring Industry Charge Assessment Act 1947-1971 provides for the assessment and collection of the stevedoring industry charge at rates which are prescribed by regulation under the Stevedoring Industry Charge Act. Different rates are payable in respect of 3 separate classes of waterside workers. Class A waterside workers are registered regular waterside workers employed on weekly hire at permanent or continuous ports. Class B waterside workers are employed at continuous non-permanent ports. Class C waterside workers are those employed at non-continuous ports and include irregular waterside workers on Part B of the register at all ports. 
The Stevedoring Industry Charge Act limits the rate of the charge payable in respect of employment of these 3 classes of waterside workers as defined in the Stevedoring Industry Charge Assessment Act. The present maximum rates of charge under the Stevedoring Industry Charge Act are$1 per man-hour, $1.75 per man-hour and$1. 20 per man-hour for A, B, and C classes respectively. The actual rates charged within these maxima are fixed by regulation and in the case of class A waterside workers, the rate charged is now at the maximum. 
The purpose of the Stevedoring Industry Charge Bill 1973 is to amend the Stevedoring Industry Charge Act 1947-1971 to permit the charge to be imposed at rates up to $1.50 per man-hour for class A waterside workers. The amendment is necessary because the Australian Stevedoring Industry Authority is not able to meet its financial commitments with regard to class A waterside workers from the revenue currently derived from the charge. An increase is now needed because of changes that have occurred in wage rates and conditions of employment since the rates of charge were last fixed, and because of expected increases which will affect the level of payments to be made by the Australian Stevedoring Industry Authority in respect of long service leave and idle time. 
I am pleased to be able to inform the Senate that the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  has authorised an announcement that part of the increase in the charge will be attributable to new funding arrangements for the guaranteed minimum wage in non-permanent ports. These payments, formerly funded by the employers through a voluntary levy applicable only in non-permanent ports, will now be funded through the statutory charge. At this stage it is not known what changes in the rates of charge will be required on this account. However, it is intended that the cost of funding the guaranteed wage be spread over all ports in such a way as to ensure that a substantial part of the burden is borne by the permanent ports. 
In the circumstances, the Government believes that the proper course to follow at this stage is to vary the Stevedoring Industry Charge Act in the way outlined. This amendment will not in itself vary the present rate of the charge. The actual rate of charge is fixed by regulation and any alteration is made after considering a recommendation from the Australian Stevedoring Industry Authority. I commend the Bill to the Senate. 
Debate (on motion by  Senator Cotton)  adjourned. 
I will have to obtain the information for the honourable senator, which 1 will do as quickly as I can. 
 I thank the Leader of the Opposition  (Senator Withers)  for the speedy passage the Opposition has given to this Bill and for his very kind comments about the attitude the Opposition will adopt in relation to certain other Bills. 
Bill read a second time. 
In Committee 
The Bill. 
The Minister for Labour has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
As the  Senator will  be aware a statement was read in the Senate on my behalf on 3rd April 1973 concerning the guaranteed minimum wage levy for nonpermanent ports. This statement indicated the action I have already undertaken and will take to ensure that outer ports were not disadvantaged by the funding of the guaranteed minimum wage scheme. The statement above also referred to a Report which had been made on this matter with reference to Portland; should the  Senator not  already have a copy of that Report, a copy will be made available to him. 
On 10th April (Hansard page 948)  Senator Mulvihill  asked me the following question, without notice: 
Is he yet in a position to give the Senate any information on any moves contemplated by the Commonwealth Government to galvanise the States into action to introduce measures which will combat the rising incidence of disease associated with asbestos? 
I undertook to obtain more information and the Minister for Labour has now provided me with the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
Draft Model Asbestos Regulations have been prepared by the Occupational Health Committee of the National Health and Medical Research Council, and are under consideration by State authorities as to their suitability for adoption in whole or in part in State industrial legislation. 
The Department of the Army is always prepared to review its land requirements and it sympathetically considers all proposals submitted by the appropriate State authorities. It is prepared to consider fully any reasonable specific proposals put forward by State authorities. Negotiations between the Commonwealth and New South Wales governments concerning the release of Army land at Moore Park and elsewhere in the Sydney area have been proceeding for some time and are still in progress. Currently the initiative rests with the New South Wales Government. While I cannot give specific details of these arrangements to the honourable senator, I can assure him that as soon as the position is clarified an announcement will be made. 
1 think the honourable senator knows that when this Government was elected to office the Prime Minster stated that the Government would not put up with unnecessary unemployment. The figures since the Government came to power have proved that unemployment has been reduced - we believe by the Government's constructive actions. 
As the honourable senator knows, the Minister for Defence and the Prime Minister already have made some references to the possibility of a supply ship being used for this purpose. I think the general aspects of the question call for a studied reply because the information was rather tentative and the proposition is tentative. I will seek additional information for the honourable senator and give it to him. 
 in reply - I wish to thank  Senator Rae  for his comments and the Opposition for the speedy passage it has given to this legislation. I took note of what was said in relation to certain problems in the social services field, particularly in relation to costs. The information I obtained from the Repatriation Department, having explored the matter, is the same as that which was stated by  Senator Douglas  McClelland. We do not expect any great increase in expenditure as a result of the implementation  i&gt;!'  this legislation. It is very hard to work out how many people will be involved. While honourable senators were discussing the subject of costs earlier I also tried to get some information as to how many people overseas are at present receiving war pensions. I have not yet received that information although it is available. 
War pensions are presently payable through various agents and missions overseas. The majority of pensions are payable through the  Deputy  Commissioner of Repatriation in London and the Commonwealth Sub-Treasury in Geneva. If no Australian facilities are available British facilities are used. Most payments are made by cheque or bank draft. No problems have been experienced in the payment of war pensions in any country overseas. I have just been supplied with information as to the number of pensions involved. A total of 4,000 pensions are paid. With those comments, I again thank the Opposition for the speedy passage it has given to this Bill. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time, and passed through its remaining stages without amendment or debate. 
I  think it is a straightforward matter and  I  would like to proceed now, having seconded  Senator Willesee^  amendment. What  Senator Willesee  has proposed is very reasonable. He is saying, in fact, that the proposal for a committee of  5,  which has been advanced by  Senator Wright,  ought to be accepted. In saying that, he is also putting a proposition which  1  suggest to honourable senators opposite has been the accepted custom of the Senate, namely, that the government of the day ought to have a majority on a committee. 
Let me tell  Senator Wright,  who did not see what was going on, what  Senator Cavanagh  wanted to say. When  Senator Cavanagh  intervened earlier in the debate he wanted to announce that the Government had decided, with the approval of the Minister for Transport  (Mr Charles Jones),  to accept the proposition advanced by  Senator Wright.  Despite what the Government had done, it accepted the proposition that the Senate wanted to set up a committee to test what had been done.  Senator Cavanagh  was unable to say that. I am saying it now because he was unable to say it at the time. The Government accepts what the Senate has proposed; that is, to have an inquiry. We accept the usual test which has now been presented by  Senator Wright.  He is not now announcing what should be the final economic proposition. This is to be subject to test. So, all we have to resolve is who shall comprise the Committee. 
We accept the proposition for an inquiry. I have said what  Senator Cavanagh  was trying to say when  Senator Wright  had some cross words with him. 
I know. What I am trying to relate is that at an earlier stage- 
I am only trying to put on the record that at an earlier stage we had agreed to accept  Senator Wright's  proposition in relation to an inquiry. We are now saying that if it is proposed to have a committee of five it seems to us to be reasonable that that committee ought to consist of  3  Government senators and 2 Opposition senators because that has been the usual practice in the Senate. 
Next, I refer to what  Senator Willesee  has stated, namely, that if the  Committee  decides to recommend a particular point of view which involves expenditure in the final analysis it will be Government expenditure. If it were resolved, for example, that the 'Straitsman' must be run on the service for 12 months at a cost of $400,000 a year, the Government would be up for that sum. lt is reasonable to say that iri that circumstance the Committee should consist of 3 Government senators and 2 Opposition senators. 
Yes, all 5 would be Tasmanian senators. It seems to me to be a reasonable proposition. Before the vote was taken  Senator Cavanagh  was not able to stand up and say that the Government accepted the proposition for an inquiry. So I suggest, with due deference to the issue, that we should test the proposition and that honourable senators be reasonable and accept what  Senator Willesee  has now proposed, having regard to the fact that the Government accepts  Senator Wright's  proposition, which is simply to test the proposal. 
I will get the information that the honourable senator requests and pass it on to him. 
Of course the honourable senator knows that the legislation in relation to this matter is very complex. As soon as the Labor Government was elected we convened meetings of the Service specialists in this connection, reviewed what had been proposed and improved upon that. Since that time very important arrangements in relation to drafting have had to be made. Any delay is occasioned  only because of this complexity of the matter. So far as the new pay scale is concerned, it is expected that the new pay scale will be paid as from 14th June. There has been no untoward delay in relation to this matter. 
-I take your guidance,  Mr President.  I think the honourable senator would know that whenever the Minister for Labour,  Mr Clyde  Cameron, is talking about Labor policies on strikes he is talking not about his own policies but the policies of his Party in Government. That can be summarised, 1 think, in clarifications which the Minister has made. He has maintained, as has the Labor Government and the trade union movement, that there is a right to strike and that to remove that right to strike from workers and unions is in fact to conscript them and destroy their freedom. I understood that the Minister's statement was intended to convey that opinion. If the honourable senator would like me to investigate the statement 1 will do so. 
The honourable senator, having read the judgment, would have noted that there was a rather remarkable affinity of opinion between those who took part in the application to the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission. There were no great protests from the employers, the unions or other sections of the community. This would seem to imply that most sections of the community affected by the increase are not complaining about it. There also was a report in the Press this morning that the Victorian Chamber of Manufactures is advocating that the increase should not necessarily be fed down the line in the form of price increases. Not having read precisely what  Mr Cameron  said, 1 think one would have to take his statement as an appeal to people not to transfer costs resulting from the. wage Increase where such action is not justified. We know as a matter of fact that industry has a capacity to meet additional costs, even in the form of wage increases, because of increasing mechanisation. The honourable senator's question has to be looked at in the light of the fact, as it appears to me, that today most responsible people in the community are tending to conserve costs, if possible, rather than transferring them in anticipation of wage loading. 
All I can say in answer to the last part of the honourable senator's question is that if I am given the opportunity I shall certainly fly in the aircraft. In this respect I am following the practice of the Minister for Defence. It is true that when  Mr Barnard  last visited the United States he flew in the aircraft. But in answer to questions asked by  Senator Drake-Brockman  I have made it clear that the Fill aircraft will take its place in the Royal Australian Air Force complement. The performance of the aircraft will be watched closely by the RAAF. Already there has been some criticism to the effect that the aircraft will not be used at its top performance when it comes to Australia. 1 only say that the RAAF will ensure that the aircraft is put to proper use in Australia. The crew will go through a training program to gain experience in the operation of the aircraft. In relation to the arrival date, the first ferry from the United States is expected to take place late this month. The expected date of arrival in Australia is 1st June. I shall check that date and confirm it with the Minister. 
 Mr President 
I remind the Senate of what  Senator Townley  has said tonight because it seems to me to clarify the issues now before the Senate and what have been the issues since we came back after the election.  Senator Townley  said that he thought that a government, having been elected and having a mandate from the people of Australia, should have the carriage of the business of the Senate. 
There you are. The Opposition is so used to being in government that it cannot understand why the Labor Government, having been elected, should decide the order of the business of the Senate. What I am putting tonight is what I think is the crux of the issue.  Senator Townley,  a former Liberal Party member, said tonight that he accepted the proposition that in this place, because the Labor Party had been elected to government, the Government should have the responsibility of telling the Senate what is the Government business for the day. That seems to me to be not only reasonable but also the essence of democracy. In the general context, if a government is elected in another House but cannot carry through its policies in the Senate, obviously  a  minority of senators is frustrating the work of that government. That is the issue before us tonight. 
As I have reminded the Senate on a number of occasions before, we have a situation in the Senate which we will have to face in the future and I am not now issuing any challenges in respect of a double dissolution. I simply remind the Senate and the people of Australia that there could be a circumstance in the future which would require the Australian people to decide whether they want a situation in which the Senate holds up legislation of the government which has been supported by the people. At this stage the Senate has to ask itself whether it wants to test its position with the Australian electorate. Up till now it is true that a number of important Bills have passed through the Senate but I remind honourable senators of what has taken place since we came back after the election. Amost immediately after the election the Attorney-General  (Senator Murphy)  reported upon his investigations into the threats on the life of the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  and his own life. We then had for many weeks persistent questioning of the Leader of the Government in the Senate - questioning which continued for not only 2 hours on one occasion but all day on another. We had the Opposition parties in combination questioning the Leader of the Government about these matters. 
The same old questions. This happened every day as though  Senator Murphy  was in the witness box. These were the tactics, as some newspapers said, of the bullying lawyer. 
 I accept your direction,  Mr President-- 
 Senator Greenwood,  who has broken all the rules in the past-- 
Of course he has. What he is trying to do tonight is take away from the Government the business of the Senate which should be in the hands of the Government. There are 16 Bills which should be dealt with at this stage and  Senator Gair  would have the opportunity on Thursday night to proceed with his motion. 
That is tomorrow night. 
The honourable senator knows that tomorrow night is for general business.  Senator Murphy  has already said that he would make sure that  Senator Gair  could proceed with his motion tomorrow night. There would be no obstruction from the Government which would prevent him discussing this matter then. Why is it urgent for it to be brought on tonight? It is brought on tonight in order to use the broadcasting time and somehow place another impediment in the way of the Government. It is another attempt by the group of Opposition parties to frustrate what the Government should be doing. 
Of course it is. As I pointed out before., the Senate has placed itself in a certain situation and let me remind the Senate of what has already been done here. Opposition senator*, have held up important Bills. There is the Defence Services Homes Bill, and many honourable senators have had people remind them about it and have cases before them concerning it. They have held up many other important Bills such as the Housing Assistance Bill. They have also decided that they cannot debate the Compensation (Commonwealth Employees) Bill which passed through the other place with no objection from Opposition members there. However, when it came to this place Opposition senators decided that it should go before a committee of the Senate, and that committee will not report until Thursday. So there is further frustration in that regard. In respect of the Bass Strait shipping services what did they do?  Senator Wright,  with the assistance of the minority parties, successfully moved a motion that the balance of power on the Senate Select Committee on Bass Strait Shipping Services should be held by the Opposition parties and not by the Government. Also in the motion to be moved by  Senator Gair  and argued later tonight the balance of power on the proposed committee will not be with the Government but with the Opposition parties, the Opposition parties representing a minority of the Australian electorate. How can a Government put up with this situation? This is not what was always done. 
Of course not. As  Senator Murphy  reminds me, although we were an active Opposition we never denied the Government of the day the right to dominate committees and to select the chairmen. On no occasion was this done to the previous Government. However, on every occasion after the election, this minority group of 3 people - it is not a party, there are only 3 involved- 
I accept that there is some straying from the main argument but i; am trying to point out that what is happening in the Senate is an amalgamation of minority groups which do not represent the voice of the people. 
lt is important in this place, and 1 think you will agree with me.  Mr President,  that the Government of the day be able to decide the business of the Senate. 
Yes, of course. General business is something for which we on this side of the Parliament have fought. We have demanded, and achieved it in the main, that on Thursday night there should be time for matters other than Government business. We have spent the whole day under the influence of this minority group, arguing whether this day, which is usually a Government business day. should be used to debate what is not Government business. That is the issue on which 1 suggest  Senator Townley  has put his finger. This is a frustration of the work of government. The Leader of the Opposition  (Senator Withers)  in opening the case for the Opposition said exactly that. He said that the role of the Opposition is to frustrate the Government. That is not an accurate statement of the role of the Opposition. It is not the role of the Opposition in any democracy operating under the British system. The role of an Opposition should be to be constructive. It should be critical but it should also be constructive. 
What we have had today is a continuation of what was started when this Parliament first sat after the election - a combination of minority parties which do not have the support of the people of Australia wanting to decide what the Senate shall do and wanting to take out of the hands of the Government in the Senate its power to introduce the legislation which it has been authorised by mandate of the Australian people to introduce. Honourable senators opposite can be supertechnical, but those are the issues. I suggest that  Senator Townley  has put his finger on the exact point. It must be clear to everybody, not only those who argue the point in this place but the people who are talking about it, what has been taking place. I shall deal now with  Senator Byrne's  speech. 
Of course  Senator Webster  will talk all night when he starts. I deal now with what  Senator Byrne  said. He tried to explain why, after  Senator Cavanagh  yielded to him, he moved the gag. He tried to excuse his action. Whatever obtuse reasons he gave for moving the gag were completely exploded when, on the issue of whether the gag should be applied, he supported the gag by his vote. I think these issues are important. Honourable senators on this side of the chamber have issued a number of challenges about having a double dissolution. In the future there will be an occasion for the people of Australia to decide whether this sort of practice should continue. In previous days when  Senator Murphy  challenged the then Government - we had a very active Opposition then - we never denied (he Government 
 As  Senator Webster  will agree,  Senator Murphy  never denied the rights of the Government to dominate the committees or to ensure that it exercised control of the committees. Since we have been in government  Senator Wright,  who is now growling, last Thursday decided that the Opposition should have the weight of numbers and should dominate a committee. 
I have not seen the statement to which the honourable senator referred. In that circumstance, I undertake to get from  Mr Clyde  Cameron the answer and the explanation sought by the honourable senator. 
As the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition well knows, I am not in a position to discuss a verbatim report of anything said by the Minister for Labour on that program. We know that at various times discussions have been held between the Minister and the news media and that in such discussions this week a question was asked about  Mr Clyde  Cameron's interpretation of the right to strike. I can only say in respect of what the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition has alleged  Mr Clyde  Cameron to have said that I will ask the Minister for Labour to give me his own interpretation of what he said and whether it was intended to be in any respect a declaration of Australian Labor Party policy. 
 We have just heard a fairly reasonable speech from  Senator Drake-Brockman,  who is the Leader of the Australian Country Party. 
That is what 1 was about to say. I said it was reasonable because I think  Senator Drake-Brockman  entered into the debate in a different spirit from that of  Senator Greenwood  or  Senator Withers. Senator Drake-Brockman  did try to understand the problem as he saw it. I want to remind him that he is one of the leaders of a party which has been instrumental in antagonising supporters of the Government by seeking to amalgamate with the Australian Democratic Labor Party and to follow the DLP line as well as by co-operating with the Liberal Party of Australia in Opposition. Honourable senators opposite have decided on doing a number of things which are very offensive to the Senate and, in my view, undemocratic. 
Listen to me for a moment and you may learn something. Let me put my first point to honourable senators opposite and let one of them answer it. The first thing that honourable senators opposite did some weeks ago when they were attacking  Senator Murphy  day after day during question time was decide that 3 people - the leaders of the 3 minority parties in Opposition - could without a vote by their fellow senators decide to recall the Senate. Do honourable senators opposite call that democratic? Do they expect any government or any elector to support them in such a proposition? But they went ahead and did so. Despite the pleas of  Senator Murphy  and honourable senators on this side of the chamber they decided to take the bit between their teeth and carried a proposal - they probably do not realise this - that gave 3 people the power to ring each other in their various States and decide whether to bring the Senate back to discuss anything they wanted it to discuss. When the Government suggested that a vote should be taken and that it would accept the proposition if the vote was supported by each of the members of those parties, honourable senators opposite rejected the suggestion, lt was undemocratic. Honourable senators opposite know that they cannot stand upon it. I am sure that the people of Australia would support us in the complaint that we have made tonight. 
Since that time, of course, honourable senators opposite have pushed  Senator Drake-Brockman  into doing something that normally he would not do. He is ordinarily  a  very reasonable b'.oke. I accept what he said about his relations with  Senator Murphy.  We know that what he said is true. We know that when in Opposition the Australian Labor Party regularly met with the then Leader of the Government in the Senate,  Senator Sir Kenneth  Anderson, whom we all greatly respect, and  Senator Drake-Brockman. Senator Murphy  was the person who regularly met with them. On many occasions  Senator Sir Kenneth  Anderson gave in to us because he was a leader to be respected and an honest man.  Senator Murphy  is the person who initiated those discussions. A different situation is applying today. Only a day or so ago I saw  Senator Murphy  go up to the office of  Senator Withers  about a matter which had been discussed between the Ministers but he could not find  Senator Withers. Senator Withers  said that he had been attending a committee meeting since 9 o'clock. Quite obviously  Senator Murphy's  prestige must be recognised because when he was Leader of the Opposition he did these things. He wants them done today. Tonight the Opposition is complaining about pairs.  Senator Drake-Brockman  and others comp ain that the Government did not give them pairs. The arrangements were not to give pairs other than to the Opposition. That was a Democratic Labor Party resolution. That is not strange. The amalgamation of the Opposition parties has produced a topsy turvy situation. All the parties are coming in behind the DLP. 
Of course. The DLP becomes the leader of the Opposition in the Senate on every issue and then its members go out and say in the public arena and in the media: 'We have taken the initiative.' The Australian Country Party and the Liberal Party will find that they are tailing the dog all the time. In tonight's situation clearly no complaint can be made about the Australian Labor Party because what  Senator O'Byrne  did tonight had the full support of every Minister and every Labor senator. We have become sick and tired of this situation, and we mean it. I have repeated on several occasions that everybody is concerned that the relationship that used to exist between the Government and the Opposition no longer exists. The Opposition wants to dominate every committee that is set up in the Senate, and what is more- 
Will you stop acting like a little pekingese and interrupting all the time? This matter has been referred to not only by me but also by other honourable senators. It is a very important matter that ought to be considered. The more reliable and responsible senators opposite, the senators with experience, ought to think about this. The situation we have today is that the Labor Government has been elected by the people. It has a mandate to carry out its program. 
You are silly,  Senator. I  have already told you- 
The  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Prowse)  - I think that the honourable senator is under a misapprehension. I think that what he heard the Minister say was: 'Do not be silly'.  Senator Jessop,  several times I have asked you to refrain from interjecting. 
What I said before, which caused the interjection, was that every Labor member and every Minister supported what  Senator O'Byrne  had done. We had discussed it. Everybody on this side of the Parliament is sick and tired of arrangements being made between 3 people in the Senate who then get up and complain because the Government wants to run the Senate. The Government of the day has a mandate from the people. Government members are charged with putting forward its programs. We find that we are frustrated, particularly on days such as yesterday when the proceedings are being broadcast. Any government with guts would raise objections and would do what this Government did tonight.  Senator Greenwood  and others complained about the pairs. In the past we have never agreed to give pairs to the parties referred to. The pairs are between the Opposition and the Government.  Senator Murphy  has told the Senate, and  Senator Drake-Brockman  has confirmed it, that those relations existed when we were in Opposition. We want to know why honourable senators opposite do not do the same thing today. 
Let us look at the motions proposed by  Senator Gair  and other people. They always want to dominate the committees. The proportions proposed are 4 to 3. The Government is to be expected to investigate and inquire into many important things when it is in the minority by 4 to 3. In addition, of course, the Government is expected to provide all the services, the cost of running the committees and the cost of providing experts. We will do this. Surely nobody who has any sense - no ordinary elector - would accept that position. Nobody in a democratic society would accept the position. No government, even one which has fewer numbers in one House, can be expected to put up with a similar situation. 
If the confrontation is not to be tonight, it will be next week or the week after. We will not put up with it. As  Senator Drake-Brockman  has said, running the business needs some cooperation. It needs a review by people who are not used to it. Let me put this to honourable senators opposite: The cold situation is that the Opposition is not yet used to being in opposition. It is used to being in government. Some senators opposite have been very arrogant, as everybody knows. What did they do? Apart from the issue of the Croats- 
 Senator Jessop,  why don't you shut up; why don't you be quiet? You can speak later if you wish, but don't keep on interrupting me all the time like a poodle dog. I think that what I am putting forward is just as reasonable as the proposition which was put by  Senator Drake-Brockman.  I think he is culpable because he has accepted these arrangements which we cannot put up with. There has to be a return to sanity in the Senate if any sort of parliamentary system is to operate. There has to be co-operation. No government will put up with the sort of things which we have had to put up with since we came to office, in particular, the matters relating to  Senator Murphy.  Despite what honourable senators opposite have said about him, he has been under great strain in the Senate since we came to office. We know that he has been subjected daily, not for an hour but for several hours, to bullying and arrogance from senators asking him questions. He has not had a chance to raise or to deal with major matters or to co-operate with the leaders. He has not had the co-operation to which he is entitled. 
There is a tension in this place which should not be here. It should be resolved quickly. It calls for a lot of intelligence, but in the first place it calls for the acceptance of a major principle, that is, that we are the Government and we will be the Government as long as we retain office. If honourable senators opposite keep issuing challenges and keep on establishing undemocratic committees, the Government will take them on. We hope that that time will not be too far away. Of course we will take them on. We believe that the people will back us because no parliamentary system can put up with the sort of situation which has developed in the Senate. I hope that the more responsible senators opposite will think about that situation. 
I will ask the Minister for Defence to give consideration to  Senator Mulvihills  question. 
in reply - I understood that  Senator Willesee  had advised  Senator Withers  that it was desirable that the Commonwealth Electoral Bill (No. 2) 1973 should be disposed of and that the 2 industrial Bills - that is the Compensation (Commonwealth Employees) Bill 1973 and the Conciliation and Arbitration Bill 1973 - would follow, if possible, in that order. 
No, I would not think so. I would think that if the Commonwealth Electoral Bill is disposed of it might be possible this week to reach the Committee stage in the debate on the Compensation (Commonwealth Employees) Bill. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
The Minister for Labour, when answering a question in another place today, referred to these matters and also to the current unemployment provisions applying to the metropolitan areas. He stated that he was to make a survey of the, position. I will contact him and see what further information I can obtain for  Senator Davidson. 
Probably the honourable senator knows that these matters were canvassed before. What military aid should be given was a matter of discussion between  Mr Barnard,  the Minister for Defence, and the Indonesian Government. It was not new. It was not exclusive of civil aid. In fact, it formed the basis of prior consultation. Yes, the amount is roughly $20m. The decision by the Indonesian and Australian Governments on what constitutes aid and what is necessary has not yet been made. The Minister for Defence simply told the Indonesian Government that that would be the amount that the Australian Government could provide for that particular purpose. Although it is a separate matter, that aid is not exclusive of civil aid which is handled by other Ministers who have other responsibilities and which is the subject of continuing discussion between the 2 Governments. May I say also that the Indonesian Government expressed considerable gratitude for the co-operation -of the Australian Government in respect of this area of aid. 
The honourable senator will see from the notice paper that the Conciliation and Arbitration Bill will be introduced today. There is no intention on the part of the Government to delay passage of the Bill. I should mention here that the issue which was raised by the Australian Council of Trade Unions and some unions with the Minister for Labour related to proposed new section 133 (1A) concerning various elections by members of a union. It is likely, although I cannot announce it at this stage, that during debate on the relevant provision, which is clause 50, a proposition will be moved to allow its enforcement after 3 years. 
I cannot answer in the general sense. The honourable senator asked a question about defence aid for Indonesia and I answered that it was a matter, as I pointed out, which resulted from continuing discussions between the previous Government and the present Government and which has been, I think, satisfactorily settledon the terms of co-operation between the 2 countries. If the honourable senator desires particular information in respect of the other related areas. I will obtain the information for him. I think that is the most satisfactory course to adopt. 
Pursuant to section 58 (1) (c) of the Stevedoring Industry Act 1956-1971, I present the annual report of the Australian Stevedoring Industry Authority for the year ended 30th June 1972, together with financial statements and the Auditor-General's report on those statements. 
For the information of honourable senators, I present the text for the following international treaty: Convention 131 concerning minimum wage fixing adopted by the International Labour Conference at its Fifty-Fourth Session. The relevant laws and practices are in conformity with the Convention. Subject to the approval of the Federal Executive Council, the Government intends to lodge instruments of ratification in respect of the Convention with the Director-General of the International Labour Office as soon as possible. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
This Bill is the first stage of a radical transformation of industrial relations in Australia. Later stages of this transformation will involve an examination of all aspects of industrial relations in Australia by a special committee of inquiry to ensure that policies and procedures for handling labour relations will be suitable for our needs over the next decade or so. This will take us far beyond a mere examination of the law on conciliation and arbitration. 
Copies have been circulated. They were placed in honourable senators' mail boxes this morning. 
The honourable senator probably knows that really his question ought to be directed to  Senator Willesee  who represents the Prime Minister in this place. The subject of nuclear tests is largely one related to foreign affairs. With respect to the action of the ACTU, I understand that; in another place this morning, the Prime Minister advised the Parliament that he. is conducting negotiations with the ACTU. All I can say to the honourable senator in expressing an opinion with respect to the ACTU's ban is that this is an attitude which is designed to affect the tests to be held in the area with which we are concerned and which is of concern  to  the ACTU. The area of concern is more important than is the question of what China might do in the foreseeable future. I understand too that the trade unions which are affiliated with the International Confederation of Free Trade Unions and the International Transport Workers Organisation have asked the ACTU and Australian unions to support the international ban. The unions in the area that will be affected by the French tests so far have similarly supported the international call for these bans. That is all the. information that I can provide to the honourable senator. Largely the question is one which falls within the ambit of the responsibilities of the Minister representing the Prime Minister. 
The honourable senator has probably seen some statements by the Prime Minister and by the Minister for Defence about the matter. What was said was that planning was proceeding for the Royal Australian Navy to provide a float support for the Royal New Zealand Navy frigate should it be deployed to the vicinity of the French nuclear test area at Mururoa Atoll. Royal Australian Navy participation will be confined to providing a float support. A Royal Australian Navy ship will not be deployed until all other means of protest have been exhausted. It is true that at the present time HMAS 'Supply' is being adapted for such a situation. The Prime Minister and  Mr Barnard  have stated that if HMAS 'Supply' is not available another vessel will be available. There has been a clear undertaking that if that circumstance operates whatever complement is required will serve purely on a volunteer basis. 
If I. gave the impression that HMAS 'Supply' is being adapted or specially fitted in any way I was quite wrong. It is not being so fitted or adapted. The position is this: If HMAS 'Supply' is available it will be the vessel used. The other portion of the honourable senator's question related to the crew. Substantially it will be a volunteer crew because, although the deployment would be treated as a normal naval operation and the ship will be manned by its normal ship's company, any member of the ship's company who had special reasons for not proceeding with the ship could submit a request for reposting and would get it. It is intended that the ship will operate clear of the nuclear fallout area, and questions of danger and contamination do not arise. That is the situation at the present time. 
I am talking specifically of the claims which have been made by the Opposition about the danger which might be presented to the crew. Our defence experts have stated that the ship will be in the area which is not particularly involved with the explosions. The intention is clearly a commitment in support of the New Zealand Government. The Australian Government has told the New Zealand Government that it will provide a supply ship. So the situation is that if HMAS 'Supply' is not available another vessel will be sent. 
Of course it is a Senate committee, but the Opposition is proposing something quite different. That is the point we are trying to make. The Opposition has put up a proposal. It is prepared to go ahead with setting up the Committee even though we as a government have not had time to consider whether in the circumstances we will provide the minority representation the Opposition wants us to provide.  Senator Wright,  who is interjecting, knows the procedures of the Senate better than I do. I am greatly surprised that he should put his name to a proposition which provides for such imbalance and which would, I suggest, impede the inquiry which he wants.  His  proposition, reduces the prestige, the work and the traditions of the Senate because obviously its intention is to set up a committee upon which the Opposition can do what it likes. Such an inquiry will not be impartial; in fact, it will be suspect. 
It certainly does, because, as I say, it will leave a lasting suspicion not only with Government senators but also, I am quite sure, with some Independent senators and with the public also, because what the Opposition is doing in effect is another form of gerrymander. It is proposing to set up a committee when it already well knows what the Committee's report will contain. It will not be a committee of balance. When it reports it cannot correctly present an impartial view because the number of members on the Committee does not favour the Government. The consist of the Committee is quite contrary to what has been the custom. 
At any rate, the Senate ought to be consistent with what has been the practice over the years. There are occasions each day in this Senate when there is some suggestion as to the practice of the Senate. If an honourable senator wants to challenge a ruling of the  President,  what does he say? He says that the ruling is contrary to the traditions of the Westminster system. We follow a practice which is well established in the Senate. There is no doubt that over the years the Senate has built up its prestige. It has been enlivened, as everybody knows, not only because there have been moves for more activity, more inquiries and examinations by active committees but also because the consist of the inquiring body has fairly represented all parties. They are not fairly represented under this proposal. How can the Opposition in these circumstances justify proceeding with such a system? 
Because we requested last week that the Senate return to some sort of moderate and constructive discussions rather than continuing the tensions we have had since we met with the Labor Party forming the Government, I would have thought that the Opposition might properly reconsider what has been put up. The proposition foreshadowed by the Leader of the Government in the Senate  (Senator Murphy)  and ably proposed by  Senator Willesee  is consistent with what we have tried to do and what we think the Senate practice has been in the past. We want a fair system, and when a committee comes down with any finding each section of the Senate is entitled to have put its point of view. Decisions and determinations then arrived at will not be suspect, but if what the Opposition proposes is carried, whatever the Committee might do will become suspect before it gets off the ground because it will be not a fact finding committee as it should be but rather a committee dominated by the Opposition which is pledged, in the words of  Senator Withers,  to frustrate the work of the Government by not carrying out parliamentary procedures. On the question of impediment alone,  Senator Wright  ought to be the first to withdraw and say: 'Yes, we will adjourn the matter and have another look at it to see whether an agreement can be reached by discussion'. 
I have already heard a rumour that the Committee will meet on Monday. I recall the events of last week. I said at the time - I thought that it was a fair statement - that tension in the Senate was becoming heightened and dangerous and that it was not good for the Senate to run on those lines. That tension had been occasioned by certain things about which we all know. After that there was a blow-up and a certain exchange between the Acting Leader of the Government  (Senator Willesee)  and the Leader of the Opposition. 
The honourable senator is raking up the origin of disputation. During the suspension of the sitting he might well consider accepting what ought to be done. 
We are not filibustering on this matter. Important things have to be considered by the Government. We want to examine our position. We did not know what the Opposition intended to do about what the Leader of the Government in the Senate had put forward. We expected at that stage that the Opposition would accept the representation proposed. If the Opposition did accept it there would be no impediment and the Committee could proceed forthwith. The Opposition could obtain what it claims to be the aim of the Committee, that is, an examination of the proposition. If the Opposition accepts the suggestion of the Government the Committee can get off the ground. If the Opposition does not do so I am sure that the opinion of the independent senators, Government supporters and people outside will be that the Opposition is carrying out a political ploy and whatever findings it might bring down will be suspect for all time. I am sure that on reflection the Opposition will see the position in that way. Despite what the Leader of the Opposition has advanced as an amendment to the motion, I ask him to consider during the suspension for lunch whether he might change his view about the consist of the Committee. That is the only thing that is holding up its work at the present time. If the Opposition proceeds to set up this Committee despite what the Government has said - in my opinion, and in the opinion of the Government, a fair statement about the past role of the Senate - it seems to me that the Opposition has not properly and constructively considered what has been said and that it will not make possible a proper and impartial examination of the issues involved. For those reasons 1 support the proposition put by  Senator Willesee.  I hope that the Opposition will do what we used to do in the old days. I hope that the partisan positions which are developing, and which of course are part of politics and the conflicts which come to government, will not occasion a departure on this question. 
It has been in the general course of Senate activity and inquiries, with one exception. 
 No, not since federation. I am talking particularly about the period since this Senate enlivened its activity and became recognised as a place of prestige. Its findings are respected, as everybody knows. Until now every report of a Senate committee has received considerable examination by people in authority. I refer to  Senator Laucke's  committee on water pollution and all the other committees. If the Opposition starts a practice of having committees whose composition is not balanced and does not take account of what the Government of the day would expect to have by the way of representation, it must face the fact that the value of any determinations by such committees- 
 I am not saying that the Committee should reflect the Government's view. I am saying that the Opposition ought to have regard for the position of the Government as was the case when we were in Opposition. 
Sitting suspended from 1 to 2.15 p.m. 
 The position of the Government has been fairly clearly stated. 1 conclude by pointing out again that if the amendment moved by the Leader of the Opposition is agreed to and the motion is carried in that amended form, the inquiry will be impeded. The need exists to test the position in relation to the King Island shipping service and to establish the benefits that might flow from such an inquiry, but the consist of the proposed committee suffers an imbalance. The second point that I make is that what is proposed in connection with this committee is to my thinking inconsistent with what has been the practice of the Senate. What is proposed tends to reduce the prestige of the Senate. For those reasons, I support the motion moved by the Acting Leader of the Government in the Senate. 
I  move: 
That the Bill  be  now read a second time. 
The main purpose of the Bill is to extend the operation of the Stevedoring Industry (Temporary Provisions) Act 1967-1972 for a further period of 12 months. The Bill also proposes to extend the power to make regulations to include non-continuous ports and to remove some existing limitations in relation to other ports. These measures are necessary to permit the evolution and introduction of permanent legislative arrangements for the industry. The Stevedoring Industry (Temporary Provisions) Act was enacted in 1967 to give legislative effect to the agreement entered into by the National Stevedoring Industry Conference which was set up by the previous Government under the chairmanship of  Mr A.  E. Woodward, Q.C., with the object of achieving long-term improvement of conditions in the stevedoring industry. 
The National Conference reported to the then Government in April 1967, and recorded agreement in principle, inter alia, on  a  scheme for the permanent employment, on weekly hiring, of watersiders in major ports; a pension scheme for regular waterside workers; arrangements for coping with anticipated redundancy; procedures for handling industrial disputes; and disciplinary procedures. These proposals involved significant changes in the role of the Australian Stevedoring Industry Authority, whose functions in relation to permanently employed watersiders were to be largely transferred to the stevedoring companies. 
The enabling legislation was originally introduced for a trial period expiring on 30th June 1970, by which time it was anticipated that legislation providing for permanent arrangements in the industry could be introduced. However, before that date it became evident that a number of factors prevented the introduction of permanent legislation at that time. The most important of these were that it had not been possible for the principal parties in the industry to determine what employment arrangements would be introduced in the smaller ports, where about onefifth of the industry's work force was still employed on a casual basis, and the fact that the structure of the industry was being greatly affected by the development of containerisation and other new cargo handling techniques. For these reasons the life of the temporary legislation was extended for 2 years until 30th June 1972. 
By early 1972 no significant progress had been made to resolve these issues. Furthermore the task of evolving permanent employment arrangements for the entire industry was further complicated by the financial difficulties in which the Australian Stevedoring Industry Authority found itself. From 1970 onward, the Authority has been progressively less able to meet is commitments from the levies on employers raised under the Stevedoring Industry Charge Act, mainly because of a rapidly rising level of expenditure on idle time. Idle time expenditure comprises payments made to permanent watersiders in respect of full shifts for which they are available for work but are not required. The rising trend in idle time expenditure is a reflection of the progressive introduction of technological developments in the industry. Accordingly the temporary legislation was again extended for a further 12 months until 30th June 1973. 
Notwithstanding the difficulties which have prevented the introduction of permanent legislation relating to this industry in the past, the Government believes .that it will be possible during the next 12 months to determine permanent legislation arrangements for the industry. In contrast to the approach adopted by .the previous Administration, positive steps have already been taken to resolve the outstanding issues in this industry. The Minister for Labour  (Mr Clyde Cameron)  has requested the Stevedoring Industry Council to supply him with its views on future permanent employment arrangements for casual ports, and on funding arrangements for the industry as a whole.  Mr Clyde  Cameron also commissioned an officer of his Department,  Mr Norman  K. Foster, to inquire into and report on certain aspects of stevedoring operations in relation to the activities of the Australian Coastal Shipping Commission. 
Nevertheless it will not be possible to reach finality on future arrangements for the industry in sufficient time to prepare permanent legislation 'before the Stevedoring Industry (Temporary Provisions) Act expires at the end of June this year. It is therefore proposed that the life of this Act be extended for a further 12 months to 30th June 1974. Extending the life of the Act until June '1974 will not of course preclude the introduction of permanent legislation at an earlier date if this proves feasible. Indeed, an earlier date for .permanent legislation is desirable. 
As presently framed, the Stevedoring Industry (Temporary Provisions) Act does not have application to non-continuous ports, and places some limitations on the powers of the Governor-General to make regulations in relation to permanent and continuous ports. It is, therefore, proposed to extend the regulationmaking powers to cover non-continuous ports, and to remove existing limitations in relation to other ports to the extent necessary to ensure that any transitional arrangements for permanent employment of a different nature to that in existing permanent ports can be introduced by regulation pending .the framing of permanent legislation. This involves minor changes to section 8 of the Act. I commend the Bill to the Senate 
Debate (on motion by  Senator Greenwood)  adjourned. 
 I move: 
That the Bill be now  read a second  time. 
The primary purpose of this Bill is to enable Parliament to approve ratification by Australia of amendments to the Constitution of the International Labour Organisation. In this the Government is following the example set by the Chifley Government in 1947 on the occasion of major changes to the ILO Constitution following World War II. The Government reaffirms its strong support for the ILO and its wide-ranging activities concerned with the promotion of social justice throughout the world. The ILO is unique in the international community because it is the only organisation in which representatives of workers and employers participate on an equal footing with those of Governments in policy formulation and decision-making. This tripartite composition ensures that the ILO is widely representative of each country and that its work is clearly established in, and focused on, the human and social problems of the peoples of the world and the real improvement of their life. For this reason alone it deserves the support of us all. 
It would take too long to list all the achievements of the ILO during the 54 years it has been in existence. It is sufficient to say that it has had a major role in promoting the acceptance and application of human rights in such areas as abolishing forced labour, promoting freedom of association and removing discrimination in employment. It has underlined the importance of social considerations in the drive for economic development. It has provided fresh hopes, insights and support to those seeking improved living and working conditions, while being at the same time, conscious of economic realities. Finally it has stressed the relationship between social justice and peace - 'universal and lasting peace can be established only if it is based upon social justice'. In recognition of its work the ILO received the Nobel Peace Prize in 1969. 
These emphases continue to guide the ILO's work program. For example, a current thrust of the Organisation is aimed at urgent, effective action to deal with the massive problems of unemployment and underemployment existing in many parts of the world. Its world employment program is directed at ensuring that governments must take employment considerations into account in formulating their development plans and programs. It is quite evident, as the Opposition can testify, that high rates of unemployment bring political retribution. The ILO has made it clear that the achievement of high levels of employment does not occur as a spin-off from high rates of economic growth. It occurs only if governments accept it as a priority objective of policy and act accordingly. 
No one can guarantee that the ILO's activities in the employment promotion field will be successful but it is obvious that unless the high levels of unemployment and underemployment in many parts of the world are reduced rapidly there is a danger not simply of economic stagnation but of political and social conflict of crisis proportions in many countries. (Quorum formed) The Government vigorously supports the ILO's work under the world employment program and its regional segments and the Minister for Labour  (Mr Clyde Cameron)  hopes to discuss with the Director-General of the International Labour Office,  Mr Wilfred  Jenks, when he is in Geneva in June ways in which this work can be advanced. Perhaps the ILO is best known for its standard setting activities. Annua) sessions of the International Labour Conference - it has been called the world parliament on labour and social questions - adopt international conventions and recommendations dealing with most aspects of living and working conditions.  (Senator Georges interjecting)  - 
The  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Prowse)  - Order!  Senator Georges,  I think it is most discourteous to the Minister for Repatriation  (Senator Bishop),  when he is reading a speech, for you to be calling out across the chamber. I trust you will recognise that. 
The DEPUTY PRESIDENT- I accept your apology but I do not want an excuse. 
The 136 conventions and 144 recommendations constitute an international labour code covering virtually the whole of the labour and social fields. I would hope that all honourable senators share the Government's belief in the value of ratifying as many of the ILO conventions as quickly as possible. 
First, acceptance and ratification of ILO conventions help to impart a favourable international image of Australia as a forward looking country which gives priority attention to vital areas of human relations. It is essential that Australia have a good record of ratifications if we are to be able to speak with authority and standing in the international community on labour and social matters. Second, a good record of ratification would underline our support for the work of the International Labour Organisation, the tripartite character of which, with representation by employers and workers as well as governments, as I have mentioned, gives it a unique standing among international institutions. Third, as an advanced economy in a region comprising mostly developing countries, the Government firmly believes that Australia should be in the vanguard of countries taking action to foster and develop sound labour and social policies in accordance with accepted international standards. Acceptance of the concept of fair labour practices is important and, indeed, was one of the premises on which the ILO was founded. 
Fourth, the ratification of ILO conventions stimulates us to improve our own standards. Fifth, Australia has a very special responsibility for Papua New Guinea which will soon be self-governing and independent. Industrial relations in the Territory frequently have racial ramifications, since most employers are expatriates and most employees are indigenes. It is important, therefore, that Australia should leave Papua New Guinea with industrial laws which accord with international standards. There are several conventions of particular significance for Papua New Guinea which can only be extended lo Papua New Guinea and our other non-metropolitan territories when they have been ratified in respect of Australia itself. 
Since coming to office the Government has taken positive action to improve Australia's record of ratifying ILO conventions, a record which leaves much to be desired. Up to December last Australia had ratified 33 conventions out of the 136 adopted by the International Labour Conference. This is just under the average number of ratifications for the 123 member States of the ILO, a considerable proportion of which are developing countries. When I add that some 19 countries have ratified more than 50 conventions and that France has been able to ratify 93 con ventions, the extent to which Australia has fallen behind is all too evident. Of course we face difficulties because of our Federal Constitution but if Australia genuinely wishes to ratify conventions ways can be found to do this. 
Already this Government has made significant advances in promoting CommonwealthState co-operation. The Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  wrote to all Slate Premiers in December last stressing the importance which the Commonwealth Government attaches to the ratification of ILO conventions and requesting their support in stepping up the pace of ratifications. He indicated that priority attention was being given to those conventions dealing with fundamental human rights which Australia had not ratified at that time. These were: Convention No. 87 - Freedom of Association and Protection of the Right to Organise, 1948; Convention No. 98 - Right to Organise and Collective Bargaining, 1949; Convention No. 100 - Equal Remuneration, 1951; and Convention No. Ill - Discrimination (Employment and Occupation). 1958. (Quorum formed) Conventions Nos 87 and 98 were subsequently ratified by Australia on 28th February this year. Cabinet has agreed to the ratification of Convention No. 1 1 1 next month and I am advised that the Minister for Labour is consulting with the Slate Ministers for Labour with a view to early ratification of Convention No. 100. 
The ratification of a number of ILO conventions was discussed with the States - at Ministerial level at the meeting of Commonwealth and State Labour Ministers in February and at Permanent Head level at the meeting of the Departments of Labour Advisory Committee held in Papua New Guinea in April. Ministers decided that a working party of Commonwealth and State officers would be set up to report to their next meeting, scheduled for later this year, on how the ratification of ILO conventions might be accelerated, including the establishment of an order of priority for action in respect of particular conventions. The working parly held its first meeting recently and follow-up action is now being taken. The Government is moving quickly to fulfil all of Australia's outstanding obligations connected with the application of ILO conventions ratified by Australia to our non-metropolitan territories. Thus the Government is consulting with the Government of Papua New Guinea to clear up outstanding action required in respect of ILO conventions ratified by Australia. For the first time a tripartite observer delegation from Papua New Guinea will be attending this year's session of the International Labour Conference and the Minister for Labour anticipates that in company with the Minister for Labour of Papua New Guinea and the other members of the Papua New Guinea delegation he will be able to register with the Director-General of the ILO a considerable number of declarations on ILO conventions for Papua New Guinea. 
Attention is also being paid to making declarations for the Cocos (Keeling) Islands and Christmas Island for conventions ratified by Australia. It is a matter of some embarrassment to Australia that the requirements of the ILO constitution that declarations must be made for these Territories have not yet been fulfilled. This was one of the matters discussed by my colleague, the Minister for External Territories  (Mr Morrison),  when he met  Mr Clunies  Ross recently. 
In addition, the Government is giving final consideration to ratifying 4 ILO conventions relating solely to non-metropolitan territories. They are: Convention No. 82  -  Social Policy (Non-Metropolitan Territories) 1947; Convention No. 83  -  Labour Standards (NonMetropolitan Territories) 1947; Convention No. 84  -  Right of Association (Non-Metropolitan Territories) 1947; and Convention No. 86 - Contracts of Employment (Indigenous Workers) 1947. 
All the measures I have mentioned speak for themselves in demonstrating the Government's determination that Australia's record of ratification of ILO conventions can, and will, be improved significantly. Let me turn now to the specific provisions of the Bill itself. As I indicated at the outset, its primary purpose is to enable the Parliament to approve ratification by Australia of the amendments to the ILO constitution adopted in 1964 and 1972. 
The 3 amendments adopted in 1964 involve matters of some significance. None of these is yet in force and the Government hopes that ratification by Australia will give a new impetus to their ratification or acceptance by other countries. Amendments to the ILO constitution come into force only when they are ratified or accepted by two-thirds of the member States of the ILO including 5 of the 10 States of chief industrial importance. 
The first of the 1964 amendments was designed to strengthen obligations on ILO member States with responsibilities for nonmetropolitan territories in relation to the application of ratified ILO conventions. Under the ILO constitution at present, when a member State responsible for the international relations of non-metropolitan territories ratifies an ILO convention there is no specific time limit in which it is required to make declarations providing for the applicability of the convention to its non metropolitan territories. The main effect of the amendment is to make it an obligation for declarations to be made at the time of ratification. The principles it embodies have received wide support and the previous Government was proposing to ratify the amendment at a later date. The new Government sees no reason for delaying any longer Australian ratification of the amendment which will assist in improving working and living conditions in nonmetropolitan territories. 
Of the other 2 amendments adopted in 1964, one provided for the suspension from participation in the International Labour Conference of any ILO member State which had been found by the United Nations to be flagrantly and persistently pursuing by its legislation a declared policy of racial discrimination such as apartheid and the other for the expulsion from the ILO or suspension from the exercise of the rights and privileges of membership of the ILO of any member which the United Nations had suspended from the exercise of the rights and privileges of membership. These amendments are now of less significance than when  they were  adopted in 1964 because South Africa has since left the ILO. Nevertheless, the Government proposes to ratify them to demonstrate Australia's firm opposition to all forms of racial discrimination such as apartheid. 
As to the amendment adopted last year, it provides for an increase in the number of titular members of the governing body of the ILO from 48 to 56. This was agreed on virtually unanimously by the Conference last year and the Australian Government, employer and worker delegates all supported it. The amendment is designed to restore the relationship between the size of the governing body and the number of members of the ILO, which has increased with the entry into the organisation of newly-independent States. 
The Government is also taking the opportunity while the legislation is before the Parliament to provide for approval of the 2 amendments to the ILO Constitution accepted by the Australian Government on 20th August 1953 and 21 st December 1962. These amendments came into force on 20th May 1954 and 22nd May 1963 respectively and had the effect of increasing the size of the governing body of the ILO. In introducing this Bill the Government is indicating its firm and vigorous support for the ILO. its basic concepts and the work it performs. I commend the Bill to the Senate. 
Debate (on motion by  Senator Greenwood)  adjourned. 
On present indications the Army is increasing at the rate of about 2,000 men a year, which is greater than was anticipated. The rate of re-engagement has indeed been very encouraging. The Australian Labor Party promised to abolish conscription. Successive Liberal-Country Party governments dodged the issue of an all-volunteer Army. In October of last year the present Prime Minister and the present Minister for Defence, in a joint statement, said: 
We are committed to the abolition of the present scheme of selective conscription. It is our duty to form  an  all-volunteer Army. 
The Opposition said at the time, as everybody knows, that it could not be done. I think what is happening now proves it can be done. I add that the Defence Forces Structure Committee has reported to the Minister for Defence and he will be making a statement to the Parliament next week in respect to the other matters raised by the honourable senator. 
HMAS 'Sydney' will refuel at Auckland. The round voyage from Auckland to rendezvous and return to Auckland will be about 4,500 miles. It is not expected that the Royal New Zealand vessel will become contaminated, but if it did it would take all steps to decontaminate itself forthwith, and certainly before refuelling from HMAS 'Sydney'. The ship will operate outside the nuclear fallout area. The normal conditions of naval service will apply. If the honourable senator considers that some aspects of his questions have not been answered, I ask him to put them on notice because they must be seriously considered by departmental experts. 
As the honourable senator knows, increases have been provided already in the repatriation field which far exceed the awards made by other governments. The policy to which  Senator McManus  refers will be considered. We hope that further improvements will be made in the Budget which will consider those propositions and others which come in the repatriation field. 
For the information of honourable senators I lay upon the table a statement made in the House of Representatives this day by the Minister for Labour,  Mr C.  R. Cameron, relating to discrimination in employment and occupation. I move: 
That the Senate take note of the statement. 
Debate (on motion by  Senator Willesee)  adjourned. 
The Minister for Labour has been provided with the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
The Government supported a claim by metal trades unions for a $14 increase in the minimum wage. 
The cost to the sectors of the economy referred to in the honourable senator's question was not calculated and it is doubtful whether necessary data is available to enable estimates to be made. However, it was estimated that the total annual cost of a $14 increase in the minimum wage for the economy as a whole would be $124.8m. This would represent an 0.57 per cent increase in the national wages bill. 
The honourable senator will be aware that the Commonwealth Conciliation and Arbitration Commission in a decision handed down on 8 May 1973 increased the minimum wage by $9. The Department of Labour has estimated -that the total annual cost of this will be approximately S42m, which represents an increase of 0.2 per cent in the national wages bill. 
It is true that in some classifications the training does not match what might be called the equivalent classification in outside industry. Recently this was drawn to the attention of. the Minister for Defence and myself, to see whether it was possible so to align the training as to achieve an equivalent acceptance of standards with outside industry! I can only assure the honourable senator that the matter is being studied. I shall look into the question of whether the advertisements in part do misinterpret the situation, but I understand that every recruit is told exactly what the position is and what qualifications he would possess at the end of his training. I think it would be better if I were to make inquiries about the particular classification that .the honourable, senator has raised. I shall give him the information when I receive, it. 
It appears to me that  Senator Townley's  question amounts almost to a charge against an officer of the Repatriation Commission. I think it is quite unlikely that the First Assistant Commissioner's examinations and visits have been for the reasons that the honourable senator has put forward. They may be related to what the Government has been trying to do in relation to general policy. I think that in view of the content of the question I should ask the honourable senator to put it on notice. I will certainly get as much information as I can as quickly as possible. 
 I lay upon the table of the Senate a draft report to the Prime Minister from the Australian Council for the Arts, together with a statement by the Prime Minister relating to that report. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
At this stage, I have not seen the Press report of what  Mr Barnard  is supposed to have said. My first observation would be that we would need to check the script of his speech against what the Press has reported him as saying. But I am sure that the Minister for Defence would not be saying that there had not been any study within the defence forces. Rather, as he has said before and as the Government has stated, when the Labor Party came to power it undertook to make an in-depth study of the requirements of Australia's defence forces. The honourable senator knows already from a number of statements that have been made that that study is continuing. It is probably one of the deepest studies that have been undertaken. It will be the most expert. It is a study which is related to what might be called Australia's current defence needs. I stated in answer to a question, this week I think, that as the Minister for Defence is to make a statement in relation to these matters next week the honourable senator might well reserve whatever criticisms he has until a later stage. If  Senator Drake-Brockman  wants any particular inquiry made, I will get the information for him. 
1 say firstly that a few are involved. Some applications have been approved as coming within the criteria which the Department and the Minister state to be necessary for such persons to be released. I shall ask the Minister for Defence to give as quickly as possible the information which  Senator Withers  requests. 
For the information of honourable senators, I present the reports of the Australian delegations to the International Labour Conference Fifty-sixth Session - 1971 and Fifty-seventh Session - 1972. 
For the information of honourable senators, I present the report of the Australian Arbitration Inspectorate for the year ending 31 December 1972. 
This matter has been considered on a number of occasions, including one fairly recently, by the present Government. The position is that it is not possible to extend the provisions of the existing Repatriation Act to the people to whom  Senator Devitt  referred, unless he nominates a very special case, because those provisions make it clear that the work of such people must be in association with the armed forces in special areas. However, there is an act of grace provision in respect of some civilians but they must also be supporting the armed forces to some extent. If  Senator Devitt  will give me the particulars of the case which he has in mind, I will have the position examined again. 
I undertake to investigate the matters to which the honourable senator has referred and to see to what extent the report ought to be made available, if not publicly, at least to members of the Parliament. 
I will put the honourable senator's suggestions to the Minister for Defence. 
by leave - The statement I am about to make was made in the other House this day by the  Deputy  Prime Minister and Minister for Defence, the Honourable L. H. Barnard. Copies of this statement already have been distributed to hon' ourable senators and they will understand that when I speak in the first person I am referring to the Minister for Defence. 
The purpose of this Statement is to provide the Parliament with a broad view of the decisions that this Government has taken and the measures it has initiated to give effect to the Government's defence policies. 
 I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
The purpose of this Bill is to repeal section 54b of the Public Service Act consequent on the Maternity Leave (Australian Government Employees) Bill. I commend the Bill to the Senate. 
Debate (on motion by  Senator Withers)  adjourned. 
in reply - This legislation will be handled by the Special Minister of State  (Senator Willesee).  I will pass the request made by  Senator Wright  on to  Senator Willesee. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a first time. 
I  have had conferences with all sections of the building industry concerned with the stoppage in New South Wales, including the employer groups. Those who were not available were invited to attend. There will be an all-in conference with them later today because we were requested to meet them.  I  think it might be best for me to say that the discussions have been amicable with all sections, including the employers.  I  should not say anything more at this stage. 
I do not know of any instruction which stipulates that VIP aircraft should not be used on overseas journeys and I do not think there were any prohibitions on such use of these aircraft by the previous Government. It is true that  Mr Barnard  proposes to use a BAC-III aircraft on his visit for discussions on the Five Power Agreement and other matters of security. As far as I know, at present the complement on the aircraft will be the Secretary of the Department of Defence,  Sir Arthur  Tange, other important defence advisers and his own staff who specialise in matters in which the Minister for 
Defence will be engaging. One of the reasons for the use of the BAC-III aircraft is that there will be a self-contained group travelling in relation to these important matters and - all honourable senators will agree on this - it would be far more desirable that this aircraft be used. Nevertheless I will direct the honourable senator's question for further examination. I would think also that the use of this aircraft would result in some savings compared with the use of ordinary domestic flights which, honourable senators could understand, would not be suitable on this occasion in view of the talks involved. If I can get any further information in relation to the honourable senator's question I will do so. 
I can only undertake to check what the honourable senator believes to be the operational cost of the BAC111 and his suggestion that it may need a back-up involving some additional cost. The honourable senator will recall that in answer to  Senator Marriott  I pointed out the advantages of the use of such an aircraft for the very important mission by the Minister for Defence during which he would need to have with him the top advisers on defence and a number of his own staff who specialise in these things. They will be the complement. The use of the aircraft will certainly provide a facility throughout the whole of the tour for discussions between those people who would obviously provide for the Minister the most expert advice and be a basis for exchanges with the important people he has to meet. That is the main purpose of it. On  Senator DrakeBrockman's  question as to actual figures relating to costs, I will get the answer for him. 
I move: 
That the Bill be  now read a second  time. 
I seek leave to have the second reading speech incorporated in Hansard. 
The ACTING  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Brown)  - Is leave granted? There being no objection, leave is granted. (The document read as follows) - 
The purpose of this Bill is to extend the maternity leave entitlement presently available to Australian Government employees. The proposed legislation will entitle female officers and employees to at least 12 weeks maternity leave on full pay. This Will apply irrespective of whether they were pregnant when first employed by the Government. The Bill provides that maternity leave shall commence at least 6 weeks before the expected date of confinement and shall continue for at least 6 weeks after the actual date of confinement. If the mother wishes, leave may be granted up to a total of 52 weeks. A minimum of 12 weeks is available on full pay. For the balance of her leave the mother will be on leave without pay, although if she wishes, she may use accrued sick leave, recreation leave and furlough credits. It also provides that each permanent officer proceeding on leave of absence for maternity purposes must be re-employed if she wishes at the end of her period of leave in her former position or in a position at a level as near as possible to the position held by her at the commencement of her maternity leave. 
Temporary employees returning from maternity leave will resume their former employment. If the work is no longer available they will be given preference for employment over any other person seeking temporary employment. The Bill also makes provision for an officer or employee who is the father or a person accepting responsibility for the care and maintenance of the child to take up to 1 week's leave, with pay, around the time of the birth of a child where he requires the leave to take care of the mother of a child or of a child. These benefits will apply retrospectively from 1 January 1973. 
The Bill extends considerably the existing maternity benefits available to Government employees. Existing benefits are provided for by section 54b of the Public Service Act in the case of the Commonwealth Public Service, section 33 of the Commonwealth Teaching Service Act in the case of the Commonwealth Teaching Service and in the terms and conditions of employment of staff of other Australian Government instrumentalities. The Bill provides directly for maternity leave benefits to officers and employees of the Commonwealth Public Service and the Commonwealth Teaching Service. The associated Public Service Bill (No. 3) repeals section 54b of the Public Service Act and the Commonwealth Teaching Service Bill (No. 2), which has already been introduced into the House of Representatives, repeals section 33 of the Commonwealth Teaching Service Act. The Bill also provides for the extension of maternity leave benefits to other Australian Government employees by regulation. The regulations will be made following consultation with appropriate bodies and consistent with the Bill the initial regulations will apply the benefits retrospectively from 1 January 1973. 
Section 54b of the Public Service Act presently provides for an absence from duty of up to 26 weeks, with a compulsory absence of 6 weeks before the expected date of confinement and 6 weeks after the date of birth. Section 54b applies only to permanent officers. There are at present no maternity leave provisions for temporary employees employed under the Public Service Act. Leave under section 54b is without pay, although an officer does have the option of utilising heir accrued sick leave, recreation leave and furlough credits to cover part or all of this period of leave. Where there are existing provisions applicable to other Government employees, those provisions are similar. The Bill under consideration increases the period of permitted leave, provides for full pay during at least the period of compulsory leave, and extends maternity benefits to temporary employees. It is not possible to estimate the exact number of women who will benefit from the proposed legislation. However, it is expected that around 3,200 women will be affected each year. The cost is expected to be approximately $2. 5m in relation to women employed under the Public Service Act and $800,000 in relation to other female Government employees. 
This Bill should have the approval of the Senate. It takes account of representations on the matter put forward by the Council of Commonwealth Public Service Organisations, and will be applauded by those women in Government employment wishing to reconcile domestic responsibilities with a career in the Commonwealth Service or other Government instrumentalities. The Bill implements the undertaking in the Prime Minister's policy speech that: 
For our own employees we will apply the International Labour Organisation Protection Conventions going back to 1919 which guarantee full pay and benefits for 6 weeks before and 6 weeks after confinement. 
It is clear that the present Government was elected to office with a commitment to introduce legislation incorporating the principles included in this Bill. The adoption of the Bill will ensure full compliance with the principles set down in Convention No. 103 of the International Labour Organisation - Maternity Protection, 1952, in respect of Commonwealth Government employment. The ILO Convention is concerned that the existence of maternity benefits should not result in discrimination against women in employment. It therefore provides that the individual employer shall not bc individually liable for the cost of such benefits due to women employed by him. The International Labour Office has advised that it is consistent with these requirements for the Government itself to assume responsibility for the cost of these benefits in respect of its own employees. But flow-on to private employers would not be appropriate. As the Minister for Labour assured the House of Representatives, if this matter came before the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission the Government would be prepared to intervene and officially oppose any flow-on to private employers. 
The Government recognises that it has a role and responsibility, as Australia's largest employer, in promoting the status of women. The Government, therefore, is introducing the new benefits and leave entitlements in respect of its own officers and employees, to enable each person concerned to fulfil the role of mother and if she wishes, to continue her career after the birth of her child. The effect of this Bill will be to maintain the income of the employees concerned during the period when they are on leave prior to and following confinement. The Bill will also help women endeavouring to pursue their careers on the same terms as men. The provision in this Bill for up to 1 week's leave for the father or other responsible person should help that person to meet the increased domestic responsibilities that arise at the time of the birth of a child. It is in recognition of this fact that the provision has been included. I conclude by reminding the Senate that this Bill not only provides improved conditions of employment for Australian Government employees but also facilitates the retention of women in the work force. Many of these women are experienced and expensively trained. This will be of benefit to the Australian people as a whole. I commend this Bill to the Senate. 
Debate (on motion by  Senator Withers)  adjourned. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
I ask for leave to incorporate the second reading speech in Hansard. 
The ACTING  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Brown)  - Is leave granted? There being no objection, leave is granted. (The speech read as follows) - 
The purpose of this Bill is to obtain parliamentary authority for expenditure in the current financial year for which provision was not made in the Appropriation Acts (Nos. 1 and 3) 1972-73. The total appropriations sought in this Bill amount to $129,427,000. The schedule to this Bill is the same as that contained in the document 'Particulars of Proposed Additional Expenditure for the Service of the Year Ending 30 June 1973' which was referred on 12 April for examination by the Senate Estimates Committees. Although additional appropriations are being sought, actual expenditure will not exceed the amounts included in Appropriation Acts (Nos. 1 and 3) 1972-73 by $129,427,000. For a variety of reasons, it is expected that savings of about $98.2m will be available in existing appropriations to offset the additional appropriations contained in Appropriation Act (No. 3) 1972- 73 and those now proposed. 
Honourable senators will be aware that as a matter of law, moneys appropriated by Parliament for specific purposes may only be used for those purposes and expected savings under certain appropriations cannot be utilised as an offset in the sense that the total new appropriations sought can be reduced to a net figure in this Bill. Thus I am seeking parliamentary authority for additional expenditure in the divisions, sub-divisions and items set out in the schedule to the Bill. To the extent that an item of any annual appropriation is unexpended the appropriation lapses at 30 June in accordance with section 36 of the Audit Act 1901-1969. 
For the information of honourable senators a separate document has been provided listing the estimated savings in existing annual appropriations. I emphasise that these are estimated savings - it is not intended to present an accurate prediction of the final expenditure under those appropriations, nor is it intended to imply that there will be no savings under other appropriations. The information is provided by way of background to senators' consideration of the additional amounts now being sought. As the various items included in this Bill have been examined by the Estimates Committee I propose to refer only to some of the major provisions. 
The additional requirement for departmental salaries is $15.4m and provides for increases in salaries arising from arbitration determinations, reclassification of offices and additional staff positions created since the original Estimates were approved. In accordance with established practice no provision was made in the Budget for salary or wage increases. The amount needed to meet salary increases resulting from arbitration determinations that have become effective this financial year is approximately $14.2m. Further appropriations totalling $ 15.7m are required for departmental administrative expenses including $2m for overseas representation; $3.1m for the Department of Services and Property including $1.7m for rents; $1.7m for the Commonwealth Taxation Office including $800,000 for services rendered by the Australian Post Office and by the State governments; and $3. 6m for the Department of Works including $2m for fees of private architects and other consultants. The balance is made up of a considerable number of appropriations each of which is less than $500,000. 
Additional appropriations amounting to $4 1.4m required for departmental other services include $700,000 for the Department of Aboriginal Affairs; $8. 6m for the Department of Education of which $5m has been provided for Commonwealth scholarship schemes to cover increases in university fees and the extension of the Aboriginal Secondary Grants Scheme to all children of Aboriginal descent attending secondary schools and classes from the beginning of 1973; $2.5m for education services in the Australian Capital Territory and $700,000 for educational ser vices in the Northern Territory; $3m for the Department of External Territories to cover special assistance to facilitate the transfer of functions to the Papua New Guinea Administration, emergency assistance to alleviate food shortages in the Papua New Guinea highlands and salary increases for overseas officers of the Papua New Guinea Public Service; $5. 9m for Colombo Plan and other aid; $2.8m for broadcasting and television services; $1.2m for the final payment of compensation to sulphuric acid and pyrites producers following the termination of bounty payments; $ 11.7m for war service pensions, allowances and other benefits to cover increased rates effective from December 1972; $l.lm for the Commonwealth Scientific and Industrial Research Organisation for expenditures under the Science and Industry Research Act; $500,000 for grants to eligible organisations under the Aged Persons Hostels Act; $900,000 for the Commonwealth Taxation Office to cover remission of taxes and fines in special circumstances; and $l.lm for expenditure under the National Urban and Regional Development Authority Act. The balance is made up of a number of appropriations each of which is less than $500,000. 
Further appropriations totalling $57m are sought for the Defence Services. Of this amount $33. 5m is required for service pay increases following implementation of the Woodward Committee's recommendations and the Government's decision on re-engagement bonus payments. Increased civilian salary and wage awards require an additional $5. 9m. A further $6. 9m is required to meet increases in general administrative and operational expenses; $3.1m for increases in the cost of refit, overhaul and repair of ships, aircraft plant and equipment; and $2. 4m for accelerated deliveries of Air Force maintenance and servicing equipment and other items. An amount of $2. 6m is required for maintenance of production capacity in Government factories and production development. Estimated savings in other Defence appropriations amount to some $51. 8m and are due mainly to slippages, cancellation and rephasing of a variety of equipment projects. I commend the Bill to honourable senators. 
Debate (on motion by  Senator Cotton)  adjourned. 
-I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
I ask for leave to incorporate the second reading speech in Hansard. 
The ACTING  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Brown)  - Is leave granted? There being no objection, leave is granted. (The speech read as follows) - 
The purpose of this Bill is to obtain parliamentary authority for additional expenditure in 1972-73 amounting to $54,400,000 on various items relating to capital works and services, payments to or for the States and certain other services. Although additional appropriations are being sought, actual expenditure will not exceed the amounts included in Appropriation Acts (Nos. 2 and 4), 1972- 73 by $54.4m. It is expected that savings of about $43.4m will be available in other appropriations to offset the additional appropriations in Appropriation Act (No. 4) 1972-73 and those now proposed although as I explained in relation to the Appropriation Bill (No. 5), it is not possible to utilise such savings to offset additional expenditure under other appropriations. The schedule to this Bill is the same as that contained in the document 'Particulars of Certain Proposed Additional Expenditure in Respect of the Year Ending 30 June 1973' which was referred on 12 April for examination by the Senate Estimates Committees. When introducing Appropriation Bill (No. 5) 1972-73I informed the Senate that savings expected in amounts appropriated by Appropriation Acts (Nos. 1 and 3)1972-73 had been listed in an information paper for the benefit of Senators. The information Paper likewise contains details of savings expected in amounts appropriated by Appropriation Acts (Nos. 2 and 4) 1972-73. 
Of the $39.9m now sought for capital works and services the major requirements are $6m for loans under the Defence Services Homes Act to meet the increased loan limit and to reduce delays in meeting applications; $ 10.7m for buildings, works, plant and equipment at overseas posts including $7m for purchase of  a  new chancery site in Paris and $1.6m for the purchase of land for a housing compound at Osaka; $14m for the purchase of pipe and associated equipment for the Moomba-Sydney gas pipeline; $0.6m for the acquisition of sites and buildings for various Commonwealth departments; $6m for the National Capital Development Commission primarily to meet additional commitments on current contracts arising from movements in wages and prices and additional housing on account of the resumption of the Melbourne to Canberra transfer program; and $0.7m for the Department of Works for Construction projects. 
Additional Appropriations of $4.4m are sought for payments to or for the States, including a grant of $1.5m to the Queensland Government towards the construction of the Ross River Dam and $2m for the States to make loans to co-operative fruit canneries to enable accelerated payments to growers. Further appropriations of $ 10.2m are sought for departmental other services including $8m for assistance for children in isolated areas and $1.4m for tuition fees and living and travelling allowances under the Commonwealth Pre-School Teacher Scholarships Scheme. I commend the Bill to honourable Senators. 
Debate (on motion by  Senator Cotton)  adjourned. 
 I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
I ask for leave to incorporate the second reading speech in Hansard. 
The ACTING  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Brown)  - Is leave granted? There being no objection, leave is granted. (The speech read as follows) - 
The purpose of this Bill is to appropriate moneys to carry on the necessary normal annual services of the Government during the first 5 months of the financial year 1973-74, 
The total amount sought in this Bill is $1,556,348,000 comprising: 

<graphic href="056232197305303_83_1.jpg"></graphic>

These amounts do not, of course, include the requirements for expenditure under special appropriations for which standing parliamentary authority is available under the relevant legislation. 
The amounts included for salaries and payments in the nature of salary represent estimates of the payments which will be made at existing rates of pay and employment levels over the 11 pay days falling within the supply period. The amounts included for administrative expenses and other services are limited to commitments which departments will be required to meet in the supply period. A provision of $ 15m has been included for the payment of defence forces retirement benefits under the proposed revised procedures in legislation to be introduced during the current session of Parliament. An amount of $30m is sought to enable the Treasurer  (Mr Crean)  to make advances which will be recovered within the financial year and to make moneys available to meet expenditure on ordinary annual services of the Government, particulars of which will afterwards be submitted to Parliament. 
This Bill also contains a special appropriation of an unspecified amount, subject to certain limitations, to cover such salary and wage increases as become payable after the Bill was prepared for which specific provision will not, of. course, have been made. This is an alternative to substantially increasing the Advance to the Treasurer which in recent years has been called upon to provide substantial amounts to meet salary and wage increases. It is hoped that this special appropriation will become a permanent feature of future Supply Bills. I commend the Bill to honourable senators. 
Debate (on motion by  Senator Cotton)  adjourned. 
 I move 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
I ask for leave to incorporate the second reading speech in Hansard. 
The ACTING  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Brown)  - Is leave granted? There being no objection, leave is granted. (The speech read as follows) - 
The purpose of this Bill is to appropriate $404,973,000 for certain expenditures to carry on the necessary services of the Government for the first 5 months of 1973-74. The total amount sought comprises: 

<graphic href="056232197305303_83_2.jpg"></graphic>

The amounts sought for capital works and services are in general to meet continuing commitments. However, provision has been made for an appropriation of $54m for the purchase of pipe and associated equipment for the Moomba-Sydney gas pipeline. An amount of $17,500,000 has also been included for possible expenditure under the National Urban and Regional Development Authority Act 1972. 
In addition the amount sought for payments to or for the States includes $21m to give effect to the Government's recent decision to provide emergency post-revaluation adjustment assistance to producers of export apples and pears and canning fruits. Three million dollars has been included for initial expenditure on the school dental scheme. Other amounts included for payments to or for the States are based on existing arrangements for approved payments from annual appropriations. Generally, they do not exceed five-twelfths of tha 1972-73 appropriations but where the arrange* ment is for quarterly or half-yearly payments provision has been made accordingly. Further payments to or for the States will be made from special appropriations and the Loan Fund. 
An amount of $30m is sought to enable the Treasurer to make advances which will be recovered within the financial year, and to make moneys available to meet expenditure on services of the Government, particulars of which will afterwards be submitted to Parliament. I commend the Bill to honourable senators. 
Debate (on motion by  Senator Cotton)  adjourned. 
-I  am not able to answer that question precisely. I think that I should direct it to the Minister for Defence. Of course the honourable senator is already aware of the statements of the Minister about the reviews and what the Government claims to be the viability of our forces resulting from examinations that the Minister has made. But I will ask him to supply an answer to the specific question that the honourable senator has asked. 
 I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
I ask for leave to incorporate the second reading speech in Hansard. 
I move: 
That the Bills be now read a second time. 
I ask for leave to incorporate the second reading speech in Hansard. 
 I move: 
That the  Bill  be now read a second time. 
I seek leave to have the second reading speech incorporated in Hansard. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
I seek leave to have the second reading speech incorporated in Hansard. 
In relation to the first part of the question, I am sure that the honourable senator would not expect me to have with me here details of the cost of operation ofthe VIP flight or, more precisely, the cost of the proposed flight by  Mr Barnard.  However, may I point out that the criteria used now in respect of the use of the VIP aircraft are no different from the criteria adopted when this matter was under the control of  Senator Drake-Brockman  and other Liberal or Country Party Ministers. As to the suggestion that the criteria used to determine those who are eligible to travel on these aircraft are different from the criteria adopted by the previous Government, I point out that there is no difference in respect of internal flights. Like other people, while on parliamentary trips T have been on Royal Australian Air Force flights which were approved by former Liberal Ministers when we might well have travelled by the commercial airlines. But I accept that the position is - I think most honourable senators accept it - that in respect of such flights a calculation has to be made as to the most convenient form of transport for the party involved and for the trip involved. 
I think I said clearly yesterday that there are good reasons why in respect of these very important discussions between  Mr Barnard,  on behalf of the Labor Government, and the other governments with which we are associated in the Five Power Defence Arrangement we should have a self-contained group of specialists, including the Defence heads. If  Mr Barnard  had embarked on such a mission without taking these specialists, the Opposition would have been critical. It seems to me that there is another aspect. We have a highly specialised group of airmen in the VIP flight. I am quite sure that those airmen would be pleased and competent to expand their activities, because' the experience adds to their abilities. They have been used previously. They have been used by previous governments. I cannot understand the present objection. The only objection which might be taken is that in this instance the wives of some officers will be on the flight. 
 Senator Turnbull  has raised a good point.  Senator Gair  and, I think,  Senator Turnbull  have complained previously, if I remember correctly, about the VIP flights not being made available to persons other than those mentioned in the arrangements which this Government and the previous governments have laid down. Recently  Senator Withers  asked  Senator 
Murphy whether he would consider modified criteria which would allow senators to use these flights. 
 Senator Murphy  has just assured me that his opinion is that senators should be able to use the flights. So, it would seem to me that there is some acceptance that it is essential that VIP flights be maintained. The only remaining information - I cannot give it to the honourable senator off the cuff but I will get it - is an estimate of the cost involved. If  Senator Townley  wants the manifests in respect of previous flights laid on the table, I will table them. 
The honourable senator raises an issue over which I do not think we have any positive control. I shall examine his question and reflect on it to see to what extent any officer of mine might be made available to follow up the matter. I think that the general proposition has been answered by the Minister for Labour previously but I shall review the question when I see it in print. 
 I want to refer briefly to the comments that  Senator Jessop  made in respect to the labour requirements of Broken Hill Pty Co. Ltd at Whyalla. I refer to a report put out by the Minister for Labour,  Mr Clyde  Cameron, in April. This report was prepared by the Department of Labour in the middle of April and is an accurate statement of the position at that date. So that everybody will know exactly what is the position following what  Senator Jessop  said, I will read some of the comments from that  statement which will answer some of the honourable senator's questions. In that statement, which I understand has been circulated elsewhere, the following appears: 
The clear fact is that the Company is obliged to delay bringing to Whyalla married personnel recruited in Australia when flights of migrants are expected. This is hardly conducive to achieving a smooth flow of locally-recruited workers even though the Company's officers maintain that many Australians prefer to precede their families and stay in the single men's hostel in order to 'look Whyalla over' before bringing their families. 
It goes on: 
As to the Company's efforts to recruit local labour, during the last three months the first advertisement in Whyalla for unskilled workers was on 28 February 1973, which sought a tally woman and junior employees. This is the first time that junior employees have been considered by the Company for this work. Although the advertisement was in the singular, BHP had 12 vacancies as tally clerks which were open to women. The positions were not attractive as shift work over seven days was involved and the work was open-air work. There is also an arithmetical test and medical examination involved and to date only three placements have been made and one referral is pending. As to juniors, some 40 have been placed and BHP is willing to take six juniors per week in future and to consider the employment of Aborigines. 
In Adelaide, advertising for labourers has been infrequent although there has been a number of skilled vacancy advertisements. Representatives of BHP have attended District Offices in Pt Pirie, Pt Lincoln and at the Agency at Wallaroo, without success. 
In Victoria, the only advertisement for unskilled labourers in the last three months appeared on 31 January 1973. This advertisement brought forward 34 applicants of whom the Company offered employment to only 11; the remainder either were unprepared to consider the jobs or were unacceptable to the Company. 
The statement then refers to these factors and makes some comparisons between wage rates paid by other employers and those paid by BHP. The statement then continues: 
This shows that no Adelaide firm pays, as a base rate, the Minimum Wage as does BHP and taking into account over award payments, bonuses and shift allowances, only where no shift work is involved does the total paid in Adelaide fall below the $60.40 paid by BHP, but in those cases the difference is less than the shift allowance paid by BHP. 
This certainly, together with the dusty, dirty and hot working conditions at Whyalla, does not show any attempt by the Company to attract unskilled labour from Adelaide. The same applies and perhaps even more so to labour in other capital cities. When compared with rates of pay for labourers of $96.46 for a 40-hour week at Mount Isa Mines, admittedly a more remote centre than Whyalla, but still a decentralised location, it is hard to imagine BHP competing successfully for Australian workers. 
I will not read the whole document. It is available. On page 5 the Department makes this observation: 
Overall, it would seem that BHP could have been doing more to attract labour. By comparison with firms in Adelaide, the Company is offering less inducement to labour to go to Whyalla than those other firms are offering to their employees in Adelaide. It is also considered that the offers of reimbursing travel and removal costs from interstate sources and the availability of housing fall well short of what could be considered an added inducement to undertake arduous work in hot and dusty conditions in a remote location with little in the way of employment for women. 
I simply quoted those results of the departmental examination which I mentioned so that  Senator Jessop's  remarks might be related to the comments which were made by the Department. 
 I rise only to enable  Senator Wright  to continue. 
The honourable senator is well aware that in 1967 his Government laid down a national agreement which encompassed this question and which provided for redundancy payments to avoid the very problem about which he is talking. I might also point out that at present there are 2 Bills before the Senate which are related to this question and which are aimed at reducing those payments. In that case, I suggest that  Senator Wright  might pursue the matter when those Bills are discussed. 
I want to state clearly that the Government considers there is no case for deferring this Bill because the comprehensive nature of it has been widely canvassed before. Everybody knows that what is contained in it is in the platform of the Australian Labor Party. Everybody knows that we promised to bring into the Parliament a model Bill on workers' compensation. In fact, on the last occasion on which the former Liberal-Country Party Government introduced an amending Bill to the present Act we moved amendments consistent with what is now proposed. Therefore we consider that the move to defer this Bill simply denies to many thousands of Commonwealth public servants something which they expect and something for which we have a mandate. 
The Opposition knew about this. The principle of no loss of pay has been well canvassed and it applies in many outside industries. It has resulted from agreements between employers and employees in many industries so it certainly is not a new venture. In fact, as honourable senators will remember, the last Government went part of the way towards providing this basis when it said that in respect of all its employees - not only those who were fitters and turners, builders and carpenters, but every public servant, including the top public servants who honourable senators opposite say will get too much under this Bill - in cases of total incapacity they would in fact get their ordinary weekly earnings for 26 weeks at their sick leave rate. So that principle is not new. In most of the States it now applies to the extent of 80 per cent. So it seems to me there is no new ground. 
The case put by  Senator Rae  which is based on the fact that there will be an inquiry which has been approved by the Government which decided the terms of reference for  Mr Justice  Woodhouse, simply seeks to defer the whole question for many months. There is no certainty that the report will be available this year and there is no certainty that it will be available before the middle of next year. When we receive that report which I accept will relate to these matters, except as to the terms of reference on repatriation which the Opposition now puts forward for our consideration, it will receive the attention of many people, organisations, the Government and the Opposition as to what should be done about it. What is proposed today is simply a move which will defer for that length of time an important piece of legislation on the basis that in some cases there are anomalies and that in some cases there ought to be a ceiling on the compensation payable. I put it to honourable senators that what they should think about, firstly, is: Where does one apply that ceiling? The top public servants of whom 1 have spoken, those earning $20,000 or S30.000 a year who become incapacitated, will receive compensation at the sick pay rate for 26 weeks. That principle was the result of the very persistent representations made last year by the combined trade union movement and the combined Public Service organisations as a result of which, as we said it at that time, that Act became the best in Australia. We said it quite clearly. I should like to come back to that point later. 
Regarding the claim that the inquiry ought to extend to repatriation matters, I remind honourable senators that 2 inquiries on repatriation are currently proceeding. One is proceeding under the Senate Standing Committee on Health and Welfare, the other under the Chairmanship of  Mr Justice  Toose.  Mr  j US.tice  Toose has been given an extension of time, as he requested when Labor won government, to allow him to complete bli report by about the first quarter of next year. We do not know when  Mr Justice  Toose will make his report - he will make it in his own good, competent time - but he will shortly go overseas to make further investigations related to the representations that have been made to him. When his report is presented, the Government will consider what ought to be done about the repatriation matters that he raises. So there are in fact 2 competent inquiries current. In addition, of course, there is the point raised by the Opposition - which is probably valid - as to what shall be done about war widows and repatriation beneficiaries. In the short time that W: have been in office we have made it clear that we would be ready to make improvements. As honourable senators know our commitments, not only for benefits in this  first  short period of government will be $29m. In addition, we have made improvements and we propose to make more for the operations of the repatriation system and the use of repatriation hospitals which will make the system work more beneficially to those entitled to it. But. in turn we will be subject, sensibly of course, to whatever the inquiries recommend to u&gt; 
As to the matters complained about, I suggest that they have been given very serious consideration by these competent committees and that we should be allowed to proceed on the basis that the Act ought to bc modified Honourable senators will recall that in this legislation we made it clear as to what the basic improvements would refer. That is, that in fact there would be compensation for total incapacity based on the employee's average weekly earnings and compensation for partial incapacity on roughly the same principle. There would be an obligation, as appears in many other Acts, that if the Commonwealth cannot employ a partially incapacitated employee the employee must be paid compensation, as provided, until he can be employed. We have replaced the system which now exists in most of the States, that of providing for a lump sum payment to widows and dependants, to a system of weekly payments. This is a matter which of course is concerning some members of the Opposition and some members of the Committee. We have increased the amounts applying to specified losses, as other governments have done in the past. 
Let me deal with the 2 matters raised by  Senator Rae.  Perhaps anomalies exist in respect of the percentages relating to specified losses such as the loss of an arm, leg, hand or fingers, but those percentages apply equally in all States. In fact they are in the present Act. After submissions had been made to the former Minister for Social Services by special advisory committees and experts and after considering the criticism of people experienced in compensation matters, the former Government adopted the same approach as the present Government. The proposed relativity between various specified losses exists in the present Act and in the State Acts. If there are anomalies in that respect they are related to the history of workmen's compensation and they are related to the determinations which have been made in the past. So they are not critical anomalies. They are not anomalies in the sense that they are newly created. As  Senator Rae  has been good enough to point out, for the first time the Government has said that compensation principles must be attached to the question of rehabilitation, and we are attempting to do that. We have introduced ' special provisions for those who need rehabilitation to ensure that they get their ordinary earnings while they are being fitted to come back into the work force. 
May I refer to one or two things which appeared in the supplementary report of the Standing Committee on Constitutional and Legal Affairs on this Bill. Attention has been drawn in the supplementary report to the situation of top officers of the Australian Public Service. I point out that there are a few officers whose salary would be $20,000 or more per year and who might be 30 years of age. An example given concerns a person of 30 years of age. The figures given to me show that there are 52 officers in the Australian Public Service who receive $20,000 or more per year. They comprise only 0.02 per cent of all the persons employed in the Service. At present there are no officers aged 30 years or under in this group. The youngest is aged 37 years, so the example is not an extremely good one. But of course it raises the principle whether, in providing that an employee should  suffer  no loss of pay, we ought to impose a ceiling. That is always a difficult decision. As I have pointed out, the ceilings applying to workmen's compensation benefits have been raised bit by bit, year by year. As we know, after continual pin pricking with relation to the various provisions - I took part in some of these debates and accompanied representatives from the Commonwealth Council of Public Service Associations and the Australian Council of Trade Unions to the Minister then responsible - it is a fact that many representations made to the former Minister were taken into account in the last amendment to the Act. This will be the procedure in the future. The States may move ahead of us, as they have done in respect of some of the matters about which  Senator Wright  talked. The question arises whether a percentage can be fixed for compensation in respect of a specified disability. For example, in relation to the old vexed question of back injury, there is a provision in the South Australian Act that such a specification can be made. 
Of course it is. When in Opposition the Australian Labor Party canvassed proposals, which were finally accepted, about compensation for personal disfigurement, facial injuries and bodily disfigurement. At the time they were partly accepted after I had put it to the former Government that the various States had accepted an obligation that compensation should apply to these injuries. I put it to the Opposition that in fact it has taken an extreme and unreal example and I suggest that it might look at what might be a real case, the case of a widow whose husband had been on a lower level of payment. Consider her position. 
Let me refer to what was given as an example. The amount stated seems to have been arrived at on the false premise that a weekly payment of $383.39- that is, $20,000 a year - would be payable for 30 years. In fact, probably this would not be so. The weekly payments would probably be apportioned on the basis of a payment of 75 per cent of the total benefit to the widow and 25 per cent of that benefit to a child. The weekly payment in that case to a widow would be $287.54 and to the child $95.80. There would be very few examples where employees in this situation would not contribute towards a superannuation pension. In the case of the employee who does contribute towards a superannuation pension, provision is made under this legislation to offset the superannuation payment against the compensation benefit received under this legislation. If the facts that I have given are applied to the example that 1 quoted earlier, quite a different position is reached. Account must be taken of the offsetting of the superannuation payments in any calculations of the amounts which would be paid by the Commonwealth. Regard must be had also to taxation requirements. 
The Committee ought to look at a more realistic example to obtain a correct picture. I invite the Committee to consider the case of a Commonwealth employee who is killed at the age of 30 and who leaves a widow of about the same age. At the date of his death that widow becomes entitled to a weekly payment of $180.50. The present lump sum value of a weekly payment of $180.50 to a widow aged 30 until her death or remarriage, based on an interest component of 6 per cent per annum, is $74,250. That amount is substantially less than the figure of $211,000 quoted in the report of the Standing Committee on Constitutional and Legal Affairs. The lump sum payable at present for a child in that circumstance would be in addition to the amount that I have just mentioned and would depend upon a number of factors such as the age of the child and the age at which under the provisions of the legislation the child would cease to be a dependant. 
Taking a comparison on the basis of an annual salary of $20,000 to Commonwealth and State public servants, we find that compensation on death of a State public servant averages approximately $15,000. But 1 wish to point out that in most cases a superannuation pension would almost certainly be payable to the widow whereas in the case of the widow of a Commonwealth employee, fivesevenths of the superannuation entitlements of that widow would be offset against the compensation payment. No offsetting provisions exist with respect to State public servants. It is also well known that large numbers of civilian employees in private industry are now covered by superannuation benefits which are completely additional to compensation payments. No offsetting provisions are made. Persons engaged in the vehicle building indus try, such as those in relatively minor executive positions including foremen and supervisors, can retire on a lump sum payment which is not taxable and in addition they can be eligible for certain compensation benefits. 
I take next examples of provisions in State public services. In South Australia, the widow of a public servant who was on the same rate of pay as we have been speaking about with respect to a Commonwealth employee would receive in addition to the compensation payment of $15,000 to which I have referred- 
 I thank the honourable senator. In the examples T will give with respect to State public servants, I will cite the position in most of the States. Widows of State public servants receive a compensation payment of $15,000. In New South Wales, the widow's pension is twothirds of the ordinary pension to which a public servant would be entitled on retirement. I am presuming for the purpose of this and later examples that, as is usually the case with respect to payments in State public services, no part of the Government subsidy is reduced by offsetting that payment against a compensation payment. The widow in. New South Wales receives $8,202 each year by way of superannuation payments. In Victoria, the widow's pension which is based on fiveeighths of the normal retiring pension is $5,915 a year. In Queensland where, similarly, the widow's pension is five-eighths of the normal retiring pension a widow receives a payment of $8,333.33 a year. 
Yes, only State public servants. I am not completely aware of the position with various private schemes, but I have referred to two industry schemes which I know about. These cases are more beneficial than the Public Service Superannuation Fund. For example, the widow of a Tasmanian public servant would receive two-thirds of her deceased husband's salary at death. This would mean an income currently of $8,888.88 a year. In South Australia a widow would currently receive $7,943 a year. So, when one looks at the situation, one can see that it is quite different from what has been stated in the example that we have been talking about. 1 think that we ought to keep that in mind when we are stipulating what would be the position. Let me compare 2 cases - the present position of people eligible for repatriation benefits and those eligible for compensation payments. This comparison was referred to by  Senator Rae  in giving an example of the case of a widow of a person who was earning $130 a week. Under the provisions of our Bill, the deduction for superannuation would be $65 a week, so that the compensation is reduced to $65 a week. In addition, a tax of $13.75 is applied. So the net value of that compensation is reduced to $51.25 a week. Now 1 take repatriation benefits. Do not think that I am defending the present standards of repatriation benefits. For many years I have stated that 'repatriation benefits and benefits for serving members and their widows and dependants ought ) be more closely related to compensation scales. In the past repatriation benefits generally have been better than the compensation standard. But, because of the moves we have made, in a wide area repatriation benefits currently could be less than compensation payments. But in the example I have given, the repatriation pension would be $21.50, the domestic allowance would be $8.50 and the child's allowance would be $1.38 a week. So in that case the family would be receiving $37.55 a week. In that case repatriation benefits would not be better. 
But I point out that lump sum payments in the States are not taxable, but the weekly compensation payments are taxable. So allowing for taxation, which has not been noticed by some members of the Committee, I point but that the earnings of an employee who is totally and permanently incapacitated would be less. I also compare this situation with the current repatriation position that I have mentioned. Of course, the line of demarcation which I have mentioned sounds extremely high when one talks about an officer receiving average weekly earnings when his salary is $20,000 a year or more. But I submit that, as I mentioned, the Liberal-Country Party Government provided the present basis. As  Senator Mulvihill  I think interjected earlier, there may not be many people who would come into this class. But may I also refer, without being in- 
I can say only that the Minister for Labour before he left for overseas put forward proposals to settle the differences between the Federated Clerks Union of Australia and the airlines, a settlement which in the opinion of the Minister would be reasonable and based upon the submissions of the Australian Council of Trade Unions on equal pay. Negotiations on behalf of the Minister were vested in  Mr Riordan,  the honourable member for Phillip, who is a former federal secretary of the Federated Clerks Union and a very experienced person in that area of industrial relations. The position now is that the matter has been submitted by the union to the ACTU and unless the ACTU and the unions request the Government to take some action, the matter will be subject to the ordinary processes of the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission. 
Fill AIRCRAFT: PROVISION OF RECONNAISSANCE CAPABILITY 
 I want to make one or two very brief comments.  Senator Byrne  has introduced a new factor into the considerations before the Committee. It is one that the Government did not know about beforehand. Whether the Government 'ultimately agrees or disagrees with it, the Government should take time to consider what its attitude will be to it. Therefore, at an appropriate stage I think I should seek an adjournment of the debate. But before doing so 1 wish to say briefly- 
No. I want to make some comments before I do so. I am trying to facilitate the debate. It was a surprise to me when  Senator Byrne  raised his proposition. 
I refer in particular to what  Senator Wright  and others said about my comments and the comments of the Minister for Labour,  Mr Clyde  Cameron, about the Compensation (Commonwealth Employees) Bill 1972 that was introduced by the previous Government, after consultation with the union movement. At that time we said that it was the best compensation Bill in Australia. It became the best compensation Act in Australia at that time. I want to point out what has happened in most of the States since that time. For example, in Victoria and in  Senator Wright's  State of Tasmania, State government employees now receive when they are off on compensation what they would ordinarily earn, irrespective of their earnings. A principle which is embraced in this Bill and which has been hotly contested is that an officer who earns something like $20,000 a year should be assured of receiving, when he is partially or temporarily incapacitated and in receipt of compensation, what he would normally earn. That in substance has been the main objection of the Standing Committee on Constitutional and Legal Affairs. As I have said, in Victoria- 
Yes, you can take it the other way,  Senator Rae.  I wish to point out to the Committee the situation which prevails in three or four States. Employees of the Victorian Government, employees of the Electricity Trust of South Australia and all employees of the Tasmanian Government receive what they would ordinarily earn when they are off on workmen's compensation. If we as a Government were to try to provide by any regulations or special provisions for that to happen, we would be greatly criticised, as we were when we wanted to grant 4 weeks annual leave to Commonwealth public servants. 

 Senator Wright also referred to the position in relation to repatriation benefits. I have pointed out to him that the previous Government had 23 years in which to correct any anomalies that existed in any legislation. In its short time in office this Government has agreed to invest in a full year something like S27m on upgrading repatriation benefits. Let me very briefly put to the Committee 2 comparisons which set out in a better way than I did the other day the difference between compensation and repatriation benefits. I make a comparison between compensation benefits provided under this Bill and the existing repatriation benefits for a totally and permanently incapacitated person, with a wife and one child, whose average weekly earnings are $ 1 30 a week. In this case the net value of the compensation would be $51.25, calculated as follows: Earnings, $130; less superannuation, $65  -  gross value of compensation, $65; less tax $13.75. As I have said, the net value of the compensation would be $51.25. In the case of repatriation benefits such a person would receive $56.53, calculated as follows: Repatriation pension, $51.10; wife's allowance, S4.05; and allowance for one child, SI. 38. In addition, the repatriation pensioner would receive fringe benefits, such as education expenses and medical care. In this case the repatriation benefit clearly exceeds the net value of the compensation that would be received under this Bill. 
The second comparison concerns the widow of a person earning  $130  a week, with a child. The net value of the compensation would be  $67.46,  calculated as follows: Earnings,  $130;  less superannuation,  $43.49  - gross value of compensation,  $86.51;  less tax,  $19.05.  A widow in a similar position receiving repatriation benefits would receive a benefit of  $37.35,  calculated as follows: War widow's pension,  $21.50;  domestic allowance,  $8.50;  and allowance for one child,  $7.35.  In addition she would receive fringe benefits, such as education allowance and medical care. Thus, although the compensation payment in this case exceeds the benefit to the repatriation widow, thereis not anything like the discrepancy that the Opposition has suggested. 
I come back to the point I mentioned originally.  Senator Wright  and the Standing Committee have cited the case of a public servant who is  30  years of age and is earning  $20,000  or more. In the figures I gave, which were obtained by the Department of Labour, it was clear, in the first instance, that no officer holding such a position was  30  years of age. The youngest such officer in the  3  grades is in fact  37  years of age. 
The Australian Labor Party announced a long time ago that it would provide these benefits if it were in office. That was indicated by the amendments it moved to the Compensation (Commonwealth Employees) Bill last year. We said that we would implement our concept of no loss of pay. The main objection to this legislation isa gainst certain benefits being granted to the so-called tall poppies. At this stage the Government sees no reason why it should change its course of action. It believes that it should honour the promise it has made to Commonwealth public servants. It should be remembered that since last year some States and some private employers have moved towards the concept of no loss of pay. Conditions are available in outside industry and in the Public Services of some States that are better than the Act now provides. That is all I have to say at this stage in relation to this matter. 
 I shall be. brief and will put the position as I see it very clearly. When I last spoke in Committee I pointed out that what  Senator Byrne  then proposed was quite new, that nobody had expected him to move such a motion but that there might  be  some need for the Government to consider the proposal. I said that  we  would be prepared to facilitate its consideration. I also said that it was clear that the Opposition had had plenty of time to consider what it wanted to do with the legislation. All the legal members in the other place, whom one would expect to be familiar with this sort of legislation, decided to give it a speedy passage. There were no objections to it. The Government expected that the Opposition in the Senate would have agreed to its passage. The Government had announced what it intended to do. However  Senator Rae,  on behalf of the Opposition, moved that the matter be deferred until after the Woodhouse Committee brought down its report and the facts were clear. Obviously this would require a long adjournment. Surprisingly,  Senator Byrne,  who was a member of the Senate Standing Committee on Constitutional and Legal Affairs which reported on this Bill, has now moved what amounts to another adjournment of the consideration of this Bill. The Government has been more than reasonable. We have been faced with a new position but to give senators from the Government side the chance to consider other provisions in the Bill I moved that the debate be adjourned until a later hour this day.  Senator Byrne's  amendment would deny any further consideration. 
Some honourable members said that everyone has had a lot of time in which to consider this Bill. If 3 months is the time the honourable senator has in mind surely the amendment  Senator Byrne  has moved should have been canvassed with supporters of the Government to whom one usually talks about such proposals. In the circumstances I resent, as do Government senators, what has beeen proposed and the way in which it has been proposed by  Senator Byrne. 
On 10 May (Hansard, page 1485)  Senator Wright  asked me the following question, without notice: 
Is the Minister representing the Minister for Labour aware of the statement of his colleague  Mr Clyde  Cameron that he would support the Federated Ironworkers Union's proposal for a series of rolling strikes affecting the Broken Hill Pty Co. Ltd? Does this statement represent the individual view of the Minister or that of the Government? 
In reply I said that I had not seen the statement to which the honourable senator referred and I undertook to provide a supplementary answer, which is as follows 
The statement to which the honourable senator refers was only one of a number of comments made by the Minister for Labour on 6 May during the course of an interview on the television program, Federal File. 
I refer the honourable senator to my answer to a similar question asked by  Senator Rae  on 8 May and point out to him that the Minister's statement truly reflects this Government's very great concern for the welfare of the low wage earner and his right to  a  just and equitable reward for his labour. 
At the present time I am acting only on the information which  Senator Sir Kenneth  Anderson has and which has appeared in the Press. I will check the position for his information. It is an area in which the honourable senator is especially interested and in which he has played an important role in the past. I know that the Department of Supply is attempting to get reliable agents to market the aircraft. As the honourable senator knows, the response to the Nomad aircraft has been very heartening. Currently, the Army has ordered 11 of the aircraft,  Mr Brabham  has ordered one, with an option on another, four of the aircraft will be going to Indonesia and a firm called Coral Ayre has ordered one. Interest in the aircraft has been expressed by some other firms, including, I understand, Ansett Transport Industries Ltd. So we can feel confident that the aircraft will have a very healthy future. I shall make particular inquiries as to who will be acting on behalf of the Department to sell the aircraft and give the information to the honourable senator at a later stage. 
Yes, I have noticed the statement referred to by  Senator Sir Kenneth  Anderson. It raises again some most interesting points for all of us with regard to the use of such an aircraft. Included in my reply will be a statement of the present position and as much information as I can give the honourable senator at that time regarding the Government's policies with respect to production. 
in reply  -  I thank the Leader of the Opposition  (Senator Withers)  and also  Senator Wright  for their comments. In discussing this Bill we should have regard to the situation which might have occurred had there not been a national agreement. No doubt honourable senators will remember that in 1965 the then government called into conference all the parties involved. It finally accepted the request of the waterside workers and the Australian Council of Trade Unions that such a conference should be called. In 1967 the national conference made its report on the basis that the industry ought to be rationalised, that there ought to be a minimum of idle time, and that there ought to be a system of redundancy and pension payments to ensure that in the coming period of organisation and mechanisation of the waterfront the maximum use of labour might be obtained in those circumstances. That agreement, while it was fraught with some intermittent problems in relation to stoppages, has, in the main, been successful. Its objectives have been achieved if one considers the situation, for example, in the United Kingdom and in the United States of America where for many years the industry has been chaotic because no such agreement has existed. 
The 1967 national agreement was, in fact, a good one but it started off on a wrong basis because there was a battle between the waterside workers, the ACTU, the employers find the Government, as to what levy should be struck at the time. The Government insisted on a levy of 65c but the employers suggested that, to get off to a proper start and to make sure that people would be released from the industry to reduce the amount of idle time, the levy should be as much as 85c. The Stevedoring Industry Authority suggested that the levy should be 75c. We had a basis of wide agreement and a system of redundancy payments and pensions but it was impeded at the start, largely because of Government action. In relation to  Senator Wright's  comment, the position is that the whole of the levy may not be used but the levy is struck to ensure that idle time is reduced and that redundancy is more quickly secured. 
Great changes have taken place on the waterfront. I refer now to the latest report of the Australian Stevedoring Industry Authority for 1971-72. Honourable senators, when they read the report, will find a reference to the trends in the industry which have taken place year after year - mechanisation and technical changes. The Senate Select Committee on the Container Method of Handling Cargoes found that more and more cargo is being handled by waterside workers but that some problems existed. The 1971-72 annual report of the Australian Stevedoring Industry Authority states: 
A feature of Australian stevedoring operations during 1971-72 was the continuing decline in usage of the labour of waterside workers. This situation is the direct result of the continued expansion of labour saving technologies in those trades adaptable to them. . . . 
Of non-bulk cargoes, the proportion handled at permanently manned terminals Increased from 33.1 per cent in 1970-71 to 37.6 per cent. Increases in the individual trades were - overseas discharging from 21.8 per cent to 29.4 per cent, overseas loading from 23.1 per cent to 2S.7 per cent, coastal discharging from 51.0 per cent to 55.7 per cent, and coastal loading from 46.8 per cent to 53.0 per cent. 
In spite of increases in wage rates, average weekly gross earnings per man at permanent ports rose only 86c to $92.71, compared with $91.85 in 1970-71. At non-permanent ports, average earnings (excluding those of waterside workers employed on weekly hiring) decreased by $4.55 from $71.96 to $67.41. 
The report goes on to mention the increase in the use of cellular containers and mechanised equipment on wharves. It then refers to a matter of striking interest to the waterfront: The agreement between the waterside workers and the employers has been very successful; it is the first time in living memory that an increase has been secured and a wages agreement made without a strike. 
My information is that in recent years no complaint has been received from the Tasmanian producers or shippers about the way in which the product is handled. In fact on many occasions the waterside workers have been complimented. The Authority has the power to transfer all manpower from other major ports to Tasmania to ensure that the crop is properly handled. In addition, the shippers pay to the growers a certain subsidy if the crop is loaded quickly. The Authority in fact is providing a subsidy for manpower at certain ports. In turn, in certain circumstances for efficiency, the ship owners will give growers a rebate. I am told that on many occasions the people in the industry have publicly thanked the waterside workers. With those few words I thank those honourable senators who have taken part in the debate for their comments. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time, and passed through its remaining stages without requests or debate. 
 I move: 
That the time allotted for all stages of the Bill be extended by 20 minutes. 
I wish to reply to some remarks made by honourable senators and I have not had  a  chance to do so. 

 Senator Bishop's time. The  Clerk  has reminded me that standing order 407b states: 
. a Minister may declare- 
The word 'Minister' is used throughout standing order 407b and therefore he has the right under standing order 407b. I call  Senator Bishop. 
 May I put the position as I see it. lt would be a most extraordinary situation if in any debate in this chamber a Minister, having introduced a Bill, is not allowed to reply to the contributions made during discussion of the Bill. 
 Would the honourable senator mind listening? We can see that this is a demonstration of democracy. (Opposition senators interjecting)- 
 Would honourable senators mind listening to me for a start and then maybe they will not be prepared to shout me down? I received representations from some honourable senators who came to see me.  Senator McManus  asked me whether he could speak for 10 minutes on the Bill and I agreed. I said I would agree to this arrangement in view of the circumstances if the honourable senator at the end of his speech moved that the time for the debate be extended to allow me to reply. He said he would do that. But the  Clerk  advised me that a Minister must move for the extension of time. What sort of democratic debate is it when the Minister in charge of the Bill is not allowed to reply to the speeches  that have been made? What hide of honourable senators opposite to try to stop the Minister in charge of the Bill from replying to the contributions of honourable senators who have spoken. 
 Honourable senators opposite talk about the democratic processes of the Senate. But then they deny the Minister a chance ' to reply to what was said by  Senator Greenwood, Senator Wright, Senator Hannan  and  Senator McManus.  This may be the sort of democracy honourable senators opposite believe in, but it is not my idea of democracy, and I would hate to be associated with them in any forum in which the public tests their ability to be democratic. The 
Opposition's attitude is scandalous. Why do honourable senators opposite not reflect on what I am saying? 
 I want 20 minutes in which to reply. This is the first occasion I can remember in this Senate when any senator has refused to give a Minister in charge of a Bill the right of reply. 
 Honourable senators opposite are talking about a. law which they say is unfair and undemocratic. Then they say- 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
The Minister has now moved a motion which I will put forthwith. The question is: . 
That the time allotted for all stages of the Bill be - extended by 20 minutes. 
Where any time has been specified for the commencement of any proceedings in connection with any business under this standing order, when the time so specified has been reached,; the business, whatsoever its nature be, then before the Senate or. Committee, shall be postponed forthwith arid the consideration of the Urgent Bill proceeded with, and all steps necessary to enable this to be done shall be taken accordingly. 
My point of order is that the business before the Senate when the time of 7 minutes past 9 was reached was  Senator Bishop's  motion. That, according to this standing order, shall in the terms of the standing order be postponed forthwith. The consideration of the urgent Bill by the motion moved by  Senator Murphy  this afternoon was to be voted on at 7 minutes past 9 this evening. So the standing order in its terms could not be more explicit on the submission before the Senate at this time that the Bill be now read a second time. I submit that no words can overcome the plain words of that standing order. 
Taking that not as specifically entitling the Minister to reply but as giving the context in which the rules are to be read, standing order 407b (1) states:   a Minister may forthwith, or at any time during any sitting of the Senate or Committee, but not so as to interrupt a  Senator who  is addressing the .Senate or Committee, move a further motion or motions specifying the time which (exclusive of any adjournment or suspension of the sitting, and notwithstanding anything contained in any other Standing Order or any Sessional Order) shall be allotted to all or any of the following: 
That is what has happened here. A motion was moved originally by me and was adopted by the Senate. Now the Minister may at any time during any sitting of the Senate or in Committee, provided that he does not interrupt someone else move a further motion. So there may be a motion or motions, and that is what has happened here. I moved the original motion and here is a further motion moved by a Minister to specify the time. He has moved that the time for the consideration of this Bill be extended for a further 20 minutes. I submit that that is perfectly in order. 
Upon such further motion or motions with regard . to the allotment of time being moved - 
I take it that that is what  Senator Bishop  is' moving -   no debate thereon shall be allowed for more than one hour - 
The initial stages of the Bil! up to, but not inclusive of, the Second Reading of the Bill. 
I wonder whether, in fact, standing order  407b  applies to this stage of the Bill. 
For the purpose of bringing to a conclusion any proceedings which are to be brought to a conclusion on the expiration-  
I emphasise the words 'on the expiration' -  . . of the time allotted under any motion passed under the provisions of the preceding paragraphs of this Standing Order, the  President  or the  Chairman  shall at the time appointed under the motion for the conclusion of those proceedings put forthwith the Question on any amendment or motion already proposed from the Chair. . . . 
The standing order goes on to state that if the Senate is sitting in the Committee of the Whole certain steps will be followed. But we are not in Committee. We are still sitting as the Senate and you,  Mr President,  are in the Chair. The reference to the  Chairman  putting the question proposed from the Chair has application. Therefore, the Chair puts the question which is before it in the ordinary course. But it is at that point that paragraph  (4)  comes into operation. What is the question to be put from the Chair? Paragraph  (4)  again could not be clearer. It states: 
Where any time has been specified for the commencement of any proceedings in connection with any business under this Standing Order, when the time so specified has been reached- 
That was at  7  minutes past  9  o'clock this evening in accordance with the  3  hour schedule moved by  Senator Murphy  -  . . the business, whatsoever its nature be,- 
Those words could not be more comprehensive - 
. then before the Senate or Committee, shall be postponed forthwith and the consideration of the Urgent Bill proceeded with . . . 
What was the business before you,  Mr President,  at the time that  7  minutes past  9  o'clock was reached? It was  Senator Bishop's  motion. That is what must be postponed forthwith if you are to be consistent with the Standing Orders. Therefore, the issue which has to be decided is the consideration of the urgent Bill. The motion with regard to it is that the Bill be read a second time. That is how this standing order reads. I submit,  Sir, that  there is only one interpretation fairly open to you on the Standing Orders and that is that the proper question is that the Bill be read a second time.  1  leave aside, much as I am tempted to embark upon the matter, the comment that the Labor Party has brought this upon itself. 

 Senator Wright -  Mr President,  I wish to speak to the point of order. (Government supporters interjecting) - 
. a Minister may forthwith, or at any time during any sitting of the Senate or Committee, but not so as to interrupt a senator who is addressing the Senate or Committee, move  a  further motion or motions specifying the time . . . 
It is not qualified but it is enforced by standing order 65 which, under the heading Routine of Business', states: 
Any motion connected with the conduct of the business of the Senate may be moved by a Minister of the Crown at any time without notice. 
I uphold the right of  Senator Bishop  to move the motion. The question is- 
Upon such further motion or morions with regard to the allotment of time being moved, no debate thereon shall be allowed for more than one hour, and in speaking theron no senator shall exceed 10 minutes. 
That must have application. 
 Mr President 
 Mr President,  I take this opportunity of saying, without referring too much to the last debate, that I was rather surprised to find Opposition senators seeking to frustrate a Minister who wanted to reply briefly to a debate. 
 Senator Wright  is always talking about the rights of honourable senators; yet he was one of the honourable senators who sought to frustrate a Minister whose job it is to answer honourable senators' complaints and not to let him talk. Honourable senators opposite talk about parliamentary democracy but will not apply it. At the first test of parliamentary democracy they want to gag a Minister. The Senate is debating a very important Bill and 1 am taking this opportunity, in the very restricted time that has been allotted to me, to say a few words about it. What we are talking about is a new concept of conciliation and arbitration. 
Why do you not shut up for a while or leave the chamber? 
 Mr President,  may I ask that you call the chamber to order for at least the few minutes in which I have to speak? 
 I was trying to make the point to the Senate that we are discussing a very important reform in the conciliation and arbitration field. One would think from the submissions made by Opposition senators that they have never heard about collective arrangements and across the table bargaining that is happening in Australia every day. Apparently they have never heard of the new arrangements that have been made. Apparently they have never heard of the  idea  of better relations. Opposition senators are continually interjecting. They cannot take it. Apparently they have never heard of the arrangements which bring workers and their bosses closer together. In most parts of the world - in West Germany and other parts of 
Europe in particular - there is being done today what the Australian Labor Party wants to do in order to bring the bosses and the workers closer together. Trade union people are being put on boards and managements to make sure that their point of view ' is made known, But honourable senators opposite still talk about the old days, the days of the coal mines, the days of the first arbitration legislation when it was considered that a worker had no rights at all. We are talking of new concepts. We are talking of the days when unions are organised and have a collective power. The Labor Government has decided that the trade unions, in concert with that power, should have new inhibitions placed upon them. 
We have decided to make sure under this legislation that trade union officials have to be elected to office. We have put new strictures on the trade union movement. Honourable senators opposite are against that. I have never heard in any arbitration discussion that we have had in this chamber since 1961 - I have participated in most of them - such reactionary statements as I have heard tonight.  Senator Greenwood, Senator Wright  and other honourable senators opposite are still talking about the old days. Even in the days when they were in Government there were moves towards reforms. They advocated reforms which were partly accepted by the Labor Government. But we are opening up a new concept and our policy has been given a mandate by the people. We said that we would introduce a new system of Labor relations. The Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  and the Minister for Labour  (Mr Clyde Cameron)  have said that the Government wi'l remove the penal clauses from the Conciliation and Arbitration Act. That is well known. Honourable senators can read those prescriptions in the Labor Party's policy speech, which has been quoted to the Senate on many occasions. 
What we have put before the Senate is not new. What has the Opposition fallen back on? It has fallen back on all the old complaints about the amalgamation of unions. I remind honourable senators of what  Mr Lynch  was saying about the amalgamation of unions until the Australian Democratic Labor Party twisted his tail. He came out with the statement that the amalgamation of unions in metal working field was a fine thing. He said that it was a good thing for unions to amal gamate. He said that it makes for a better consist. Many of the employer organisations said: 'We agree and we want to see unions built into one larger consist'. Then the Liberal Government said: 'It is a very good idea'. But all of a sudden it has changed its mind. Why? Because the Democratic Labor Party decided that amalgamations were no good when carried out on the basis proposed by  Mr Lych. 
On what basis are we providing that amalgamations take place? We are providing, for example, that there shall be more democracy in the union movement. We are providing for the removal of the bottlenecks caused by the divisions set up in the Conciliation and Arbitration Act as it now stands. We are also encouraging agreements. The Opposition has never heard about agreements. It is so far out of date in the arbitration field that it has never heard about workers and bosses getting together.  Senator Wright  talked about  Mr Mundey  and the militant left wing unions. May I remind the honourable senator that only last week' he asked me whether I had met the building workers' unions, and the very next day I was to meet in this building the militant and non-militant union bosses, the right wing unionists and the Master Builders Association representatives. I got them to agree to a common platform. That is the sort of thing the Labor Party is talking about but the honourable senators opposite do not understand. They have in mind, of course, that every worker who goes on strike ought to be immediately subject to penalties. What have they done about the penalties they imposed on the unions? Did they ever collect them? Of course not. They never had the guts to collect them. 
But they say tonight that unions ought to be subject to sanctions. Everybody knows that sanctions do not work.  Senator Wright  roamed over the field of arbitration as it applies in the United Kingdom. He told us about how  Mr Wilson  had failed and he said that when  Mr Heath  got to power he applied new measures against the union movement. As soon as these new measures were applied theoretically, of course the trade union movement did not accept them. But in the world today there is a new idea. The idea is that sanctions do not work. As  Senator James  McClelland pointed out,  His  Honour  Mr Justice  Kirby, who is I suppose our main inspirer of the arbitration system today, said that sanctions do not work. We know too that sanctions do not work in the old country, and they never will work. They will not work if we say, as honourable senator opposite say, that trade unions have no rights. If trade unions break an arbitration law or reject an award, the Opposition says that they should be punished. Does it say also that action should be taken against the employer? Of course not. It has double standards. It has always had double standards. It believes that the worker has to be penalised, that the union has to be penalised but that the bosses - the profiteers - should get off scot free. 
I put it to the Opposition that by means of this Bill we are ensuring the return of the old standards which were there before the former Government tinkered with them last year and in 1971, namely, the ability of arbitrators to conciliate as well as arbitrate.  Senator Kane  who is trying to interject does not know what is going on. 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
 in reply  -I  thank  Senator Greenwood  for his comments. Perhaps I will be pardoned for saying that it comes as rather an anti-climax to the debate on the Conciliation and Arbitration Bill to be talking about a tripartite body which has done so much in the international field; that is, a body consisting of worker, employer and government representatives who get on well together and set standards. 1 have had the pleasure of attending Internationa] Labour Organisation conferences and meetings of its committees, and I know the work it does. 
I point out to  Senator Greenwood  and the Senate that the Government obviously has taken some initiatives in this matter because, for the first time, the Minister for Labour  (Mr Clyde Cameron)  has invited his opposite number in another place,  Mr Lynch,  to accompany him to the International Labour Organisation conference this year, which in our opinion is good. That is a result of a Labor policy which was formulated several years ago. At that time we said that if we became the Government, in addition to doing what had been done by former governments in the way of sending delegations from the government and facilitating the sending of delegations of employers and employees, we would ensure that observers from both sides of the Parliament attended the conferences. Everybody should recognise that the Government, by doing this, has done a good thing. Furthermore, the Labor Government has adopted a different viewpoint from that of the previous Government. We believe that we should take a stronger stand on this question and take initiatives in respect of the State governments on the conventions and recommendations. This we have done. Honourable senators will remember that during the various debates on the subject in this place we have pointed out that we thought in the past that the Government should have used that initiative. With those short comments I thank the Opposition for the speedy passage of the Bill. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time, and passed through its remaining stages without amendment or debate. 
I will make inquiries about the matter. I do not know of any change in this respect, but I certainly will follow up the query which  Senator Jessop  has raised. 
 The answer to  Senator Wright's  question is yes. In my opinion that will meet the obligations imposed by the International Labour Organisation Convention. 
 in reply-* I thank honourable senators who have participated in this debate for their support of the Bill. I propose to reply briefly to  Senator Byrne.  Two points arise from  Senator Byrne's!  comments. One concerns those persons who were not called up, in which case the Government took action. The other concerns those who were offered a release from their obligations. I inform  Senator Byrne  that it was pleasing to note that of those who could have been released, one-third chose to remain in the Services. This, I think, is a satisfactory position. With those short comments, I thank honourable senators for their contributions to the debate. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time, and passed through its remaining stages without amendment or debate. 
 I am rather surprised that the honourable senator has asked this question. May I remind him of what happened when  Senator Murphy  indicated to the Senate the program of debate on legislation in the Senate? He assured  Senator Gair  and other Opposition senators that the program of business would be flexible. But we found last night in the course of the debate on the Conciliation and Arbitration Bill that no such flexibility was extended by the Opposition and 1 was to be denied the right to answer criticism of the legislation by the Opposition. How can the honourable senator advance such a proposition with respect to my criticism? I did not hear the program. Certainly his position cannot be defended, because if he had had his way - he was one of the people involved- 
 If you had had your way I would not have been able to say anything. 
 The proposition put by  Senator Murphy  when introducing his motion relating to the program of work for the Senate seemed to me to be clear. He said that in some areas naturally there would be flexibility. Any Minister would expect courtesy to be extended to him to enable him to reply in a debate. That is the position. 
in reply - I thank honourable senators opposite for their comments in relation to this Maternity Leave (Australian Government Employees) Bill and their indication that they will not oppose it, although  Senator Wright  said that he believed that the proposition should be opposed. I shall speak about the point of view which he took which was that we are deciding matters which are purely of social consequence in relation to an employee and employer relationship. The simple answer to that is that in relation to an International Labour Organisation Convention such as this the Government has taken an initiative in respect of its own employees. We have taken the initiative because we promised to do so. As everybody knows, the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  in his policy speech stated: 
For our own employees we will apply the International Labour Organisation Protection Conventions going back to 1919 which guarantee women leave with full pay and benefits for 6 weeks before and 6 weeks after confinement. 
This is the first point I want to make. The second point is the conflict between  Senator Wright  and  Senator Webster. Senator Webster  raised what is obviously a very pertinent question as to whether the Government ought not to consider the question of providing this social service benefit to all women in this situation. After all, there is a complete liability on a Commonwealth Government for whatever funds are necessary. In relation to the present proposal the Government has a liability as a Commonwealth Government to provide funds for those women who would be employees of the Commonwealth Government and who would be entitled to the benefit. But I agree that there is substance in  Senator Webster's  contention. It is certainly a matter about which the Government must think. 
There was also a trend to introduce into the debate what was done in the other place and to say: 'Yes, we think the principle is good but, anyway, it is highly inflationary'. Of course it can be inflationary. That seems to me to be the main concern of the Opposition. That was the main concern of the shadow Minister in the other place. He said that whilst the Opposition would not oppose the Bill, the proposition was mostly inflationary because it would apply to everyone as the Commonwealth 
Government had applied it to its employees. This could be a campaign point. It could be a proposition advanced by unions and people in outside industry. The Minister for Labour  (Mr Clyde Cameron)  and the Government have made it clear that we are introducing this scheme because, firstly, we think it is an obligation. We think that the sensible thing is to do this in the way that we are proposing. We certainly will not support any moves for people to incorporate this benefit in an award. The question of what the States and employers in outside industry will do is one which has to be faced in the general context of social welfare legislation. 
About all I can say in relation to this proposition and obligation is that we have, as everybody knows, a comprehensive approach to all social service questions. We have policies under way in relation to national health, social security and national superannuation. We have also policies in relation to wider forms of compensation. They have been advanced in recent debates in this place. I make the point here that every time we say we are moving towards these matters the Opposition says: 'If you do these things great inflationary trends will be imposed upon the community*. I come to my interpretation of  Senator Guilfoyle's  proposition. She canvassed in a very sensible, quiet and studied contribution the matters which arise when one reads the Convention as to whether public funds ought to be used to provide this benefit universally. She referred to article 4 of the Convention of the International Labour Organisation. This certainly poses an issue which any government which wants to implement the Convention has to consider. Article 4, paragraph 1 states: 
While absent from work on maternity leave in accordance with the provisions of Article 3, the woman shall be entitled to receive cash and medical benefits. 
That raises the wide theme to which I have replied: The Government at some stage has to consider to what extent not only in the State sphere but also in the Federal sphere public moneys have to be used to provide this sort of scheme. In relation to our own employees at this stage we can take the initiative. I referred to this only last night. In the first instance we should take the initiative to provide the scheme for Commonwealth employees. In the other place there was no objection to the adoption of this proposition. At this stage there is no real objection to it. The issues raised by  Senator Guilfoyle  certainly need consideration and we will consider them. I understand the point she was making, that once this benefit is provided we have to ask ourselves the question: 'Is this a discrimination between the high wage earners and the low wage earners?' All I say in answer to that is that our social programs have been greatly criticised by some sectional interests outside - I refer to the doctors, of course - and by some in this place as being inflationary. This encompasses the sort of proposition which  Senator Guilfoyle  put in her contribution. It was certainly a good contribution from a woman's angle. I understood  Senator Wright's  contribution to be not so constructive. He did not oppose the way we have approached the matter. He said that in his opinion this scheme should be opposed. 
What we are doing now is fulfilling a commitment to the public. It is a commitment which has been announced. It is a commitment to our employees. It will be funded by the Commonwealth Government. I suggest to  Senator Wright  that if he had listened to  Senator Guilfoyle  he also would accept her proposition. Any such scheme is dependent upon the allocation of public funds. The New South Wales Government already provides to its employees the benefits that we are now seeking to provide. I think that sums up the issues that have arisen. The Government is grateful to the Opposition for not opposing this proposition. It is a proposition which has been welcomed not only by those who will benefit from it but also, as may have been noticed from a reading of the Press of the country, by a section of the community as being the sort of benefit that we should be providing. The issues  Senator Guilfoyle  has raised have been left for further consideration by the Government. I thank honourable senators for their support of the proposition. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bills read a second time. 
In Committee 
The Bills. 

 - On behalf of the Government I wish to oppose the motion moved by  Senator Cotton.  In the first place, I want to raise objection to the way in which the motion is brought before the Senate. The Senate business sheet is already loaded with important legislation which the Government has put before it and which ought to be dealt with on a priority basis. I cannot understand why this motion which is rather more of a political gimmick than anything else should be brought before the Senate at this stage. I say it is a political gimmick- 
Well, you are the nit, senator. I say it is a political gimmick because if honourable senators think about the motion- 

 - Mr President, I will- 
I would like to state what seems to be a very straightforward position, and I hope the Senate will agree with me. We have a long program of work to get through, and the Leader of the Government in the Senate  (Senator Murphy)  has advised the Senate what legislation should, in the opinion of the Government, be passed. In a general sense the Opposition has accepted that program. A timetable has been set down, and that timetable, but for a few exceptions, has not been varied. So the first point I make is that I cannot see why at this stage in the Senate's proceedings we should be diverting from the consideration of important legislation. One such important group of legislation is the defence forces retirement benefits legislation which, when passed, will be of great value to all members of the Services. That is the legislation we should be discussing at this stage. 
That is a very logical point! This is the Opposition for you. There is  Senator Young- 

 - Senator Wright says that I am a nit. 
Yes, we should have television, because 2 minutes ago  Senator 
Wright supported his colleague,  Senator Jessop,  who objected to the reference 1 made to him. But I shall bring the debate back to earth. What has happened here is that by some arrangement  Senator Cotton  has put up a proposition which is purely- 
I accept your attitude which is my own attitude,  Mr President.  I cannot see why in the dying stages of the session, instead of dicussing those- 
 I do not want any help from the honourable senator. Let us be reasonable about the proposition that  Senator Cotton  has put up and use some common sense. After all, what  Senator Cotton  has put up is purely a political gimmick. It has no relevance to the sort of task which the Committee ought to perform because his proposition is not concerned with prices of commodities or products. Rather it concerns itself with the incidental costs of such things as 4 weeks annual leave, a reduced working week and other related matters which, of course, can be debated in their proper context. They should be debated when we are discussing the economy. The relative factors about incomes and prices and industrial relations - the sort of matters which  Senator Cotton  puts up in his motion - ought to be properly related to that argument. But they are not the sort of things which one would want to refer to the Joing Committee on Prices. 
My colleague  Senator O'Byrne  pointed out that the Committee can inquire into complaints arising from prices charged by private industry and by the public sector, and inquire into movements in prices of goods and services in particular fields or sections of private industry and the public sector, for example, as measured by price indices and such other matters. If we want to inquire into anything at all we have some sort of statistical base on which to work in relation to the matters being inquired into. But the proposition is not that the Committee should inquire into the cost of commodities or prices. It will not look into the question of collusion between manufacturers and retailers or price arrangements under which manufacturers and commercial agents or retailers determine prices. The Committee is not to examine any of the things that we know are highly important. For many years authorities in Australia, including the esteemed economist  Dr Coombs,  have pointed out in proceedings before the Commonwealth Conciliation and Arbitration Commission that prices often are arranged between manufacturers and retailers. However, under the terms of this proposal that situation will not be examined. The committee will look at increased prices resulting from industrial stoppages and strikes. But what is the position today? The situation with respect to stoppages in recent years is no worse than it was in earlier years. For instance, from December 1970 to February 1971 the number of disputes within Australia, as assessed by the Bureau of Census and Statistics, was 561; from December 1971 to February 1972 it was 413; and from December 1972 to February 1973 it was 564. In those 3 periods the number of working days lost were, in 1970-71, 334,800; in 1971-72, 377,900 and in 1972-73, 383,700. These figures do not indicate any unusual situation in respect of time lost, so it is impossible to make even an approximate guess of the increased cost to the community of time lost. Such cost cannot bc assessed as can the increased costs of a pair of boots, a pound of butter or any other commodity which is produced by society. 
Such cost cannot be assessed, as  Senator Wright  should know. For example, how could one assess the cost to the community of  Senator Wright  and his colleague,  Senator Townley,  travelling on a VIP aircraft to King Island last weekend as compared with the advantages to the committee concerned if they had travelled on a commercial flight? In examining such matters, various aspects must be considered. 
Well, I do not know that,  Senator Little.  When the manifests are produced - 1 hope to produce them tomorrow - honourable senators will be able to see who have travelled on VIP aircraft. Certain criteria for such travel were established by the previous Government when  Senator DrakeBrockman  was Minister for Air.  Mr Barnard  is now Minister for Air and I am informed that criteria have been laid down enabling senators to travel on VIP aircraft only in special circumstances. However this is a philosophical aspect which might be argued. It may be that some benefits were to be derived from  Senator Wright  travelling on a VIP aircraft to complete his committee's investigations. But nobody can analyse the cost because no figures are available. Let us get this straight: No figures are available at present to enable the compilation of a suitable productivity index. Why is there no such productivity index? When 1 was associated with the Australian Council of Trade Unions in 1956 the ACTU approached the then Liberal Government and asked it to produce such an index. But it has never been produced and if one is looking for a productivity index one cannot find it, so what chance will the committee have if it wants to determine the factors involved in this particular question? These proposals of  Senator Cotton  are simply gimmicks. 
What would be the cost to the community of the arrangement made last year between waterside workers and employers in relation to a 35-hour week? It is known that the employers of waterside workers and the industry were able to arrange for a 35-hour week. This resulted in savings because formerly that industry had been beset by regular industrial disputes. In this particular case the industry gained a shorter working week as a result of across the table consultation and the industry saved in shipping costs and freight handling costs many thousands of dollars. Stoppages were avoided. When one refers to the impact of a shorter working week on costs and prices one must have regard to the possibility of saving through avoiding time lost on industrial disputes. This is something that is pragmatic. Everybody knows -  Senator Cotton  is too shrewd a politician and too mature in his experience of this Senate not to know - that if a burden is imposed on industry, industry has the capacity to improvise and to bring into productive form new devices to offset the increased costs of that burden. Modern industrial society has that capacity. Anyone who travels through factories, as I have done throughout the world, knows that almost daily new machines are being installed and new processes established which reduce the time that a man must work on a machine. By what index can one determine the saving to society from innovations and changes? No such index is available. 
That is a good point. Recent figures indicate that when a comparison is made between loss of time through industrial disputes and loss of time from accidents and sickness, it is clear that time lost because of disputes is minimal. Where there are good relationships between employers and workers there is no loss of time. Some notable industries in Australia have profit sharing and productivity sharing schemes. In those industries there are no losses. Also there is an acceptance of the machine to do the work of man. We have no figures to determine the profits or losses from the use of such machinery. 
Similar comments can be applied to the question of 4 weeks annual leave. When the Australian Labor Government sought to provide 4 weeks annual leave to everybody the Senate said that it could not be done the way the Government proposed to do it. It was suggested that the Government would give extra leave only to unionists. Later, however, the Senate agreed to the principle of an extra week's leave for members of the Public Service. How can one assess the profit to industry or to society as a whole from the provision of additional recreation leave? This is difficult to assess. What we do know historically is that industry has a capacity to meet additional costs. Despite the rising costs of labour in modern society, there is an inherent capacity in the mechanical productivity machine to match those costs. If there are good relations in industry there are many ways to offset increasing costs. I terminate my comments by saying that what is proposed in this motion is surely nothing more than a political gimmick aimed for a start at the Labor Party. 
Yes, aimed at the Labor Party, aimed at the Government, because the 
Government is pledged to improve the conditions of the work force. The Labor Party believes that if the conditions of the work force are improved something is added to the industry - work satisfaction. The Opposition has never beard of that sort of thing. In 1956 I went to the Duke of Edinburgh's conference when the idea of job satisfaction in industry was rather a queer notion, but today everybody is talking about it. We should be analysing the problems of the workers to make their tasks more pleasant. 1 refer now to something which is being done today in the automotive industry in the United States of America and Australia. We know that in recent times the monotony of the conveyor belt system has become a factor in turning people away from the industry. We know that as a result there has been less production. What has happened? Some European countries have devised new systems. I refer to the Volvo factory in Sweden which I visited. As a result of its experience with a loss of motivation and a loss of productivity that company has decided to break up the assembly line into small units to make sure that workers receive some satisfaction from their job. 
I come back to the notice of motion which has been proposed by  Senator Cotton.  1 am sure that  Senator Cotton  has been too long in the game to deny that his motion is anything other than a pure political stunt. The motion has been supported by  Senator Byrne  of the DLP. That is no surprise. The DLP regards everything which concerns shorter working hours or improved working conditions as suspect. It takes the view that workers should work harder and that profits should be higher. We do not agree with that. It is not my fault,  Mr President  and  Senator Withers,  that this debate has taken up so much time. It should never have been put on at this stage of our deliberations. It is a subject which needs- 
At short notice. I was told 10 minutes ago that this debate would be coming on at 8 o'clock. 
-No, it was not. It was said that the matter would be given consideration. 
14S07/73-  1931 
At this time of the night, according to the timetable, we should be considering a very important piece of legislation concerning servicemen. 
I will not sit down. I will put my case as I see it. 
The honourable senator is wasting time because it was his Party which floated the motion. 
If those were the arrangements they were not broadcast to me until 10 minutes ago. I put to the Senate again- 
I beg your pardon? Would the honourable senator like to make his point? 
It is not a question of talking to one another. 
I put to the honourable senator what I said earlier and with which he ought to agree. The Party to which the honourable senator belongs talks about the needs of the defence Services. We should be discussing at this stage defence forces retirement benefits. That is the program for tonight. I cannot understand why the Opposition has put on a political gimmick. 
I did not cause the debate,  Senator Cotton  caused the debate. I finish my remarks by  saying that what has  been put up tonight is purely a political gimmick. It has no relationship to the sorts of matters which might be referred to the Joint Committee on Prices.  Senator Cotton  knows that if he were to refer to the Committee the cost of goods and services in the community his proposal might have some substance. The issues raised are purely matters which have been canvassed by the Opposition because it wishes to attack the Labor Government. 
in reply - I thank Senators Rae, Devitt, Byrne, Maunsell and Wright for their contributions. I support and join in the comments of  Senator Rae  about the interest and general pioneering efforts of  Mr Jess  in respect of defence forces retirement benefits, because there is no question that his endeavours in the early stages were instrumental in the formulation of the scheme which is the best scheme that has yet been proposed. There is no question about that. I should mention too the other members of the Joint Select Committee on Defence Forces Retirement Benefits Fund Legislation who should share some of the commendations. The Committee consisted of  Mr Jess, Chairman, Mr Crean, Deputy Chairman, Senator Devitt, Senator Byrne, Senator Maunsell, Mr Barnard, Mr Bonnett  and  Mr Hamer.  There is no doubt that their recommendations in the Committee's first report form the basis of the scheme now expanded by the Labor Government. As every honourable senator knows, the Minister for Defence  (Mr Barnard)  in the other place has made suitable commendations, particularly to  Mr Jess,  and I support what he has said. 
May I reply firstly to the remarks of  Senator Wright. Senator Wright  spoke in the first place about the situation of Commonwealth employees compensation and defence forces retirement benefits. This brings us back to the argument - I will not take much time on this - we dealt with the other night in relation to amendments to the Compensation (Commonwealth Employees) Bill because in this legislation there are the same provisions which  Senator Wright  then rejected. A serviceman who is injured and receives Commonwealth employees compensation, would have his compensation reduced by the amount of his DFRB entitlement. That was the point which was objected to in the Compensation (Commonwealth Employees) Bill. The inequality that  Senator Wright  now refers to was the thing he rejected the other night.  I  accept that there are some general instances of inequality in the scheme, as  Senator Wright  has mentioned. I resent what he said about the Returned Services League. I do not think he has any basis for saying that the RSL has not advocated, in proper representation form, a better standard for servicemen. The fact is that a man can receive a war pension and, in addition, he can receive a DFRB pension. 
 He can get it whatever. If a person earns a war pension attributable to his service in war, he can receive that pension plus his defence forces retirement benefits pension. It is true that, when one compares the DFRB scheme with what the Labor Government proposed in relation to compensation payments, the compensation payment levels at the stage we were proposing them were greater. But we have said that as the basis is laid in one form of legislation it becomes a level for the next form of legislation. That is something like the proposition that  Senator Byrne  is putting forward, namely, that the Government should have regard to a moral case in relation to his amendment. That has some substance. I know this because 1 receive representations in the repatriation field from people who represent exservicemen and their families; they are not backward in putting forward what they think are propositions which should be considered. I accept that there is a need to have regard for modern standards in relation to compensation trends. AH I can say about that is that I am sorry the Opposition rejected the other night a compensation standard which could have helped to lift those other standards. 
I assure  Senator Rae  that the points he made will be considered, particularly as to whether the scheme will have the effect of maintaining that interest and permanence in the Services which we all want. I think it will. The reactions generally from the Services have been very good. As honourable "senators know, this scheme was not developed quickly. lt took many months to develop. I was on some of the committees, apart from the committee of which  Senator Byrne  and  Senator Devitt  were members. I was present at the subsequent consultations with the services as a result of which, as I have mentioned, the Government expanded the scheme which had been proposed in the Jess report. It expanded the scheme in respect of the penalties clauses, the no-detriment provision, the benefits, the indirect advantages of the new pay scales and the purchase of past service. Those are some improvements which have been made to the report, but they certainly are not the end of the Government's obligations. 
I think that everybody would commend the particular interest of the Minister for Defence  (Mr Barnard).  During the passage of the Bill through the other place and elsewhere, the Minister gave the assurances that, firstly, there would be a review of invalidity provisions in relation to both existing and future invalidity pension; secondly, there would be a review of widow's benefits in the light of amendments proposed in other Commonwealth legislation; thirdly, there would be a review of pension updating arrangements for existing and future pensioners and their incorporation in the principal Act; and, fourthly, there would be a further review of the nondetriment provision. 
That brings me to the proposition which has been advanced by  Senator Byrne.  I regard with some approval the move which  Senator Byrne  wants to make. But it is a new proposition, as he acknowledged in his minority report in the report of the Joint Select Committee on Defence Forces Retirement Benefits Legislation. I refer to page 53 of that report where, in paragraph 14,  Senator Byrne  states: 
Examination of many superannuation schemes elsewhere in the world discloses that the principle which is presented above does not find acceptance. 

 Senator Byrne goes on to say that there is an interesting example in Queensland. So, he himself acknowledges that what he is proposing is a new proposition which, as I think  Senator Maunsell  mentioned, the Committee did not approve. But there is no question but that it has a great moral basis. 1 can tell  Senator Byrne  that in our Caucus his proposition received quite commendable interest. It is a matter to which, 1 assure him, the Government will give consideration. However, it must be considered in the light of ils effect on parallel and equivalent legislation. With those comments, I thank the Senate for its speedy passage of the legislation. 
 It might be appropriate to refer to what  Senator Rae  has said and also to some of the representations which have been sent to honourable senators, including myself and  Senator Poyser,  which relate to the 'no detriment' provisions, so that the matter will be on record. A number of contributing members have expressed some concern with the provisions of clause 25 of the Bill which is the 'no detriment' clause. The position is that a number of officers - I understand about 3,500  -  could be detrimentally affected by their conversion to the new scheme and to overcome this detriment some of them may be required to purchase national service which will enable them to preserve the percentage entitlement of final pay they had at 1 October 1972, the commencing date of the new scheme. I would like to assure those members that their position in relation to detriment is to be carefully examined. My colleague the Minister for Defence  (Mr Barnard)  has already made it clear that if any serious anomalies are found in the arrangements proposed, he will be pleased to have a further look at the matter. 
I also refer to what has been said by way of representation to  Senator Poyser  and some other honourable senators. It relates to the distribution of surplus assets in the Defence Forces Retirement Benefits Fund. The las* quinquennial investigation of the DFRB fund revealed an actuarial surplus of some $14. 8m. The question has been raised whether existing contributors and pensioners are likely to benefit in any way from this surplus. The results of that investigation were valid only if the DFRB scheme had continued in its present form for very many years into the future. Honourable senators will be aware that tha contributions and benefits structures have changed radically and accordingly the results of that investigation are no longer valid. 
I also put on record something which ought to be noted because this is the substance of some representations which have been made. It relates to the updating of retirement pay and pensions. In the second reading speech on the Defence Forces Retirement Benefits (Pension Increases) Bill, I gave an assurance that the method adopted for adjusting the pensions granted in respect of members who retired before 1 October 1972 was an interim measure only and that the whole question of adjusting benefits in the future was under review. Suggestions have been made that, in compliance with the Jess Committee recommendation, adjustments should be on the basis of maintaining relativity with Services' pay. For example, if the retirement pay of a major represents 44 per cent of his final pay on retirement, then his retirement pay should always be 44 per cent of the pay of a major end adjusted simultaneously with rises in Services' pay. This proposal and others that may be put forward for consideration will, of course, be examined during the review promised by the Minister for Defence. 
Amendment negatived. 
Original question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bills read a second time, and passed through their remaining stages without amendment or debate. 
All I can say in reply to  Senator Mulvihill's  question is that he and the unions can be assured that the officers of the Department will always be available to help in settling industrial disputes. 
 Mr President,  I seek leave to refer to the retirement, after very long service as a parliamentay Private Secretary, of  Mr C.  E. Nobby' Clarke. 
I take the opportunity to  give some further information to  Senator Sir Kenneth  Anderson inrelation to Nationwide Air Services Pty Ltd about which  he  asked a question on Wednesday. Nationwide Air Services Pty Ltd of Sydney has been appointed distributor for the Nomad aircraft in Australia, Papua New Guinea, New Zealand, Fiji and adjacent Pacific island territories. This firm is a wholly owned subsidiary of News Limited. The agreement covers the following main points: It grants distributorship within the defined territory to Nationwide Air Services Pty Ltd and reserves to the Government Aircraft Factories the right to sell in that territory on a direct basis; it debars the distributor from selling products of a competitive nature and provides for actitve and reliable marketing arrangements for both the aircraft and spare parts; the agreement establishes a remuneration structure and sets out the conditions on which the distributor will operate in handling orders and sales; joint promotional action is provided for; and provision is made for technical assistance by the Government Aircraft Factories to the distributor to ensure proper performance of its technical functions. The agreement came into force on 5 June 1973 and continues until terminated by either party. Conditions of termination are specific and fully protect the interests of the Government. The agreement specifically enables the Government to make government to government and other sales in the territory allotted to the distributor without benefit to the distributor except in relation to any after sales service required. 
Last week in response to questions by  Senator McManus  and  Senator Townley  the Leader of the Government in the Senate  (Senator Murphy)  and I advised the Senate that details of travel in Royal Australian Air Force VIP aircraft would be tabled. Details of travel in Royal Australian Air Force VIP aircraft up to and including  4  February 1973 have been previously tabled in the Parliament, the most recent occasion being 7 March 1973 when I tabled details for the period from 18 August 1972 to 12 February 1973. The documents I now table embrace all details of VIP travel in RAAF aircraft in the period from 5 February 1973 to 13 April 1973. 
On 29 May  Senator Withers  asked me a question relating to Naval personnel who do not wish to sail in HMAS Sydney' to take part in the protest against the French nuclear test. 
The Minister for Defence has provided me with the following information in reply to the question: 
At present  18  naval personnel have requested postings from HMAS 'Sydney'. Fourteen of the requests have a compassionate basis associated with family problems, one request is based on financial loss occasioned by a long standing commitment while 3 of the requests are based on political andhealth reasons. The numbers and categories are: 1 Chief Mechanician Marine Technical Propulsion 1 Petty Officer Marine Technical Electrical  2  Leading Seaman Electronic Technical Commu nications  2  Leading Seaman Marine Technical Power 
Electrics 1 Leading Radio Operator 1 Leading Dental Assistant 1 Leading Steward 1 Leading Seaman Physical Training 1 Leading Seaman Photography 1 Writer 1 Able Seaman Aviation 3 Radio Operator 1 Cook 1 Sick Berth Attendant 
In addition, 23 naval personnel will be granted leave which would have been due during the period involved. In 22 of these cases the granting of leave is in no way connected with the French nuclear tests and would be normal for any unexpected deployment of a ship (14 are for compassionate reasons and  8  for family financial reasons). One sailor will be granted leave for political and health reasons. The numbers and categories of personnel being granted leave are: 1 Chief Artificer Marine Technical Propulsion 1 Shipwright 1st Class Marine Technical Hull 1 Petty Officer Marine Technical Propulsion 2 Artificer 2nd Class Marine Technical Propulsion 1 Leading Seaman Quartermaster Gunner 1 Leading Writer 1 Leading Stores Assistant (Naval) 3 Leading Seaman Marine Technical Propulsion 5 Able Seamen Marine Technical Propulsion 1 Radio Operator 1 Musician 1 Able Seaman Quartermaster Gunner 1 Able Seaman Underwater Control 1 Able Seaman Weapons Mechanic 1 Able Seamsn Radar Plot 1 Able Seaman Marine Technical Electrics 
-I think the honourable senator knows that the Government recently approved of the second batch of 50 Nomads. The first aircraft is expected to be completed at the factory at the end of March 1974. At about the end of March 1975 the aircraft will be produced at the rate of about four a month. As the honourable senator knows, an organisation has been set up as the international distributors for the aircraft. We are very hopeful that the aircraft, which is an outstanding aircraft, will be purchased by people other than those who now have options. A great deal of interest is being shown in the aircraft, and perhaps I should say that to some extent the former Minister,  Sir Kenneth  Anderson, would be as pleased as I am with the performance of the aircraft and the interest that is now being shown in it. We hope that we will get to the stage where we will receive orders not just for 70 aircraft but for something like 200 aircraft. 
The honourable senator probably already knows, because there has been a public statement to this effect, that the Minister for Defence will be making report on Wednesday night, following the presentation of the Budget statements, and it would be inappropriate for me to give the honourable senator details that he is now seeking. They will be more fully explained then, and I hope that when they are given the honourable senator will understand the situation. 
Yes, I did receive a deputation which was led by  Mr Laurie  Wallis, the member for Grey in the other place. The road in question is a shorter route from Whyalla to Point Lowly, which is something of a recreation area. The Commission asked whether it was possible to upgrade the road. It is over Army land. It was not possible to get any Army or Air Force squadrons to do the work requested. The honourable senator may be interested to know that I have written to the Minister for Tourism,  Mr Stewart  and, as there is a lighthouse there, to  Mr Charles  Jones, who is the Minister for Transport and Minister for Civil Aviation, to see whether we could assist in upgrading the road in a compromise plan which would be partly assisted by the Whyalla Town Commission. 
I seek leave to make a statement on Australian defence. 
The last part of the question asked by  Senator Gair,  as he well knows, is just nonsense. What the Government has done - I refer particularly to the reorganisation of the Services into one defence department - has been to place emphasis on spending on wages and salaries. I point out that approximately 62 per cent of the defence vote is related to improvements for personnel in the Defence Services. Everybody knows that one of the complaints by the LiberalCountry Party Government and by the Australian Democratic Labor Party in the old days was that Australia could not have a volunteer professional Army or Defence Service. The Labor Government has demonstrated that this is possible and has spent massive sums to increase defence salaries and to improve the defence forces retirement benefits scheme and has provided very significant funds for Service housing. This action has been outstanding. It has been applauded by everybody in the community. 
In addition, as everybody knows, our repatriation benefits have been increased extraordinarily in the face of the demands which the Government has had imposed on it. We have done things in the repatriation field which the last Government refused to do over the years it held office. When I was a member of the Opposition in the Senate, in the course of considera tion of repatriation legislation I moved an amendment seeking to provide free hospitalisation for war veterans. That amendment was passed. Honourable senators will remember that when that amendment was sent to the other place the then Government forwarded to the Senate another Bill which had the effect of killing the proposition agreed to by the Senate. There were no squeals from anybody on that matter. 
Since the Labor Party was elected to government, I have had the pleasure of announcing that in forthcoming legislation we will do exactly what my amendment previously proposed should be done. In this area, which obviously is a basic area of the defence Services, we have done extraordinarily well in a situation in which general welfare demands have been great. We promised the people that we would allocate resources to that area. As a result of that resources allocation, it is true that there are some minor setbacks. 
Let me refer to the percentages mentioned by the honourable senator and look at what we are doing today. The defence expenditure proposed for this financial year, expressed as a percentage- of gross national product, is 2.9 per cent, which is slightly less than the percentage last year. That expenditure includes appropriations relating to the sorts of areas which I have mentioned and which have major significance in continuing the Services as an expert body in all areas. Let us look at annual appropriations for defence by the former Government. In 1962-63 the Liberal-Country Party coalition devoted  2.6  per cent of the gross national product to defence. In 1963-64, the figure was 2.9 per cent. I think anyone who reads the Press comments about this matter will find that people realise that the Australian Labor has done what it should have done in relation to the general allocation of funds for defence purposes. The reallocations are minor departures from the promises made by the then Leader of the Opposition. We have largely met our promises and we are going to ensure, as has been clearly stated, that the necessary examinations in the defence area will go on. They are complementary. This is the first time in our history that any government has tackled the problem of reorganising the defence Services and of avoiding the multiplicity of objectives and the strategies which have been the propositions of other governments. 
For the information of the honourable senator, the position is that trial reasons and methods are being worked out. They will apply to 2 appeal tribunals because the Labor Government feels that they are necessary procedures to perfect the system. We feel that each appellant ought to be entitled to know the reasons why his application was rejected or, for that matter, accepted. The failure to give reasons has been one of the long-standing complaints of the Returned Services League and other organisations, and has been an area of consideration and debate in this chamber: We have announced that we intend to introduce this system. When the methods are finalised, legislation will be introduced some time between laic September and November. 
Of course,  Senator Kane  can be expected to criticise what the Government has proposed. I have already answered this question in the general context in my reply to  Senator Gair.  The facts are - and I told the  Senator this  - that in the general context of the Budget the defence vote has been reduced slightly and this has affected manpower and will affect some work. But in the light of our objectives we have achieved more than any other government. I refer particularly to the things that the previous Government did not accept. Honourable senators opposite know quite well that never before have serving members of the Services been given such a good deal in respect of pay, allowances and pensions. Never has any Liberal coalition goverment planned to coordinate and rationalise the defence forces. As a result, we have found it necessary to reduce some civilian manpower. It is quite a joke to me to hear many senators opposite talk about reductions in civilian manpower because in every Estimates committee I have been on, and in some over which I have presided, the Liberals and Independents always have said: What about cutting civilian manpower?' 
I wish to conclude my answer. I think that, after his contribution last night,  Senator Greenwood  should be the last one to raise a point of order on that ground. As  Senator Kane  knows quite well, we have taken an active part in trying to get the Government Aircraft Factories on their feet. As everybody knows, over the years we and many people on the other side have contributed to debates which were designed to activate the former Government into obtaining increased work for the Factories. I had the pleasure, while I was Acting Minister for Defence, of getting through Cabinet an order for 50 Nomads. That is a substantial order. In addition, as has been mentioned previously, we hope that production of this aircraft, which we think is a goer, will result, with our marketing methods, in increased orders from many sources. These sorts of things will engage the work force in our defence capability. 
I move: That the Bill be now read a second time. 
On 7 December 1972 the Government announced the following benefits for members of the regular forces. All members of the regular forces including Citizen Forces and Reserves on continuous fulltime service who are honourably discharged after 3 years continuous service, or earlier on medical grounds provided the member could have completed 3 years under his existing engagement or undertaking, will be eligible for: 
Post discharge vocational training scheme for the purpose of reestablishment in civil life: 
A maximum of 12 months fulltime training or 2 years part-time training or correspondence training. 
Payment of compulsory fees, plus a maximum of S65 for books and $65 for equipment; an allowance for fares and living allowance to fulltime students. 
Applications will be required to be lodged within 12 months of discharge. 
Note: All other entitlements are not affected. 
Re-establishment loans for the purpose of re-establishment in civil life. A maximum of $6,000 for agricultural occupation and $3,000 for business loans. Applications to be lodged within 12 months of discharge. 
Rehabilitation treatment and training for disabled servicemen without being subject to means test. 
Repatriation benefits. The right to elect for repatriation benefits for disabilities due to military service. 
War service homes benefits on discharge. 
All members of the regular forces including citizen forces and reserves on continuous full time service, who serve beyond 3 years initial service, will be entitled to A, B, C and D above, and to: 
War service homes benefits whilst continuing in the Service, and 
Re-engagement bounty for other rank members of the regular forces. 
A re-engagement bounty of $1,000 will be payable to any such member who, after 6 or more years service, is on an engagement, or who undertakes an engagement which will provide a further minimum period of 3 years service before reaching the prescribed retiring age. The earliest point when the bounty will become payable is at the 6-year service point for all ranks except apprentice entrants where the minimum service period is 9 years. The bounty will be payable on one occasion only during a serviceman's career. Re-engagement will not be a right. It will be subject to normal eligibility criteria. Any member who once having received the bounty and is subsequently discharged for misconduct, inefficiency or on request without sufficient compassionate grounds will be required to repay a portion of the bounty on a pro-rata basis related to the shortfall in service. 
Unless discharged earlier on medical grounds, the above benefits will not apply to the following: 
Navy: 
In the case of Royal Australian Navy college entrants until the date of being commissioned; and 
In the case of officers commissioned under the undergraduate scheme who are direct entrants to the Royal Melbourne Institute of Technology scheme until a return of 3 years effective service has been given. 
Army: 
In the case of Royal Military College Duntroon entrants until the date of being commissioned; and 
In the case of officers commissioned under the undergraduates scheme until a return of 3 years service has been given. 
Air: 
In the case of Royal Australian Air Force academy cadets and diploma cadets until the date of being commissioned; and 
In the case of officers commissioned under the undergraduate scheme until a return of 3 years effective service has been given. 
The purpose of this Bill is to amend the Defence (Re-establishment) Act 1965-68 to provide for some of these benefits. Other benefits which were contained in the Government's announcement of 7 December 1972 have already been provided for by the legislation or are in the process of being provided for by regulation. I refer to repatriation benefits, war service homes benefits and reengagement benefits. The benefits concerned which are provided for by this Bill are presently available to national servicemen under the Defence (Re-establishment) Act. This Bill extends the benefits to all members of the regular forces, including citizen forces and reserves on continuous full time service, who are honourably discharged after 3 years continuous service or earlier on medical grounds, provided the member could have completed 3 years service under his existing engagement or undertaking. Certain existing resettlement benefits for members of the regular forces who have long term service are not affected by this Bill. 
The Bill provides for the establishment of an additional training scheme to be known as the former regular servicemen vocational training scheme. The benefits under this scheme will 'be similar to those already operating in favour of national servicemen under the national service vocational training scheme. Trainees who will be eligible for these benefits and who commenced training on or after 7 December 1972 will be able to claim the benefits which this scheme will provide. Part IV of the Defence (Reestablishment) Act is in very wide terms and desirably so. It enables the Minister to make arrangements for the post-discharge vocational training of national servicemen and now, as a consequence of this Bill, of former regular servicemen where it is considered necessary or desirable for their effective resettlement. Training may be full time, part time or by correspondence. Part IV allows arrangements to be made with the States for the use of State facilities. It permits the Minister to pay to trainees allowances and expenses, and tuition and other like fees. It also makes provision for text books, tools of trade and so on. The development of the vocational training scheme in relation to former regular servicemen which this Bill now authorises, will, of course, require the working out of some details. 
The Bill further provides for rehabilitation treatment and training benefits under the Defence (Re-establishment) Act to be extended to former regular servicemen as defined in the Bill. That Act already applies certain provisions of the Social Services Act 1947-1973 to national servicemen. This Bill, therefore, also applies, subject to variation, those provisions. In accordance with Government policy, the means test provisions of the Social Services Act will not apply to former regular servicemen. Finally, the Bill provides for re-establishment loans to be extended to former regular servicemen. These loans are for agricultural and business purposes. Under these provisions, a former regular serviceman will be eligible for such a loan where this would be necessary to enable him to reestablish himself in a business, profession or occupation including farming in which he was engaged prior to call-up. I am sure that they will be found most valuable for some at least of these former regular servicemen who have rendered service. 

 Mr Acting Deputy President, the Bill is complementary to other measures such as defence service homes and repatriation benefits which the Government is in the process of extending to servicemen, not only in recognition of their occupation in present-day circumstances, but also in pursuit of the Government's determination to provide an adequate volunteer force. I commend the Bill to the Senate. 
Debate (on motion by  Senator Cotton)  adjourned. 
 May 1 say first that it is most surprising to hear this great agitation for water resources for South Australia from Liberal- 
I will tell the honourable senator if he will sit tight. There were great debates in this place on the Chowilla Dam and  Senator Davidson  with other Liberal senators were silent. May I remind him that in those days - 
 You do not want to listen to a case, do you? 
 I am talking about water resources for South Australia. In those days- 
 I will get to Dartmouth. Let me tell honourable senators opposite what they did. In those days, the only person in this place on the then Government side who supported that project was  Senator Laucke.  He supported the stand by the Australian Labor Party with regard to the water which would come from Chowilla. Every other South Australian senator on his side of the House sat tight, said nothing and supported the Government which said: 'No more Chowilla'. Honourable senators opposite will remember that  Mr Fairbairn  was then the Minister for National Development. I have here a newspaper report from that time in which he is quoted- 
 Listen and you will learn something. Let me get to this matter. You do not want to know about it. 
 If you keep interrupting, I cannot tell you. Honourable senators opposite will remember that in those days their Government promised that Chowilla would be built, but then they decided to reject the proposition. The only people on the Chowilla committee were  Senator Laucke,  Tom Playford, myself, Scott and some other people from the State Parliament; we were very concerned about water resources but honourable senators opposite were, very quiet in those days. Tonight they have raised this matter without first asking the responsible Minister whether the statement upon which they have based their remarks is true or untrue. Just one minute before the debate on the motion for the adjournment of the Senate began  Senator Young  came to me and said: 'I have just found out about a letter from your Government which says that the Dartmouth scheme is finished'. He was basing his remarks upon some statement which  Mr Corcoran  made today in the South Australian Parliament. I do not know what was said but I will find out. 
Would you mind listening,  Senator Jessop.  I am as much entitled to talk as you are. I would have been happy, if the matter had been raised with me or during the weekend, to obtain all the information I could because I, like honourable senators opposite, am most concerned about lt. I am more concerned because, as I have said,  Senator Laucke  and I were two of the champions of the cause in this place.  We  put up a fight against the previous Government for water for South Australia. I know honourable senators opposite do not like being told these things. Obviously it would have been more sensible to have asked the responsible Minister to ascertain whether the statement which has been referred to is accurate. I put it to honourable senators opposite that they are relying for their argument largely upon the Coombs report. 
 Honourable senators opposite talked about the report  by  Dr Coombs. His  report has to be put in its proper place. If honourable senators were to read the first page of the letter from  Mr Whitlam  to  Dr Coombs  they would see that, among other things,  he  said that Cabinet had decided that action should  be  set in train to apply a close scrutiny to continuing policies of the previous Government so that room might be found for the present Government's higher priority programs.  Mr Whitlam  asked  Dr Coombs  to conduct that scrutiny and to let him know aboutit. The report also makes a proposition about the Tarcoola railway. It is a wonder honourable senators opposite have not got up tonight and said that the Labor Government has disowned that project. 
What is the issue tonight? Rather than give me an opportunity to obtain the facts about this matter from the responsible Minister and advise them next week... 
 Honourable senators opposite will not let me speak. 
 Honourable senators opposite have had a chance to speak but they will not give me a chance to reply. There have been, I think, 4 Opposition speakers on this matter. It would have been more realistic and sensible to ask the Government whether a particular statement in a letter from the Prime Minister means that there will be an interruption to the Dartmouth Dam project. 
Would you allow me to talk? If honourable senators were to read the report they would find that only half of the content of it has been - 
 Would you mind shutting up. I was about to say that only half of the report has been implemented to any extent and then only partially. It was an exercise for the Government to consider. The Government has honoured its undertaking to make the report public as soon as the Budget has been brought down. Honourable senators opposite have copies of the report. That is why they are talking about it now. That is a good thing from the Government's point of view. All I can tell honourable senators opposite is that any proposition that would prevent the Dartmouth Dam from being completed certainly will receive my opposition and that any attempt to stop the completion of the Tarcoola railway will meet my opposition. 
Would you mind listening? I know of no moves which could have the effect of preventing any such construction from continuing. 
Would you shut up and give me a chance. 
May I say,  Mr President,  that the sensible thing to do is to find out the facts. The only conclusion to which I can come from the reference made by  Senator Dame  Nancy Buttfield - she was the only honourable senator who relied upon a statement made by  Mr Corcoran  of the South Australian Parliament - is that the question of salinity in the area is of some concern to the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  and he has written to the Premier about it. 
Largely, the argument which has been presented tonight has been the result only of matter extracted from the Coombs report which, I suggest to honourable senators, cannot be taken very seriously. As they know, the Coombs report contains a number of options and the Cabinet had to make up its mind as to which suggestions made by  Dr Coombs  and the task force should be adopted. All I can undertake to do at present is to say to honourable senators that in the days before we meet next Tuesday I will be able to get the fullest information and will report it to the Senate so that, if necessary,  Senator Jessop  or any other honourable senator can debate it if they so wish. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Senate adjourned at 11.6 p.m. 
Various representations have been made to the Minister for Defence,  Mr Barnard,  about this matter. Of course there have previously been suitable grants to organisations concerned. I can only say that the matter is receiving consideration. As soon as I am able to tell the honourable senator the result I shall let him know. 
In relation to the statement I made to the New South Wales Congress, the answer clearly is yes. I stated that I would be opposed to any such amalgamation. It is also on record that the Minister for Defence has made the same statement to a deputation from the Returned Services League national group which met him about defence and repatriation matters. That is my point of view. As far as I am aware, the Government has no intention of carrying out any such amalgamation. I can only give the assurance that the Minister for Defence and 1 would resist any such amalgamation. 
Yes. Over the weekend 474 school cadets and 94 Air Training Corps cadets were exercising in the Wilpena Pound area. By Sunday, 26 August, the area had received a total of 75 points of rain. The decision was taken to abandon phase 2 of the exercise. As a result of the rain a flooded creek cut the road between- 

 - Mr President, may I also ask a question? I wonder whether you can advise the Senate who decided that tapes should be used exclusively. Is it to be the practice in future that only tape recordings will be made of committee proceedings? If it is, would you be good enough to examine whether that is considered to be a proper parliamentary recording system. It seems to me that there could be accidents with the mechanical recording of such committee proceedings and it might not be advisable to persist with this method. I raise the question because of my concern. 
-I would have hoped that if the honourable senator knew about a particular case - it is evident that he does because he has read' out part of a letter  -  he would bring that letter to my department. I think it would be the best course for him to do so. I shall give him the answer either privately or in the Senate. 
For the information of the honourable senator there is a gap which involves some former members of the forces and that gap is under consideration. As the honourable senator knows, when the Senate resumes after the next adjournment, we shall debate the Defence (Re-establishment) Bill. From memory I think there is some reference to this group in that Bill. I will get further information for the honourable senator and supply it to him in the interim. 
The answer is yes. 
-For the information of the honourable senator I state that there are no such heavy cuts of operations, as he talks about. There is, in fact, a slowing down of operations, as he well knows from the statements on defence. In relation to the question of recruiting, I point out that it has be?n claimed by the defence experts that it is necessary to continue recruiting despite the fact that in some areas there will be some redundancies, because the Services still want to obtain the specialist appointees that are required for a modern defence force. Their advice is that we still have to recruit and to spend money on advertising, and the Services will be more selective than they usually are. It is a requirement that they justify. That is the reason for the operation continuing, although at a somewhat slower pace. 
I suppose the honourable senator is referring to the circumstance of the manufacturer, of the Northrop aircraft issuing invitations to some of the mission team which went there to make an evaluation of fighter aircraft in July. The position is that that particular mission had been billeted in Los Angeles. Members of the mission paid for their accommodation in Los "Angeles and they were invited to go to Las Vegas. The only advantage they received out of that trip was, in fact, payment of their accommodation for the period of one overnight stop at Las Vagas 
The honourable senator may recall that this matter has been raised before.  Mr Barnard  has refuted - and I do too - the suggestion that if any of our missions or evaluation teams which travel overseas are shown some hospitality in particular circumstances that may influence their judgment. I think that  Mr Barnard  is right; such an invitation would have no influence upon their judgment. The code, if any code is established, would be the accepted behaviour and responsibilities of public servants. 
lt is rather surprising to hear Opposition senators, who are not yet used to being the Opposition, talk about the great charges which the Labor Party has placed upon the community. Of course, as everybody knows, in the days when they were in government every budget contained increased costs for fuel and postal charges and there was no attempt as this Government has made to cope with prices. Apart from the State Labor governments, the Labor Government is the only government that has attempted to do something about prices. We have established a parliamentary committee and also a tribunal will be established. The Australian Labor Party is the only Federal political party that has attempted to tackle these sorts of problems. Of course, we are members of a welfare party. As members of a party we decided that because of the promises we made to the electorate we should arrange the Budget in a concept that would restore to the Australian people the welfare standards that have been eroded by many years of the Liberal-Country Party governments. Everybody knows about that erosion and the promises which were made by the previous goverments but which were never kept. But the Labor Party has kept its promises. 
I refer to the Budget papers which have been circulated to all honourable senators and to some of the increases which the Labor Government has provided as set out in those papers. I wish to reply to the attack that has been made on the Labor Party's defence vote. The criticism of the defence vote amazes me. There has been a massive increase in expenditure for servicemen and people who have retired from the defence area. The Labor Party considered that those obligations should be the first to be met. Because of the need to meet those obligations, there has been some slowing down in the operation of the Services. The Labor Government accepted the advice of its defence experts. I point out that those defence experts are not only the advisers to the Labor Government; they are the same defence experts who were advisers to previous governments. Those experts and the experts from the Department of Foreign Affairs tell us that we should have a comparatively peaceful period in the next 15 years. The Labor Government decided that during that period it should meet its welfare obligations to the Services. These include massive increases in expenditure, such as the pay increases which have been granted to servicemen since we have been in Government. With the introduction of the Defence Forces Retirement Benefits scheme, they have cost the Government approximately $l00m. 
I refer also to the bonuses for servicemen who want to re-enlist. In the first 12 months they will cost the Government about $2,500,000 and so far this year have cost about $500,000. They represent massive, increases for serving members of the forces who, for too long, have been left out on a limb. Do not honourable senators remember that the last Federal Government, the McMahon Government, decided not to accept the report of the Joint Parliamentary Select Committee on the Defence Forces Retirement Benefit Legislation?  Mr Barnard,  who was then the shadow Minister for Defence, said that a Labor government would accept the report and put it into operation. Not only did we do this, but also we improved upon the proposition. So we started off on the basis that in relation to the defence Services at this time and in the present international context we should do something to ensure that Australia was defended by a professional and well equipped army. We have done that. It is well known that although Liberal-Country Party governments have said year after yearthat it was never possible to raise a volunteer army, our enlistment figures have been very favourable and show that we have been highly successful. We have proved that without recruiting and without conscripting national servicemen we can in fact have this volunteer army. 
We have done away with conscription. To do so was Labor Party policy. Even before the Cabinet was constituted as a combination of Ministers,  Mr Whitlam  and  Mr Barnard  acted together as an interim cabinet to make sure that the conscripts within the Government forces were the first to be released. So it can be seen that the Labor Party kept its promises. In addition to that, we have other large obligations to members of the Services. The Labor Party promised to set up an ombudsman for the first time. We have looked at the position in the context of the development in the western world where servicemen now have not only new obligations but also a new role and new rights. The Labor Government has said that it will appoint an ombudsman and we are about to do this. Of course, these large improvements for the defence forces have been welcomed, not only by the soldiers but also by the exservicemen's organisations. It seems to me to be trivial for Opposition speakers to talk about cuts in the defence forces and to talk about some officers in the manner that you might talk about some category of wage employee who might not get the sort of increase that he ought to have received. Those increases to which I have referred amount to $60m in one regard and almost $80m in another regard. Nobody can tell me that when the Government is handing out increases of this kind the lot of exservicemen is not improved. 
Let me now deal with the back-up people, the repatriation people whom we were talking about this afternoon. For the first time in the history of any government, this Labor Government has met what the exservicemen's organisations have been asking governments to do for 15 or 20 years. I remind you,  Mr Acting Deputy President  the forthcoming legislation in respect of repatriation will provide what those organisations have asked for for years, that is, free hospitalisation for the veterans. Do honourable senators remember when the Labor Party moved in the Senate to have this introduced? We won because a sufficient number of senators voted for the proposal. The Bill was sent across to the other place where it was killed by the Liberal Government. It introduced a new Bill. So whatever expressions of opinion the Senate might have, however strong the Senate might have been in those days, it was unsuccessful under the previous Liberal Government in obtaining what the Labor Government now proposes. As is well known, the Labor Government has made great progress in the repatriation field. That great progress which we promised has been rewarded with the plaudits of the people who represent ex-servicemen. 
Under the Bills concerning repatriation, in the last year we have spent approximately $27m. Our commitments at the present time are approximately of the same order. We are doing other things in addition to these welfare matters of increasing pensions and providing other facilities. I refer to what has been welcomed greatly by the community, namely, making sure that the repatriation artificial limb centres may be used by members of the community. After the legislation concerning this matter has passed through the Parliament, any person will be able to go into a repatriation limb appliance centre and obtain free treatment and free appliances fitted by people who are the most adept and the most experienced in this field, ls that not a great welfare service not only for ex-service people but also for other persons in the community? As will be known, in addition, during the last few months, even though this legislation has not been passed, whatever spare bed capacity has been available in repatriation hospitals has been opened up on a priority basis to exservicemen who might not have had a disability entitlement. Such facilities have been made available to the families of ex-servicemen and to civilians also. We have done that for 2 reasons. Firstly, we have done it because we think this is good in view of the policies we have proposed. Secondly, it is good for the teaching and experience of the people in the Repatriation Department. 
I wish to outline what the Labor Government has done and compare the figures of expenditure by this Government with the figures of expenditure by the previous Government, in 1970-71 an amount of $ 1,097m was spent on the defence vote. In 1971-72 an amount of $1,1 64m was spent on defence. In 1972-73 the amount was $ 1,233m. In 1973- 74 - this is the first year of the new Labor Government - an amount of $ 1,266m was spent on defence. This represents ar increase in expenditure of 32.5 per cent. In 1970-71, $296m was voted for education. In 1971-72, $346m was appropriated. In 1972-73 the vote was $439m. In this first year of our Government, $843m has been voted, an increase of $404m in the education field. Yet people say that the Labor Government is not worried about education. 
I refer now to health. I said earlier that the Labor Party is trying to catch up with and meet the needs of the health sector and the welfare sector of the community. In 1970-71, $559m was voted for health. In 1971-72 the amount was $687m. In 1972-73 the vote was $783m. This year $978.9m has been voted. That is an increased expenditure in the health field of $195.7m. In the social security area, which includes repatriation, there was an increase of $339m. The appropriation has increased from $l,378m in 1970-71 to $2,439m this year. As one studies the list one sees that the outlays follow an upward pattern. Who would say that we are not keeping faith with the electorate with respect to our promises? That is the score. That is what we are doing. In respect of our welfare promises and defence obligations we are confident that we are doing what the people wish us to do in this period. There will be no dropping back on the question of responsibility for defence capability. Defence experts ought to support what we have tried to do in our period in government. 
Earlier today, we heard criticism of what the Leader of the Government, the Prime Minister,  Mr Whitlam,  has been doing overseas. A few minutes ago  Senator Webster,  who has now left the chamber, talked about a Government that was more sympathetic to the communist side than to what he called the non-communist side. Anyone studying the record of  Mr Whitlam's  visits overseas will find that almost every newspaper in Australia applauded  Mr Whitlam  for his appearances overseas. The newspapers saw  Mr Whitlam  emerging as a new sort of leader. May I remind the Senate of what I have often stated in this House. For many years the last Government was subservient to the great powers. The attitude of that government was different from that of Australian Governments in the old days. If one looks around the walls of this building one will see a portrait of Billy Hughes who was a great Australian. During the First World War Billy Hughes was not ashamed to go to the Imperial Conference and to stake a claim for Australia, showing a new form of nationalism. But we have not seen that sort of stance taken since Billy Hughes was in power. We have had a return to that approach only since  Mr Whitlam  became the Prime Minister of Australia and our country's new leader. 
I challenge anybody to quote to me any editorial in Australia that does not support the point of view that I am making. The Australian' of 1 August stated: 
For what  Mr Whitlam's  Washington visit and the warmth of his reception by the U.S. Administration demonstrates, above all else, is that there were never any reasons other than the injudicious statements by a few ministers to believe that the new independent foreign policy would rupture the relationship with America. 

 Mr Whitlam has done well to establish so clearly an independent but friendly association between the two countries, which must surely be the right one for Australia to pursue at present. 
Overall, he appears to have made about the most impressive impact on Washington of any visiting Australian Prime Minister in memory; and perhaps one of the most useful visits. 
The force of  Mr Whitlam's  personality in those fresh surroundings has also reminded us of something which, in the heat of local disagreements and the midst of domestic familiarity, we tend to forget; that we now have - particularly in contrast wilh the run of both Australian and American politicians - a very impressive Prime Minister. 
During question time today endeavours were made to make much of the so-called rupture of the relations between Lee Kuan Yew and our own Prime Minister. I remind the Senate that Lee Kuan Yew is a member of the Socialist International. 'Socialist' is that horrid word that we hear from some honourable senators on the other side. Lee Kuan Yew is a socialist.  Mr Whitlam  has attended conferences of the Socialist International at which he has met Lee Kuan Yew. What has Lee Kuan Yew said since he returned from his visit to the Commonwealth Conference? Are the contentions by our opponents true? What Lee Kuan Yew said is reported in the Canberra Times' of 1 1 August. It states: 

 Mr Lee was asked what he did not like about Australia's foreign policy given the apparent friction there had been at the conference between him and  Mr Whitlam. 
It's not for me to like or dislike Australia's foreign policy', he said. 'It's for me to state my own position. I'm sorry if there is this impression of - did you say friction? I don't remember rubbing, colliding with the Australian Prime Minister. 
We did extend views which were not identical, and in fact, in certain respects quite opposite. He believes with  Mr Trudeau,  for instance, that detente between the great powers has made peace and security for everybody that much better, that much more likely.' 
Lee Kuan Yew did not agree with our Prime Minister's point of view on that matter. That is the difference between the Labor Party and the position adopted by Singapore. It is not for me to criticise that view. I think that  Senator Willesee  put the position quite correctly when answering a question this morning. He said that this Government sees hope in the new relationships between the United States of America and the Soviet Union. As everybody knows, these new relationships have been developing and cementing for many years. 
I went to Germany in 1968 and met its leaders, including Willie Brandt who was then an outstanding figure and is now even more so. In those years there were new relationships between the United States of America, Germany and the Soviet Union. I think that detente is growing. We realise that against the background of the Vietnam conflict there is also a new relationship, which arises from  Dr Kissinger's  activities, between the United States and China. We have in this Senate a group of people who see nothing good about hose developments. We are a socialist party. Our policy is to promote a new awareness of the need for Australian intervention and independence. I believe that what has been reported and the sorts of statements to which 
I have referred indicate that our Prime Minister has done exactly that. There is no cause for honourable members opposite to attempt to discredit him. 
As a matter of fact the United States of America - the country on which they have relied for so long - is a country of which I am a friend. I do not wish to be quoted as being antagonistic to it. Great domestic forces operate there. I have had the pleasure of visiting the United States on several occasions. I know that the majority of Australian people welcome the sort of strong and independent role which the Australian Labor Party is now assuming with respect to the United States of America. The old days of Australian subservience to any policy which might have been acceptable to those in command of the Pentagon is now dead. 
In concluding my remarks on this subject, may I point out what  Mr Marshall  Green, the United States Ambassador in Australia, said.  His  prestige throughout the world is great and he is probably the most successful ambassador to Australia whom America could have produced. The 'Sydney Morning Herald' of 
I I August reports: 

 Mr Whitlam's visit to the United States had been a success,  Mr Marshall  Green, the United States Ambassador to Australia said yesterday. Australia has come of age since the days it had moved in lock-step with the United States during the Presidency of Lyndon Johnson, he said. The United States, and Australia, shared 3 particular interests. 

 Mr Marshal Green then referred to those particular interests. The present position is that Australia has a great man as leader of its newly elected government. Unfortunately, at present the Senate is frustrating some of the programs of the Labor Government. 
 Let me mention some of the programs. I know them better than  Senator Davidson  does because I have to watch them. 
 I want to give some il'ustrations to  Senator Jessop. 
 Senator Jessop  always interrupts. Every time I talk he interrupts me to stop me from putting what I know to be the facts. What I was saying was that in some areas the Senate was frustrating the work of the Labor Government. The first area which I wish to mention is the Senate's action in respect to the Conciliation and Arbitration Bill. As Minister Assisting the Minister for Defence and Acting Minister for Labour on occasions, I have found that some of the provisions in that Bill would have succeeded in resolving successfully the differences in respect to the Moore v. Doyle argument. The disputes could have been resolved if the Senate had passed that legislation. Instead the Government has had to ask the people who have the necessary skills to do the job of trying to solve the disputes. I refer to people such as Harold Souter and Bob Hawke of the Australian Council of Trade Unions. Every time that we get a dispute such as the one concerning the Federal Branch of the Transport Workers Union we cannot do anything under the Conciliation and Arbitration Act. We have to rely upon the good offices of skilled arbitrators in the ACTU such as Harold Souter and Bob Hawke to settle these disputes. Honourable senators opposite were the ones who held up the legislation. 
 Yes,  we  did. 
 It was not I who did not give you time. Honourable senators opposite did the same thing in respect of the Compensation (Commonwealth Employees) Bill. They did not propose any amendments, but they cut the debate short because they had the numbers. As former  Senator Pat  Kennelly said, the people with the numbers have the power, but the power ought to be mitigated by good sense. So I say that honourable senators opposite have done badly by exercising that power and by criticising our leadership and our policies. I think that I have destroyed completely the arguments which have been put tonight. In respect to defence, repatriation, welfare or education, no government has the record that we have up to now. May I repeat the figures in respect of education so that honourable senators opposite will not forget them? This financial year there will be an increased expenditure of $404m on education, an increase of 92 per cent. Government schools under the McMahon Government, for the 2-year period from 1971 to 1973, were allotted $40.5m. Under Labor, in 2 years they will be allotted $495m. How do honourable senators opposite answer that - $40. 5m against $495m? That is 12 times as much. Non-government schools under the McMahon Government, for the 2-year period from 1971 to 1973, were allotted $71. 5m. Under Labor, in 2 years they will be allotted $121m. These figures give only an outline of the propositions which have been put forward by the Labor Government. 
Our Ministers are presently working on plans and methods to buy back Australia. To me, that is a great slogan. Under Liberal governments the years went, and bit by bit our country was being taken over by foreign owners. The position today is so serious that it needs drastic action. 1 conclude by saying that we intend to take whatever action is possible to make sure that Australians own Australia. Of course we have an Australian outlook. Of course we are a welfare-pointed government. We intend to discharge our duties in that respect. Labor has bought down a fine Budget. It will be supported by the people, and we will be in government for many years. 
The first part of  Senator Young's  question is factual. During the debate on the motion that the Senate adjourn I mentioned that I had not received any information about the discussion until a minute before the debate began and I said that I would oppose any such deferment. My attitude is just the same as it was then. I might say that this matter falls within the responsibility of my colleague,  Senator Cavanagh,  in his capacity as the Minister representing the Minister responsible for the environment and water resources. I had hoped that  Senator Cavanagh  could have given a reply to the matters raised during the adjournment debate. I hope that he will do this when he comes back. However, I would have thought that the answers given by the Prime Minister would have cleared up the issue as far as  Senator Young  was concerned. The Prime Minister has given replies to questions asked by  Mr Fisher  and  Mr Ian  Wilson in the other place. The Prime Minister made the position perfectly clear by his own words. In answer to  Mr Wilson,  among other things - I do not want to disguise the fact that he said other things - he said: 
All arrangements concerning the River Murray waters including the waters of the rivers which feed into the Murray can be altered only by the unanimous consent of the governments of Australia, New South Wales, Victoria and South, Australia. Accordingly, any of the matters which the honourable member mentions can be altered only if all 4 governments concur. 
That is the actual position at the present time. In a personal sense I believe that the dam will be built and I think I feel that my South Australian colleagues would be of the same opinion as myself, having taken part in those contentious debates about the Chowilla Dam which I mentioned. 
As soon as the position was clear,  Mr Barnard,  the Minister for Defence, advised the Australian Council of Trade Unions that he was prepared to discuss with it and with the unions concerned the position regarding defence factories and shipyards. The ACTU has replied that because of the holding of its Congress, it is not able to meet  Mr Barnard  and the Minister for Labour until 17 September. That date has been fixed for the meeting and it is expected that  Mr Barnard, Mr Clyde  Cameron and I will meet the unions and confer with them in respect of the present workload position. 
Pursuant to section 122 of the Repatriation Act 1920-1973 I present the report of the Repatriation Commission for the year ended 30 June 1973. 
Yes. I am aware of the position that has been stated by  Senator Kane.  But after all the Australian Government acts only as an agent for the United Kingdom Government in this matter. Obviously the responsibility falls mainly on the British Government. Suggestions have been made over the years both to this Government and previous governments that some consideration might be given to the Australian Government assisting these pensioners in some way. This matter was considered in the context of the present Budget, but it was impossible to do anything about the matter at the time because of our heavy commitment. The honourable senator will know that we increased expenditure on pensions by approximately $22 m. All I can say to the honourable senator is that while the matter has been considered, there is no possibility of the Australian Government undertaking any adjustment as a result of the revaluation. As regards the number of pensioners involved, I will get the information and send it to the honourable senator. 
in reply- I thank the Opposition for its acceptance of the legislation. I have only one or two points to make.  Senator Withers  who led for the Opposition made some criticism of the Government's present slowing down of the defence vote.  Senator DrakeBrockman  suggested that a man joined a Service because he was attracted to that Service and wanted to serve his country. Taking up the last point first, everybody remembers the statement made by a former Minister for the Army,  Dr Forbes. 
He expressed 2 points of view during his career in that capacity. One was in 1 964 when he said that national service was not justified, that it was uneconomic and that the Government's advisers were against it. Later he became a great supporter of national service. The Opposition has been known to say that we could not raise a volunteer and professional army. 
Yes, I am talking about the Army. 
Of course there are, but I think that the same argument applies. The view of everybody in the defence area has been that low pay standards, housing and low superannuation rights have been the factors which have militated against attracting the best quality servicemen to all of the Services, and I do not think that anybody can gainsay that statement. The Opposition, when it was in Government, said: You will never attract enough volunteers to the Services. You have to rely on national conscription'. The Labor Party has proved that it can get volunteers, as  Senator Withers  and  Senator Drake-Brockman  know. 
-Senator Webster is talking a lot of eye-wash. We are getting more volunteers for the Services now than were required when we came into Government. The reason people are volunteering for the Services- and this enables us now to be more selective- is that we have increased the pay and improved the conditions of servicemen. If honourable senators look at the total defence vote, which they can do if they read the Budget Papers, they will see that more than 53 per cent of the total defence vote is used for the pay and conditions of servicemen in all of the Services. That is the highest the figure has ever been, and we are the only Government that has done that. Why talk with a double tongue? The shadow Minister for Defence in the other place talked in this strain with a double tongue. On the one hand he criticised the Government for adopting the attitude that we have 1 5 years of possible peace time. That is not our assessment; it is not  Mr Barnard's  assessment. It is the assessment of the advisers who generally are the same advisers who gave advice to the previous Government. In referring to this situation the shadow Minister for Defence in the other place said that this additional expense was one of the reasons for the Government's difficulties at the present time. That is what he is reported to have said on page 28 of the House of Representatives Hansard of 21 August 1973. He is the man whom honourable senators opposite put into office as the shadow Minister for Defence. He said: 
If the Government were prepared to accept the recommendations of its defence advisers . . . 
We have done this. Our defence advisers are the people who have submitted the document which has been released by the Minister for Defence  (Mr Barnard)  and which deals with this long range situation in which we can decide what our capacity might be and what our options might be. It is only in the defence situation of Australia that we can really take time off to calculate what we might do. This is what the shadow Minister for Defence said: 
If the Government were prepared to accept the recommendations of its defence advisers it would at the very least be accepting every recruit that comes forward. But it is not doing that. It is knocking them back at the rate of 500 a year. 
Apparently  Senator Webster  does not agree with  Dr Forbes. Dr Forbes  continued: 
One of the reasons for this is the additional expense that is involved as the result of the introduction of measures such as the one before us. This is an extremely topsy-turvy situation. 
What  Dr Forbes  talks about and what the Opposition is talking about is that on the one hand we have become extravagant, that we are providing this new deal for servicemen which the Opposition should have provided when it was in office. Of course we have done it, and we have done it with the intention of ensuring that we have the best recruits for the Services from the outside community. I refer to what  Senator Withers  said about John Curtin. If ever there was a patriot in this country - 
Yes, that is what he said.  Senator Withers  referred to a statement by John Curtin when he was in this Parliament and when there was no known threat to Australia. But he did not mention the great challenge which John 
Curtin made to the whole of the world when he was the outstanding Prime Minister of this country. Until tonight I have never heard anybody in this Parliament deny that John Curtin was one of the greatest patriots that this Parliament and this country have produced. Yet  Senator Withers  comes along and trots up some philosophical statement which one can dig up from any man's record. The chances are that if we look into some of  Senator Wither  's philosophical statements we could dig up the same sort of complexities. Why does  Senator Withers  have to denigrate a man of such capacity- a man who led this country at a time of war? He was a great Australian. Why should  Senator Withers  bring it up? Let me answer this question about what  Mr Barnard  is supposed to have said.  Mr Barnard  is acting on the advice of the advisers. 
Those advisers were there when  Senator Drake-Brockman  was a Minister; they were there when he was in Government. They are the same advisers. I think that the advisers have appeared before the Senate Committee. The advice which the Government has received has been put in the same straight forward manner to the Senate committee.  Senator Drake-Brockman  will be able to read shortly, if the report is not already available, the advice which the advisers have given to the Government. There is very clear evidence to indicate that the Government has acted upon its promises to improve the standards of servicemen. We have more than met our obligations. 
Debate interrupted. 
To my knowledge no trade union pressure has been associated with the examination which is being conducted at present of the role played by 5ACS. As  Senator 
Drake-Brockman probably knows, it will have work to do at Learmonth until about the middle or end of next year. In the event of the Squadron or a detachment of it being disbanded work will be found as far as possible for all classifications of the specialised people about whom  Senator Drake-Brockman  spoke. To my knowledge the examination has in no way resulted from any representation by or pressure from trade unions. 
There has been some uncertainty at the stations because of the reduction by the United States Government in the vote to operate the stations. As the honourable senator probably knows, the Department of Supply is the agency for the United States Government. The National Aeronautics and Space Administration is faced with some reduction in funds as a result of which the staff has been concerned about redundancy and stability of employment. The Minister for Defence,  Mr Barnard,  and I have met the people concerned at different times. As a result of this the Department of Supply has become the agency for contacting the contractor to smooth out the difficulties which have arisen as a result of these new changes. Another investigation is going on which we hope will avert any short term interruptions and so remove the causes of the industrial unrest. 
In reply to the last part of  Senator Jessop's  question, let me say that what appears in this morning's Press about the 10,000 public servants is pure Press speculation and honourable senators can draw their own conclusions as to whether it is right or wrong. It is purely speculation as to what was considered. For that reason I do not consider it an important point at all. In relation to the South Australian situation, there will be some redundancies. I am not yet in a position to tell the honourable senator exactly what the position will be when everything settles down. I think he knows already that it has been announced that  Mr Barnard, Mr Clyde  Cameron and I will be meeting the trade unions concerned with this matter at 9 o'clock on Monday next to discuss the whole area of the slow-down in defence expenditure. If I can obtain any further information than I have given today I will obtain it as soon as I can for the honourable senator. 
As a result of those cutbacks or that slowing-down there will be a fairly indirect effect on the Government Aircraft Factories and the related aircraft industry. The Government is hoping to expedite as much as possible the manufacture and sale  of its own  aircraft, the Nomad. As  Senator Drake-Brockman  knows, recently we approved orders for a further 50 aircraft. Those concerned with the sales side of the industry are rather optimistic. We are taking a strong attitude wherever offsets are possible in the field of general aircraft purchasing. The position is being watched very carefully. As  Senator Drake-Brockman  knows, I have been and am as much concerned as he about the matter. We are doing everything we can to see that the industry's capability is preserved as much as possible. 
I think the position is that if the Government had not taken the 2 measures it has taken it could have been properly charged by the Opposition with being irresponsible. But when Opposition members talk about throwing the pensioners to the wolves and not looking after the consumer, I think the facts show clearly that the Labor Government, has taken a stand on those aspects to make sure that the consumer standards are protected. While we have taken some measures against inflation- and inflation is not just a domestic issue but a world wide issue- and while we have taken a stand on tariff cuts and inflation generally, we have said that the standards for pensioners must be maintained. Ours is the only government which has at any time related pension standards to a wage minimum, and we have taken similar action in respect of social security and repatriation payments. 
This is the first time that it has ever been done. It was talked about by the Labor Party before the election and it was certainly one of the reasons which gained us a lot of support- and now we are carrying out that policy. So in fact we are doing what is mentioned in the urgency motion: We are making every effort to ensure that pensioner standards and those of people on fixed incomes are protected. As everybody knows, in the period covered by the June quarter 1972 to the June quarter 1973 the consumer price index rose by 8.2 per cent and average weekly earnings rose by 11.4 per cent. On that issue we have heard this afternoon a number of very strong attacks on the Government as though we were advocating almost overnight a challenge to the manufacturing and other industries. May I remind honourable senators if they do not know the facts, that in respect of the tariff cuts we provided that when anybody was proved to be redundant as a result of those cuts we would provide a payment to him for a specified time. To date only 14 people have applied to the Department of Labour for any sort of wage compensation as a result of the tariff cuts. We do not know of course just how the effects of the tariff cuts will apply in the long term but we should have expected by now that if they are as important as some speakers have complained that they are, more than 14 persons would have applied for wage compensation to which they were entitled under the policy of the Government. 
The honourable senator knows the position as well as I do. He has already talked in a very general way about the effects on the boot trade. There is no evidence as far as I am aware that any of the 14 persons who applied for the redundancy payment came from the boot trade. On the one hand, of course,  Senator Little  and his colleagues claim that we are an extravagant government; we have been making large handouts, they say, in social service payments and that this is one of the causes of demand on the economy and one of the reasons for increased liquidity. Of course we have done so. Our welfare budget is the biggest in the history of Australia, and so it should be because that is our standard; that was our promise to the community. Our education budget is the biggest ever known to the community, and of course those welfare plans have an effect on the domestic economy. But the domestic economy is related to the world wide economy, and inflation, as everybody well knows, is a world wide problem. Some reliance has been placed upon what Professor Galbraith said. I would like to quote in full what he said as reported in the Melbourne 'Age' on 3 September. The report states: 
Professor Galbraith, who arrived in Melbourne yesterday, said he doubted that any action taken in Australia alone would control inflation. 
The decisive question is that it be brought under control in my country- the United States', Professor Galbraith said at an airport Press conference. 
Inflation is a world-wide problem, and it is going to be serious as long as it isn't tackled in the metropolitan economy. 
As long as inflation is out of control in the United States, it is likely to be out of control in those countries that do a lot of trade with the United States of America- like Australia '. 
So we have a world situation affecting Australia. I take up the point made by  Senator Carrick.  I remind the people of Australia of what the Labor Party has done in making sure that for the first time in history people on pensions can expect to have a pension increase regularly related to a wage standard. I have had the pleasure, as has already been noted in the repatriation legislation, to do exactly the same thing for repatriation benefits. In respect of other issues which have added money to the domestic economy, such as pay rates, for the first time in the history of the economy and for the first time in the history of the defence forces, we have had a complete and comprehensive overhaul of pay scales for the armed Services which, with the increases related to the Defence Forces Retirement Benefits Fund, has cost about $70m. These are the first such things that have ever been done. But it is said that we are extravagant. It is rather strange to hear people such as  Senator Carrick  saying that the Labor Government intends to impose more punitive measures on the Australian people. It is rather strange that this sort of remark should come from a member of a party whose whole history shows that the only action it ever thought about taking in the old days was one which would ensure that regularly- fortnightly, weekly and daily- it attacked the workers on wage increases and attacked the unions which sought wage increases. 
It is not nonsense because the honourable senator knows as well as I do that Bills that came before this Parliament were amended to provide for that. 
It is so much rubbish that the Conciliation and Arbitration Bill, which was altered to provide for the restrictions against the work force to which I am referring, was brought before this Parliament and debated. Whether the honourable senator was here to hear that debate, I do not know. But the Conciliation and Arbitration Act was altered in that way. The Labor Party intends to present the Conciliation and Arbitration Bill to the Parliament again to make sure that these restrictions are lifted from the workers. Of course, we assisted in the national wage case. The Labor Party assisted the Australian Council of Trade Unions to ensure that those needing wage increases most received their wage increases. Our Minister for Labour  (Mr Clyde Cameron)  made it very clear during those proceedings- he has done so since those proceedings also- that he believes that the standards of the ordinary people should be lifted and they should be preserved. 
During the many years we were in Opposition in this place we argued that the Government should implement price controls, and now the previous Government is in Opposition it says: Let us have a prices incomes policy'. It has just discovered this. It has just heard about it, but it has heard about it too late. Only this Government has taken any initiative in this field of prices. We have set up 2 organisations which will have some general good effect on prices. I refer to the Prices Justification Tribunal and the Parliamentary Joint Committee on Prices. The setting up of those 2 bodies indicates the positive measures which we have taken. We hope that they will have the effect of restraining price increases. They are positive actions. I remind the Senate that this is the only government which has taken steps to ensure that wage standards and pension standards are preserved. All of a sudden the Opposition is worried about unemployment, despite the fact that during the 23 years it was in government it was not very seriously worried about unemployment. Opposition senators give lip service to a policy of full employment. But what was the situation when they were in government? We had stop and go policies and we had huge industries being cut down. All of a sudden the Opposition is worried about the motor car industry. It is worried about what will happen in South Australia if the Minister for Secondary Industry  (Dr J. F. Cairns)  decides to make a deal with the Japanese manufacturers. 
Of course the Opposition is concerned, but the point I am trying to make is that this concern has come about only while honourable senators opposite have been in opposition. When  Senator Young  was the Government Whip he was not so concerned about what might happen to the manufacturing industries. That was at the time when the then Government had the stop and go policies. But all of a sudden honourable senators opposite are worried about this matter. I can assure them that, whatever the Minister for Secondary Industry does in relation to the motor car industry, full consideration will be given to our own assets in this country as well as the assets of overseas organisations already established here, and that is what we should do. Opposition senators now are worried about unemployment. Yet we are the only government which at long last has ensured that there are more job vacancies than there are applicants for the jobs. It is the first time in our history that this has occurred. 
We are the only government which has said strongly-this is a very sensible point- that we will not bring into the country migrants who cannot settle down quickly. In recent years Australia has taken migrants from areas from which it probably should not have taken them. We have decided that the proper policy to adopt- our Minister for Labour has already declared policies and sets up administrations in this regard- is one which ensures proper retraining so that if people are to be displaced from their jobs the Government will look after them. As I mentioned earlier, we have given a guarantee in relation to the tariff cuts and in relation to revaluations. It is now nearly 2 months since the tariff cuts were imposed but only 14 people have come along to the Department and said that they have been displaced as a result of the tariff cuts and that they want the wage that they received in the industry in which they were employed previously- and they have received that wage. Not only have we carried this out administratively and not only has our Minister for Labour set up these organisations but also we have made an appeal to the employers of Australia to ensure that they provide retraining and training schemes so that the people who are looking for jobs but who apparently cannot be placed in occupations now may be employed in the future. The people concerned include Australians as well as migrants who know the conventions and usages of Australian industry. They are the best work force we have and they should be retrained for the vacancies which already exist and those which may arise if these sad effects which people talk about occur. My point is that the Labor Government has solved the unemployment problem. Not only have we solved it but also we have set up organisations to ensure - 
The figures are in this document. All the honourable senator has to do is ask for a copy of  Mr Clyde  Cameron's latest document and he will see for himself - 
The honourable senator will not listen. The number of unfilled vacancies has increased by 11,408 or 19.6 per cent to 69,660. That is the highest ever increase. So how can the honourable senator say that we have not carried out our obligations to the people of Australia? Of course we have spent massive sums in implementing our policies, and so we should have done. We were elected so that we could put our policies into action. We have to take the stands we are taking. 

 Senator Carrick is now in the chamber. As I said earlier, it is rather strange to me that he should say that the Labor Government will take more punitive action against the ordinary people than has been taken previously. When his Party was in office it was always concerned about taking punitive action against the trade unions and against the wage earners who wanted wage increases because it said that was the way to stop inflation. It was not worried about prices and profits but it concerned itself with stopping the workers, the ordinary people, from getting increased wages. While it was saying these things it did not at any time adopt our policies in relation to pension increases, because it did not believe in them. I hope that the people of Australia will think seriously about the issues and about the remedies which the Labor Government has provided for people who may be displaced from their employment because of some existing extreme situation. 
As my time has almost expired, I say in conclusion that in relation to these prophesies of gloom that have been made today one has to have regard to what has been done by the Government. If only 14 people have been displaced as a result of the tariff cuts it is reasonable to assume that the gloomy effects as proposed by  Senator Cotton  will not happen. If they do happen the Government will take measures to remedy the situation. I was impressed by the rather constructive case put up by  Senator Cotton;  but, except for  Senator Guilfoyle,  I found that most of the other Opposition speakers were mostly engaging in politicking in relation to the issues. In the long run, of course, what will count is whether our policies, already firmly established, as to the degree to which the consumer will be protected will obtain. 
I answered a question from  Senator Jessop  in relation to this matter yesterday. I have seen the article but the position is not yet clear. As the honourable senator knows there will be some retrenchment in South Australia. I have indicated that there will be discussions with all the professional and trade union bodies concerned in the matter at a meeting on Monday convened by  Mr Barnard. Mr Barnard, Mr Clyde  Cameron and I will be in attendance. We will be looking at measures which could be taken to obviate any sudden displacement of personnel or redundancies at this stage. That is the best I can tell the honourable senator, as I told  Senator Jessop  yesterday. 
On Tuesday night I was concluding my comments on this Bill. I simply wish to say that it is one of the measures which complements the other legislative actions which the Government has taken in respect of servicemen to provide the benefits and increased entitlements which are part of Government policy. With those comments I thank those who have spoken in the debate for their contributions and suggest that the question be put. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time, and passed through its remaining stages without amendment or debate. 
In reply to the last part of the honourable senator's question, I point out that the Minister for Defence has already given that assurance. He has said that there will be some reduction in flying operations. I think it is fair to say that the assurance from him is very clear. I will see whether he has anything further to give to the honourable senator in respect of that part of the question. In relation to the issue about mooring buoys, let me repeat what the Minister for Defence,  Mr Barnard,  said yesterday in the other place. He said: 
The Soviet Navy is believed to have a number of anchorages in the western Indian Ocean where its ships can shut down their main engines and cany out minor maintenance tasks. At two of these anchorages buoys have been laid; these are located in the vicinity of the Seychelles and near Chagos Archipelago. There is no evidence to suggest that these buoys are anything other than mooring buoys. They are in exposed anchorages and are unlikely to contain special equipment. Soviet ships receive their fuel and supplies from Soviet auxiliaries deployed to the area. Soviet warships presently in the Indian Ocean comprise - 
This is the latest information available to the intelligence people-  one diesel submarine, a destroyer, 2 escorts, 2 minesweepers and a tank landing ship. To supply this force there are at least 3 auxiliaries in the area. In addition there is a force of minesweepers and auxiliaries in Bangladesh assisting in port clearance operations. 
I will attempt to obtain further information from the Minister for Defence in respect of the last part of the honourable senator's question. 
As the honourable senator knows, the Repatriation Bill (No. 3) 1973 probably will be introduced into the Senate this afternoon. When the Australian Labor Party was in Opposition it promised the Returned Services League and other organisations that it would ensure that the general rate pension and the totally and permanently incapacitated pension were related on a percentage basis, to the minimum wage. We have honoured that promise. During the agitations against it, particularly in 1968, the previous Government introduced what it called the special compensation allowance, which applied only to those whose disabilities fell within the 75 per cent to 100 per cent range. Those below that range did not receive any increase. That action was taken at a time when the general rate pension had not been increased for many years. 
As a matter of fact, the honourable senator might know that at that time the Labor Party in this place and in the other place criticised the previous Government because improvements had been made in the conditions of only about 30,000 ex-servicemen whereas there were at least 197,000 ex-servicemen- nearly 200,000 exservicemen who should have been getting some benefit from the improvements. We saw the special compensation allowance as a partial increase that did not meet the requirements of the ex-service organisations. From the Budget proposals which, we hope, will be discussed in the Senate this week, it will be seen that the Government proposes to raise the 2 pension rates. They will be raised and adjusted to the minimum wage in 2 stages- this year and in the early part of next year. As a result we can see no reason why the special compensation for small areas should not be done away with and the amount of money which would have been voted for that used to make the general improvements which are encompassed in the Repatriation Bill. May I mention that those general improvements, which have been welcomed, total approximately $22m. 
-The honourable senator has asked a whole host of questions some of which he knows will take a long time to answer. In relation to the general question of redundancy and possible retrenchments, the idea of the Government was to announce to the central labour organisations what the redundancies and retrenchments might amount to and to discuss ways of making retrenchments made necessary by the reduction in the defence vote. Those discussions were held yesterday. The honourable senator will be pleased to know that as a result of those discussions it was mutually agreed that a committee should be set up providing access to the trade union movement and those central bodies which I have mentioned. This committee will consider where there might be some form of outside workload in the areas where there will be redundancies and/or retrenchments. That is to say, there are some areas in which work is already being attracted to government factories such as the engine works in Victoria and installations at Bendigo. There are some other areas where it is possible for Government departments which have the special machinery to get on the market for available work. That is the sort of exercise which will be carried out. Until that examination is completed there will be no retrenchments. 
I cannot yet give a figure in regard to the general situation. It would not be proper for me to give this information until the position has settled down. But the figure is not very large. A large part of the expected redundancy would take place by ordinary attrition caused by people going out because of retirement and so on. The position in South Australia is rather minor if one looks at it in the whole Australia-wide scheme. The same position will apply there. There will be no action taken in South Australia until the committee has a look at the possibilities of obtaining other work. The trade union movement and people who work in the industry say that they believe there are ways and means of getting additional work. We hope there are. Until that is finalised nothing will be done other than a continuation of the investigations. 
In reply to the honourable senator's final question, I do not think there is any substance in the proposition that the Department of Supply will be done away with. There is an examination going on at the present time to see to what extent some section of the Department's responsibilities at present might properly be taken over by another Department. But that is only to be considered. This matter will be the subject of Cabinet, Government and Party considerations. My own view is that the Department of Supply is a very efficient organisation. It is a necessary logistic base for the Defence Services and I feel very confident that that section of it will remain so. What is being done is purely an examination. The honourable senator can draw what conclusions he likes, but I do not think there is any substance in what he has suggested. 
In relation to the last part of the question I inform the honourable senator that there are no retrenchments at present taking place although I presume there will be some reductions because of attrition in some establishments. But the general position has been held as of this date. The committee has been asked to consider urgently the workload that might be available in the areas where there is redundancy because of the reduced vote. In one or two areas the Minister for Defence has already decided what factories should be kept in operation because of the need to keep decentralised industries going. The figures are not large. When they are finally available the honourable senator will see that the numbers are not large. But I do not think it would be proper for me to give these figures at present because we have made a mutual agreement with the trade unions- that is, the Australian Council of Trade Unions, the Commonwealth Council of Public Service Organisations and the Australian Council of Salaried and Professional Associations- that we will take no action until the search for alternative work has been completed. We expect it to be, and have told the unions that it must be, a speedy exercise. If the few hundred people who might have to go off at some plants have to be kept on for, say, 2 months and there is no work available, obviously the maintenance vote will cut out more quickly. We are hopeful, on the basis of the information we have, that much of the so-called necessary redundancy will not be necessary. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
I believe,  Mr Deputy President,  that this Bill contains some of the most significant changes in the repatriation field that have been presented to the Senate for many years. There will be increases in the rate of payment of most pensions and allowances. The means test for service pension purposes will be eased and, for service pensioners or applicants for service pensions who have reached the age of 75 years, it will be abolished. Free medical and hospital treatment will be provided for all ex-servicemen of the Boer War and the 1914-18 War. Ex-service men and women who served in a theatre of war and who suffer from malignant cancer will be provided with free medical and hospital treatment for that condition. Artificial limbs will be provided free through the repatriation artificial limb and appliance centres to all amputees in the community who need them. 
These new and extended benefits were referred to in the Budget Speech of the Treasurer  (Mr Crean).  This Bill will, however, introduce other changes which the Government proposes, both within and outside the Budget context. Repatriation benefits will be extended to members of the regular defence force. The admission of civilian patients to repatriation hospitals will be authorised, but only to the extent that facilities are available after catering for entitled repatriation patients. Statutory authorities giving determinations under the repatriation system will be required to give reasons for their decisions. 
These changes,  Mr Deputy President,  are an indication of the responsibility that this Government accepts in relation to those who have served their country in time of need, and now those who voluntarily make up the country's defence forces. We also recognise that, when and where capacity exists, the facilities and expertise of the repatriation treatment services should sensibly be made available to the community generally. Although most existing pensions and allowances have been improved on this occasion, there are some that have not been changed or increased to the degree eventually intended. They have not been overlooked; but, as a matter of priority, benefits for ex-service men and women, and the dependants of deceased ex-servicemen, have been given preference on this occasion. Other benefits will be adjusted as circumstances permit. 
In addition to the improvements that I will detail shortly,  Mr Deputy President,  there will also be increases in the rates of payment of service pensions that will result automatically from proposals that my colleague, the Minister for Social Security  (Mr Hayden),  has already announced. However, the Bill amends the principal Act to apply the increased rates of service pension payable in respect of some children and to incorporate in the principal Act the same principles that will apply to age pensions under the Social Services Act. A small pension of 25c a week presently payable to certain children of service pensioners, but not payable to children of social service pensioners, will be discontinued, but this will be more than offset by the increase in the rates payable to parents in respect of those children. The increased rate of means test pensions, the easing of the means test and, in some circumstances, its abolition will mean that many war pensioners and war widows will receive greater total payments than may at first appear to be the case. The opportunity will be taken in this Bill,  Mr Deputy President,  to remove the remaining instances of higher repatriation payments to dependants on the basis of the rank the serviceman held in the forces. This Government sees no justification for different payments being made for like circumstances. Probably fewer than 200 dependants will be involved and all of these people will receive an increase. 
Another anomaly this Government considers exists in the pensioning structure will be removed. I refer,  Mr Deputy President,  to the special compensation allowance introduced by the previous Government in 1968. This allowance is paid to most of the 14 per cent of general rate pensioners who are in the 75 per cent to 100 per cent range. While these pensioners will not lose any money, most of them will not receive any of the proposed increases in the general rate announced in the Budget. They will, however, thereafter receive all general rate increases at a rate commensurate with their assessed extent of incapacity. I will now outline the specific increases proposed in the Bill. The rate of payment of the various pensions and allowances referred to will be weekly amounts unless otherwise stated. 
Special Rates 
The special rate- totally and permanently incapacitated- pension is payable to those exservicemen who, because of war-related incapacity, are totally and permanently incapacitated to much an extent that they are incapable of earning other than a negligible percentage of a living wage. This rate is also payable to the warblinded and certain sufferers from pulmonary tuberculosis, as well as those temporarily totally incapacitated because of war-related disabilities. About 20,000 will benefit from the proposal to increase this rate by $4.50 to $55.60 now and to increase it further by a like amount to $60.10 in the autumn, when it will again be the equivalent of the minimum wage. The Bill provides for the first of these increases. 
I should remind honourable senators that war pensions are paid free of income tax and, in terms of purchasing power, have a greater value than equivalent earnings. Even without the various additional allowances payable in specific circumstances, and disregarding valuable fringe benefits available, the special rate pension of $55.60 to be payable under this Bill is in excess of the net value of the minimum wage after tax. The intermediate rate pension is paid to about 1,840 ex-servicemen who, because of war-related incapacity, are able to work only part-time or intermittently. The Bill provides for this rate to be increased by $2.25 to $38.80, and that rate will be further increased by $2.25 to $41,05 in the autumn. 
General Rate 
This is the rate of pension that is paid to most repatriation pensioners. About 190,000, or 90 per cent of those ex-service men and women who suffer war-related incapacity, are pensioned under this rate at percentage from 10 to 100 per cent. The Bill provides for an increase in this rate at the 100 per cent level by $3 to $19. There will be corresponding increases at lower levels. The rate will be further increased by the same amount to $22 in the autumn. As I mentioned earlier.  Mr Deputy President,  in conjunction with these increases it is proposed to eliminate the special compensation allowance. Half of that allowance will be withdrawn now and the remainder in the autumn. The previous Government saw fit to leave the general rate pension unchanged for 8 years between 1964 and 1972 and consequently the value of the payment declined significantly. It is the intention of this Government to restore its value; but, because of the need to bridge such a wide gap and the numbers involved, this cannot be achieved in one step. 
Dependants of Deceased  Ex-Servicemen 
Increases are proposed in the payments made to the widows of those ex-servicemen who died from war-related causes, and to the children and certain other dependants of those servicemen. It is in this area that differential rates based on the serviceman's rank, to which I referred earlier, will be eliminated. The Bill provides,  Mr Deputy President,  that the war widow's pension rate will be increased by $1.50 to $23. This pension will again be increased by a similar amount to $24.50 in the autumn. The pensions payable to the children of deceased ex-servicemen will also be increased. Where the child is in the care of his or her mother, the Bill provides for an increase of $1.90, lifting the pension to $9.25. The pension payable to a child who has lost both parents will be increased by $3.80 to $18.50 a week. Approximately 3,200 children are involved, of which about 130 fall into the latter category. Another relatively small group of dependants are the widowed mothers of deceased unmarried exservicemen and the fathers, mothers, brothers, sisters and invalid children of deceased exservicemen. In each instance the servicemen died from war-related causes and, apart from the widowed mothers, the other dependants must be without adequate means of support to be eligible for pension. The present rates vary according to the ex-serviceman's rank, but it is proposed that in future the same rate of $8.50 will apply to all these pensions. Incidentally,  Mr Deputy President,  I would mention that the rate of this pension has not been varied since 1950 although most, if not all of these people would also be in receipt of a means test pension. 
Special Allowances 
In addition to war pensions various allowances and amounts are paid for specific purposes. It is proposed to increase the rate of payment of these allowances to the order that I will detail. Attendant's allowance is payable at the higher rate to the blind who also suffer from total loss of speech or are totally deaf and to those who have had both arms amputated. It is paid at a lower rate to the blind, the paralysed and to those who have certain particularly severe amputations or who otherwise have need of an attendant. The proposed increases are $4.50 to $22.00 for the higher rate and $2.50 to $13.00 for the lower rate. About 1,200 receive these allowances. Additional amounts paid to amputees vary according to the nature of the amputation suffered. There are 15 specified categories of the loss of a limb or an eye, or a combination of both, that attract this additional payment. The first 6 items are for those more seriously disabled, who have their pensions and the addition made up to an amount equal to the special rate (TPI) pension. For the remaining 9 items, the increases proposed in the Bill will range from 45c to $2.95 and the new rates from $2.25 to $14.70. Almost 2,100 receive an addition under the last 9 items of the Schedule. 
Allowances authorised by Regulations 
I should also like to point out to honourable senators that, in addition to the increases I have just outlined, there are further increases proposed which will be authorised by regulations under the principal Act, as amended by this Bill. With your permission,  Mr Deputy President,  I shall briefly outline the proposed increases. The domestic allowance, which is payable to approximately 97 per cent of war widows, either because they have children, including student children, or because they are at least 50 years of age or are permanently unemployable, will be increased by $ 1 to $9.50. Clothing allowance, which is payable at one of three levels depending upon the degree to which the pensioner's war-related disability causes excessive wear and tear to his clothing, will be increased by 20c, 15c and 12.5c respectively. The new rates will be $1.05, 70c and 55c. 
Recreation transport allowances will be increased by $3.50 at the lower rate and by $7 at the higher rate to $16 and $32 a month respectively. Where a gift car has been issued, the allowance towards the car's upkeep, payable in lieu of recreation transport allowance, will be increased by $84 to $384 a year. Soldiers' children education scheme allowances for other than tertiary students will be increased by various amounts ranging from 65c to $3.35 and the new weekly rates will range from $3.25 to $16.65. The allowances for tertiary students are adjusted in line with movements in the rates of living allowances paid under the university or advanced education scholarship schemes administered by my colleague, the Minister for Education  (Mr Beazley). 
Cost of increased pensions and allowances 
The cost of increases I have referred to, and which are authorised by this Bill, together with the increases to be implemented by regulations, is estimated to be $16. 167m for the remainder of this financial year and $2 1.540m in a full year. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time 
The purpose of this Bill is to make the changes necessary in what will become the Compensation (Australian Government Employees) Act- in  lieu of the Compensation (Commonwealth Employees) Act- to complement the new provisions to be included in the repatriation legislation that will put into effect the Government's decision to extend repatriation benefits to members of the defence force in respect of disabilities related to defence service on and after 7 December 1972. This Bill is purely consequential upon the Repatriation Bill (No. 3) 1973 that I introduced earlier. In the course of my second reading speech on that Bill I described, in general terms, the members of the defence force who will benefit from the extension of repatriation benefits to peacetime services. Technically speaking, they are members of the forces within the meaning of the proposed new Division 10 to be inserted in Part III of the Repatriation Act, and the dependants of such members. Honourable senators will recall that complete details of the new benefits to be provided by this Government for members of the forces and the necessary requirements to be fulfilled for eligibility were included in the second reading speech I made when introducing the Defence (ReEstablishment) Bill on 23 August 1973, as reported at page 167 of Hansard. 
I explained earlier that, while there will be dual eligibility under the repatriation and compensation legislation, double compensation will not be payable. To provide for this dual eligibility it is necessary to amend sections 7 and 98 of the Compensation Act. The former provides that the Compensation Act does not apply in relation to the service of a member of the defence force in respect of which provision for the payment of a pension is made by the repatriation legislation. Section 98 of the Compensation Act provides that where an employee, or a dependant in the case of his death, is entitled to repatriation benefits, other than a service pension or funeral benefit, compensation is not payable under the Compensation Act. The amendments provided for by clauses 3 and 5 of this Bill will remove the foregoing restrictions in relation to members of the forces within the proposed Division 10 in Part III of the Repatriation Act. At the same time, because specific provision is to be made in the Repatriation Act, in relation to pensions payable under Division 10 of Part III of that Act, to take into account a payment under the Compensation Act, it is necessary to provide in the latter Act that such pensions be exempted from the operation of section 52 which allows other payments made by the employer to be taken into account in the determination of what weekly compensation is payable. The necessary amendment to section 52 for this purpose is provided for in clause 4 of the Bill. 
Honourable senators will appreciate that if a person wishes to rely solely on repatriation benefits for his disability, he may achieve this simply by claiming under the Repatriation Act and not under the Compensation Act. On the other hand, having submitted claims under both Acts and qualified for benefits under both Acts, a person may decide that it would be in his best interest to take a repatriation benefit rather than a compensation payment. The Bill will therefore allow a person who has qualified for a benefit under the Compensation Act and also for a similar benefit under the Repatriation Act to request that an amount of compensation not be paid so that he may receive the repatriation benefit in full. Clause 6 of the Bill provides for the necessary amendment to this effect. 
The Compensation Act at present requires that the compensation paid or payable under that Act be recovered from, or offset against, damages recovered by an employee or the dependants of a deceased employee. The provisions of the proposed new Division 10 of Pan III of the Repatriation Act will require an offset against repatriation pensions of damages recovered by a member, or his dependants, in the case of his death. So that damages recovered will not be taken into account twice, it is necessary to provide that damages taken into account in the assessment of a repatriation benefit will not be taken into account to reduce the compensation otherwise payable under the Compensation Act. Clauses 7, 8 and 9 of this Bill will provide the necessary safeguards in this respect. 
I come now to the new recovery provision proposed to be inserted by clause 10 of the Bill. I mentioned during my speech on the Repatriation Bill ( No. 3 ) 1 973 that claims may be made under both the Compensation Act and the Repatriation Act but any pension payable under the latter Act will be reduced by the extent of any payments under the former. I also explained that where payments under the Compensation Act exceed the entitlement under the Repatriation Act no pension will be payable under the latter Act. The retrospective grant of compensation after payment of a repatriation pension had been commenced could result in there being an overpayment of the repatriation pension and also the cessation of such a pension, thus preventing recovery of the pension overpayment by the Repatriation Commission. To meet this situation provision is being included in this Bill to enable recovery of an overpayment of a repatriation pension from compensation payable. I commend the Bill to the Senate. 
Debate (on motion by  Senator Rae)  adjourned. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
This Bill relates closely to the Repatriation Bill. It is to give effect, so far as seamen are concerned, to the Budget decisions that provide for increases in war pensions and allowances, and also will require authorities determining claims for benefits under the Act to give reasons for their decisions. Under the Bill the existing general rate pension will be increased from $ 1 6 to $ 1 9 a week and the war widow's pension will be increased from $21.50 to $23 a week. The 'intermediate' rate of war pension is to be increased by $2.25 a week to $38.80 a week. This is the rate paid to seriously disabled persons whose war-caused incapacities render them incapable of working other than on a part time basis or intermittently. 
The Bill also will increase the pension rates in respect of the children of deceased seamen coming under the Act. The weekly rate for each child will be increased from $7.35 to $9.25. Where the mother is dead also, the rate will go up from $14.70 to $18.50 a week. The Second Schedule to the Act prescribes allowances where attendants are needed by specially-handicapped seaman pensioners. The weekly rate of $10.50 is increased to $13 and the rate of $17.50, payable where both arms have been lost, is increased to $22. 
In line with action being taken in the Repatriation Bill, the opportunity is being taken in this Bill to remove the remaining instances of differential general pension rates based on the rank or rating the seaman held in the Merchant Navy. This Government sees no justification for different payments being made for similiar circumstances. The highest of the rates will now apply, regardless of rank or rating. The Bill does not have to provide for the increase of $4.50 a week in the special totally and permanently incapacitated rate, which brings it to $55.60, or for various increases in the weekly amounts payable in respect of the serious disabilities set out in the Fifth Schedule to the Repatriation Act, as the increases in rates under that Act will apply automatically to seamen pensioners by virtue of section 22 A of the Seamen's War Pensions and Allowances Act. 
As the Treasurer  (Mr Crean)  indicated in his Budget Speech, the increases now being made to various war pensions will be repeated during the autumn sittings. These are mainly the special, intermediate and general rate pensions and the war widow's pension. The special compensation allowance introduced by the previous Government in 1968 is regarded as an anomaly in the pension structure and will be removed in 2 stages. It is payable to seaman general rate pensioners in the 75 per cent to 100 per cent range. The allowance is being halved under this Bill, but the loss will be off-set by the increase in the amount of general rate pension that will be payable. 
As I mentioned at the beginning, the Bill will require authorities determining claims for benefits under the Act to give reasons for their decisions. This is in line with an amendment being made by the Repatriation Bill. Under the Seamen's War Pensions and Allowances Act the authorities concerned are the Seamen's Pensions and Allowances Committees for each State and the Repatriation Commission. Those authorities will be required to set out the grounds upon which each decision is reached. That statement will become part of the claimant's official record and he will be supplied with a copy. 
Increases in the widow's domestic allowance and the clothing allowance will be made by regulation. The Bill does not appropriate the funds required to cover the increased benefits, as they are included in the appropriation under the Repatriation Bill. The increases in pensions and allowances will be payable on the first pension pay day after the date on which the Act receives the royal assent. I commend the Bill to the Senate. 
-That is a logical proposition which meets the Government's wishes. 
The ACTING  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Brown)-  The suggestion that the Bills form the subject of a cognate debate should be made when the second reading debate is resumed. 
Debate (on motion by  Senator  Rae) adjourned. 
The answer to the last part of the honourable senator's question is that there is certainly no intention on the part of the Government or the Royal Australian Air Force to allow the reduction in flying operations to reach a point at which there may be some development of unsafe practices. Arrangements have been worked out with those in command in the Air Force. They are experienced people. They have met the operations consistent with what was necessary to keep Air Force expenditure within the vote which nas been allotted to it in view of the huge amount which has been appropriated in other directions in the defence Services. The slow down in operations generally is largely the result of the expenditure which the Government has announced in respect of improved conditions- that is, pay, defence forces retirement benefits, re-engagement bonuses, housing, etc. That slow down is part of the program. The Air Force and the Government will see that there will be no redundancies of pilots as a result of the changed conditions and the slow down in operations. In the event of any servicemen being redundant because of operations, whether it is in the Air Force, the Army or the Navy, the Government will make every effort to see that they will be protected in the same way that it is trying to safeguard the position of that minor number of people who may be displaced in other professions. 
It seems to me that  Senator Marriott  made 2 points. First, he expressed concern about the people of Australia and then he stated that what the Labor Party wanted to do was to control the people of Australia. May I remind the honourable senator that what we are proposing tonight is that the Senate and the Parliament of Australia will allow the people of Australia to vote on a certain proposition. We do not want to decide it tonight. We want to refer to them the question whether the Australian Parliament- our Parliament- should be allowed to control prices. That is what this debate is about. So in that circumstance we do not want to control the people of Australia. We do not want to boss them, we do not want to stand over them. We are very much concerned about them. Inflation concerns the Government of Australia and of course it concerns the people of Australia. 
Let me make the first point. This Government is asking the Parliament of Australia to allow the people of Australia to decide the question. And what is more democratic than that? Why should the Opposition in this Senate frustrate that option? For many weeks it has been attacking the Government and saying to the Government: We want you to control incomes and prices'. In every debate that has occurred in this Senate and in the other place the attitude of the Oppositionthe so-called coalition, the Country and the Liberal Party- has been to demand that the Labor Government should take this action, should have an option on control over incomes and prices. 
But what has it said tonight? It has said: 'No, we are going to back off from this point of view. We do not think that the Labor Government should have any control at all'. The Opposition has not even put up the alternative which it has stressed in every debate. 
This issue is a very important one for the Parliament. I suppose it is one of the most important Bills that has ever come before the Senate and it is being discussed at a most important time in Australian history. We have inflation in Australia and the Labor Government acknowledges that. We have taken various initiatives in that area but up to the present our initiatives have not been effective. We have tried a number of devices. May I mention the sorts of things we have tried. We have set up the Prices Justification Tribunal which is now operating, though its operation has been brief. It has been in operation for only about a month and has not had time, I suppose, really to get into its work. We have set up the Joint Parliamentary Committee on Prices and I have been told by the  Chairman  of that Committee that despite the disparaging remarks of the people on the other side, the Committee not only has worked very hard, as we all know, but that it has a great effect on the community generally and has frightened off a number of large enterprises which wanted to put up prices. Tomorrow that Committee will make its report to the Parliament. 
-Of course it did. In addition to the Prices Justification Tribunal and the Parliamentary Prices Committee - 
The ACTING  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Brown)-  I must confess that I was writing at the time and did not hear it. 
May I put it very clearly, because what we have been faced with in the last fortnight is just a series of propaganda speeches from the Opposition here and in the other place. 
The Opposition has been trying to criticise the Labor Government for not being effective against inflation. What has been the story? I have mentioned what the Labor Party has done. It has set up the Prices Justification Tribunal, it has set up the Joint Parliamentary Committee on Prices which will report tomorrow; it has imposed a 25 per cent cut in tariffs; it has revalued the currency; and it has acted on the issue which is presently before the Australian people. We have an extremely unusual economic situation today in that for the first time in the history of Australia we have inflation coupled with overemploymentone might call it overemploymentor full employment. Whenever members of the previous Government talk about inflation they forget to mention that they had inflation coupled with grave unemployment. Every time we raised the question of inflation and unemployment, the previous Government said it could not correct it, that it was taking measures to do so. Yet only 5 months after we became the Government we had corrected that situation. We have full employment and more vacancies than people to fill them. It is a most unusual situation, but it is not new in the Western world. It is not new in an economy such as Australia's or in the economies of Western Europe where there is high mechanisation and very sophisticated machinery and equipment. May 1 mention what I said one night recently that Professor Galbraith had said about it. I repeat what he said when he arrived in Melbourne on 3 September. I shall quote the report of his remarks from the Melbourne 'Age' which appears on page 473 of Hansard of 12 September. The report states: 
Professor Galbraith, who arrived in Melbourne yesterday, said he doubted that any action taken in Australia alone would control inflation. 
The decisive question is that it be brought under control in my country- the United States', Professor Galbraith said at an airport Press conference. 
Inflation is a world-wide problem, and it is going to be serious as long as it isn 't tackled in the metropolitan economy. 
As long as inflation is out of control in the United States, it is likely to be out of control in those countries that do a lot of trade with the United States of America- like Australia. 
Yet we have this repeated propagandising by the Opposition when it moves motions to debate matters of urgency and contests, in the other place, the Government's actions. Our actions are clear. We have done things of the sort I have mentioned. Now we want to ask the Australian people to give us a power. It is most extraordinary to me that senators, when I talk to them about the various Bills and campaigns, say that the Senate is the elected House, it is the States 
House and it has a more democratic basis than the other place. Yet they are afraid to let us ask the people of Australia whether they want the Australian Parliament to control prices. To me. that is extraordinary. What we are proposing is a most democratic action. 
Why have we reached this situation? We have reached it, as the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  and  Senator Murphy  have pointed out, because in the consultations with the States they have indicated a resistance to the handing over of powers to the Australian Government. Most of the speakers from the Opposition side tonight have said: 'Why not get the States together and ask them what they want to do about prices?' We have asked the States what they want to do about prices. Except for the Labor States, my own State in particular, there is a resistance to the handing over of powers to the Australian Government. The Prime Minister has stated, in speeches in the other place, what the reactions of the States were when he floated this idea that we should have power over prices. It is extraordinary that in this world today- 1 973- other countries have great and sophisticated powers over these things, but Australia does not. Australia is a great country. All honourable senators acknowledge that. It is a sophisticated country. Each State has great economic units which can produce commodities which are as good as any in the world. The States have become the playground of the multinational corporations. We can do all sorts of things yet we cannot act as an Australian Government. 
What is wrong with the proposition contained in the Bill? The only contest can be on the basis that perhaps it does not go far enough. We are saying that the only power which is necessary at present is the power to control prices. Let me remind the Senate of what the Prime Minister told members in the other place and what Senate Murphy told us last night about what took place at the Australian Constitutional Convention. There the Prime Minister floated the idea that the States should give the Australian Government power over prices. Everybody knows that prices have increased. Honourable senators should ask their wives about the increases in prices of foodstuffs. 
-Of course she would. Quite clearly she is under the honourable senator's domination. I suggest that he would not be the most logical - 
The ACTING  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Brown)-  Order! An air of tranquillity settled down over the Senate, which I thought was quite pleasing to see. It was before you re-entered the chamber,  Senator Jessop.  As a matter of fact, you helped to unsettle that atmosphere. I ask the Senate, and you in particular, to ensure that speakers from both sides are given the opportunity to address themselves to the question without constant interjection and undue audible conversation. 
I did not resent the interjection because it was clear to me, and I think it is common knowledge- the dogs are barking itthat every week the price of foodstuffs jumps by 20 per cent or 30 per cent. I occasionally go to the supermarkets with my family, and I know that it does. Why does the price jump? It jumps because not only the commercial interests but everybody else have the advantage in this situation. They know that the Labor Government is intent upon controlling prices as far as the Parliament will allow it to exercise that control. 

 -As Senator O'Byrne said, they do what they like. The result is that we have had this drastic rise in the price of foodstuffs because everybody who wants to make a quick dollar is out to make a quick dollar. All the speculators and the people in the community who are not the traditional merchants and operators are out to make a quick dollar. 

 - Senator Jessop 's wife is the same as mine- she is subject to the market. So we have to do something about the situation. The Labor Government has asked the State Premiers: ' What about giving us power to control prices?' Some State Premiers, as is well known, have rejected the proposition put by the Prime Minister. Let me state what the Prime Minister said, as reported at page 1056 of Hansard. He said: 
The Parliament can obtain the power by reference, by some or all State Parliaments. That is something which could be done in a matter of weeks. The reference of power could be permanent or temporary. If, however, the Governments in the two great States of New South Wales and Victoria, Governments which currently have a majority in both Houses of their Parliaments, decline to introduce a Bill, then the reference would be  ineffective.  I venture to say that without New South Wales and Victoria, it would be a largely futile exercise, while, with those two States alone referring, it could be made effective throughout Australia. 
We are the only Party which consistently has argued in favour of price control. The promise to introduce price control was made by previous leaders of the Labor Party. I mention the late 
Arthur Calwell. It was in his pre-election policy speech. It was in the pre-election policy speeches of the present Prime Minister. We have said that the Australian Parliament should have the constitutional power to control prices. It is extraordinary that today we cannot have that power. 
There are some other devices which the Government admits might be used. We could use the corporation powers. If the Opposition says that it will not allow the people to answer the question, we say that we would like to use the corporation powers. We know that if we use them we will face the frustration of all sorts of appeals in the courts. So the clear solution is to ask the ordinary elector to decide the question. That is the real issue tonight. The extraordinary thing is that honourable senators opposite say: We will not let the people answer the question'. Honourable senators opposite, particularly members of the Country Party believe in fixed prices for primary products. There have to be fixed prices for sugar, eggs, milk and bread. For the producer, fixed prices are always necessary. If we talk about fixed prices for people generally- for workers in the community and for the average people in the community- they say: We will not give you the power. You should talk to the States.' 
What is alarming to me is that in the debates which have occurred up to now in this place and in the other place there has been a great deal of propaganda attacking the Government for what it has failed to do. I have mentioned the sorts of initiatives which we have taken already. Tomorrow in Parliament a report will be presented by the Joint Parliamentary Committee on Prices. It will tell us its experience in relation to prices. We are saying that it is evident that we need to go one step further and ask the people of Australia what powers they think the Government should have. I think it is clear to everybody- I think it is clear to the people of Australia- that this is a most important" objective of the Government. We are confident that if a referendum is held the people will support us because it must surely be something unusual for a country such as Australia, in this day and age, not to have power over prices. I ask the Senate to support the Government's Bill. It is the only way to make some sort of progress. If we go into the wider areas, I think the matter could become more contentious in the community. I am satisfied that if we have the power to control prices, in addition to the measures which we have taken and which I have mentioned, we will have the satisfaction of knowing that finally the trade union movement, once it sees that we have taken the initiative, will give us its support. There has been criticism of what  Mr Hawke  has said. Nobody can expect him at this stage to take the stand, not knowing what the Parliament might do, that he will rest upon what the Prime Minister has stated is his policy. We have first to ask the people of Australia what powers they think the Government should have, if we win their support, which I believe we will receive. Then, having effective control over prices, I am quite sure that the effect will carry into the trade union movement, into the area of wages and into the sorts of arrangements and controls that we might best obtain. I ask the Senate to support the Bill. 
For the information of honourable senators I present the report of the Australian Delegation to the Fifty- fifth (Maritime) Session of the International Labour Conference 1970. 
-It is clear that there will be no cut backs in respect of the Department of Supply establishment at that location. As the honourable senator probably knows,  Mr Barnard  will attend there in the week after next to open extensions. Regarding the Department of the Army I have not been able to find out clearly what is the position but I can give a general assurance that nothing will be done until after the general review that we were talking about the other day- that is, the intervention of the trade unions in respect of civilian manpower and the promise by the Minister that he would hold all retrenchments for the time being. If I can get more positive information in that area for the honourable senator, I will do so. 
I do not think the arrangements which  Senator Sir Kenneth  Anderson has mentioned strengthen the position which existed previously when it appeared that there would be some retrenchment as a result of the cutback by the National Aeronautics and Space Administration. In fact generally the NASA budget for the operations of the space tracking station has been cut to some extent, as the honourable senator knows. As a result the employees in our area were concerned and had some disputes with subcontractors over possible redundancies. I do not think the Woomera launchings can have any of the good effects about which the honourable senator spoke. However I will find out how the situation can be improved. The position other than at Woomera is that there could be a slight reduction in the work force and the Department of Supply is now considering, together with those concerned, whether some new arrangements might be made whereby the Department might come into the situation more directly than it does now. 
The answer is yes. 
The answer to the last part of the question is no. Some of the strikes taking place are a direct result of the Opposition's move, when we discussed the Conciliation and Arbitration Bill - 
Opposition Senators- Oh no! 
Let me answer the question. Let us look at the dispute which resulted in the loss of thousands of hours on the Sydney waterfront. That was a conflict between the Federal and State branches of the Transport Workers Union of Australia. The Australian Labor Party had proposed an amendment to the Conciliation and Arbitration Act which would have made it possible for the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission to take some action. Let me refer to my own area of interest as the Minister assisting the Minister for Defence, particularly his portfolio as Minister for the Navy. Since this particular demarcation dispute arose between those 2 branches of the union we have had quite a lot of stoppages for exactly the reason I gave earlier. As to the question about the airways dispute, I think the Minister representing the Minister for Civil Aviation would be able to give the Senate more up to date information if he seeks to answer that part of the question. 
-The first part of the honourable senator's question concerns the Minister for Labour. The 2 disputes he mentioned concern primarily the Postmaster-General and the Minister for Civil Aviation. On the general question of the disputes, as I mentioned earlier, some of the disputes have been caused because this Senate has not passed certain legislation. 
I am talking about the Conciliation and Arbitration Act, and that is part of the story,  Senator. The  second part of the story - 
I will answer it my way, if you do not mind,  Senator. 
Of course I will because I want to put the position as I know it to be. As the honourable senator well knows, we have a different general situation now from what we had during the currency of the other Government. We have a situation today where unemployment has been almost eliminated. We have a larger number of vacancies than we have people to put in them. The Minister for Labour has implemented a retraining program which will ease that position and which will have some general effect in relation to disputes. The Government is doing all it can in this sphere to settle disputes. Perhaps I should not give the honourable senator a specific answer in respect of the 2 disputes which he mentioned in his question. However, I know that the Postmaster-General is contacting daily the interests concerned to see whether he can solve the dispute in his Department. Perhaps the Minister for Works, who represents the Minister for Civil Aviation in this chamber, can give the honourable senator more information than I can on the dispute in that industry. 
I have already mentioned the provisions which would have enabled us to deal with issues arising from the Moore v Doyle cases- that is, cases arising from demarcation and inter-union disputes where one has to deal with State and Federal bodies- and generally the purposes of the arbitration facilities, the ability - 
I am not answering this question in the way in which the honourable senator wants me to answer it; I am answering it in the general context. An arbitration Bill will be before the Senate this week. In fact, it will be presented today. If it is not passed there will be greater reason for expecting that industrial unrest will increase. I say to the honourable senator that a lot of the unrest has been caused - 
-I know,  Mr President.  May I say that what I said formerly still stands, that much of the discontent is due to the factors that I have mentioned. One we could have corrected, the other will take its course in the general economic arrangements. 
in reply- I cannot understand the form of protest which has been taken on this occasion because of the debating mechanisms of the other place.  Senator Greenwood  has said that the Opposition should support him in this objective simply because the debate in the other place was gagged. I put it to the Senate that the Government has gone out of its way to amend the previous Bill so that many of the things to which the Opposition objected have been eliminated. This Bill contains hardly any provisions regarded by the Opposition as contentious when presented in the previous Conciliation and Arbitration Bill. The Minister for Labour  (Mr Clyde Cameron),  who was in charge of this Bill in another place, stated that there was a need to deal with it urgently and it was put through the House hurriedly. Perhaps  Senator Greenwood  is entitled to complain about that, but I cannot see how, whatever complaints he has in that respect, they can be used to interfere with the rapid progress of the legislation through the Senate. 
The honourable senator says that because of something that happened in the other place the Opposition will make sure that the process of discussion will be slowed up in the Senate. I hope that that does not happen. There is no reason to expect that all honourable senators will not be allowed to participate in the debate on the Bill and to make sure that they are satisfied about the new intentions in the legislation. I was told that Opposition members in the other place were given every facility by the Minister and the Government to check on the legislation before it was presented to the Parliament. Officers of the Department of Labour were in attendance to the Opposition spokesman on the Bill in the other place. They knew exactly what the details of the legislation would be. So I trust that what is implied in  Senator Greenwood's  speech is not that simply because of the tensions in the other place, the Opposition senators will impede the passage of what has been declared to be an urgent Bill containing a number of important provisions which ought to be passed as quickly as possible. 
Question put: 
That the motion  (Senator Bishop's)  be agreed to. 
I will be brief in responding. I thank honourable senators who have taken part in the debate for their general approval of the measures. I want to make only one or two comments about the situation as I see it. I will deal in a general way with what has been said by some honourable senators without identifying them because generally they have approved the legislation which, as everybody knows, is a costly piece of legislation. The expense to the Government and the taxpayer will be an additional $200m above that provided for in 1972-73. An increase in cash benefits and the partial abolition of the means test will add another $141m to expenditure to be incurred in 1973-74. The Government is always in the position where if it carries out any expansion of its social welfare aims it is often said to be extravagant and to be creating a counterforce to pension rises. One has to look at that argument in the context of what the position has been. For example, the latest figures I have seen for the period from June 1972 till June 1973 show an increase in the consumer price index of 8.2 per cent, an increase in average weekly earnings of 1 1.4 per cent and an increase in pension rates provided by the Government for married pensioners of 1 7.2 per cent or, in the case of the standard rate, 1 7.8 per cent. The Minister for Social Security  (Mr Hayden)  has undertaken to ensure that the basis of 25 per cent of average weekly earnings is maintained in any circumstances. 
The second reading speech was criticised by  Senator Webster  who said that the Australian Government is determined to achieve its goal of a standard rate pension equivalent to 25 per cent of average weekly earnings and that if necessary the pension increase in the autumn session will be greater than $1.50. Mention was made during the debate of taxation and the means test. I refer now to what the Treasurer  (Mr Crean)  said so that we will all know what he did say and what it means. In presenting the Budget he said: 
Abolition of the means test does, however, give rise to problems of equity. Unless age pensions are taxable, aged persons on higher incomes would be put in a privileged position by comparison not only with pensioners on lower incomes, but also with people below pensionable age on equivalent or smaller incomes and paying tax on the whole of that income. It is necessary, however, in introducing taxation of age pensions, to ensure that pensioners in the lower ranges are not disadvantaged. The Government proposes therefore that age pensions should become taxable but that special steps be taken to protect those wholly or largely dependent on pensions from detriment. 
In relation to unemployment benefit payments, which we have extensively improved, one always gets complaints. I have heard people complain about some people getting social service pensions. It is not uncommon to hear complaints of people getting repatriation pensions and allegations that they are not entitled to them, or people getting compensation payments to which they are not entitled. I think it is unfair to say that there is a large body of people living on unemployment benefits to which they are not entitled. The Government has increased unemployment benefits and the days have gone when to be unemployed was a great burden on people who could not find a job. Now we have an alternative proposition, but I think that the attention which has been directed to it has been overdone.  Senator Bonner  had 2 shots at it. He complained first that his own Aboriginal race was being discriminated against, and then he referred to that tired old argument about people getting benefits they should not be getting. 
There is much which can be argued about in this legislation, but it is very clear that the Labour Government has quickly implemented its social welfare reforms. As  Senator Keeffe  said, as soon as we got into office our first piece of legislation dealt with social welfare pensions and repatriation payments which were made retrospective to the date of the election. If one compares the figures, the difference is clearly indicated. If the consumer price index is used as the guide and the increase in the consumer price index is compared with the last pension increases it will be found that in every respect those pension increases have been beneficial. With those comments I thank honourable senators for the speedy passage given to the Bill. Some honourable senators expressed concern about this Bill being urgent. The fact is that we have until Thursday to pass this and associated Bills. Provided that the Bills were passed on Thursday - 
As far as I understand, the Senate will sit for part of Thursday morning and the Estimates Committees will sit on Thursday afternoon. Provided that the Bills were passed by the time the Senate rose to enable the Estimates Committees to meet, the position would be all right. Nevertheless, I thank the Opposition for its support. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. 
In Committee 
The Bill. 
in reply- I thank honourable senators who have taken part in the debate for the constructive contributions they have made.  Senator Rae  who led for the Opposition in the debate made 2 points which I cannot answer at the present. He referred to the member of Parliament who happens to be a legal practitioner. As he and I well know, under the present Repatriation Act it is impossible for that member to represent an appellant. I suggest that the 2 committees which have been referred to, should consider this point. I do not know what the Senate Standing Committee on Health and Welfare recommended although  Senator Dame  Nancy Buttfield presumes that I do. We all know that  Mr Justice  Toose is working on his report, but it will not be available until April or March next year. I presume that that matter at least will be one of the matters on which he will express some view. 
I do not know. I can say only that the Government is resting on the advice of its committees and that when the committees make the reports the Government will consider whatever recommendations are made.  Senator Dame  Nancy Buttfield 's contributions were directed only to the general issues relative to her interests and to the Committee's recommendations. She pointed out that she had been interested in particular aspects of the system. In that respect I think her arguments were rather general and do not require any particular reference by me, except to say that I do not believe that the Government is making a political bribe when it includes in the legislation provision for repatriation benefits for serving members of the Services. As  Senator Dame  Nancy Buttfield explained, they have an option. They can get the best of either the Compensation Act or the Repatriation Act. They cannot get both. To me it is quite consistent with what we are doing in the repatriation field. It must be consistent with what any government does. Those who are serving ought to be entitled to repatriation benefits because we have a highly specialised and efficient hospital organisation, and why should not those serving be entitled to accommodation in that hospital system? As the honourable senator knows, at the present time we allow serving members to be accommodated in those hospitals. So I do not agree with what  Senator Dame  Nancy Buttfield suggests, but I appreciate the sort of thinking that she has given to the question. I think that her references would be more appropriate in the debate which might arise when the reports of the 2 committees that I have mentioned are presented. 
-No, it is not, and I see that  Senator Greenwood  is not listening. He just wants to butt in, as he usually does, before the argument has been finished. That is one of the reasons; that is a related reason. What I am putting to the Senate is that in 1968 the previous Government introduced the special compensation allowance because it was not prepared to grant increases to the vast majority of pensionersthose 190,000 pensioners who were entitled to an increase- and for more than 5 years the previous Government continued its policy of not increasing the pensions of that category of pensioners. It decided to increase the pensions of those who received the 75 per cent to 100 per cent rate. As a result of that action the previous Government received protests not only from the Australian Labor Party but also from the RSL. We asked then, as we do now: How do you make a distinction between those who are 70 per cent incapacitated and those who are 75 per cent incapacitated? 
What we said then- and we announced it before the last elections- was that when we applied our repatriation policy we would ensure that those special categories of pensions were related to the minimum wage and that all pensions were increased. That is what we are doing at the present time. Our bill for about 12 months for what we are currently doing is $22m. We are providing benefits for everyone. The benefits are extensive. They have been outlined by other honourable senators who have spoken in this debate. I thank those honourable senators for their contributions, and leave my comments at that. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. 
In Committee 
The Bill. 
I wish to reply briefly to both  Senator Rae  and  Senator Wright.  I thank both honourable senators for their comments. I think that the answer to  Senator Rae's  point is that we have promised 2 increases. We promised one increase- the one in the present Bill- and we promised to adjust the rate in the early part of next year. So, I do not see how we could backdate this increase. 
The honourable senator should consider the purport of his interjection. We have carried out a massive reform in the social service field, particularly in relation to repatriation. 
I do not know. I think that we are the only Government since I have been a member of the Senate which has received from the Returned Services League of Australia a commendation for the speedy application of what it has put forward. We adopted its submissions almost in toto. I have a letter from the National Secretary of the RSL which says exactly that. It congratulates the Government. 
-It is there. I will read it, if the honourable senator wishes, so that it will be in the record. I should at this stage read it so that no one will think that I was fabricating it. It is from the Returned Services League of Australia, dated 4 September 1973, to the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam).  It reads: 
Dear Prime Minister, 
Following the announcement of major improvements in repatriation provisions announced in your Government's 1973 Budget, the National  President  issued a press release expressing the League's appreciation. The Press release was as follows: 
Repatriation provisions contained in the Budget, coupled with improvements introduced earlier in the year, have provided historic advances in the repatriation system. ' 
The National  President  of the RSL,  Sir Arthur  Lee, said this in commenting on the Budget in Canberra today.  Sir Arthur  said that repatriation medical and hospital treatment for ex-servicemen from the First World War and the Boer War, and the automatic acceptance of cancer, had for many years been major RSL objectives. The League was delighted to see that the Government had provided for these in the Budget. 
An increase in the special rate (TPI) pension to the minimum wage level within 12 months was also welcome and increases in the lower levels of the general rate pension were a necessary step in rationalising the general rate scale. 'The only major RSL request still outstanding in repatriation is the introduction of a system for the automatic adjustment of compensation levels in Une with any change in the minimum wage ', said  Sir Arthur. 
He said the RSL congratulated the Government on the introduction of long overdue measures which were in line with promises the Prime Minister had made during the election campaign. 
I have pleasure in conveying the contents of this statement to you and on behalf of the RSL saying how much your Government's efforts for the service and ex-service communities are appreciated. 
With kind regards. 
It is signed by  Mr A.  G. W. Keys. 
I am fully conscious of the logic of the propositions raised by  Senator Wright.  I know that at some stage there has to be some sort of general equity in relation to all the fields which he mentioned. The inquiries which are being held will, I think, lay the basis for consideration by the Government. Like other honourable senators, I have long been an outspoken  speaker  on repatriation matters and have been very consious of its compensation characteristics, if I could use that phrase. I think that the situation will be more open to the sort of trends about which  Senator Wright  spoke as a result of the inquiries now obtaining. 
Bill agreed to. 
Bill reported without amendment; report adopted. 
The Minister for Defence has provided trie following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
The Master Plan for Ecological Management of the bushland in the vicinity of HMAS 'Penguin' prepared by the National Parks and Wildlife Branch of the New South Wales Department of Lands, recommended the introduction of the swamp wallaby to limit the rate of vegetative accumulation. It is not now proposed to proceed with this plan for the following reasons: 
The wallabies are highly selective feeders of herbaceous species and are not likely to affect the accumulation of vegetative material unless introduced in considerable numbers. 
Protection of the wallabies would require the erection of approximately 1370 yards of dog proof fencing which, besides being uneconomic at a basic cost of $8,300, would also alter the aesthetic appearance of the area. 
The Council of the Municipality of Mosman is in agreement with this action. 
The answer to the honourable senator's question is as follows: 
In accordance with usual practice, my Department considered the 1972 Returned Services League Federal Congress submissions on Repatriation matters both prior to and during the Congress. Senior representatives from the Department attend Congress and express views at the time. Subsequently, the R.S.L. refers appropriate resolutions to me for consideration and reply direct. 
The submission relating to the retirement age and superannuation benefits for ex-service members of the Australian Public Service referred to by the honourable senator, is outside the area of Repatriation responsibility. However, I understand that this particular matter has been the subject of correspondence between the Prime Minister and the National Secretary of the Returned Services League. 
Answering, firstly, the last part of the question which referred to housing, we have inherited the housing that was built at Puckapunyal by the previous Liberal governments. They had 23 years in which to improve the housing of servicemen, but they did not do it. The bill for defence housing that the Labor Government will meet is approximately $60 m. In regard to what  Senator Jessop  says  Major Young  said,  Major Young  is not a spokesman for the Labor Party. He was a member of the Labor Party, but he does not speak on behalf of the Minister for Defence. May I make a point about morale?  Major Young  said that the morale in the Services is low. If it is low it is not the fault of the Labor Government. I will mention some of the things that we have already done since we have been in power. 
For example, we have improved the benefits provided under the defence forces retirement benefits scheme. The previous Government rejected the Jess report. We accepted the report and improved upon it. We have increased pay scales. We have improved the classifications of pay within the defence forces. A huge amount of money has been set aside for making those sorts of improvements. We have provided a bounty of $1,000 for re-engagement in the Services. The previous Government had the chance to do that, but it did not do so. The previous Government said that we could not raise a volunteer Army. A volunteer Army is being raised. We passed legislation which gives serving sevicemen the option of receiving repatriation benefits or compensation benefits. Yesterday honourable senators opposite approved of that legislation and said that it was a great thing. We did this. The previous Government had a chance to do it, but it did not do so. So I cannot understand why the honourable senator should ask such a silly question. 
We have heard from  Senator McManus  what I think is a general statement of the philosophy of the Australian Democratic Labor Party on defence.  His  argument, of course, is based on the proposition that a maximum amount of money ought to be spent on all the Defence Services. What we are saying as a Government to the people and to the Parliament is that we have spent the maximum amount of money that should be spent in the situation which faces Australia. Estimates of the strategic situation which Australia faces indicates that there is unlikely to be any direct threat to Australian security over the next 10 to 15 years. This is the almost unanimous opinion of the Government's defence and other experts who are the advisers who held those offices during the currency of the last Government. Their advice is based on the sharing of intelligence with people concerned with the defence forces of the United States of America and the United Kingdom. 
The observations which  Senator McManus  makes in criticising the Government have to be tempered by what the Government is proposing. This defence vote is based on the opinions of the experts as we see and know them. The opinion which we have at the present time is little different from that of the days of the last Government when it put up the same proposition- that we are facing a position of low threat. As a start perhaps we should look at the figures to see the defence expenditure and the strength of the forces at periods in Australian history when it might have been thought that the amount spent on defence should have been greater. For example, let us look at the defence expenditure as a percentage of the gross national product. In 1961-62 the amount expended was $406m, which was equal to 2.7 per cent of the gross national product. In 1962-63 the amount was $428m or 2.6 per cent of the gross national product. In 1963-64 it was $52 lm or 2.9 per cent of the gross national product. In the current year, 1973-74, it is equal to 2.9 per cent of the gross national product. (Quorum formed) 
I have been pointing out that defence expenditure as a percentage of the gross national product is little different now to the period of what was called the Indonesian confrontation. Actually the figures which I have quoted to the Senate represent more than the percentage which was spent when Australia was facing a crisis. It is not facing a crisis today. Our experts say so. Our knowledge of the situation indicates that we can look ahead to a period of peace of at least 10 to 15 years - 
Nobody can guarantee that. 
-Of course they cannot. But what honourable senators opposite are posing to me is that the Government, in this day and age when it is spending huge amounts on welfare and on improvements to Service standards- to which  Senator McManus  gave some supportwhen it is trying to catch up on the lack of welfare provisions in the Services and in the community generally, and when it is providing additional educational facilities, should increase the defence expenditure above the amount which was granted by past governments. I refer also to the defence forces strength. For example, in 1961-62 there were 20,985 persons in the Army. In 1962-63 there were 21,944 and in 1 963-64- of course these are the years when we needed the assurance that our defence forces were strong and mobile- there were 22,681. In 1972-73 there were 33,990. Let us look at the total strength of all the defence Services- Navy, 
Air Force and Army- in those years. In 1962-63 there were 50,142 servicemen. In 1963-64 there were 52,626. In 1964-65 there were 57,952. In 1 972-73 there were 74, 1 9 1 . 
In relation to our defence allocation people are talking in 2 voices. For example, this morning I listened to  Senator Kane  speaking on the Australian Broadcasting Commission program AM'. He was talking about prices, and the reporter asked him what he thought the Government should do. He said: 'I am very concerned about what the Government will do in the interim and what it will do about curbing Government expenditure'. On the one hand we have people who say that the Government has to curb Government expenditure- that is the argument put forward by the Democratic Labor Party- and on the other we have people who say that we have to be able to manage the defence Services in the climate of peace and detente which exists. 
-That is right. Let me read out the comments of the editor of the 'Armed Forces Journal International', a fairly important Service journal published in Washington. The editor, Benjamin F. Schemmer, in the August 1973 issue, the most recent issue, said about Labor's policies in an article headed 'Australia's Blank Canvas': 
Few nations ever enjoy the chance to design a defence program on a blank canvas. Australia does. 
One can't help but wonder how differently America's military forces might be shaped were Pentagon planners to start from scratch. Think of how much stronger we might be and different the defence budget would be, if: 
Then he pointed out the sorts of options which the American Government had in respect of expensive equipment and dealt with the failures in many respects. He continued: 
We can ask the questions, but we can't start with a blank canvas. That's what makes Australia interesting. In many respects, it is. And the results so far are impressive. 
Last December a new and traditionally anti-militarist Labor Government came into power. 
It inherited a small and neglected regular Army held in low public esteem. Its defence industry was inefficient and sure to give up the ghost without a quick influx of technology and new business. Australia's independence of policy and action had been traded away for 'defence on the cheap'- yet its closest allies, the United Kingdom and the U.S., were withdrawing into low profiles' on the understandable premise that their friends should be as ready to defend their own freedom as we had been. 
Against this background, Prime Minister Edward Gough Whitlam took office and decided, rather than to surrender, to charge. He is literally designing a new defence program on a blank canvas. 
The editor mentioned some of the things to which I would have referred. He continued: 
First, he erased some old blotches. One of his first acts last December was to abolish conscription. He seized on a proposal ordered upon but rejected by the previous government and brought in a generous new pension scheme for the Services; he  topped that with proposed pay increases that add up to $70 million annually in a country where only SS84 million was allocated for military pay last fiscal year. As a result, he has stemmed a rising tide of NCO and middle rank officer resignations, won a 45 per cent retention rate among National Servicemen with time remaining to serve out, and now has what Australians admit is 'an embarrassingly high' enlistment rate for his new all volunteer force. 
That is a fact. He continued: 
Whitlam has streamlined his defence ministries, abolishing the posts of 3 Service Secretaries while consolidating - 
I have the document here. It is a reputable defence document which is circulated - 
The author is Benjamin F. Schemmer. This document is read by all the defence Services. 

 - Senator Byrne will not be convinced, but this document is circulated amongst our Service heads. I have mentioned to honourable senators what the proposition is. 
Of course they do not like it. He continued: 
Whitlam has streamlined his defence ministeries, abolishing the post of 3 Service Secretaries while consolidating procurement and support functions (with paring some forces). His National Guard - and he refers to the Citizen Military Forces-  . . a top heavy social organisation which has been attracting fewer and fewer volunteers, is due for an overhaul as well. 
What we have been facing is a situation where the Labor Government contends that we should look at where we are going in the Army and that there should not be these complex of numbers for numbers' sake. I shall refer to something which  Senator Gair  said recently. Of course,  Senator McManus  has criticised the Liberal Government. He has contended that the Liberal policies in the past were not defence conscious, and he criticised them. In Brisbane recently- I am told 2 weeks ago-  Senator Gair  said that the Liberal Government had nothing to boast about in the matter of defence as it had left the defence of Australia to girl guides and boy scouts. I hope that is literal, but I understand that it is a fair comment by  Senator Gair.  To my mind, what 

 Senator McManus has said tonight is not very much different from what  Senator Gair  has said. 
What about morale in the Services? We have made some massive improvements.  Senator McManus  says that we have made massive improvements in conditions and pay but that it is not having the effect on the Army- on the Serviceswhich it might have. I think that perhaps the reason for this is that we have a new situation. Australia is no longer at war. Our Vietnam expedition is over. Those who served in Vietnam and in other places- and I do not say dishonourably, because they served there at the behest of the previous Government- were involved in those areas under Government directions. They were instructed in all sorts of tasks, which then were urgent, but today they have returned to Australia, like the reporters who covered the news in those areas, and they are facing a situation where exercises have to be held in Australia. They are facing a new situation of peace. 
A situation of peace, as far as the defence forces are concerned, is always critical because soldiers are taught to be ready for war and to perfect the skills of war. There are always some strains in a peacetime situation. The writers of the publications that have given some consideration to what they call a crisis in the armed forces are themselves people who have served in those war areas, and they have returned to Australia where exercises are now being held under peacetime conditions. Everybody is wondering what will be the outcome of it. Surely our position as a government ought to be to insist that peace is something to be preserved and that while we have peace, while we have ten or fifteen years of peace in the foreseeable future- it is not guaranteed; nobody could gurantee that- we ought to be able to decide what our forces should be, what expensive equipment we might buy and what general position we might take internationally. 
It is true that in some areas the purchase of equipment has been put off, and so it should be. The DDL destroyer program would have cost Australia about $330m. Recently in Australia we have tested the Leopard tank and the American tank, and if we were to use these tanks to replace the Centurion tanks it would cost more than $500,000 for each tank. The Government, the defence Services and the advisers have to decide how the Government will spend the money, how it will apportion the money between the Services. Of course the wages bill of the Services ought to be steady. That is what we are asking, because we have a situation in which we have time to think about the matter. 
I deal now with the question of morale. In answer to a question in the Senate this afternoon I said that I just could not understand how anybody could say that the Labor Government could in any way be credited with any actions which would reduce morale in the Services. We have done everything in our power to increase morale in the Services, as everybody knows. 

 - Senator Sim says that it is at an all time low. Members of the Press who were involved in the Vietnam war talk about an all time low, but let me state some of our achievements. We have improved on the report of the Joint Committee on Defence Forces Retirement Benefits Legislation which was chaired by  Mr Jess.  There will be a continuing examination of that report which the previous Government, of which  Senator Sim  was a member, rejected. The previous Government would not implement all the recommendations in that report. We have promised to do so, and we have done so. We have substantially increased service pay, and we have improved the range of classifications and conditions of service. We have continued with the setting up of a committee to inquire into defence forces pay; Only yesterday a  deputy president  of the Commonwealth Conciliation and Arbitration Commission,  Mr Justice  Coldham, was appointed  chairman  of the committee. It will recommend on matters which, in civilian life, would be determined by negotiation or arbitration. That has never been done before. The members of that committee are experienced in the field of negotiation. They include my colleague  Mr Commissioner  Deverall of the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission and Air Marshal  Sir Alister  Murdoch. Those things were never considered but were resisted by the previous Government. 
In addition, we have provided a bounty of $ 1 ,000 for members who voluntarily re-engage. We have increased the vote for and have spent more money on defence Services homes than ever before. There have been some complaints about homes at Puckapunyal and other places. The improvements which we will carry out this year should have been carried out in past years by the Liberal Government. In addition, as everybody knows, we have promised to appoint a defence forces ombudsman. That will be done this year. I know of the new attitude in the Services because I am concerned with the Services. There is a new attitude in the Services. Servicemen, their wives and families can write to Ministers without those prohibitions which existed, in my day certainly, when daily routine orders carried the prohibition about servicemen not writing to members of Parliament and Ministers. Today it is common for servicemen to write to members of Parliament and Ministers. The regulations have been altered to allow this. We have established a new relationship for the defence forces. In circumstances of peace, soldiers who have come from a situation of war would wonder what the future holds for them and in those circumstances may wish to become publicly involved in discussion as to what the future holds. We are not against that; we are in favour of it. We have improved their standards more than any other government has, and I am quite certain that those people, like the ex-service organisations, are highly pleased with our programs. 
As everybody knows, we have also provided to serving members the opportunity to choose whether to take the advantages conferred by the Repatriation Act or the advantages conferred by the Compensation (Australian Government Employees) Act. These things have been widely applauded. We cannot understand why people, even people in the media who are in a vacuum about defence at present, should say that the morale is at a low level. If that were so I should think that the number of offences under the disciplinary codes would have increased. It has not done so. It has dropped during the period of office of the Labor Government.  Senator McManus  talked about the cutbacks in the Army and in the bands. Of course there have been cutbacks in bands, but the cutbacks in the supernumerary forces and the bands have resulted in a higher rate of field force participation. Previously it was argued that a field force of 10,500 from a force of 32,000 was an excellent achievement. With the advice of the defence experts about whom I have spoken, we have been able to get a field force of 1 1,500 from 31,000 soldiers. That is the sort of thinking which the Labor Party is implementing. 
So I cannot see how there is any substance in the propositions which have been put forward by  Senator McManus.  I can understand any Australian being concerned about how much money is spent on defence. I would like to see the defence vote increased. I would like to see the Australian Services better equipped than they are, if we could afford it. But we have decided that our expenditure priorities are such that in this Budget the defence vote will be kept at 2.9 per cent of the gross national product. In doing that we have been able to make the fairly substantial improvements on which  Senator McManus  was fair enough to commend the Government. The improvements are good things. 
It seems to me that the next test which he put was whether our credibility is at stake with respect to our allies. I have already mentioned that the estimates about the possible 10 or 15 years period of peace have been based on shared intelligence. The estimates are not based solely on Australian intelligence reports. The view which the advisers are giving the Government is based on intelligence reports from the United States and the United Kingdom. There is very close co-operation between Australia and those countries, as there should be, and the Government welcomes it. I welcome it. Those reports are shared. In addition, we have extensive exercises still continuing. For instance, already this year a platoon of the 6th RAR has visited the United Kingdom, 150 soldiers have visited the New Zealand defence forces and members of the 6th Task Force have visited Hawaii for exercises with the United States 25th Infantry Division. British, Ghurka, New Zealand and Australian troops, together with Australian sailors and airmen, are now involved in the biggest joint exercise in New South Wales in the last decade. It is known as 'Operation Dark Moon'. Other exercises are planned for the future.  Mr Barnard  has negotiated agreements which come within the concept of joint exercises at home and abroad with our allies in South East Asia as well as with the United States of America. In addition, individual training of Australian servicemen in Australia and in many overseas countries will continue. As most people know, there are day to day talks between the navies of various countriesfor example, the navy of the United States of America and the navy of Australia. 
I return to  Senator McManus  's first proposition. I think he stated the position of the DLP and his concern for a greater defence expenditure. In the circumstances we have decided that our Budget expenditure on defence is sufficient. We welcome the situation today. We think that detente is a practical proposition. We think that the great powers have created a system of understandings which will continue for the foreseeable future and which will mean a peaceful situation. We would prefer to see an increase in the expenditure on heavy equipment, but we have had to cut back on it for the present. We have cut back on some flying operations of the Royal Australian Air Force. If we had been able to expand the provisions of the Budget to those areas, certainly we would have done so. But as everybody knows, we have come down on the side of meeting our general welfare commitments and our commitments to improve Sendee conditions at a time when we can afford to do it. 
I return to the proposition which  Senator McManus  raised about the war years. I know what the proposition was in the war years. I, like a lot of other people, was one of those who had reached an age at which they felt they should join the Services. Most people responded to the call. It may be true that in those days there was not equipment to hand; we used equipment which was made available by other countries. The lack of equipment was not the fault of the Labor Government; it was the fault of the Liberal Government which had not seen the threat. 
I have given honourable senators the opinions of experts. They were the same people who gave advice to Ministers of the former Government of which the honourable senator was a supporter. 
They were not wrong as far as I can see. We have a situation in which the United States of America and the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics are on speaking terms. There is a detente in Europe. I know, and everybody else realises that despite the South East Asian conflict there are understandings between those great powers. Because there are understandings and exchanges they are not always outwardly recognised- that allows the Government's advisers to put a proposition to us. I point out again that the advisers are the same people who advised the former Government when it was in power. They share the same intelligence gathered from the sources I have mentioned amongst our allies. These advisers have said that there will be no direct threat in the next 10 or 15 years. What the Labor Government has said is that in those years let us reorganise the defence forces to provide a new platform. Having done that, let us ensure that we have sufficient people serving in the defence Services. We have them. Our policies have met with a response from volunteers that is unusual. I remind honourable senators opposite- they well know this-that they always argued that they would never obtain sufficient volunteers to man the Services. As a result of that sort of proposition, the former Government adopted the course of conscription which the Labor movement generally does not like. Most Labor Party members believe- I personally believe this also- that a volunteer professional army is the best army that any country can have. I think that the Labor Government has set course on the proper paths. 
I would like to have been able to say: 'The cutbacks in defence spending will not take place this year'. But the cutbacks that have been made are minor ones. I refer honourable senators to what the Government did in relation to the trade unions. We have limited the number of retrenchments in the Services by ensuring that wherever possible cutbacks are covered by attrition. I am opposed to the motion that has been moved. I think that it might canvass in a worthwhile way what Australia should be thinking about. I do not disagree with the honourable senator who has moved the motion in that respect. We should be thinking about defence. But I think that the Government has set course on the right passage. I am quite sure that in the later years of the Labor Government we will expand our defence services and thus satisfy the aims of all those who want to see Australia properly defended. 
As far as I am aware, there has been no such cut-back. I can say only that I will check the position for the honourable senator and let him know it as soon as possible. 
It is not for me, as the Minister representing a Minister in another place, to express an opinion about what the Minister for Labour thinks about the 35-hour week or the current dispute in New South Wales. The Minister and I are aware that there is a campaign by the trade union movement, in part supported by the Australian Council of Trade Unions and the State Trades and Labour Council, to attempt to attain a 35-hour week in selected industries. The discussions between the New South Wales Trades and Labour Council, representing all the unions, and the State Government have broken down. The matter is outside the area of our control. I understand that propositions of compromise which may solve the dispute have now been put forward. All I can say is that I hope that these propositions which relate not to a 35-hour week but to another standard of hours will solve the problem. That is the only information which I can give the honourable senator at this stage. 
For the information of honourable senators I present a paper listing the birthdates drawn in the 1 6 national service ballots held from 1965 to 1972, which I have been asked to make available for statistical study purposes. I might say that the previous Government did not publish the birthdates drawn in the first 
I I national service ballots. 
The Minister for Defence has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
During Australia's involvement in the Viet-Nam conflict, both Sweden and Switzerland imposed embargoes on sales to Australia of Carl Gustav anti-tank weapons, associated spares and ammunition, and Pilatus Porter Aircraft. 
In December 1971 Switzerland advised that there would be no objection to the purchase of further Pilatus Porter aircraft by Australia. No advice has been received from Sweden concerning the Carl Gustav weapon. 
The Minister for Social Security has supplied the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
The event to which the honourable senator refers was a private meeting which  Dr Deeble  attended, at the invitation of the Tasmanian Branch of the National Association of Medical Specialists, in order to explain aspects of the Report of the Health Insurance Planning Committee. I have no details of what was discussed at that private meeting. 
The Minister for the Navy has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
1 ) All files regarding the discharge of ex-SBLT L. L. Shaw from the RAN have been retained in Commonwealth Archives since October, 1967. His Medical History Documents were transferred to this repository in two sections, one in 1959 and the other in 1964. 
There is no evidence to support the possibility of unauthorised disclosure of 'leakage' of confidential personal medical information from any Department of Navy source. In fact there is no record of these documents being removed from Archives until they were removed as a result of this Question. 
The answer to the honourable senator's question is as follows: 
1 ) (a) Navy 37,06 1 , Army 396,66 1 , RAAF 122,5 1 7. 
45,050 excluding national servicemen. 
After application of the ballot 237,048 registrants remained liable for service, subject to eligibility for exemption or deferment and to meeting standards for service in the Army. 
) The number called up and enlisted was 63,740. 
Navy 2,858, Army 42,4 1 9, RAAF 4,443. 
Navy 3,320, Army 10,657, RAAF. A precise figure is not available. It has been estimated that 475-500 RAAF personnel served in Korea. 
The religious denominations of individual members are recorded on personal files. The manual task involved in extracting and collating this information by denominational groups is of such magnitude that I am reluctant to authorise the allocation of staff to undertake it. 
The Minister for the  Navy  has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
1 ) Yes. It is an inherently buoyant type life jacket called SANAR which is now in limited use in the RAN. It was designed specifically for use by personnel employed on seamanship tasks on the upper deck or exposed positions where there is a possibility of being washed overboard. It is also used by the crews of ships' boats. 
This jacket has not . replaced the type 50N inflatable lifejacket which will continue to be the normal issue to HMA Ships for lifesaving purposes. 
There would be no objection to making the SANAR lifejacket available for commercial use, but due to the specific purpose for which the jacket was designed it is considered that its commercial application would be very limited. A SANAR lifejacket was recently made available to the Australian Consumers Association for trials. 
The answer to the honourable senator's question is as follows: 
I ) and (2) For each month of 1972, up to 30 November the number of Air Force officers resignations submitted and accepted were: 
The answer to the honourable senator's question is as follows: 
and (2) For each month of 1972, up to 30 November the number of Navy officers resignations submitted and accepted were: 
The answer to the honourable senator's question is as follows: 
As at 1 December, 1972 the volunteer strengths, by rank, of officers in the Australian Regular Army were: 
The answer to the honourable senator's question is as follows: 
1 ) and (2) For each month of 1972, up to 30 November the number of Army officer resignations submitted and accepted were: 
The answer to the honourable senator's question is as follows: 
As at 1 September 1973 the volunteer strength, by rank, of officers in the Australian Regular Army were: 
The answer to the honourable senator's question is as follows: 
As at 1 September, 1973 the strength of the Royal Australian Air Force was 22,534. 
The proportions of Air Force officers and other ranks of the total Air Force strength at 1 September,1973 were 16.8 per cent and 83.2 per cent respectively. 
CAF personnel on full time duty have been included. 
Cadets have been included with officers ( 1.1 per cent of total Air Force strength). 
The Minister for Defence has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
The following are the posted strength figures of Infantry, Artillery and Armour units, excluding personnel on the staff of training schools, as at 3 1 August 1 973. 
The Minister for Defence has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
The War Establishment provides for 39 officers and559 other ranks. 
2 ) Twenty-nine gun tanks and five Support vehicles. 
The Minister for Defence has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
127 Centurion tanks were purchased over the period 1932-1961. In 1969, an additional 16 tanks were purchased giving a total of 143 Centurion tanks of various configurations. 
There were 121 serviceable Centurion gun tanks and15 serviceable support vehicles as at 1 September 1973. 
The answer to the honourable senator's question is as follows: 
As at 1 September 1973 the strength of the Royal Australian Navy was 17,367. 
Theproportions of Navy officers and other ranks of the total Navy strength at 1 September 1973 were 13.2 per cent and 86.8 per cent respectively. 
CNF personnel on full time duty and Naval Policy have been included. 
PNG Division has been excluded. 
Cadets have been included with officers (0.9 per cent of total Navy strength). 
The answer to the honourable senator's question is as follows: 
As at 1 September1973 the strength of the Australian Regular Army was31 , 279. 
The proportions of Army officers and other ranks of the total Army strength at 1 September 1973 were 16.1 per cent and 83.9 per cent respectively. 
CMF personnel on full rime duty have been included. 
PIR and National Servicemen have been excluded. 
Cadets have been included with officers ( 1.5 per cent of total Army strength). 
The Minister for Defence has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
1 ) Australian Regular Army Infantry Battalions are located as follows: 1 Battalion, Royal Australian Regiment (1 RAR)Townsville, Queensland. 2/4 Battalion, Royal Australian Regiment (2/4 RAR)Townsville, Queensland. 3 Battalion, Royal Australian Regiment (3 RAR)Woodside, South Australia. 5 Battalion, Royal Australian Regiment (5 RAR)- Holsworthy, New South Wales. 6 Battalion, Royal Australian Regiment (6 RAR)- Singapore. To be relocated at Enoggera by February 1 974. 7 Battalion, Royal Australian Regiment (7 RAR)- Holsworthy, New South Wales. 8 Battalion, Royal Australian Regiment (8 RAR)- Enoggera, Queensland. 9 Battalion, Royal Australian Regiment (9 RAR)- Enoggera, Queensland. 
Australian Regular Army Field Batteries are located as follows: 101 and 105 Field Batteries (1 Field Regiment )Enoggera, Queensland. 107 and 108 Field Batteries (4 Field Regiment )Townsville, Queensland. 100(A) and 104 Field Batteries (12 Field Regiment)Ingleburn, New South Wales. 102 Field Battery (8 Medium Regiment)- Holsworthy, New South Wales. 106 Field Battery -Singapore. 
The Minister for Defence has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
If a tank is evacuated from a unit to the Light Aid Detachment or Workshop for repair and the repair time is more than one day, it is classified as unserviceable. On this basis, the unserviceability rates of Centurion tanks on issue, for the six months ending August 1 973 were: 
-I do not know the details of the case upon which  Senator Marriott  builds what seems to me to be a criticism of the Prime Minister. I will find out for him, certainly, As everybody knows, the Prime Minister has very heavy commitments in all States. Like, for example, the Leader of the Opposition in the other place, he frequently uses VIP aircraft. I will get and give to the Senate the precise reasons for the visits back and forth. 
I am not aware of any such request by an association. I would think that if the request had any substantial support it might have been raised in this place or in the other place, because the defence situation has been debated recently and the spokesmen for the Opposition have put their points of view. The Opposition has not made any such suggestion; in fact, it has tested its view of the defence situation on the basis of what the Government and the defence advisers of the Government have stated to be the position. That test is based on assessments which the Government has made and which can be contested or considered by the Opposition. I will find out about the request but I would think that because it has not been mentioned by any substantial group or by the spokesman for the party which the honourable senator represents it would have to be considered as one of those odd requests. But I will find out and give the details to the honourable senator. 
The answer to the honourable senator's question is as follows: 
Projected strengths are not available for officers and other ranks for the dates requested. The approved manpower strengths set for the Royal Australian Navy for June 1974 is 16,384. 
The answer to the honourable senator's question is as follows: 
Projected strengths are not available Tor officers and other ranks for the dates requested. The approved manpower strength set for the Royal Australian Air Force for June 1 974 is 21,517. 
The answer to the honourable senator's question is as follows: 
Projected strengths are not available for officers and other ranks for the dates requested. The approved manpower strength set for the Australian Army for June 1 974 is 3 1 ,  1 50. 
When the first request was received from the Gliding Federation of Australia for assistance from the RAAF in the form of some towing by Air Force aircraft, the Government at the time, on the advice of the RAAF, decided that the necessary alterations or modifications to Winjeel aircraft would be too expensive. But representations were made by large numbers of members of Parliament and by organisations, pointing out that the contests were international. Reconsideration was given to the matter and some alterations, which I cannot specify, were made; nor can I, at this stage, indicate what costs are involved. While the costs of the program about which we are talking may be fairly expensive I do not think they are relevant to the cut-backs in the Air Force. In relation to the amount involved, I will obtain the information and give it to the honourable senator. 
I have seen the newspaper reference to the new defence targets set by the Japanese Government. I think that any comment about that aspect might well come from  Senator Willesee.  But, in respect of the general question of whether our defence advisers, in giving their advice to the Minister for Defence,  Mr Barnard,  and the Government, have been wrong in their assessment, I suggest that this is a matter which, as I said yesterday, has to be debated by the members of the Parliament. The Government is confident about the advice that it has received from its defence advisers. It is acting on that advice in the same way as previous governments did. On the basis of that advice, the defence planning of the Government has been shaped. Because of that, there is no thought in the mind of the Government that there is any reason to believe that our Services are not as adequate as they might be. 
I challenge the honourable senator's statement in respect of morale. As I have said previously, this Labor Government has done more for servicemen in the short time it has been in office than was done during several periods of government - 
As the honourable senator well knows, we have spent massive amounts on salary increases, for example. We have spent $60m on salary increases alone. We have spent large amounts on the defence forces retirement benefits scheme. We also have made sure that for the first time servicemen are able, untrammelled, to have representational rights to their Government, to Ministers and to members of the Parliament Also, as the honourable senator well knows, the Government is on the eve of appointing an ombudsman for the Services. So, in respect of morale, it is clear that this Government has done more in the few short months it has been in office than was done during the years of office of the previous Government. 
Of course, it is clear that the Services want the best equipment they can obtain. But the fact is this: As in any situation, the Government has to decide how much is to be spent on hardware. It is rather unusual to hear all these complaints from honourable senators opposite who also say 'You have to cut back Government expenditure', or You have to obtain effectiveness in the defence Services'. When we set about doing that, honourable senators opposite are apt to become very critical. The Government is mindful of what has been said by the honourable senator. Our advisers have given us advice which we think is proper, and the Government regards its policy as constructive and logical. 
-The decision of the Government to carry this out has been reported to the Senate. It has been necessary that certain trials of the preliminary arrangements made be worked out between the Department and the various tribunals. That has been done. As to the current position, I will get a full report for  Senator Devitt  so that he and the Senate can be brought up to date on the operation of this new system. 
The question calls for a lot of information about the recent search, which I do not have. I suggest the best course is to put the question on notice and I will obtain the information. 
I thank  Senator Cotton  for his comments on the Bill and I thank the Senate for its speedy passage. As  Senator Cotton  said, this is a fairly direct and simple proposition. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
BUI read a second time, and passed through its remaining stages without amendment or debate. 
The answer to the honourable senator's question is as follows: 
) and (2) Figures for Army officer resignations are not available on a weekly basis being compiled on a monthly basis. 
<para pgwide="yes">Army officer resignations submitted and accepted by rank, for each month of this year up to 3 1 August 1973 were: 
The answer to the honourable senator's question is as follows: 
1 ) and (2) Figures for Air Force officers resignations are not available on a weekly basis as they are compiled monthly. 
<para pgwide="yes">Air Force officer resignations, by rank for each month of this year up to 3 1 August 1 973 were: 
-The position of the defence vote was such that it entailed some rethinking and some savings. On the advice of the defence advisers, the Government decided that certain savings could be made in the allocations of services and equipment for the organisations to which the honourable senator refers. It has been decided that in future some economies will have to be made in that regard for the main purpose of making sure that the support side of the Services is reduced in order to achieve more effective tactical Services. That is consistent with the general planning of the defence vote. As against that, the honourable senator will know that to some extent the Services, in the months since the Labor Government took office, have become more involved in community affairs and probably have incurred expenditure amounting to more than the savings on the other side. There is an intention by the Government that this participation of the Services be extended as far as possible; but on the other hand, for the reasons which have been explained in this place and by the Minister for Defence, some savings have had to be made in respect of the huge amounts which have been spent on the Services generally. As a result, the economies that have taken place will affect the Girl Guides and the Boy Scouts; but it is hoped to review the matter next year. 
Today the Opposition seeks to defer consideration of this Bill, but its provisions have been in operation since 22 August. Manufacturers and wholesalers have been collecting and paying tax, and they know the position. They have not presented to honourable senators or to members of the other place the industry's case. The case has not yet been put to the Minister for Primary Industry  (Senator Wriedt). 
-He has not. The information which I have is that he has requested the industry to present a case for assistance, and that case has not yet been put. As far as we are aware, that is the situation today. Neither  Senator Wright  nor members of the Opposition in the other place have been able to say that the industry has put a case.  Senator Wright  made a general submission about the difficulties which have been caused by abolishing the exemption from sales tax. 
The Opposition wants the Bill deferred in a situation in which the tax is being paid and collected. It would cause confusion. The Opposition, instead of doing something logical by asking the industry to present its case whether its case has been put to the Government and the sort of propositions which it has, is saying that the Minister has to prove to the Opposition that he has taken proper steps to provide assistance for the promotion of and research into alternative markets for juices. Surely that is an obligation, in the first place, on the industry. The producers, the handlers and the manufacturers have the expertise. Surely they ought to be able to put a case to the Government, but apparently we have to suggest to the industry means by which promotion might be more effective. 
The Government has to provide to the Senate a report on compensation for unsalable fruit juices. I suggest that what the Opposition is putting is unreasonable. If it had presented to the Government the case which had been submitted by the industry and if the Government had rejected the overtures of the industry, there would be some force in the amendment. Consequently, the Government is not prepared to accept the amendment. These taxes have been paid and collected since 22 August. Some time has lapsed since the introduction of the Bill. If its operation is to be deferred indefinitely, considerable uncertainty could be caused. If the Bill should not become law, those who have collected and paid the sales tax would not be entitled to any refund of the tax unless they made a refund to their customers. If consideration of the Bill is deferred, it is possible that some manufacturers might collect sales tax from their customers and retain it pending clarification. They could not be compelled to pay the tax to the Taxation Office until the Bill becomes law. If any drink manufacturer refrains from collecting tax in the hope that the Bill might not become law, he would have to pay the tax out of his own funds if and when the Bill became law. Although the soft drink manufacturers would no doubt prefer not to have the tax imposed on thenproducts, it is unlikely that they would welcome the uncertainty which this deferment might produce. 
In the face of the undertakings which have been given by the Government and the Minister and in the face of the information which I have given, which I understand is correct- that  Senator Wriedt  has invited the industry to present a case for assistance and it has not yet been received- it is quite improper to ask the Government to present to the Senate a report which justifies the Government's thoughts about the industry. The industry should put the case. We ought to assist the industry, certainly. In the 3 categories which the Opposition is nominating, obviously the initiative ought to come from the industry. If the industry had put a case and if we had failed to give assistance, the Opposition would have some reason to challenge the Government. The Government does not accept the amendment and will vote against it. 
Question put: 
That the words proposed to be left out  (Senator Laucke's amendment)  be left out. 
I am not aware of what  Senator Maunsell  refers to as rumours within Returned Services League. I know that the RSL has been active in stating that it is against such a proposal. I think it is a rumour about which people have been speculating. I can only reiterate the assurance that I gave before and what  Mr Barnard,  my colleague the Minister for Defence has said- that as far as we personally are concerned we would resist such moves. There are no moves presently under consideration by the Government. I can say only what is the current position officially as far as I and my colleague,  Mr Barnard,  are concerned. 
I doubt that this so-called question is in fact a question. It seems to me that it is not a question but an argument between the honourable senator and the Minister for Labour about statements that  Mr Clyde  Cameron has made. I suggest that if the honourable senator can make his remarks relevant to a question he should place it on the notice paper for reply. 
Pursuant to section 14 ( 1) of Defence Forces Retirement Act 1948-1973, I present the twenty-fifth report of the Defence Forces Retirement Benefits Board on the operation of the Act for the period 1 July 1972 to 30 September 1972, together with financial accounts and the report of the Auditor-General on those accounts. 
I have not seen the circular to which  Senator Jessop  referred but from listening to his explanation of the document it would seem to me that what the Department is putting into the statement is simply advice for the information of school leavers. After all, as we know, although there are job opportunities the fact is that in some cases school leavers are not able to get those jobs when it suits them. Although it might suit the organisation concerned or the employer, there may be some time between application by the boy or girl for the job and occupying the job. Consequently, it seems to me to be pretty good advice to young people who may have families which are somewhat dependent. I know, as  Senator Jessop  knows because he has inspected the premises, that the Minister for Labour and the Labor Government generally have done a lot of new things to advise people about job opportunities. I refer particularly to what has just been established in the centre of Adelaide, a new agency to which young people can go and get advice, both orally and visually, about all sorts of occupations. 
-That is a good thing, as the honourable senator says. From the way that  Senator Jessop  put this matter in his question, it seems to me to be good sense but I will make inquiries and see that the information is given to me. If I can give  Senator Jessop  any more information I will do so. 
The honourable senator knows that the information and advice given by the Govenment's advisers is always being brought up to date. The position, as has been stated most recently, is as far as I am aware the same now as it was previously.  Senator Maunsell  mixes up some economic matters with matters which are, of course, of importance strategically. Honourable senators can debate the advice given to the Govenment. If the honourable senator wishes, he can rise in the Senate and take sides on whether the expert advice from the Government's defence advisers should be questioned. The Government accepts the advice of its advisers. No doubt, they will keep the Government apprised of any situation which requires special consideration. The honourable senator will have seen statements made by the Minister for Defence that there have been some discussions with representatives of the defence Services in respect to requirements for hardware and equipment for the next 5 years. There seems to be a more satisfactory basis to be obtained in that regard in the near future. I would think that the Government has done all it should do and all it can do to obtain effective defence Services in the light of its other obligations. As the honourable senator would know, these include providing new and improved conditions for members of the Services. Only last week the Minister for Defence announced, in addition to the $60m that has been spent previously during our 12 months of government, that another $47m would be added to the payroll for serving members of the defence forces. I can say only this: While honourable senators can debate the matters, I am quite confident that the Government is getting the most expert advice. Largely, the advisers are those who gave advice to the previous Minister and the previous Government during its term of office. 
Although this regulation has not been brought to my notice, I should be glad to refer  Senator Wheeldon  's comments to the Minister for Defence. I have had occasion previously to question similar regulations. Some regulations relating to detention and punishment are not applied by local commands, in their strictest sense due to their age. I concede that that is not a good excuse for keeping the regulations. A re-organisation of the Services is presently taking place. It is proposed to bring in a new uniform disciplinary code. So these matters are under review. But I will certainly bring the particular matter raised by  Senator Wheeldon  before the Minister and ask that, in regard to this regulation and perhaps one other of which I am aware that deals with detention, legislation should be introduced more speedily in a piecemeal manner than will be the case when other regulations are overhauled. 
Pursuant to section 16 ( 1) of the Defence Force Retirement and Death Benefits Act 1973, 1 present the first report of the Defence Force Retirement and Death Benefits Authority dealing with the general administration and working of the Defence Forces Retirement Benefits Act 1948-1973 for the period 1 October 1972 to 30 June 1 973. 
One of the objectives of the reorganisation, details of which were announced in the Parliament this year, is to save manpower. Some of the figures that have been put forward have been reasonable. It is expected that in the short-term about 300 civilian officers will be placed outside the defence Services. Although their positions will become redundant, they will not lose their jobs, but there will be a saving immediately of about 300 positions. In the long-term by the time the reorganisation is completed, about 1,000 civilian officers could be located in other departments. Regarding the relative number of positions of so-called 'fat cats', I do not have the details before me. However, the honourable senator has probably noticed that Cabinet has decided that a tribunal should determine the salaries for some of the higher level classifications. This matter is currently being considered within the Public Service because some heads of departments have not gained what they argued to be the increase that they should have had resulting from the decisions of the Cabinet sub-committee. However, Cabinet and the Government have decided that there will be a tribunal set up to look into this situation, correct any anomalies, and perhaps see that the higher classifications, about which the honourable senator is concerned, can be more reasonably positioned in the economic sphere. 
The recently enacted Repatriation Act (No. 3) contained the legislative authority for the making of such regulations. As I mentioned in the second reading speech, in order to obviate inconvenience and delays in the determining process it was proposed that the system be introduced gradually. Some of the determining authorities are currently engaged on a trial basis in preparing reasons for decisions. It is expected that the trial will be completed early in 1974. Certain legal questions have to be determined. While the trial is in progress my Department is in close contact with the AttorneyGeneral's Department in connection with these matters and possible regulations. I expect that the necessary regulations will be made within the next three or four months. When made they will ensure that unsuccessful appellants or their advocates will be notified of the reasons for decisions. 
-The matter to which the honourable senator referred is a complicated one. The report which relates to the new Bill, which will be called the Defence (Discipline and Justices) Bill, is in its final stages prior to submission to the Minister for Defence and the Government. As the honourable senator will know from his experience, with the merging of responsibility there will be a number of important changes in regulations and laws. I am told that the report is in its final stages, and it is expected that the legislation will be introduced in the autumn session. 
Pursuant to section 58(1) (c) of the Stevedoring Industry Act 1956-1971, I resent the annual report of the Australian Stevedoring Industry Authority for the year ended 30 June 1973, together with financial statements and the Auditor-General's report on those statements. 
The answer to the honourable senator's question is as follows: 
1 ) I. am informed that the article mentioned by the honourable senator almost certainly referred to an exercise codenamed TAM TULU. The Papua New Guinea Government has agreed to this exercise, which is to take place in Papua New Guinea in February 1974. The exercise will involve one squadron of the Special Air Service Regiment (SASR) and elements of the Papua New Guinea Defence Force. It is designed to practice in a tropical environment the specialist military techniques normally employed by the SASR. The exercise is planned to encompass acclimatisation, parachute trainings patrol and reconnaissance skills, techniques for the insertion and extradiction of SAS elements and waterborne operations. Exercise TAM TULU is one of a regular series of exercises conducted by the Australian Military Forces in Papua New Guinea over the years. It was originally scheduled for October/November 1972 but was postponed because of the heavy involvement of elements of the Australian Services in famine relief operations in Papua New Guinea at the time. The exercise is not related to any 'contingency plan' as is claimed in the article, nor will the civilian population be involved in the exercise in any way. -(2) Regarding internal security, I refer the honorable senator to the statement made by the Minister for Defence in the House of Representatives on 22 August 1973, and tabled by me. in the Senate the following day. The minister for Defence said: "... Honourable members will have noted the important statement on 20 August by the Minister for Defence and Foreign Relations in the Papua New Guinea Government,  Mr Kiki.  The Minister said that 'Papua New Guinea was determined to look after its own security problems in the future ', and that 'no country can lightly contemplate either the despatch of their own forces or the acceptance of foreign forces to deal with an essentially domestic situation'. I can say that  Mr Kiki's  views are very much in accord with those of this Government, and, I am confident, those of all members ofthe House. " 
Papua New Guinea and Australian Ministers have constantly stated that primary responsibility for the maintenance of internal security in Papua New Guinea rests with the Papua New Guinea Police Force. 
I will take up the matter with the Minister for Defence immediately and let the honourable senator know what is the position. 
It seems to me that I should move that the report of the Committee be adopted but the  Clerk  suggests, and I move: 
That the Committee reports progress and asks leave to sit again on the next day of sitting. 
The Minister for Defence has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
and (3) The cost of transporting a quantity of bombs from Kingswood, New South Wales ( 1CAMD) to Townsville and return was $6,860. This amount includes salaries, allowances and vehicle transport costs. The decision to place high explosive bombs at Townsville was taken by Headquarters Operational Command. Mirage aircraft were deploying to Townsville in support of an Army exercise and it was intended to take the opportunity for the Mirage to undertake practice bombing near Townsville, an area which has one of the RAAF's two live bombing ranges on the eastern seaboard. 
More stringent safety orders were introduced into the RAAF in July, 1973, the effect of which is to increase the distance of aircraft armed with high explosive bombs from other aircraft, facilities and personnel New works had commenced at RAAF Base, Townsville in the area usually available for the arming of aircraft, and Operational Command believed a substitute area would be available. Subsequent investigation showed that no substitute area could meetthe new safety criteria. In the event, Operational Command proceeded on the assumption that a waiver of the new safety criteria could be given in the circumstances obtaining at Townsville. However, a relaxation of the new safety standards could not be justified for a routine peacetime exercise. Because permanent HE bomb storage is not available at Townsville, the bombs were subsequently returned to 1CAMD, Kingswood. 
At no time was it contemplated that the bombs would be sent to Darwin. 
As the honourable senator knows, the dispute originated, of course, in a demarcation issue. I take the opportunity of reminding the honourable senator that one of the objectives of the Government in its proposals to amend the Conciliation and Arbitration Act was to make it easier for the amalgamation of unions to take place. If our attitude had been accepted, there would be more chance of avoiding problems which arise from demarcation issues than is the case at the present time, because it is harder to settle a demarcation issue when separate unions are operating in a certain field than would be the case if those unions were joined together. These are very difficult disputes. All I can say - 
-That is one of the difficulties. If the Ship Painters and Dockers Union were merged with a wider group of workers in the industry there would be more chance of avoiding demarcation disputes. We are finding that this position applies in industry generally. All I can tell the honourable senator at this stage is that both the State Department and  Mr Clyde  Cameron's Department of Labour have offered to assist the parties in this dispute. I understand that there was some hope of some proposals which might settle the dispute being forthcoming yesterday in discussions of the Trades and Labour Council in Whyalla. I can only offer to get the latest information for the honourable senator, and when I get it I will give it to him. 

 - Senator Davidson probably remembers that last week  Senator Jessop  asked a similar question of me and  I  told him at that stage that I would make inquiries of the Minister for Labour about the matter. But I made the point, which  I  think is sound, that school leavers are entitled to unemployment benefits. It would seem to me that there are circumstances in which many young people do have to wait to take up positions. Jobs are advertised and the positions sometimes are not available immediately. In many cases people have to wait until positions are available, and it would seem to me to be reasonable to expect that they should receive benefits that others get because in many cases those young people are helping to keep families going or would be expected to do so.  I  have also noticed that while the Manager of the Chamber of Commerce and Industry made this observation, the Minister for Labour, in his recent report about the employment position, made the observation on behalf of his Department that the circumstances resulting from the shortage of tradesmen meant that employers were employing vacation students and other young people more quickly than they would do ordinarily if skilled labour were available. So whatever is happening in relation to school leavers, the position would seem to me, if that forecast is right, that they will be taken into industry more quickly than they would have been had there been that pool of skilled people that is usually available at this time of the year. 
I shall be as brief as I can in reply to  Senator Dame  Nancy Buttfield. The honourable senator was good enough to tell me, at some stage last week, that she intended to raise this case, I think for the purpose of highlighting some of the recommendations of the Senate Standing Committee on Health and Welfare. At this stage I do not intend to debate or make any contribution on the general report of the Committee. The Government will study the report. At present the Repatriation Department is studying the report. As the honourable senator knows, we expect that early in the new year we will receive a report from  Mr Justice  Toose. That report will have to be studied closely because there has been a most comprehensive inquiry. Also, as  Senator Dame  Nancy Buttfield knows,  Mr Justice  Toose examined systems overseas. I also have regard to the fact that  Senator Brown,  who was the  Chairman  of the Committee, sought leave to continue his remarks. He is presently away sick. I think the  Chairman  should be allowed to make his contribution, and other honourable senators too. 
In relation to the particular case which the honourable senator raised, I do not think it would do much good for me even to give the statement from the Department in reply to her representations. She intervened in the case. The Department has made a number of comments to me. Some of those comments were critical of  Senator Dame  Nancy Buttfield. But I am quite sure that her intention in the representations on behalf of the person concerned and in her later inquiries was to further the best interests of the patient. I know that at the present time the Department is well aware of the need to look after the person. I have an undertaking that he is being well looked after and that, if necessary, he will be put into the rehabilitation unit. I think that the general aspects of the matter are best left until the reports to which I have referred are considered. I will be happy to give  Senator Dame  Nancy Buttfield, if necessary, the information the Department has submitted to me in relation to her inquiries about this particular person. I do not think it would do much good our swapping arguments about whether the person has been properly treated. I think it is fair to say, as everybody recognises, that the repatatriation system in Australia is a good system. 
-Well, I am quite sure that people are cared for. In fact, some of the complaints are that they are cared for perhaps too well. But the person concerned is being cared for. If the honourable senator would like at any stage to nominate some special treatment or consideration he should get, I will be only too happy to process her suggestion. 
I take this opportunity to restate the position in connection with this Bill. Honourable senators will be aware that Government amendments to the Compensation (Commonwealth Employees) Act 1971-72 were introduced into the Senate and given a second reading on 1 1 April 1973. Following debate on 12 April 1973 the Bill was referred, on the motion of  Senator Rae,  to the Senate Standing Committee on Constitutional and Legal Affairs. The Senate Standing Committee on Constitutional and Legal Affairs reported and the debate resumed on 30 May 1973. The Opposition parties raised numerous objections to the Bill, but particularly that the Bill gave excessive benefits to Commonwealth employees when compared to benefits available to employees of State governments and private industry. They also considered it to be premature in view of the general inquiry into national rehabilitation and compensation by the committee under the chairmanship of  Mr Justice  Woodhouse. After debate in Committee, the Opposition parties secured, on 5 June 1973, a postponement of the debate until the first day of sitting after 1 September 1973. 
The Government considered at that time, and still believes, that it had every justification in presenting the Bill in its original form. It was part of the Australian Labor Party's POliCy before the last election, amendments to similar effect had been moved by the Government when in Opposition, and the Government's employees were fully aware of and justifiably expected the original proposals to be implemented. However, in view of the attitude expressed by the Opposition parties the Government, during the winter recess, prepared amendments to the Bill. These have been printed and made available to all honourable senators. The amendments have been prepared in a genuine attempt to ensure passage of the BUI. The Government believes that the amendments now proposed should make the Bill acceptable to all concerned and ensure its speedy passage. 
The proposed amendments can be summarised as follows: They provide for 5 changes of substance that with consequential amendments involve 15 amendments and also 6 amendments of a drafting or technical nature. Amendment No. 1 is the first of the drafting or technical amendments. It merely makes the changes that are necessary as a consequence of the change in the citation of the principal Act provided for in the Compensation (Australian Government Employees) Bill 1973. These changes require 2 consequential amendments which appear as amendments Nos. 18 and 19. Amendment No. 2 places a ceiling on the amount that can be taken as the average weekly earnings of an employee for the purpose of calculating the weekly compensation payments for incapacity or death after the first 26 weeks of incapacity or following the first 26 weeks after the date of the death. The ceiling proposed is an amount equal to 2.5 times the last quarterly estimate of the seasonally adjusted national average weekly earnings published before the commencement of the week for which the compensation is payable. 
Amendment No. 12 relates to the amount of the lump sum payable to certain dependants of a deceased employee upon their re-marriage. Amendments Nos 16 and 17 will restore the right currently provided in the Act for an employee to use his sick leave credits on a proportionate basis in order to receive a sick leave payment of the amount of the difference between the weekly compensation payment and the rate of the sick leave pay. These provisions would have been redundant under the Bill but they now 
Will have relevance in cases where the weekly compensation is reduced because of the effects of the proposed ceiling. 
Amendment No. 20 inserts a savings clause to ensure that the ceiling will not operate so as to place any employee in a worse position than he would be under the existing Act. Amendments Nos 3 and 4, relating to clause 13, are of a drafting or technical nature and relate to the lump sum payable for the losses specified in proposed new section 39. Amendment No. 5 relates also to clause 13 and is the second of the substantive amendments. It removes an anomaly in relation to the lump sum payable under proposed new section 39 Ibr the loss in the one accident of the thumb and 3 fingers of the one hand. 
Amendment No. 6 is the third substantive amendment and it varies the provision relating to the compensation payable for death. The effect of this amendment is to combine subsections (3) and (4) of the new section 43 proposed in the Bill in a manner that will allow the Commissioner for Employees' Compensation to apportion weekly compensation payments between two or more dependants, subject to the total of such payments not exceeding the average weekly earnings of the deceased employee and the amount payable to any one dependant not exceeding 75 per cent of those earnings. This change necessitates the consequential amendments that appear as amendments (7), (8), (9), ( 10) and ( 11) 
Amendments (13) and (14) comprise the fourth change of substance and will affect the provisions relating to lump sum redemptions. These amendments will ensure that a lump sum redemption of the liability to pay weekly compensation for partial incapacity for work is not assessed on the basis of the total incapacity rate merely because the employer may not be able to place the employee in some suitable employment at the particular time the redemption is sought. 
Amendment (15) is the remaining amendment of substance and it provides for the portion of a superannuation or Defence Forces Retirement Benefit pension that is not attributable to an employee's own contributions to be offset against the weekly compensation otherwise payable in all cases, whether or not the retirement in respect of which the pension is payable resulted from incapacity due to the compensable injury. 
Amendment (21) is the last of the amendments of a drafting or technical nature. It merely corrects a drafting error and, at the same time, removes a redundant provision in the schedule to the United States Naval Communication Station (Civilian Employees) Act 1971-1972. 
During the previous debates there was an advocacy that these things should be stood over because of the Woodhouse inquiry. The information we have at present is that the Woodhouse inquiry is unlikely to report to the Government before May of next year. So it will be some time after that before its report will be available to the Parliament, either in its original form or as amended. The principle of no loss of pay is, of course, one that has been attacked. At least it has been attacked because of the fact that it would apply to people such as heads of departments. I should point out that since we last discussed the principle of no loss of pay it has become more widespread. The most recent amendments in this regard have been those to the legislature of South Australia, but there have been some further agreements in all of the States. I thought I should restate the intention of the Government in regard to the amendments and I hope that the amendments will receive the consideration of honourable senators to make possible the passing of the Bill. 
by leave- The Government opposes the deferment of further consideration of this legislation because it believes that it has responded to the criticism by the Opposition and to the points which were made by the Senate Standing Committee on Constitutional and Legal Affairs in its report. The Government regards the amendments it has introduced as being reasonable. If the Opposition thinks that they are still too extravagant- I refer in particular to the average weekly earnings ceiling of $279- it would seem to me to have been reasonable for the Opposition in the period since April to have suggested a lower figure. The Government does not see the need for any deferment. It thinks that there has been sufficient time to enable the Opposition to bring forward any additional alterations it wishes to make to what the Government has proposed. 
The Government has brought forward certain amendments on the basis of movements in some States. As I mentioned earlier, it is now fairly general in industry, particularly in New South Wales, and in the public service in Victoria, South Australia and Tasmania for a worker on workers compensation to get his average weekly earnings. While there is a statutory limit a worker does get his average weekly earnings. 
-The only limitation is a statutory one whereby the amount cannot exceed, I think, $27,000. But a worker who was getting $200 before an injury would get $200 when he is off work because of an injury. That is what I have been told is the position. I will stand corrected, but I understand that that is the position. 
There has always been an uneven movement in Australia in workers compensation generally. We have become used in this Parliament to having to adjust the Compensation (Commonwealth Employees) Act every couple of years. Why do we adjust it? Often because the States have moved ahead of us. Honourable senators will be aware that that happened when the Act was amended in 1971. At that time the Commonwealth's workers compensation legislation, together with that of South Australia, was the best in Australia. Since that time it has been improved by the addition of the principle of almost full pay for 26 weeks. What has happened in the meantime? Certain arguments have been put by  Senator Webster,  for example, and the Opposition generally. They might well have made the same comments when the Government of which they were supporters brought in an earlier Bill. We of the Australian Labor Party commended the Government of the time for its actions. That legislation was long overdue. There had been some delay over the years in adjusting the rates. For as long as I can remember, the State and Commonwealth governments have always done this. I was a member of a South Australian advisory committee on this subject for many years. It was a committee that was set up by the Playford Government. That committee used to pick the eyes out of the legislation in the other States and attempt to get South Australia to adopt the same principles. There have been complaints by  Senator Wright  about, for example, the loss of a faculty. That has been provided for in the South Australian legislation for many years. If a particular injury, irrespective of whether it is a major or minor injury, is not contained in the Schedule to the Commonwealth legislation it means that a Commonwealth officer is penalised not only because there is no such provision but also, as has been pointed out, in respect to average weekly earnings. There is no ceiling in South Australia. At the present time a Commonwealth officer is penalised to the extent of the lump sum payments and in respect to the funeral benefits, which have gone up to $500 in South Australia. 
That has been the pattern of workers compensation in Australia. It may be argued that there should be a different method of determining workers compensation. Personally I cannot see the present situation changing. Although honourable senators opposite have argued that the inquiry by  Mr Justice  Woodhouse ought to be able to provide a new system of compensation for every person, which is what the inquiry has set out to do, I think honourable senators opposite will realise, without my bleating about it, that even if the committee of inquiry were to report by March or May of next year there would be a lot of complications involved. If, for example, the committee of inquiry were to bring in a set of compensation tables for everybody in the community, including those who are not employed, it would mean that the Government would have to consider its impact on the legislation in the States. I think I would be guessing accurately if I were to guess that it would take 2 years to give legislative shape to this sort of thing. The New Zealand inquiry started in 1966. While the principles have been set out they have not yet been written into the law. It is true that by adopting the principle of weekly payments for widows we are breaking new ground. We are relating to our no loss of pay principle the principle that a widow ought to get the same wage as she got when her spouse was alive. At any rate, I just bring to the attention of honourable senators that International Labour Organisation Convention 120, in fact, states that principle. It affirms the payment of a lump sum only when countries may have trouble, legislatively or administratively, in providing a weekly sum. So I do not think that deferment of this Bill until  Mr Justice  Woodhouse 's inquiry has been completed really meets the situation. I would have expected- and 
I condemn the Opposition for not having done it- that if the Opposition did not agree with our ceiling it would have recommended an alternative ceiling which it considered to be more reasonable. The Government would have considered that proposition. For those reasons, the Government opposes the motion for deferment. 
Question put: 
That the Committee reports progress and asks leave to sit again. 
-On 20 November 1973,  Senator Marriott  asked the Minister assisting the Minister for Defence the following question, without notice: 
Will he make inquiries, and advise the Senate when the information is available, as to whether it is true, as indicated in the Launceston 'Examiner' of Monday, 19 November, that the Prime Minister travelled, presumably by Royal Australian Air Force V.I.P aircraft, on Saturday, 17 November, from Adelaide to Sydney to record his vote at the State election and continued to Launceston, arriving one hour late for his appointment at an agricultural show? What was the cost to the taxpayer of this excursion, if it took place? Are not postal votes available to New South Wales electors who wake up in time? 
The Prime Minister has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
Before the date of the New South Wales election was announced I had accepted many invitations. Among them were invitations to be guest of honour at the National Aborigines Day Observance Committee ball in Adelaide on Friday night, 16 November and to open the Scottsdale Show on Saturday afternoon, 17 November. 
After the New South Wales election was announced for 1 7 November I arranged to travel that day from Adelaide to Sydney and thence to Launceston. Like most honourable members I regard it as my obligation to vote in person and to visit polling places at elections in my own electorate. 
In the changed circumstances I could not lunch with the Committee of the North-Eastern Agricultural and Pastoral Society before I opened the show. My apologies were conveyed and accepted several days before the show. When I opened it- on time- the record crowd gave every indication of welcoming my attendance and that of the  Deputy  Prime Minister and their local member, the honourable Lance Barnard, and of not having missed the presence of the honourable senator at all. 
My predecessors and I have accepted the advice of our officials to travel by VIP aircraft. 
VIP Flights 
-On 8 November 1973, the Leader of the Opposition in the Senate  (Senator Withers)  asked the Minister representing the Minister for Defence a question without notice regarding the tabling of manifests for Royal Australian Air Force VIP aircraft from the day details were last given until the end of October 1973. On 22 November 1973 I tabled details of VIP flights for the period 1 May 1973 to 4 September 1973 and indicated that details for the period 5 September 1973 to the end of October 1973 would be tabled as soon as possible. The documents I now table embrace all details of VIP travel in Royal Australian Air Force VIP aircraft in the period 5 September 1973 to 31 October 1973. 
Overseas Investment in the Mining Industry 
The Government recently approved the establishment of such a clinic at Concord, and planning for it is well established. 
The recommendation was made by the Repatriation Commission and also by the local hospital authorities. The thinking of the medical staffs also was that its availability would be of advantage to them and the proposal was also welcomed in the district. In addition the Concord Repatriation Hospital is consulting with the New South Wales Hospitals Commission to see to what extent the facilities of the Concord Hospital can help other hospitals in that vicinity. Since the decision was taken in April by the Government to open up available bed space in repatriation hospitals, there has been an increase in occupancy at the Concord Hospital from something like six to approximately sixty. This figure includes civilians or ex-servicemen who do not receive repatriation entitlements, and it could also include some staff. One of the reasons for the rate of occupancy not increasing at a greater rate is that some of the wards are still closed because of a shortage of staff at the hospital generally. The administration is seeking to open those wards by getting the required staff, in which case, of course, more facilities will be available for those people who fall into the categories I have mentioned. At the present time throughout Australia approximately 150 people who do not fall within repatriation categories are now in repatriation hospitals. 
For the information of honourable senators I present the report of the Advisory Committee on Commonwealth Employment Service Statistics. 
For the information of honourable senators I present the seventeenth annual report of the  President  of the Commonwealth Conciliation and Arbitration Commission for the year ended 1 3 August 1 973. 
The Minister for Defence has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
The Minister for Defence has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
The Minister for Defence has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
The Article by Nicholas Turner has been drawn to my attention. My position on Omega has been simply that it should not be installed in Australia without the case for and against being thoroughly debated. The previous Government refused to make available the information which is necessary for such a debate. 
I indicated a number of propositions which the then Government was unwilling or unable to refute. Clearly Omega should not be installed without these objections being thoroughly considered. The Government has taken steps to end this uncertainty by submitting the whole matter to public scrutiny by the Joint Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence. 
This action will overcome the main thrust of Turner's criticism in the article, which was that, 'if the two (Australian and New Zealand) Governments had presented their position more fully and confidently to the public a more meaningful debate would have ensued, and very possibly some of the public's doubts would have been allayed. 
Australian Motor Car Industry: Re-organisations  (Question No. 384) 
The Minister for Defence has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
and (2) There is no standing proscription which would preclude members of the media from travelling on RAAF aircraft during search operations. Media representatives may be carried provided that the RAAF is satisfied that operational aspects will not in any way be impaired as a result of the presence of non-RAAF persons. A secondary factor is whether the role of the RAAF may be better appreciated from news coverage. The above criteria being satisfied, approval was given for three members of the Australian Broadcasting Commission to travel on a HS-748 aircraft operating from Hobart on 19 October, 1973. 
The aircraft Captain gave permission to a representative of the Australian Broadcasting Commission to record conversation between the aircraft and two fishing vessels in the search area. 
The answer to the honourable senator's question is yes. Representations have been made to the Minister about the matter, but the Council has been advised that it would cost about $100m to resite the dockyard, which is a very important and necessary industrial complex for defence purposes. The Council has been told, however, that in any modernisation scheme which is under consideration environmental factors will be given great consideration. No doubt there will be further interviews between the Sydney City Council and the Minister for Defence. 
The underwear which servicemen wear has always been a subject of consideration by specialist committees of the Services. It may be that  Senator Bonner  wants to be more modern and use the sort of gear that is now used on the beaches. Whether members of the armed Services would be pleased to be walking around in this more modern coloured garb I do not know. I think the sensible thing to do would be to ask the Services equipment people to say what is preferred by servicemen. I would have thought that if there was any objection to the underwear servicemen would have written to the Minister about it, as they now can do. We have not had any complaints up till now. 
Since the decision by the Government in September to provide such limbs -it was an arrangement agreed to by the Minister for Social Security- about 700 limbs have been manufactured and fitted to civilians. Most of them have been manufactured at the Repatriation Artificial Limb and Appliance Centre, but about 150 or 160 limbs have been manufactured by outside specialists. I have not seen any reports of any difficulty in supplying artificial limbs. There is a list of priorities. Generally speaking, I understand that all those who need them are getting services, within the arrangements which I have mentioned. If RALAC cannot supply them, there will be arrangements with the commercial manufacturers to supply them. 

 - Senator Kane is really developing what seems to me to be an argument about the present Conciliation and Arbitration 
Act. I have told the honourable senator beforeand the answer still stands- that if the Labor Party's reforms to the Conciliation and Arbitration Act had been made possible and if honourable senators, including  Senator Kane,  had' not resisted them there would have been more chance of solving the sorts of disputes to which he referred. There is no question that we rely on penal powers. The Labor Party and the Labor Government have made it clear that they support what the united trade union movement wants, that is, fewer penal powers and more collective arrangements. To say that under the Act which now applies- after all, it was introduced by the previous Government- there are more strikes is in my opinion a false statement. I think more strikes occur because we do not have more facilities and more powers under the law to negotiate with the aggrieved parties. 
As the honourable senator knows, I have been a trade union official since 1 was 2 1 years old. I was a shop steward and later secretary of various councils and, even in my present position, I am convinced that negotiation is the best way in which to settle disputes. In a situation of full employment and with an escalating and expansive economy we will have renewed labour disputes. The only way in which to settle them and to improve the position between the 2 parties is to establish a feeling of confidence. I think the present Minister for Labour is trying to do that. He has not accomplished all he has set out to do, but he has made a number of very important reforms and I would have hoped that these reforms had been passed by the Senate. 
The present position is that the 3 areas mentioned are serviced by the Commonwealth Employment Office at Maitland. In addition, there are Commonwealth Employment Service agents at Muswellbrook and Scone. Last year the Minister for Labour authorised the establishment of 10 new CES offices for the financial year. There is, of course, a limit to the funds available for the opening of new offices in any one year. It is not proposed that any further offices be established in this financial year, but the Department believes that it will be necessary to establish some new offices next financial year and its recommendation will be put to the Minister early in that period. The New South Wales office of the Department of Labour is now reviewing the number of areas in that State in terms of priorities for the forthcoming financial year, and Muswellbrook is one of those areas. 
At various times when manifests have been put before the chamber references have been made to this aspect by a number of senators on both sides of the chamber. I think the Minister has considered them. I take it that what the honourable senator is saying is that there ought to be some consideration to allowing ordinary members of the Senate to use any spare seating capacity. I will put the matter to the Minister and let the honourable senator and the Senate know. 
-I think that I should obtain the up to date position, but from memory completion will be sometime at the end of this year. The honourable senator probably will remember that the Minister for Defence decided to investigate whether 5 Airfield Construction Squadron might be used for work overseas. I understand that investigation has been made and that there has been a recommendation that while this was possible it probably would not be the most effective form of aid because it could be that financial aid might be a better form of aid by the donor country. But I understand that that situation has been finalised. Presently an offer has been made to the members of 5 ACS that they will be allowed to remuster. They have been offered the chance of occupying other musterings and other classifications. The Royal Australian Air Force will give them every opportunity to arrange to re-muster so that in future they will not be redundant. As the honourable senator will recall, in other cases the offer was made that anyone who wanted a posting or a mustering to another area would have his application sympathically considered. I think that I should confirm the dates that I have mentioned. I think that the information 1 have given about the Squadron itself is accurate, but I think that I should confirm what I have said and let the honourable senator know the position. 
I seek leave to make a statement relating to the question raised by  Senator Townley  this morning. 
There have been reports in the Press about this matter.  Senator Townley  indicated to me that he wanted some information. I have a report which I think ought to be given in the face of the Press controversy because it is an important matter. Unless there is any objection I intend to read the 5 paragraphs. 
-I think that the question calls for an answer which I cannot give in the full detail in which the honourable senator wants it. The generalities are well known and have been canvassed previously by Vice-Admiral  Sir Richard  Peek. But  Mr Barnard  has made some statements. I think that the proper thing for me to do is to refer the honourable senator's question to the Minister and get an answer that is specific in all details. 
Four servicemen lost their lives during the floods. I am quite sure that all honourable senators are very proud of the way in which the servicemen worked and performed courageous deeds during the floods. Not much mention has been made of their work, but they did a wonderful job. It is very sad to know that 4 servicemen lost their lives. Their dependants are entitled to compensation under the Commonwealth Employees Compensation Act and also under the Repatriation Act. I understand that the applications of the widows of the 2 Army personnel have been processed already and that cheques have been paid. I am not sure of the position in relation to the dependants of the 2 deceased Royal Australian Air Force members. The dependants will be entitled to various payments such as repatriation and dependants' allowances under the Compensation Act. I will obtain further details for the honourable senator so that he can tell the person who asked him the question. 
-I can undertake only to refer immediately to the Minister for Labour the request that every effort should be made to provide facilities for the satisfactory settlement of the dispute. I do not know the claims of the unions. I am interested in what the honourable senator says about the bonuses paid and I can assure him that whatever can be done, I will at least make the request direct to the Minister for Labour as soon as question time has concluded. 
-I shall have to get some more information on the question. The only information I have is that investigations were carried out in the area of Yampi Sound. I understand that specialists from each of the Services were satisfied with the area. I do not think there is a proposal along the lines the honourable senator is suggesting but perhaps the best idea is for me to get the information from the Services. 
Yes. 
-What the honourable senator said about my reply to him is correct. At the time I answered his question we had asked the departments involved to speed up the preparation of the legislation. I think that the only reason for the few extra days delay, as we are not going back a long time, is some technical matters relating to the drafting of the bill. I understand that the legislation is now ready to be presented to the Parliament but I will obtain the date on which it is likely to be introduced. 
-I think I would prefer that the question be put on notice. We will then get the correct figures for the honourable senator's information. 
The only thing I can say in answer to the general question is that the Government is still committed to a policy, as stated, of building up, as far as possible, a capacity within Australia to produce defence requirements. The matter has been under consideration, of course, since the Government assumed power, more particularly because of the need to re-assess what the Government's advisers said was necessary for the defence services. Those assessments are currently being undertaken. The extent to which we supply new equipment to our services and keep our defence capability in production is being examined. The Minister for Defence is likely to make a statement in the near future and because of the impending statement I do not think I should embark on a more specific answer. 
-The position to which  Senator Wright  referred is not characteristic of Australia only. He may have noticed that in the United Kingdom - 
I am answering the question about the tendency of unions these days. In these days of inflation the tendency for unions and workers in all countries- including West Germany, which has had a wonderful record of industrial peace since the war, other European countries and England most recently- is to attempt to use the market to increase wages. That is part of the economic story.  Mr Clyde  Cameron, the Minister for Labour, as the Senate knows, has been meeting representatives of the Australian Council of Trade Unions and the Australian Council of Salaried and Professional Associations, and other people, in an endeavour to achieve arrangements to increase the amount of industrial peace in relation to national wage applications. Some progress has been made. I know that the Minister is using intelligently whatever means are at his disposal in conferences with central labour organisations to achieve arrangements to reduce the amount of disputation. However, I again point out that industrial disputation is one of those things with which to some extent we have to live for a short period of time. 
I do not think I should answer the question unless the honourable senator can give me some information. He may even be referring to a Tasmanian dispute but I am not sure. I do not know the unions involved and I do not know the unions affected although not involved. Honourable senators will remember that during the last Government the Minister for 
Labour and National Service took a certain attitude about such disputes. If the honourable senator gives me information about the particular case to which he refers I will give him an answer on behalf of the Minister, either privately or in the Senate. 
-(South AustraliaMinister for Repatriation)- Pursuant to section 82 of the Repatriation Act 1920-1973, I present the reports of War Pension Entitlement Appeal Tribunals Nos 1, 2, 3, 4 and 5 for the year ended 30 June 1973. 
I intend to move that the debate be now adjourned because I wish to point out to  Senator Greenwood  that when he talks about the conventions - 
-I move: 
That the debate be now adjourned. 
Question put: 
That the debate be now adjourned. 
I oppose the motion moved by the Leader of the Opposition in the Senate  (Senator Withers).  I will be brief because the Senate has some urgent requirements, as the Leader of the Government in the Senate  (Senator Murphy)  has pointed out. I was surprised by the vehement attack made by  Senator Greenwood  on  Senator Murphy  on a matter which is, after all, a formal matter and which should have been resolved between  Senator Withers  and  Senator Murphy.  Surely if there is a convention in the Parliament the Leader of the Opposition in the Senate should have conferred with  Senator Murphy  on the prospect of delivering the Address-in-Reply. As you pointed out,  Mr President,  the convention has been for the Leader of the Government in the Senate to move a motion in respect of the Address-in-Reply. If we are to keep to the forms of the House and the conventions of the Senate the matter might well have been discussed in a serious way with  Senator Murphy. Senator. Murphy  in an aside to  Senator Withers,  mentioned the problems which have existed. 

 Senator Murphy is seeking the cooperation of the Senate in relation to the referenda Bills. I am rather surprised at the amount of attention and energy devoted to the debate on this matter. I suggest that  Senator Withers  could have talked to  Senator Murphy  to resolve the matter in a friendly way outside the chamber, perhaps by setting it down for debate tomorrow. 

 Senator Sir KENNETH ANDERSON (New South Wales) (3.30)-I would be the first to acknowledge that there is a desire to proceed with the referendum Bills which we hope to get onto a little later. Not only as an honourable senator of long standing but also as a member of the Executive Council not under summons I feel bound to say that I find it is an extraordinary situation that in view of all the history of a parliament of the Commonwealth that I can bring to memory the Government should resist the presentation of an address-in-reply. I point out- and this is why I rose- that what the Leader of the Opposition in the Senate  (Senator Withers)  did was to move an addition to the motion which was moved on behalf of the Government itself. To make the very essence of the point, I read the original motion of the Government to which words were added. It states: 
MOST GRACIOUS SOVEREIGN: 
Wc, Your Majesty's loyal subjects, the members of the Senate, in Parliament assembled, desire to thank you for the gracious Speech which you have been pleased to address to Parliament. 
The presence in Australia of Your Majesty and of His Royal Highness the Prince Philip has once again brought the greatest pleasure to your Australian people. We, their representatives in this Senate, are grateful for this opportunity to re-affirm our allegiance to you as our Queen. 
-The Government introduced the measure in September and the latest figures I have seen covered the period to the end of January. Not a large number of patients- about 260, 1 think- had been admitted during the period and about three quarters of them had been discharged during the period. So the occupancy of beds by this class of person was not very great. It might be of interest to the Senate to know also that we have extended the use of these hospitals for the treatment of certain approved civilian patients after the priority given to ex-service personnel. About 1200 of those people were treated in repatriation hospitals by about the end of February. 
I notice that no complimentary remarks about this service have been made from the other side of the chamber. It is a service which has been expanded by the Minister for Labour since we came into office. There were centres in Sydney and Melbourne. There are now centres in all capital cities except Darwin. The service is used greatly. The last figures I saw showed that about 80,000 young people had used the service, which is an advisory service with specialist officers. It is intended to establish centres in major regional areas outside capital cities and this is presently being planned by the Minister for Labour. 
Since the Government decided to provide this service- honourable senators will remember that there is a qualification that the ex-serviceman or ex-servicewoman must have served in a theatre of war- about 650 applications have been made on the new basis. I am not sure how many of those are receiving treatment currently in the hospitals but I understand that arrangements are being made for all of them to receive either hospitalisation or medical treatment. I shall get whatever further information I can obtain and give it to the honourable senator. 
I have seen the statement. I am rather surprised that any ex-service organisation should say that things are not well with the Repatriation Department. I, with many other honourable senators, attend ex-service organisation conferences and meetings. I have found that all the long established organisations have a great amount of admiration for the Department. So I cannot see that the point is made. It seems to me that the reasons for any claim that the Department or the Act ought to be modified or altered should properly be given to the Toose Committee which is now proceeding. Its report is expected in about June of this year. As honourable senators know, we already have the report of the Senate Standing Committee on Health and Welfare which has not yet been debated. Any case against the Department might well be put to the Toose Committee for its consideration. 
In relation to the argument that the Government is pension cutting to save money, it seems to me that the claim is a little ridiculous because, as honourable senators know, there has been a dramatic increase in repatriation benefits since this Government took office. Since we came to power we have caught up with all the things which we thought ought to be done. I think that roughly $50m has been committed by the Government to increases in pensions and the other benefits about which we talked during debates on the Repatriation Department. Today there is free hospitalisation for veterans and acceptance of cancer as war caused. These things have been achieved. I remind the Senate that I and other honourable senators on both sides of the chamber were interested in the debates. On one or two occasions we moved for these sorts of inquiries. The last Goverment set up the inquiry which is now being conducted by  Mr Justice  Toose. No doubt he will have some important things to say. For those reasons, it seems to me that the claims made by that organisation are not well founded. Any special cases might well be put to the Minister or to the Toose Committee. 
Since the matter has been brought to my attention, I inform the honourable senator that the then Opposition member who had access to the file is the present Minister for Labour. The circumstances are not quite as have been reported in the Press.  Mr Clyde  Cameron was asked to act for the farmer in question, which he did. As is the present practice- and the correct practice- he had a summary given to him of the implications of the person's case. I remind the Senate that the gentleman in question has been making applications since the 1950s. He had written to the former Prime Minister, to previous Ministers for Repatriation and to the then Premier of South Australia,  Sir Thomas  Playford. Because the summary was rather complicated and in order to assist the person concerned,  Mr Clyde  Cameron thought that it might be advantageous to show him the summary. The person concerned did not see the file; he saw a summary. As  Senator Sir Kenneth  Anderson, who was involved in cases of this type when he was Leader of the Government in the Senate, knows, the summaries do not contain the private medical opinions. The person concerned failed to honour what was an arrangement with  Mr Clyde  Cameron. The summary is not generally shown to the person concerned. It should not be. I make the point that if the person concerned had acted properly towards his advocate he certainly would have advised  Mr Clyde  Cameron of the particulars and details involved, so as to assist his case. That is the circumstance of the whole matter. 
Since those days the gentleman concerned has pursued his claims. Recently his case was brought to my attention. 1 arranged for the file to be made available, if he agreed, to supporters of what is called the Ex-services Action Association. On the agreement of the person concerned, I sent the file and a special officer from the Department to Adelaide to consult those people. The matter was resolved on the basis that they would take the next action and that, if necessary, the Department would ask the consulting psychiatrist, who was assisting the person concerned, to make a report to the Repatriation Department, and it could be the basis of new action. We have heard nothing since of what might be done in regard to the case. 
He saw the summary. That is the point I make. 
The honourable senator would know that he has raised this question previously and I have replied to it and spoken of what the Government is trying to do. The Minister for Labour has talked actively with the top labour organisations in Australia in an attempt to reach agreements which will minimise disputes. He has talked to the Australian Council of Trade Unions and to the Australian Council of Salaried and Professional Associations. He has put a number of conciliatory propositions to them in respect of the national wage case which would affect such events as are happening today. He also has proposed certain new methods of conciliation which will be brought into being if the Senate passes his new legislation. 
I want to say, as I have said before, that however well intentioned a government may be in attempting to get conciliatory solutions to things such as are happening today, the situation is that prices are rising rapidly and there is an almost automatic response among a number of trade unions and workers who want to get the best they can while the market is good and while prices are rising. These things are characteristic not only of Australia but also of European countries, as I mentioned the other day. Perhaps the best example is West Germany which has had a most outstanding policy of peace in industry for many years but is currently racing the same sort of situation as we are facing. I can assure the honourable senator that the Minister for Labour,  Mr Cameron,  is doing what he can to have these matters looked at by the arbitration authorities. Whenever there is a dispute he makes sure that an officer is available to talk with the union and with the employers. We are doing whatever we can at the moment. If the new legislation- 
-I put it to the honourable senator that some of the things which might have corrected the situation were held up by the Senate. The legislation will be introduced again soon by the Government and perhaps on that occasion the matter will be debated more fully. 
I wish to take a few minutes of the Senate's time tonight to reply to what, to me, have been most extravagent speeches by  Senator Wright  and, more particularly, by  Senator Withers  who holds a very senior position in the Senate. He is the Leader of the Opposition. He attacked Commonwealth public servents and accused them of bludging. He attacked the Government for introducing an Appropriation Bill which seeks the appropriation of over $168m. Both honourable senators claimed that the expenditure generally is largely on salaries, and so it is. I wish to point out some of the expenditures about which they talked. Let me refer firstly to an important sector about which they have been campaigning for many months, that is the Labor Government's failure to assist the defence forces. The expenditure, as shown on page 39 of Appropriation Bill (No 3), for the Department of Defence is $5 5. 5m. It is for salaries and wages, which are necessary and which are a part of the obligation which the Government has in respect of all the Services. That is a part of the Bill which we are presenting to the Parliament tonight. But the Opposition says that it is a most extravagant Bill, the amounts are too high, and something should be done about it. 

 Senator Withers attacked Commonwealth public servants. He called them fat cats. He attacked their housing subsidies. Under division 548, on page 33, the additional amount required to service the Leaders of the Opposition and the Parliamentary Parties,  Deputy  Leaders of the Opposition and the Whips is $ 1 1 1 ,000. It is a necessary amount. I do not disagree with it. They are some of the additional payments about which the Leader of the Opposition in this place is complaining. 
-I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
I seek leave to have the second reading speech incorporated in Hansard. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
I seek leave to have the second reading speech incorporated in Hansard. 
-The incident is over, but substantially the report is correct. The position is that on 15 March the Royal Australian Navy received a report from the Department of Health and the Department of Customs and Excise stating that a number of Indonesians- seven, I think- had lost their bearings and had arrived at an island called Dauan on a native prow from Merauke. The depts were concerned about the health of the party. HMAS 'Bayonet' left Cairns with a doctor on board. The Indonesians were found to be in good health and the Indonesian Embassy was advised. We are awaiting instructions about returning these Indonesians to their homeland. Action was taken fairly promptly. I am not sure what has happened since, but as far as their health is concerned they are in a satisfactory condition. As I said, we are awaiting instructions for their return. 
No, the information is not correct. Discussions between my Department and the Australian Medical Association have been very satisfactory in relation to surgery consultation fees. In the Territory at present a fee of $3.20 is paid. As to the availability of local medical officers, as far as I am aware the position is satisfactory in the Territory. About 60 doctors are still available for Repatriation work. Recently four have been recruited and three have left the Territory; so the position is not much different from what it was before. Whilst there are rumours about repatriation services in the Territory and elsewhere the Department keeps a close check on the situation and there are monthly summaries. We know of no rumours which indicate that anywhere, including the Territory, will there be any difficulty in servicing repatriation pensioners. 
This operation attracted the attention of a newspaper recently. I think it was on Monday or Tuesday. 
-On Monday. As I recall the facts, it is not an unusual technique. It is a technique which is well established. In this case dental technicians were used to take an impression with dental plaster. It is possible in this way to get a very fine impression of cracks in fuel tanks, for example. This was done very satisfactorily by two musterings of the Royal Australian Air Force. It is a technique used in the United States of America and in other air force administrations. This demonstrates the adaptability of a mustering which is not being used in its own specialist category. The net result is that this is a good device for getting a mould and for repairing these tanks where necessary. 
For the information of honourable senators 1 present the annual report of the Royal Australian Air Force Veterans' Residences Trust, for the year ended 30 June 1973. 
The answer to the honourable senator's question is as follows: 
There has been recent correspondence between the Premier of New South Wales and the Prime Minister on the question of lands occupied by the Australian Government in and around the Sydney area. 
The Prime Minister advised the Premier in January that the Australian Government would require to examine its position in this matter and that the question of the Sydney lands was pan of a thorough examination of similar lands throughout Australia. 
Lands set aside for national park purposes would not be available for other development. 
The answer is that since the announcement by the Government that this would be done a number of determining authorities have been running trial exercises which are complete. These took some time because it was intended to prevent delays where possible. The regulations are now being made and it is hoped to have them effective by about the middle of the year. 
The speech of the Leader of the Opposition  (Senator Withers)  today was very much like his speech last week when he attacked the civil servants of the Commonwealth, including many of his own staff and many of the civilian complement that makes up the defence Services. 
Your staff get the same pay and work under the same conditions as all Commonwealth public servants receive and work under. Your staff travels first class, as you do, and you complained about public servants travelling first class. It is not unusual to hear you making such extravagant statements and talking about the failure of detente. The Australian Labor Party Government, like the great governments of the world, is looking for peaceful solutions and is not looking for war situations. We will not repeat the charges about the Red peril, which was the stock in trade charge of former liberal governments over the years. Before each election the menace of communism, of China and the Soviet Union was trotted out. The great powers of the world such as the United States of America and Britain are seeking to establish better relations. We are certainly on the side of the Kissingers in the international field. 
Let me talk about the subject with which  Senator Withers  is playing today. Since we started to re-organise the armed Services to make sure that there was no waste- there were 3 Service boards and there was a lack of integration- something which one of his former Ministers put up many years ago, he has been prone to talk about the waste and lack of morale in the Services.  (Quorum formed). 
One of the main points which  Senator Withers  tried to state but which misrepresents the position was that the Government was trying to muzzle a lot of senior officers. Senior officers and servicemen generally- all ranks- have never had it so good. Never before have they had a charter which gives them such good conditions or which instils the idea of freedom of public expression for people in the Services. Already the Government has decided to set up an ombudsman for the first time. Despite representations from service organisations, this was never agreed to by the previous Government. We decided to do it. 
New channels are open for direct representation to the Minister for Defence  (Mr Barnard)  by any serviceman. This was never allowed before on the same basis. For the first time the Minister for Defence has appeared before the squadrons, including 5 Airfield Construction Squadron about which  Senator Withers  spoke. The Minister was there last week. I was with him when he addressed servicemen and he allowed them to raise their complaints in the way that any Minister of any government should do.  Senator Withers  talked about civilians taking over. That is untrue. As a result of the reorganisation there are less civilians employed now at the top than there were before. Senior military officers now have more power than they had before. At present there are 40 senior military officers at the top as against 31 previously. The idea of the reorganisation has been to make sure that intelligence information gets to the advisers in a co-ordinated way. 
I want to refer now to the question of calculations and why the Government decided these things. Last year the Government decided that it should take the opportunity to catch up as far as possible with the belated standards of wages and of conditions which had applied in the Services for many years. Everybody knows that the last Government failed to honour its promises to increase wage levels. What have we done and why did we do it? We improved wage levels because we contended that servicemen were entitled to have conditions similar to those of everybody else in the community, that they should have standards which would not make outside jobs more competitive than they are. It is true that presently there is great competition for manpower. 
I want to refer to some of the things we did. I mentioned already that we are setting up an ombudsman. The Woodward report resulted in pay increases of $63m in the first instance. As a result of the flow on from the officers' first increase there was an expenditure of $5.9m. There have been general increases recently totalling $45. 4m. We gave servicemen the same annual leave loading of 17.5 per cent as everybody in outside industry got and this cost the Government $8m. The Defence Forces 
Retirement Benefits Fund scheme cost $51m. The re-engagement bonus which this Government decided to introduce cost the Government $10.7m last year and $11.5m this year. In addition, of course, as everybody knows, we have decided to increase the eligibility for Defence Services homes. We have improved resettlement benefits and have applied repatriation benefits to all members. We have set up permanent new machinery for wage fixing and have also pledged that there will be an upgrading of the accommodation of members of the Services. This Government did these things in the first year because we said it was the year in which to carry out those sorts of tasks. 
The Minister for Defence said that the second year would be the year in which decisions would be made about what equipment would be purchased for the Services. Already there has been some reference to this matter. As everybody knows, the Minister shortly will be making a statement setting out what equipment we will be buying. I want to refer now to the important question of whether the Government got the right advice on strategic considerations from its defence experts. Soon after taking office the Minister for Defence called for a fundamental assessment of the strategic situation and outlook covering the next 15 years. I repeat that it was for 15 years, not just for this 12 months. Factors considered included international global developments affecting relations between the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics and the United States of America, the strong interest of other major powers in the avoidance of conflict, and various developments nearer to home involving countries in our neighbouring region. The Minister pointed out that these developments strongly supported the Government's view that Australia was unlikely to come under strategic pressure or military threat and that we could at this stage responsibly look to the future with reasonable confidence that no significant requirement was likely to arise for the operational commitment of our forces. 
There has been no attempt to understate the difficulties or uncertainties in Australia's strategic environment. The Government has made clear its view that political competition can be expected to continue among major powers and that the possibility exists of local conflicts in some areas. However, it remains true that these present trends generally point to a prospect of relative stability in the global order and that no significant threat against Australia can be foreseen. It was the Defence Committee which reached the conclusions which have been quoted. Moreover, the procedure of making such an assessment as a basis for determining the defence program is one that has developed over a considerable period in the past. It is not something new which the present Government has introduced. The Defence Committee expressed quite clearly the view that the present and likely trends identified do not indicate any likelihood of threat of direct attack on Australia in the period. This would require fundamental changes beyond the developments assessed as likely and it would take time and affect many other countries. 
It is not good enough to base criticism, like that issued by  Senator Withers,  on loosely stated possibilities that threats could arise rapidly in a volatile world. Planning defence policies and spending very large sums on the development of the defence forces needs much more precision and an assessment on which the defence program is based must be carefully considered. We must consider who is likely to have a powerful enough motive and the will to attack, in what circumstances this is likely to occur, where is the capability, and so on. Judgments must be made on the basis of this type of close analysis, not on political gimmicks. This Government has not used political gimmicks in trying to assess the situation. On the basis of this assessment the Government has drawn up an appropriate procurement program. Already there has been speculation in the Press about the types of equipment that will be acquired for our defence forces. I do not wish to comment on the Press speculation at this moment other than to say that I expect that  Mr Barnard  will make some significant announcements within the next few weeks. 
To reiterate what I said earlier, the first year of the Government's activity in the defence field was directed towards improving conditions. The rninimum cost of improving those conditions has amounted to about $200m. In addition, as honourable senators know quite well, we have improved the related field, the ex-service fieldhonourable senators should be aware of that- by improving repatriation benefits at a total cost of about $55m or $60m. It was the aim of the Government to meet those requirements because, as nobody can deny, over the years there was a great demand, not only from servicementhis was acknowledged within the Parliamentthat those sorts of things should have been done earlier. We did these things in the first year. 
The second year, as I mentioned, will be directed towards the equipment program that I have talked about. It also was the intention of the 
Government to carry out its reorganisation at this time when there was a favourable strategic prospect. This has afforded us the opportunity of rationalising the Services. At present our defence forces are of a size and capability without precedent in Australian history- at a time when we are not involved in a substantial conflict. I want to cite some figures. At the end of June 1 963- at that time we were not involved in Vietnam, so it is a fair comparison- there were 11,574 personnel in the Navy, 21,944 in the Army and 15,840 in the Royal Australian Air Force, a total of 49,358. At the end of February this year there were 16,532 personnel in the Navy, 30,532 in the Army and 2 1,485 in the Air Force, a total of 68,549. So looking at the Navy first, there has been a percentage increase of 42.8 per cent, in the Army an increase of 3 1 .9 per cent and in the Air Force an increase of 35.6 per cent, a total overall increase in all Services of 38.9 per cent. The reduction in the strengths of our defence forces last year needs to be put in its proper perspective. Firstly, it represents only 3.1 per cent of the strength of our forces at June 1973, hardly a drastic reduction. Secondly, a large part of the reductions were made by economies in support activities which, in many cases, badly needed reorganisation and rationalisation. These economies were called for and necessary. 
As everybody knows, we reduced the civilian complement, lt has been argued that we cut defence by cutting the number of civilians in the defence Services and, of course, we did, but the reduction in civilian strengths in 1973-74 ought to be put in its proper context. Between June 1963 and June 1973 the number of civilians in the defence group had grown by 14,392 from 36,909 to 5 1 ,30 1 . We hear statements in the Parliament by  Senator Withers  and others about the growth of the civil service. That growth took place during the term of office of the last Government and we pruned it last year. In fact, there was a rise of 39 per cent which included the percentage average annual growth in the old 3 Service departments. In the Navy it was 5. 1 per cent, in the Army 7.4 per cent and in the Air Force 6.5 per cent. There has also been some allegation that the officers are resigning because of lack of morale. Nobody can identify this. We know that there are some senior officers writing articles, and I pointed that out as a trend which the Government does not deny. It is an avenue which the Government is developing. The Government reported only yesterday the new code under which servicemen will operate in future. 
But the facts are that because of the buoyant labour market outside, and everybody knows what that situation is, men in various ranks in the Services are looking for positions outside because they see workers outside in comparable jobs or professional people who can often temporarily earn more than they do. Also they are not required to be posted at places which often are inconvenient. The pension arrangements under the Defence Forces Retirement Benefits scheme, which the previous Government refused to provide and messed about with for many months, made it possible for these officers to resign so they would have the opportunity early to take advantage of whatever there was in outside industry. The increase in relation to officers in the older age group is understandable in view of these benefits. Under the previous Government, officers were obliged to serve until they reached the prescribed age for retirement, otherwise they could not attract the benefits provided under the then Defence Forces Retirement Benefit Act. One of the effects of the recently introduced Defence Forces Retirement Benefit Act is that officers may now avail themselves of resettlement opportunities prior to reaching retiring age and qualify for payment of the pension. The Government was fully aware that an increased number of officers would wish to avail themselves of this opportunity, and this is precisely what is happening at the present time. The re-engagement rate in each of the Services in the past 12 months was good. Re-engagement rates for the December 1973 quarter compared with the December 1972 quarter for male other ranks were as follows: For the quarter ended December 1972, it was 59.3 per cent for the Navy, 72.3 per cent for the Army and 72.3 per cent for the Air Force. In the quarter ended December 1973 it was 61.8 per cent for the Navy, 71.9 per cent for the Army and 75.4 per cent for the Air Force. In February 1974 it dropped slightly and for the Navy it was 55 per cent, for the Army 68. 1 per cent and for the Air Force 75 per cent. 
These figures, which incidently represent high historical rates, hardly reflect disillusionment with the defence forces as far at the Government can see. It seems to me to be unusual for an opposition to say: 'Yes, you did some good things with Service conditions but you have to do something else. You have to bring them to a situation where there will be a higher level of morale'. It is almost as though they were saying: 'Let us put them into a wartime situation'. Since this Government has come to power, as everybody knows- I point to the recent floods in New South 
Wales and Queensland- there has been a greater participation by the Services in community affairs, disasters and other things than ever before. As most of us know, there has been great appreciation by the people and parliamentarians of the role of the Services. I recently commented that, although there were one or two expressions of satisfaction about the great deeds that were done, how little was said in the community about the great performance of the Services. As recently as last week, drops were still being made by the Air Force. 
Looking at the situation, and having regard to the manpower position to which I have referred and to  Senator Withers'  complaints about the Citizen Military Forces,  Mr Barnard  called for a report on the CMF and this is presently before the Government. It is being considered and we hope that as a result of the study the CMF will be able to give the necessary support to the restructured Services which we would not get normally in a situation of very high employment. We are in competition with outside industry and there will be, as 1 have noticed, a greater desire on the part of some people in the Services to get a job outside because they can be more easily integrated into the community. They can meet with their families easier and quicker. It seems to me that this is a symptom of the times through which we are going. There is no threat so we are trying to get this restructure. I turn now to the amount spent on the Services generally. According to the calculations of the Strategic Studies Institute in London, Australia in 1971 devoted the same percentage of its gross national product to defence as did West Germany. Italy spent 2.6 per cent, the Netherlands 2.9 per cent, Greece and Turkey each 3.3 per cent, France 3. 1 per cent and Belgium 2.3 per cent. We are presently spending double the amount which Indonesia, the Philippines and related countries in the area spend on defence. In respect of equipment, already people have had a preview of the sort of provision to be made. The Government cancelled the DDL program and most people now have got the story, no matter how much people might have wanted that sort of vessel, of how expensive it would have become. At the time this Government took over, there was an estimated cost of about $330m for 3 destroyers. The designs had not been finally determined although Australian designers were taking part in the designing, and the Government decided to stop the program. It made other allocations of that money. It decided to devote some of it to ensuring that servicemen got the kind of benefits they should get. The Government will be announcing very soon the sort of things that are required and necessary. Let me refer now to some of the things that are on the defence procurement list. Some of these are part of requirements which were ordered before we came to power but they are in the process of being commissioned. There are 12 medium lift helicopters, 5 utility helicopters, air traffic control surveillance radar, 37 CT4 basic trainer aircraft which are being built mostly in New Zealand. 
-Of course. If we had been in power then, they would have been built here. We were committed with the manufacture when we became the Government. Other matters on the defence procurement list were 10 Westland cargo helicopters, the oceanographic ship, additional Oberon class submarines, the refit of Oberon class submarines, the modernisation of River class destroyers, extra gun mountings and the DDG ship improvement and refit program. Of course, since that time we have obtained 24 Fill aircraft which are now operating in Australia. Of course there has been a reduced amount of flying time and some reduced steaming time. 
In a situation where the Government was faced with huge welfare programs, including the amount of $200m for the Services, the Government had to make some reallocations. So there is a vast amount of work being done. It surprises me not that the Opposition should talk about the need to have additional improvements but that it tends to say that we are an extravagant government and that we spend millions of dollars on wages for servicemen and millions of dollars on pensions for civilians and every now and again it says that we should also be able to buy equipment faster than we are doing. 
I referred earlier to some of the attitudes which  Senator Withers  had taken in the past and to which I objected. Only recently I reminded him about the statements he made concerning Commonwealth public servants. He made those attacks upon a section of the Public Service which obviously includes civilians in the defence Services. He said: 
The Public servants are ripping off the Australian community. The only thing they add to the nation is wages and sadly enough the wages bill is not the end of this sorry story because there are ancillary services. Each public servant who puts a Toot outside his own town or city on official business is entitled to first class air travel. 
He went on and like  Senator Wright  said that we should take first class air travel away from these people. Are we to take first class air travel away from the top servicemen, the Government's advisers and specialists whom the previous Government employed and whom we now employ? Later on  Senator Withers  said: 
Now let us take a look at housing . . . 
Of course the Services have a rent allowance. It is not an allowance under regulation 97 but it is very similar.  Senator Withers  said:  -a financial handout masquerading as regulation 97 allowances. For the  unitiated,  regulation 97 is a housing subsidy which provides eligible married officers with $33 a week towards their rent if they have no children and $40 a week if they have children. The original purpose of the allowance was to help officers- 'where the quarters provided are temporarily not available for occupancy'. 
Every serving man in the Navy, Army or Air Force, and civilian persons in the defence Services, receive an equivalent entitlement. Is  Senator Withers  saying that when a man is serving his country in isolated places away from his family his next of kin is not entitled to similar benefits?  Senator Withers  went on to say: 
I wonder how age or invalid pensioners would feel about this continuing handout to Commonwealth public servants. . . . What would they think of this hypocritical Government which has insisted on continuing regulation 97 allowances? 

 Senator Withers admits that the regulation was introduced while his Party was in government, but he says that we should not continue it. He said: 
Surely these officers on $ 1 7,000 a year should stop bludging on the Australian taxpayers and should go to the private sector for their housing needs. 
He continued in the same vein and said that these public servants were bludgers and were not productive. He said that there was no production in the Public Service. In taking that attitude he attacks not only the Public Service but also the equivalent in the defence Services generally. 
I shall refer very quickly to the very loose statements  Senator Withers  made about  Mr Barnard's  visit to the West last week. Of course  Mr Barnard  went to Yampi Sound and flew over and investigated an area the acquisition of which he favoured as an exercise area for all the Services. Presumably it is his intention to make sure that all friendly nations would also be able to use the area in association with our own forces. So there is a positive intention on the part of  Mr Barnard.  1 saw the area with him and there is no doubt that he will be making a recommendation to acquire the area concerned. It is not true that work has stopped at Cockburn Sound.  Senator Drake-Brockman  has been there and he would have seen the great progress that has been made. 
It will be a fine area when it is finished. The structures are certainly very well developed at present. 
I said when I commenced my speech that our Government is not hypocritical. We have accepted certain priorities which we are trying to maintain. We have done more in the 15 months in which we have been in office than the last Government did in all the years when it was in office. The previous Government considered many of the things which we have since done. As honourable senators know, there were so many divisions within that Government and between Ministers that Ministers who had accepted the sort of re-organisation which we have applied so quickly and so effectively were muzzled. There is certainly no intention to muzzle the Services or any officer. As I have pointed out, the defence officers have got more power under the reorganisation than they had before. There has been no civilian takeover. I suggest that honourable senators should quietly study what the Government has done and what it will announce very shortly. The massive improvements that have been effected in the conditions of servicemen are often forgotten. It is not unusual for people in industry to forget the great benefits and general conditions- including wages and annual leave- that are obtained. I mention also the improvements in housing. The value of the improvement in conditions, including repatriation benefits, would amount to about $300m. In the Services area alone the amount is very close to $200m. 
I suggest that the motion moved by the Opposition Leader in the Senate is simply a tactic, before the Senate election, to alarm the people about matters which are at present in good hands. I notice that the Leader of the Opposition has a similar item on the notice paper already. So we can expect that before the Senate rises for the Senate election,  Senator Withers  will be moving a similar motion relating to the defence Services. Some servicemen, naturally, are not involved in foreign travel and in exercises overseas. But there have been plenty of joint exercises. The Minister for Defence is trying to organise and is organising exercises with Britain, the United States of America and various other countries and that will be the pattern of our commitments. We are withdrawing permanent forces from overseas but we are ensuring that they shall take part in joint exercises. That is why I hope we will obtain the Yampi Sound area. 
I suggest that the Senate should take note that  Senator Withers  is simply playing the old political game of trying to float some scare propaganda before the Senate election in the same way as his leaders before him, including the great  Sir Robert  Menzies, who referred to the great Red perils. We put up with that and the people got on top of it. It was lived down and people are now looking for peace. 
I table the report of the Committee of Inquiry into the Citizen Military Forces and seek leave to make a statement. 

 - Mr Barnard has responsibility for the Defence Forces Retirement Benefits Fund. The senator knows that we were the Government that in fact took up the Jess report and decided to improve on it. We gave servicemen a benefit which amounted to more than $50m last year. The Minister assured the organisation and the servicemen that further consideration would be given to any anomalies which might be presented. That consideration is presently being undertaken. 
The answer to the honourable senator's questions is yes. Since the establishment of the faculty there have been discussions with the dean of the medical faculty at Flinders University. As a result of these discussions, it has now been arranged that medical students will have access to patients in the repatriation hospitals in their first year of training, rather than, as at the present time, in their third year of training. Secondly, they have been given access to the rehabilitation facilities of the hospital and this would include a number of beds in the rehabilitation sector. 
-The question calls, as the honourable senator will realise, for a lot of facts and information from the Department. I suggest he put the question on notice. 
-The Minister for Defence has already made a statement which appears in the Press confirming the purchase by Australia of the 2 frigates mentioned by the honourable senator. It had been indicated before, as the honourable senator would know, that the Minister for 
Defence would be making such a statement some time during April. The position is- and I think answers have already been given to  Senator Drake-Brockman  about this matter- that when we became the Government the question of whether the DDLs ought to be manufactured in Australia or in fact manufactured at all was a subject of consideration by the Defence Force Development Committee and by the Government. Because of the escalation of price from something like $339m to about $400m the Government, acting on advice from the Defence Force Development Committee, decided not to take up the options. In fact I mentioned only last week in a speech in this chamber that the designs were not complete when we became the Government and that the designers were not in fact Australians. The Government decided, because of what it then termed the urgency of determining defence equipment, to make the purchases mentioned, and about which a statement will be made later. 
The question of whether DDLs should be built in Australia is one related to the options about which I have spoken and the need to have equipment ready. It has been mentioned before to the honourable senator that the Government decided that in its' first year of office improvement of pay and conditions for the Services should be the first action by the Government. This it did. It decided that in the second year of office, which is now, it should purchase equipment. We are now doing this. I can only say to the honourable senator that the statement concerning this matter will be made either late today or tomorrow and the answer I have given to the question will probably be expanded. 
The answer is no. Three weeks ago  Mr Barnard  told the House of Representatives that a decision on defence equipment purchases would be announced in April. As everybody knows, we have made other similar statements in this place and elsewhere to the effect that the Government was considering what sort of program should be adopted. The Minister has stated several times- I have also said this in reply to questions- that the Government had decided that in its first year of office it would make sure that wages, salaries and pensions were adjusted. This has been achieved. As the honourable senator knows, the cost of the increased payments was about $200m. The Government, and particularly  Mr Barnard,  have said that after that happened we would decide what we should do about the equipment purchase program. It is not a political judgment. It is based on a recommendation put forward by the Defence Forces Development Committee. That Committee did not finish its studies and deliberations until 29 March. The recommendation was presented to the Cabinet meeting yesterday, which was the first meeting since that date. 
I was in the trade union movement for something like 20 years and I have never known a case where a trade union official has been paid overtime at any time, including during stoppages. 
I am saying that in my years the reverse was always the fact. Every time there was a strike the general policy was that the person or official concerned also lost payment for the time involved in the stoppage. I am not aware of any such circumstance as that to which the honourable senator has referred. I shall make inquiries from the Minister for Labour and let the honourable senator know if there has been a change. 
-Shortly, in reply to the honourable senator, I inform him that I shall be making, on behalf of the Minister for Defence, a statement about the options relating to the M60 and the Leopard. The 2 tanks are currently under consideration. I think that  Senator Wood  should wait until I have made the statement. If he wants to raise with me some questions arising from the statement, I will get the answers for him. 
I seek the leave of the Senate to make a ministerial statement concerning Australian defence. The statement is now being made in the other place by the Minister for Defence  (Mr Barnard).  Copies are being circulated. 
The  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Webster)-  Is leave granted? There being no objection, leave is granted. 
-When I speak in the first person I am referring to  Mr Barnard.  I wish this afternoon to say something about the strategic prospects and the conceptual thinking which underlie this Government's approach to defence; to announce some particular equipment decisions which have been taken by the Government; and to touch on a number of other areas of defence activity and of developments in our defence relations with our neighbours and allies. 
I shall begin by re-stating some of the fundamental factors which govern the allocation of national resources to defence and among various defence objectives. The start point is the current strategic forecast, and the implications we may draw from this for the kind of defence capability required in our Services and production facilities. Then we must take account of the rate of obsolescence of existing equipments and the time needed to bring new equipments and capabilities into being. The development of new technology and of Australia's defence industry will have a bearing. In present circumstances, it is central to our thinking that we decide upon a size for the force and level of skills and equipment which give an assured basis for expansion if and when the threat situation deteriorates. Overall decisions must be taken within realistic resource limits which pay heed to other national objectives and Government policies. 
Flowing from these considerations the Secretary of Defence,  Chairman  of the Chiefs of Staff and the Chiefs of Staff of the 3 Services collectively prepare a draft five year defence plan for my consideration. This sets out, by years of expenditure, the levels for defence manpower, works, stores, maintenance, industrial support, research and development effort and new equipment acquisition which in their judgment should have first claim on the finance over the succeeding 5 years. On this basis I determine what specific projects I shall recommend to Cabinet for approval. Such a program has been drafted and presented to me for 1974-1979. 
When I spoke to the Parliament last August about the strategic prospect, I said that our 'situation (was) favourable and that various important factors and trends in the international situation (supported) Australian security into the longer term'. I said: 'We can, at this stage, responsibly look to the future in reasonable confidence that no significant requirement is likely to arise for the operational commitment of our forces. We believe that any change (in our strategic situation) would take time and would allow us to develop the response necessary'. These statements were firmly based on the advice of the Defence Committee, which had recently reviewed long term prospects and policy. The Committee consists, I remind the Senate, of the Secretary of the Department of Defence, the  Chairman  of the Chiefs of Staff Committee, the 3 Chiefs of Staff and the Secretaries of the Departments of the Prime Minister and Cabinet, Foreign Affairs and the Treasury. The Director of the Joint Intelligence Organisation was also present at the Defence Committee's considerations. The Defence Committee also emphasised that uncertainty increases over long term assessment, and that continuous monitoring and regular review of strategic developments and prospects are essential if the Government is to be apprised of any unfavourable developments in time for it to make any necessary adjustments to our defence posture. 
Our defence policy is not geared simply to some specific threat or pressure against 
Australia 's national security or immediate strategic interests. Obviously we could not accept such a risk of unpreparedness. However, threat does not arise readily or without warning. It is the product of a complex combination of capability, motivation and opportunity. Our approach is therefore one of response to developing circumstances from which we assess pressures or an actual threat which could later emerge and mature. By such response we would aim progressively to influence the circumstances which might lead to ultimate threat, to deter such threat should it nevertheless take shape, and to be ready in time to deal with it should our policy fail to avert it. Clearly, with this approach Australia needs to maintain reliable strategic associations with a number of countries, so as both to enlarge our influence over strategic developments and to provide for co-operation in any future contingency. In this connection the defence force in being should be adequate to indicate our resolution and our ability to defend Australian interests and to support others, should the need arise. In times of low threat probability, as at present, the basic concept is that of a viable core force capable of timely expansion. 
As to the nature of this core force, our geographical position as an island continent, with a vast oceanic and archipelagic environment, suggests some fundamental defence requirements and skills to be developed and preserved in all 3 Services. Developing military technology and Australian technological strength also give guidance. The force will not be manpower intensive, and should continue to contain a core of sophisticated military components and skills. It should contain some offensive capability. Our continuing study of the concepts and problems of a continental defence, although an attack upon Australian territory is a remote contingency, will also provide useful guidance for the type of defence force we should hold in readiness against a later requirement for expansion. 
I mentioned the increasing uncertainty in our strategic assessments the further ahead we try to look. Our defence policy and force structure must have regard to this. However I do not share the attitude, apparent in some public comment on our defence posture, that change in our strategic environment means that we shall necessarily be less secure, and that we must now act on the assumption that, when uncertainties resolve, things will be worse. We have external developments under continuous review, and I see no reasons at this time to modify the strategic prospect that I presented last year. I shall not be pushed into much larger demands on the taxpayer to satisfy those who are either unwilling or unable to state a case of defence expenditure that we may all examine and debate, but rely instead on vague assertions about future possibilities of threat and shaky analogies from the past. 
The view of this Government and its advisers is clear, and is based on conclusions reached after close consideration of a wide range of complex factors. Let me state our perspective again in very summary form. Because of various factors, but above all the compelling restraints of the nuclear balance, the long term prospect for global stability and avoidance of general war and for the limitation of local conflicts remains favourable. In this situation, but also because of other factors, such as our relative remoteness and non-involvement, the prospect of direct strategic pressures against Australian interests by a major power, as distinct from possible political pressures, remains remote. No regional power has or is likely to acquire for many years the capability and motive that might require an Australian defence response. The possibility of low level situations on relatively short notice, for example in our maritime resources zone, continues; insofar as these were not susceptible to political handling, they must be met by our defence force in being. 
All these factors could change. But there are substantial factors sustaining them that strongly suggest that radical change is unlikely, and that it would be unlikely to happen suddenly. Of course the strategic situation is not static. We can expect global and regional competition and tension to continue, and regional conflicts to break out. But new developments, and the degree to which they are likely to involve Australia, must be assessed. They are not sufficient reasons in themselves for us to place the Services on a higher level of armament, as some critics would have us do. A major feature of last October's conflict in the Middle East from our strategic point of view was the manner in which the United States and the Soviet Union successfully managed the crisis in their relations and used their influence to limit the conflict. 
This outlook does not mean that we can simply sit back and rely on the ANZUS treaty. This Government would not want to take that attitude. Our alliance and working defence relationship with the United States continue important of course- in terms of the global balance, of our regional standing, of the long-term contingency of serious deterioration in our strategic situation, and of the maintenance of the capability of our defence force in several important practical respects. But we are now required by strategic and international political developmentsand we ourselves wish- to deal on our own with any local situations that may arise, to assert an independent strategic influence, and to pursue political policies more independently of United States views and interests. 
Therefore, we must keep in being a viable national defence force with manifest capability for expansion, and maintain its development at the modest rate now required by the assumption of larger national responsibility, by the current strategic guidance, and by longer term uncertainties. It is against this background that the 5-year defence plan is prepared and specific proposals are brought forward each year for approval. This planning process readily permits adjustments if any change in circumstances is indicated by our regular strategic reviews. 
As I have previously stated in this House, the low threat probability at present requires some restructuring of the defence force and economies in some areas of defence. This I have been vigorously pursuing as I have made clear in the Parliament and elsewhere. It was essential that reductions be achieved in manpower, with all the savings which follow in pay and allowances and general running and administration costs. But even after the manpower economies I announced in August, defence Service manpower will still be 39 per cent above the 1 963 level. Again I am pruning back on the accumulation of excess stocks. We simply cannot go on wasting resources, first of all in new production and then in the storage of over-large stocks for which there is no prospective use in present circumstances. All this is being achieved without impairing in any significant way our real defence capability. The aim is by efficient and economical management to reduce expenditure on maintenance and current consumption so that resources may be freed for capital purposes, particularly for the acquisition of necessary new equipments which are the basis of our defence capability in the decades ahead. 
The 5-year forward defence plan which has been prepared by the Secretary of the Department of Defence, the  Chairman  of the Chiefs of Staff Committee and the Chiefs of Staff- the Defence Force Development Committee- accords with the principles I have been outlining. The plan contemplates the allocation of very substantial resources to defence to ensure an adequate defence capability- approximately $8,000m in 1974 prices over the 5-year period 1974-79. The plan provides for a shift of resources from consumption and maintenance spending to spending on investment and durable capital items, namely new equipment and infrastructure of bases, training and education facilities, more efficient storeholding, and living and working accommodation that accords with community standards. Some 25 new major works proposals are included with costs ranging from Sim to $20m as well as very many lesser proposals with a substantial total cost. 
The determination of a proper equipment program, with items that satisfy the strategic needs of the present and form a basis for projected future needs, is a complex matter. We need to identify the force capabilities relevant to Australia's future strategic circumstances; to conduct analytical studies of the kinds of weapons and equipments which would best provide those capabilities; and to put these into a total equipment program which takes account of the long lead times and the long life times of major equipments and brings forward projects for decision at the right time. 
Honourable senators will recall that last year I suspended action for the purchase of a number of major equipment items, particularly the new destroyers for the Royal Australian Navy. I was not satisfied that studies had been made in sufficient depth or that all the possible alternatives had been looked at. Following further detailed investigation of this and other projects, the Government has taken decisions in respect of 3 major equipment proposals recommended to me by the Defence Force Development Committee. The decisions are to acquire destroyers for the Royal Australian Navy, long range maritime patrol aircraft for the Royal Australian Air Force, and armour for the Australian Army. 
The Government did not agree last year to go ahead with the previous Government's destroyer program- the so-called DDL- because it was too uncertain in risk and too high in cost. But the Government did endorse the need for a new destroyer program for the Royal Australian Navy and the investigation of alternatives. These investigations have now been completed. The capabilities of some 50 or 60 representative ships in all, ranging in size from about 500 tonnes to 5,000 tonnes have been studied. The Government has accepted the recommendation of the Defence Force Development Committee that we should, as the first step, acquire 2 destroyers of United States design, known as the patrol frigate, and the Government has agreed that negotiations should be opened with the United States Government for this purpose. Further proposals will later be necessary for the acquisition of additional destroyers of a type to be determined at the time. 
The patrol frigate ship design has resulted from an extremely well researched development program. Assuming congressional authorisations, a production run of 50 ships in the United States is expected by the Administration. The main armament consists of a missile system which can launch either surface to air or surface to surface missiles. Each ship can also carry 2 helicopters for surveillance and attack roles. These capabilities are at present somewhat deficient in other units of the Australian fleet. The ship will also have a 76mm gun and antisubmarine torpedo tubes and provision for fitting at a later stage a close-in weapon system for point defence against aircraft or missiles. The selection of the patrol frigate will result in earlier introduction of new destroyers into service with the RAN than would have been the case with the DDL project. 
It is proposed that the 2 patrol frigates be procured in the United States with considerable cost saving. This would also ease the problem of overload of work on Williamstown dockyard which would otherwise occur. Indeed the present program for the 3 dockyards doing naval workWilliamstown, Garden Island and Cockatoo- is by about 1976 expected to be very heavy. This is because of the normal program of ship and submarine refits, the modernisation of 4 River class destroyers recently approved, the update of guided missile destroyers, the construction of the oceanographic ship also recently approved, the planned extended refit to HMAS 'Melbourne'; and other possible work. If the construction of 2 destroyers were added the resources of the 3 dockyards would be overtaxed. Without destroyer construction for Williamstown, and with re-scheduled work between the dockyards, a reasonably steady workload is achieved at Williamstown and Garden Island dockyards by early 1975 through to at least 1980. This workload would be equal to or more than the productive capability of the present work force, and at Williamstown in particular would require a build-up in production labour of about 25 per cent. 
I turn now to our maritime aircraft needs. Given Australia's ocean-archipelago environment, long range maritime patrol aircraft are a necessary part of Australia's force structure at all times for both military and civil purposes. We at present have one squadron of 10 modern Lockheed Orion aircraft and one squadron of 12 obsolescent Neptune aircraft. The latter will reach the end of their life in 1 977. On the basis of advice from the Defence Force Development Committee, the Government has decided that the Neptune aircraft will be replaced by 8 modern long range maritime aircraft of a type to be decided. The competitors are the United States P3 type and the British Nimrod. Negotiations will commence immediately. The new aircraft will have a very substantial advantage in speed, endurance and other performance characteristics over the Neptunes, and one-for-one replacement is not justified. It is planned that the Australian BARRA sonobuoy system for detecting submarines and ships be fitted to the selected aircraft. 
The utility of these aircraft for military purposes is well understood. Honourable senators may also be aware of the substantial contribution that long range maritime patrol aircraft make in the support of civil needs. I have recently instructed that no less than 800 hours per annum of maritime aircraft flying shall be available in support of civil surveillance needs. In addition, over 500 hours are usually flown each year on civil search and rescue missions, and maritime aircraft assist in scientific research. Detailed studies have shown that the maritime aircraft force decided on will be adequate for these purposes as well as for the military purposes of the aircraft. 
Modern armour is essential for the Australian Army as part of an adequate ground force capability. The Army's present Centurion tanks are almost at the end of their useful life. The Army's fire support vehicles, of which it has only 1 5 of an interim type, likewise have operational and training deficiencies, and the numbers are inadequate. The desirable characteristics of various types of armoured vehicles have been the subject of detailed study in Army and in the Defence Department. It has been decided that there is a continuing need for both medium tanks and fire support vehicles, which would be complemented by armoured personnel carriers already in Army inventory in sufficient numbers. The Government has accordingly approved as a first step the acquisition of 53 modern medium tanks of a type yet to be decided. The competitors are the German 'Leopard' and the American M60 tanks, both of which have been evaluated in Australia. Contractual negotiation will be entered into immediately. It is contemplated that further tanks may be acquired at a later stage. The Government has also accepted a proposal for the acquisition of 45 modern fire support vehicles by mating the United Kingdom manufactured Scorpion turret to the armoured personnel carriers already in Army inventory; the Army has adequate armoured personnel carriers for this purpose. 
This round of equipment decisions- and of course more will follow under the 1974-79 program that provides for some 40 equipment decisions spread over 5 years- accords with the total Defence Plan, the strategic prospect, the capabilities needed, the equipment going out of service, military doctrines and technology, and the resources available. The Defence Plan will call for later definite decisions on further equipments. These include, for example, a fast combat support ship for the Navy. It will be recalled that I directed study of a less complex and less costly ship, and the Navy is developing a proposal. There is low level anti-aircraft capability on which I expect the Government to take a decision in the coming year after analysis is complete. The replacement of the Mirage aircraft which make up our tactical fighter force will probably require decisions within 2 or 3 yearsbut not now. The future of naval aviation has been intensively studied. No decisions should be taken now, but a better estimate is needed of the possible life of HMAS 'Melbourne' and advantage will be taken of a forthcoming major refit to estimate how far the life of ' Melbourne ' could be extended, and to weigh other relevant factors. 
The decisions which I have announced in respect of destroyers, long range maritine patrol aircraft, and armour, will commit the Government to new capital expenditure, presently estimated to be about $330m, which will be spent mainly over the next 8 years. There is of course substantial continuing expenditure on equipment projects previously approved and shortly coming into service such as Oberon submarines, medium lift helicopters for the Royal Australian Air Force and Sea King helicopters for the Royal Australian Navy. Except for the new Royal Australian Navy destroyers final selection of the new equipment has not been made. It is my intention to seek proposals in open competition from the 2 contending suppliers of the long range maritime patrol aircraft, and the 2 contending suppliers of the medium tanks. The Government's bargaining position will be carefully preserved during the further development of the contractual aspects of these projects. 
My aim is to see that the equipment finally selected provides the best possible overall result in terms of operational performance, cost, delivery timescale, product support, and Australian industry involvement. It will also be ensured that the contractual and financial terms and conditions are satisfactory, with adequate break clauses ensuring minimum cost penalty to 
Australia should contractual conditions not be met. In the case of new destroyers, which have the United States Navy as the source, negotiations will be commenced with both the United States foreign military sales organisation and United States equipment suppliers. Final commitment would only be made when we have achieved satisfactory investment costs, acceptable performance capability, satisfactory industrial offset programs, and agreed financial and contractual terms and conditions. 
Central to our consideration of the industrial aspects is the need to be selective in what we do. We must ensure that there are developed locally sufficient technological skills and resource capabilities to support the equipments throughout their service life. This must be done with due allowance for those support capabilities which for operational reasons must remain integral with the Services themselves. It is this policy of selectivity which will bring industry into contact with the advanced technology which is a feature of modern defence equipment. 
Our defence industry is presently going through a period of major readjustment. As I said in August 1973 much of this readjustment is necessary because change was avoided for so long by our predecessors: Capacities in our factories and in industry have been based on concepts of production more in keeping with World War II philosophies than present day strategic assessments. To cope with present problems of adjustment, my colleague, the Minister for Secondary Industry and Minister for Supply  (Mr Enderby),  has been most active in efforts to obtain alternative commercial work loads of a suitable type for defence factories. Longer term solutions more in line with the current strategic situation are being pursued with vigour. 
The studies into rationalisation of the aircraft industry to which I referred last August are nearly completed. Action is also being taken to refer the question of the future of the aircraft industry to the Industries Assistance Commission. In the meantime the Government has continued to support the industry. The Nomad project approval was extended to 70 aircraft and sales are now in prospect in a number of areas. We have also continued to apply presssure to overseas suppliers of equipment in the further development of offset contracts for Australian industry. The total achievement to date in this field is some $45 m, of which some $20m has been won by our aircraft industry. 
In the area of defence research and development, Australian defence scientists and engineers have a deservedly high reputation and it is our intention that the capability built up over many years should be retained and fostered. Our standing amongst our allies is such that we pool a great deal of research and development information with them to our common benefit. We cannot give complete coverage to all fields of scientific and technological endeavour but we must concentrate our own efforts on areas of particular significance to us. Surveillance is one such area of importance to Australia. I have recently announced the Government's intention to complete at a cost of some $ 14m the development in Australia of the BARRA sonobuoy for detecting submarines and ships. This program, the largest research and development project ever undertaken in Australian defence establishments and industry, promises to provide our maritime forces with a sonobuoy without equal. Radar surveillance is also of considerable importance to us and we have been watching overseas developments closely. I expect to announce shortly a program of very advanced research on the application of new techniques in this field. Another project being carried out for use in the modernisation of the River class destroyers which I announced last year is the development of a much improved active sonar system known as Mulloka. 
I turn now to the area of defence manpower in which the Government has done so much in the comparatively short time since it came to office. One of the very first things this Government did was to honour its promise to abolish conscription. Liability for the call-up ended on 5 December 1972. The National Service Act was subsequently amended to abolish the obligation to render national service. This Government is maintaining an adequate-sized Army by voluntary means. The size of the all volunteer Army is now about 31,000. This compares with an Army of only 23,500 in 1965, in the face of the various commitments which our predecessors then saw. Much of the success in maintaining an all volunteer Army is due directly to the improvements made by this Government to pay and conditions for servicemen. 
Let me go through some of the main improvements made in the last year for personnel of the Navy, Army and Air Force. Most importantly there have been substantial pay increases that were long overdue. These were recommended by the Committee of Inquiry into Services' Pay- the Kerr- Woodward Committeewhich worked out a new and simplified pay structure for the Services. We now have concepts and principles for the fixation of Service pay that are comparable with those applying for the community at large, and which ensure that servicemen will not be disadvantaged with their pay. We have set up a Committee of Reference for Defence Forces Pay. It has a judge of the Australian Conciliation and Arbitration Commission as Chairman and a commissioner of that body and a senior retired serviceman as members. 
This Government also adopted the recommendations of the Joint Select Committee of inquiry into the Defence Forces Retirement Benefits legislation- the Jess Committee. Australian servicemen now have a retirement benefits scheme that has few- if any- equals in Australia or anywhere else. Benefits under the Defence Service Homes Act were extended to all permanent members of the defence forces, and the amount of the loan has been increased from $9,000 to $12,000. This Government has increased the range of re-settlement benefits available to serving members. It has also provided repatriation benefits for all members for disabilities arising from their service, not necessarily war service. This Government has provided a re-engagement bounty of $1,000 payable to eligible members who are prepared to undertake a further 3-year period of service. It has been decided to appoint a defence forces ombudsman. It has authorised progressive upgrading of Service housing, to ensure that the standards of domestic living are compatible with the quality of life in the Australian community at large. Standards for new barracks accommodation have also been greatly improved. 
On 2 April 1974, this Government tabled in the Parliament a report and draft Bill on the Defence Force Disciplinary Code. This Bill eliminates obsolete offences, reduces general levels of punishment, and modernises such matters as sentencing, trial and review. It will ensure effective discipline in the defence force, but at the same time it will ensure that the rights of individual servicemen are preserved. Reengagement rates of servicemen finishing their contracts and signing on again have seldom been higher. Recruiting into the Services overall has been satisfactory, particularly in view of the abundance of jobs in the civilian community. The main shortfall- and this is not such a large one- is that we need 300 or 400 more fit young men for the Army's Field Force. Much is being done to improve the training and the professional education of servicemen. The Government has recently approved- what our predecessors failed to do- the establishment of an Australian Defence Academy. It will provide, in the one establishment, education at a tertiary level for officer cadets of all 3 Services, for some cadets from overseas, and for selected serving officers. The Government has also approved proposals under which the orientation and initial military training of Army officers will be centralised, in the early 1980s, in one training establishment. 
Turning to matters of Service organisation, I am pleased to be able to say that the Government's decisions that I announced in May 1973 on the future size and shape of the Australian Regular Army are progressing smoothly. Essentially, the Government decided to maintain the divisional structure but reorganise the Regular Army Field Force on the basis of 6 battalions, each with appropriate combat and logistic support forces. Battalions are being manned to an effective operational training strength. In reorganising the Army, priority is being given to increasing the Army Field Force; that is where our front-line soldiers are. In 1973-74 the Field Force will increase by some 2,000. There will be offsetting reductions in the Army's support area, by making better use of the nearly 20,000 personnel it employs. The new Army structure will provide an adequate deployable capacity in present circumstances. Last week I tabled the report of the Committee of Inquiry into the Citizen Military Forces. I said then that there must be no doubt that this Government is determined to improve the CMF, that it will give this country an Army Reserve which is attractive to the young men and women who wish to serve in it, and which, with the Regular Army, will also provide a viable base for expansion should this be necessary in the future. 
In previous statements I have referred to an inquiry in hand concerning the future disposition of bases and facilities within Australia for our defence forces. The first stage of that review has been completed and is under examination in the Defence Department. As to particular projects, we are continuing with the construction of the naval support facility at Cockburn Sound. This year also the modernisation of dockyard facilities at Williamstown has commenced. There are many other major and minor projects in hand. It is expected that expenditure on housing in 1973-74 will almost double that in 1972-73. In addition, and as a complementary measure to the housing construction program, dwellings are being purchased on the open market and consideration is being given to the development of a hirings scheme under which the Services will obtain houses and flats on medium term leases. Consideration is being given to acquiring a large training area in the northwest of Australia for joint service training, including combined exercises with forces of other countries. 
To effect the integration of the staffs of the former Departments of Navy, Army and Air into a new Defence organisation under a Chief of Defence Force Staff and Secretary to the Department, establishment proposals have been made to the Public Service Board. Legislation and regulations to redistribute powers now resident in the separate boards of administration of the Services are in preparation. The organisational arrangements and establishment for defence procurement will be finally decided when the Government has received the report of a committee headed by  Sir Walter  Scott. In the meantime the Service boards are functioning with a representative of the Secretary replacing the former Permanent Heads. The fabric of ministerial directives and the system of control and communication to apply when the new organisation comes into existence are in preparation. They will be discussed in detail with the 3 Services. Already the interim steps taken by the Government towards the new defence organisation for the country have greatly increased consultation and a sense of common purpose among all the service and civilian advisers and administrators assisting the Minister in the control and support of the Navy, Army and Air Force. 
Before I conclude I would wish to say a few words about Australia's relations with neighbours and allies. Last week we received in Canberra distinguished guests from both New Zealand and Papua New Guinea- the New Zealand Minister for Defence and the Papua New Guinea Minister for Defence, Foreign Relations and Trade. Defence co-operation with both these countries is basic to our long-term perspective. With New Zealand these relations are long standing, but the talks with  Mr Faulkner  and his team enabled us to consider what new directions may be desirable in the light of changing circumstances and to review a number of important questions of common interest. With Papua New Guinea, the talks last week with  Mr Kiki  provided valuable guidance for the defence relationship between Australia and Papua New Guinea after Papua New Guinea becomes independent, and what contribution will be welcome and useful from us. 
We are maintaining full support to the Five Power arrangements, and the 2 Royal Australian Air Force Mirage squadrons in Malaysia comprise the largest single contribution of the three external powers, Australia, Britain and New Zealand and they help Malaysia and Singapore in developing their air defence capability. We are to review the position next April, but I would expect the Mirages to stay on so long as they are welcome and relevant to the needs of our countries and the region. Our defence aid and cooperation programs with these 2 countries and with Indonesia, an associate of the greatest importance to Australia, continue. Progress is being made in developing a worthwhile joint exercising program over the years. We received a good deal of support in our efforts last year to prune the South East Asia Treaty Organisation. It is now a more realistic organisation, which we believe is capable of worthwhile work. 
I mentioned earlier Australia's relationship with the United States. When I was in the United States early last January, I was able to re-affirm publicly in New York and privately in Washington, to the Secretaries of State and Defence, Drs Kissinger and Schlesinger, and to other senior members of the United States Administration and the United. States Armed Services, the importance I and my colleagues in the Government continued to attach to Australia's alliance and practical working defence relationship with the United States. I reaffirm this again to this House. The relationship with the United States requires management, of course. Our interests are not identical. Our views will sometimes differ. We entertain on our territory United States installations whose presence and functions required the Government to satisfy itself that adequate regard was paid to Australian sovereignty. The agreements under which the facilities are maintained are not necessarily agreements that, in present day circumstances, this Government would wish to conclude in present form. However, we have been able to effect adjustments that in our view serve to make the continued operation of these important facilities compatible with our sovereign status and consistent with our interests. We now see no grounds that would move us to depart from our firmly held policy not to renounce international treaties into which Australia has entered. 
The record I have reported to you this afternoon represents solid achievement by this Government and by the Department of Defence and the 3 defence Services. Compared with a decade ago, our state of defence preparedness is relatively high and we are making prudent provision to allow timely expansion should this become necessary in the future. I believe this policy is right. With the greater responsibilities we now face, Australia cannot simply run down its defence effort because the present period is one of relative tranquillity. However, the present strategic prospect does allow us to control the defence burden on the nation, to favour capital investment over current consumption, to institute more efficient and economical management and give the taxpayer more value for his dollar. I have been determined that this opportunity should not be neglected. 
What I am submitting to this House, therefore, is a record of achievement in regard to the nation's defence capability; major improvements in conditions of service of our servicemen and women; greater efficiency and economy in defence organisation and spending; and a prudent and responsible defence posture for present circumstances and the future strategic prospect. I submit,  Mr Deputy President,  that my report is worthy of the full support of this House, as I am confident it will win the endorsement of the nation. 
I present the report of the Australian Parliamentary Delegation to Burma, Bangladesh, Nepal and Sri Lanka. 
Ordered that the report be printed. 

 Senator BISHOP (South Australia-Minister for Repatriation and Minister Assisting the Minister for Defence)- I move: 
That the Senate take note of the paper. 
I seek leave to continue my remarks at a later stage. 
-The Minister for Defence has already stated quite clearly that the Government will not be caught in the same way as the previous Government was caught over the purchase of the Fill aircraft.  Senator DrakeBrockman  will remember that when he was Minister for Air the price for those aircraft had escalated from $122m to a final figure of about $350m. In the meantime  Senator DrakeBrockman,  as the Minister- and in that capacity he did a good job- was faced with recurring expenses associated with the need to send specialist investigation groups from the Royal Australian Air Force to the United States to muck about with the position and safeguard the interests of Australia in connection with the design of an aircraft which had not been properly developed. Although the Government said we would not save any money on the deal,  Mr Barnard  went to the United States of America this year and saved $30m. 
Of course. We understand that. Having that experience in mind, we will not be caught in a situation similar to that which the previous Government allowed to develop. The Minister has given an assurance along the lines requested in  Senator Drake-Brockman  's question and I can assure the honourable senator that we will not get into that kind of position. When looking at the question of negotiations for other accompanying equipment, such as the options on the maritime patrol aircraft and options on the tanks, we will make sure that there is sufficient competition to ensure that we get the equipment at a proper price. 
-The question calls for some technical information. Although  Senator Marriott  said that it is a question without notice, it should be asked on notice because obviously such a question cannot be answered off the cuff. It is too technical and too important for that. One would imagine from  Senator Marriott's  question that the people we employed, and whom the previous Government employed- these specialists in the Department of the Navy whom honourable senators on both sides often complimentdid not know what they were up to. The reply is as follows: The ship has bow thrusters capable of propelling it at about 5 knots. The power units on the 2 bow thrusters are large electric motors run from main generators and are similar to motors in the most highly specialised United States submarines. The single screw is driven by 2 gas turbine engines. If both engines failed or the shaft or screws were put out of action the bow thrusters would be used. The chances that these events would happen are very slight indeed. 
These are not my views. The United States Navy conducted very extensive studies of battle damage to warships and found in very few cases where ships were sunk or damaged was there any advantage in ships having 2 screws instead of one. The technical information continues as follows: If battle damage were sufficient to destroy a single screw or shaft it is almost certain that the second screw or shaft in a twin screw ship would be put out of action. The information we have received from the experts shows that the patrol frigate will prove to be one of the most efficient ships that the Australian Navy will have. 
I have seen a transcript of the interview which  Mr Snedden  gave on the steps of Parliament House. 
I do not know about that. I saw the transcript. From reading the transcript, it appears to me that on a number of occasions  Mr Snedden  has stated clearly that he will reduce spending on social welfare and education, but particularly - 
Let me continue. 
I am just stating what I have seen. The transcript shows clearly that the reduced spending will occur more particularly in capital areas. That is the clear answer. Let me relate the question to what is happening today. If the Senate fails to pass the Appropriation Bills many people in Australia who are entitled to repatriation payments which have been approved by this Parliament will not receive those payments. 
There has been recent publicity about this training at Woodside in South Australia. I would like to assure the Senate that in fact the development of interrogators is not the design or intention of the Army in respect of providing assistance to foreign students in that area. The work at Woodside is connected mainly with basic operational intelligence work. It is confined to that. Some instructions are given in respect of interrogation, but this is done only to make them familiar with such methods; it is certainly not done in order to train them to be interrogators in their own country. 
-The Post Office presently is preparing a scheme which will result in a courier service being established some time during 1975. It will be necessary to bring forward legislation in respect to the scheme. The scheme will provide a courier service in competition with the existing private schemes and will be largely based on providing a messenger service which will ensure that more urgent postal articles may be more speedily dealt with between the customer and the various post offices. 
I am aware that some discussions have already taken place, related more precisely to the Minister for Overseas Trade and the Minister for Manufacturing Industry, in which discussions  Mr Cameron  participated. In those discussions there certainly were assurances given that the Government accepted that the capacity to produce those electronic items ought to be maintained. A related subsidy was determined in respect to one item. So some consideration has already been given to the position of Philips Industries and the general position of the electronics industry. As the honourable senator knows,  Mr Cameron  has announced a retraining program in addition, of course, to the other redundancy program. Although the scheme is not yet under way, its preliminary organisation is being considered by the Department of Labor and Immigration and if anybody is made redundant I would think that the legislation would be brought forward in a hurry and would cover the position of workers made redundant. The discussions between the relevant Ministers will no doubt have a beneficial effect upon the Philips enterprise. 
-The Minister for Labor and Immigration has stated that in his opinion it is likely that unemployment will increase. Being an honest Minister he has made the point, but he has taken action to make sure - 
There are factors besides inflation of which account must be taken. There are some changing roles in industry. But what the Minister has done, as the honourable senator mentions, is to bring forward- the Government has approved this- a very comprehensive system of retraining. He hopes that the retraining system will be able to absorb the people who might be unemployed. It is the intention of the Government to so absorb those people, to retrain them and to put them in occupations and industries in which they would be usefully employed as productive elements in the workforce. Certainly, that will cost a great deal of money. The whole scheme is being re-organised and I would think that the reports in connection with it will be available to the Senate within a few days. 
-The tabling of the report will be in the hands of the Special Minister of State. It is being considered by the Government. As the honourable senator has no doubt heard, without revealing the nature of the report, it is a very extensive and comprehensive report with many documents attached to it. It is still being considered. I am not in a position to tell the honourable senator- and 1 do not think that  Mr Bowen  is- exactly when the report will be tabled. However, as the honourable senator mentioned it privately to me, as soon as it is tabled I will certainly make sure that he, as the shadow Minister concerned with the Post Office, gets copies of it. We will do this as speedily as possible. 
Honourable senators may recall that when the Labor Government came to power the Minister for Defence set 3 priorities, in this order: Firstly, he said, in relation to the conditions of engagement of servicemen, that he would make sure that they received a rate of pay which was commensurate with what was being paid in outside industry. This has been achieved. Secondly, having done that, he said that he would ensure that, in relation to pension rates, the defence forces retirement benefits scheme would be reviewed and improved. This has been achieved. Thirdly, he said that at the same time efforts would be made to improve the standards of servicemen's housing. I know that investigations are being carried on.  Mr Barnard  and the Government are aware of the problem in respect of housing. He is making what efforts he can to achieve an improvement in that situation. In respect of the present investigation by the Government, I know that consideration has been given to doing everything possible to improve the standard of housing. I point out to the honourable senator that large amounts of money- many millions of dollars- have been spent in trying to improve conditions for servicemen. I would expect the Minister to concentrate now on the area about which the honourable senator has asked. 
-Outgoing mail from Tasmania has been carried by aircraft and there has been no disruption. However, in relation to surface mail for Tasmania, I have arranged with Trans-Australia Airlines to have  2,000  kilograms of mail delivered per day at emergency rates until the backlog has been cleared up. In addition it is expected that there will be space for  1 , 000  bags of mail to be put on the ship the 'Sydney Trader' which will be departing from Melbourne today. Similar quantities will be delivered on future sailings. It seems that these combined arrangements will overcome whatever backlog there has been. 
-Yes, I have seen the suggestion. I would expect  Major General  Stretton, who now heads the national disaster organisation, to make representation to the Minister for Defence about the proposition which, on paper, seems to be a very good one. All I would like to say is that once a submission has been made I certainly would be happy to look at it, together with  Mr Barnard,  to see how practicable it is. I know that there are a lot of telephone directories. I think that something like 9 million directories are printed in Australia. Somebody would have to meet the cost of the suggestion, and I am not going to say that the PostmasterGeneral presently could do it. I certainly would be happy to work out some arrangement with the Minister for Defence. 
It is now about a month since the Prime Minister announced that  Mr Clyde  Cameron would take over the duties formerly performed by  Mr Grassby  and that the 2 departments- the Department of Labor and the Department of Immigration- would be combined. As the Prime Minister explained, the idea was to make sure that the Department responsible for employment and employment policiesheaded by  Mr Clyde  Cameron- would be more closely allied with the objectives and policies of immigration. That was considered by the Government to be a good thing as it would ensure that the recruitment of people from overseas and the provision of assisted passages to migrants was related more to employment opportunities in Australia. It was considered that this would suit trade unions and management. 
The Prime Minister has explained and the Minister for Labor and Immigration has announced that although the present head of the Department of Labor,  Dr Sharp,  will remain as Secretary of the Department of Labor, he will be assisted now by  Mr Armstrong,  who was formerly the Secretary of the Department of Immigration. Those two will advise the Minister for Labor and Immigration. The Prime Minister has announced in addition that some of the functions that were formerly performed by  Mr Grassby  's Department will be passed over to the Minister for Social Security, the Minister for Foreign Affairs and, in some cases, the Minister for Education. So all that has happened is that there has been a more streamlined approach. There is greater security from the employment and workforce side in respect of policy. There is now in existence a working committee which is obligated to report to the Government on the changeover. The committee which is headed by the Public Service Board involves also the Department of Foreign Affairs and the Department of Social Security. 
I am not aware of the case quoted by  Senator Greenwood.  I will undertake to make inquiries in connection with it and try to give him an answer tomorrow. 
The honourable senator knows that I cannot comment about something which is to be put before the Government. He will have to wait until any proposal from the Government is presented to the Senate. It can then be discussed. 
I can only say in response to  Senator Mulvihill  that even last week  Mr Barnard  met representatives of the New South Wales Government to consider the position of Moore Park and other matters. As a result I would think that he would be able to give the senator a reply within weeks. I do not know how long it will be, but I can tell the honourable senator that the Army is currently considering alternatives. Of course, as  Senator Mulvihill  points out, what has been put to previous Ministers has only recently been put to  Mr Barnard.  While I can appreciate that some action should be taken more speedily, the facts are that the facilities at Moore Park are presently useful to the CMF and to the RAA. I am told that  Mr Barnard  considered an offer from the State Government for an exchange facility. I think that within a number of weeks  Mr Barnard  could respond to the request of  Senator Mulvihill.  I do not think there will be the sort of delay to which the honourable senator has referred. As soon as I have some more concrete proposal I will give  Senator Mulvihill  a reply on the matter. 
Yes, I have seen criticisms of the decision of the Government to amalgamate the departments. On Thursday, as the honourable senator will recall, I endeavoured to explain why the Government had made the changes. I pointed out then that one of the main objectives of the Government was to ensure that migrants dovetail more completely into the work force. I said that some of the functions of the Department and of the former Minister for Immigration would be taken over by the Department of Foreign Affairs and the Department of Social Security. We are aware of the concern about the amalgamation which  Senator Davidson  speaks of and which is being expressed in the migrant community, largely through the migrant Press. The Prime Minister acknowledged his concern in his speech last Saturday to the Good Neighbour Council of South Australia. I can assure the honourable senator, as  Mr Clyde  Cameron has already stated, that the expertise of officials of the former Department of Immigration will not be lost to the migrants or to the Public Service, and that the Department of Labor and Immigration will still serve as an established centre of contact for all migrants. If any migrant is unsure about which Department to approach with a problem, he still will be able to use the Department of Labor and Immigration. When the committee I spoke about on Thursday has made its determinations, instructions will be given as to which area concerning immigration will be served by the respective Ministers. 
The Government will take into account the representations of the bodies about which the honourable senator spoke. If we are to succeed in our objective of allowing those settlers to merge properly with the Australian community we must take account of the advice tendered to the Government by the numerous bodies- I think there are 5 1 bodies- that do so. As the honourable senator would probably know, prior to the double dissolution the Government had settled down to the task of setting a target. The assessment was interrupted by the double dissolution. The Minister for Labor is presently considering such a target, and we hope that shortly he will announce it. 
A recommendation has been put to the Government that concessions in relation to a mail redirection fee should be made in respect of 3 categories- pensioners who are eligible for fringe benefits and government servants, both Federal and State, who are required to move from place to place and who would normally be subject to a redirection fee. We would expect shortly to approve of an arrangement under which they would be exempt from such a redirection fee for the first month. 
It is not practicable at the present time to amalgamate the telephone directories to which the honourable senator referred. However, it has been decided to integrate the names of all subscribers into a single alphabetical list within each of the directories. This will mean that the names of all subscribers in a particular country directory will be presented in one list and so facilitate the task of a person who is searching for the telephone number of a subscriber, obviating the necessity to go through the lists of a number of telephone exchanges. This simplification of the search will mean that only the names and locations of subscribers will be listed and not the exchange. Such a simplification will follow the dialling instructions and other information which presently appear at the head of each individual exchange list. This will apply particularly to the instructions that are common to subscribers connected to a large number of exchanges. While not meeting what  Senator Donald  Cameron wants, I think that the changes will make the facilities provided in telephone directories better. 
-Following the settlement of the recent stoppage, instructions were given to the Post Office to take urgent steps to clear the backlog of mail. In addition to having Post Office employees available, I also instructed one of my assistants- a Minister's assistant- who has some experience in industrial affairs to confer with the Amalgamated Postal Workers Union and other unions. The information I have today is that the position is improving day by day. However, in the Sydney Mail Exchange some delays are occurring in the handling of incoming overseas surface mail, but domestic mail is now being processed without delay. 
Some delays remain in the Sydney metropolitan area where an estimated 60,000 letters and more than 4,000 bags of mail are awaiting delivery. I have already referred to the special steps that I have instructed should be taken. In addition,  Mr Don  Hancock, the officer whom I have mentioned, has been talking with the Postal Workers Union and the other unions concerned and, as a result of these talks, he has introduced new and urgent measures at the North Sydney Post Office, the Vaucluse Post Office, the Randwick Post Office and the Baulkham Hills Post Office. Various arrangements have been made to get assistance and for postmen from adjacent post offices to assist. It is now expected, on the information I have received, that the backlog will be cleared within three or four weeks. 
In this matter our Government is not making any new departure.  Senator Durack's  Government, when it was in office, always had reports considered by its Cabinet before they were presented to the Parliament. While they were the property of the Cabinet they were not available to the Parliament. I have told him that the Cabinet has not yet finished considering the report. As soon as it is available he will be one of the first persons to get a copy because he is a shadow Minister. I can only give him that assurance. I will ensure that he gets all the papers relating to it as soon as Cabinet has finished with the report and then the Parliament will have access to it. 
Before I came into this chamber this afternoon I asked  Mr Barnard's  office whether it knew about the allegations by a New Zealander. I asked what information the office had, including any information in relation to our armed forces. At present we have no other information about this matter. Perhaps I should reply to the question in 2 parts. Certainly the Minister will investigate the claim that has been made by a person alleged to be a corporal in the 6th Royal Australian Regiment in relation to the matters complained about by  Senator Poyser.  The claim will be properly investigated. As I said, no information was given to me prior to entering the chamber today. As to the inquiries which  Mr Barnard's  office has made, the Minister states that he has been advised that the Australian Army has had no report of the incident described in the article in the 'Canberra Times' of 17 July 1974. New Zealand troops were integrated with some Australian Army units in Vietnam from 1965 to 1972. During the period New Zealand also independently deployed some small elements. It is understood that the New Zealand Minister for Defence has announced that an investigation into the allegations will be prosecuted vigorously. So far as the Australian Army is concerned, it is not feasible to investigate the allegations until information such as unit identity, date, place and so on is forthcoming. 
-The Post Office has been looking into this question since 1966. Atone time an interdepartmental committee was set up. The Post Office is completing an economic evaluation of a possible satellite system. A member of the satellite task group is visiting overseas countries this year to ascertain the current situation in those countries which have provided with or are implementing national satellite systems. When that information is obtained a report will be made to the Government in respect of such systems. 

 - Mr Barnard is to go overseas later in the year, not next week. As honourable senators might guess, the Minister's visit will relate to procurement and other matters. While he is overseas and in West Germany in particular, he intends to make inquiries into the arrangements made in the German army for what is called a trade union organisation to see how it operates. The Minister has taken this view not only because some consideration has been given to this matter- it is Labor Party policy-but because he has found in recent trips to Service establishments that there is quite a lot of interest in such an organisation. There have been some reported moves on the part of servicemen to form their own unions, although such moves have not developed. Whilst the Minister considers that it would be appropriate for the servicemen themselves to initiate such an organisation, he will obtain information on the German system and report to the Government. Nothing, of course, will be done until the Government considers the matter. 
Yesterday  Senator Greenwood  asked a number of questions about  Mr Albert  Langer in relation to his employment with the Australian Post Office. I have the following answer with me which I will read as I promised that I would try to get it today.  Mr Albert  Langer applied on 7 March 1974 to sit for an examination for an appointment as a linesmanintraining. On 6 April 1 974 he sat and passed exam No. 6561 conducted by the Austraiian Post Office. After undergoing the normal medical examination the Australian Public Service inspector in Victoria approved the appointment, on probation, of  Mr Langer  as a linesmanintraining on Provident Account conditions. This decision was reached by the Public Service Inspector yesterday.  Mr Langer  was informed of it this morning. The Australian Post Office is waiting  Mr Langer  's decision on whether he will accept the appointment. 
While waiting for notification of his appointment  Mr Langer  applied at Blackburn Post Office for employment as a postman in answer to local advertisements. It is anticipated that  Mr Langer  will continue as a temporary postman for the time being or until he decides to accept his appointment. In answer to  Senator Greenwood  's reference to  Mr Langer  's academic qualifications I state that there is nothing to prevent any person applying for employment in the Australian Post Office for an occupation requiring less qualifications than he may possess. A person's academic qualifications have no bearing on his appointment as a linesman-in-training as the method of entry is by a competitive examination. The Australian Post Office treats all applicants equally, irrespective of their qualifications.  Mr Langer  received the normal treatment given to any applicant. As to whether  Mr Langer  's publicly stated political beliefs should prevent his employment by the Australian Post Office- or for that matter, any other department- I point out that this Government believes in freedom of political beliefs. We do not believe that anybody should be denied employment opportunities because of those beliefs. 
-Quarterly billing is already in the planning stage. It will be done progressively. At present the idea is that anybody, particularly business people, who has a bill exceeding $200 will be in the first category of people to have the option of quarterly billing. The next step will be that residential subscribers will have the option of choosing to have quarterly billing or 6-monthly billing. Once the scheme is in operation the chances are that the Post Office will apply quarterly billing to all subscribers. 
As the honourable senator knows, the general position is that there has been what could be called a drop in workload at Woomera. But as was announced last year, the Government has agreed with Britain to extend the existing arrangements at Woomera until the end of June 1976. Because of the future commitments the Cabinet will shortly be considering a report on the future of Woomera. I would say that the reduced workload and the prospect of some redundancies has largely been offset by wastage in the area. I can only promise that as soon as Cabinet has received the report of the interdepartmental committee on the future of Woomera I will ask  Mr Barnard  to comment. But as I have already mentioned, the arrangements with Britain will continue until 1 976. 
-The latest information which I have from  Mr Barnard  is that enlistments in the Defence Forces generally have been running at a satisfactory level in most categories. In some cases such as officer cadets and other specialist entries the results have been very good indeed. Total army enlistments for the 1 1 months ended in May 1974 were 3,070, which represented about 84 per cent of the planned input. The report is that the intake was very good. Re-engagement rates are continuing at a high level. 
I refer finally to the question which is fairly frequently raised about officer resignations. I wish to point out- as I have done before- that the main reasons for the resignations are that the DFRB scheme was vastly improved and better employment opportunities occurred outside. In some cases under the old scheme officers who resigned more than 3 years before their set retiring age forfeited pensions. At present an officer who resigns after 20 years is entitled to a pension according to his years of service. Of the 484 people who resigned between June 1973 and April 1974, 319 were eligible for pensions and in fact retired early. 
The present retraining scheme is for widowed pensioners who are eligible for suitable employment. They receive their 
S tensions plus various allowances for children, or travel, etc. The scheme is subject to a means test and anything received under it is not taxable. That scheme will be phased into the new scheme, which was announced by the Minister for Labor and Immigration, not before 1 October of this year. Under the new scheme the full time training allowance for all adult trainees will be equal to the average adult male award rate derived quarterly from the Australian Government Statistician. At the present time this would mean a taxable allowance of about $80. It is intended that allowances for living away from home, local fares, home travel, books etc. that now apply will also be paid. 
In view of the comprehensive canvass of the position by  Senator Webster,  to reply adequately a statement would need to be made by the Minister for Labor and Immigration. I will ask the Minister to give  Senator Webster  a studied reply. I will briefly summarise the position. When the Government came into office and was faced with the need to control inflationary forces as much as possible it made certain modifications to tariffs as a result of which, over the long term- it has taken 12 months, as honourable senators know- some displacements have occurred. Possibly  Senator Wriedt  could give a better answer on this aspect but the fact is that the Government then set aside funds to provide for short term displacements so that everybody would be protected. The Government has set up a manpower policy which aims in the long term to provide proper positions for people who may become redundant because positions in the occupations which they previously followed ceased to be available due to economic movements. The Government has also done this in regard to its employees. Special provisions have been made to cover those who have become redundant. 
What the Government has done at the various meetings of Ministers has been to provide a comprehensive manpower policy which will ensure that anybody who is made redundant because of these economic movements in the first place will be protected. Anybody who becomes redundant due to economic factors will get protection and retraining. This morning I will be tabling the report by  Mr Clyde  Cameron in respect to retraining and I will also table the measures which the Government intends to take. So some of the answers to  Senator Webster's  question will be covered in that report. Generally speaking, we aim to have a comprehensive planned policy in respect not only of employment but also accidental unemployment. 
-Senator Webster should know the position because he has read something about it. The papers and reports on the retraining scheme which was announced yesterday by the Minister for Labor and Immigration will be tabled today. Anybody who chooses to retrain because of the general shift in the work force will be entitled to the payment referred to by the honourable senator. But in the case of people who have been displaced by direct government policies, if they cannot be reemployed they will receive the long term payment. I suggest that the honourable senator read the documents which will be presented this morning. If he is not satisfied then I will ask the Minister to give him a comprehensive reply. 
-I know that officers of the Australian Conciliation and Arbitration Commission had discussions with the 2 unions. On Friday last the Premier of South Australia met representatives of at least one of the unions. I am not aware of the current position, but I will see what information I can get for  Senator Jessop  and I will let him know. 
There have been some demands for car telephones. At the present time, the telephones are supplied by private suppliers and are available in Adelaide, Sydney and Melbourne. The Post Office is of the belief that it should provide these telephones and improve the systems. It is presently engaged in studying to what extent a new system of telephones might be applied in this category and also to what extent the Post Office itself will provide this service. The study is not yet complete, but as soon as the information is available I will let  Senator Donald  Cameron have it. 
-I have not got the figures available but I will get the information concerning school leavers for  Senator Laucke.  Usually figures issued by the Department of Labor and by the Minister for Labor over the years, including Ministers for Labor in the Governments of which  Senator Laucke  was a member, have been compiled on a yearly basis at the end of the school year with a notation that they included a number of school leavers. I will get a detailed reply and pass it on to the honourable senator. 
That sounds like a sensitive question. I cannot answer it at this stage except to say that this afternoon I will table the Vernon Committee Report. I think that  Senator Davidson  has already heard the news that the Committee believes that the 2 commissions should pay their way. 1 can only say that the honourable senator will have to wait to see what Government policy is with respect to the categories of mail about which he has asked his question. 
-I move: 
That the Senate take note of the report. 
I am pleased to announce that one of the royal commissioners,  Mr J.  J. Kennedy, has agreed to act as  Chairman  of the Interim Board for the Postal Commission and that  Mr A.  G. (Bill) Gibbs,  Chairman  of the Victorian Railways Board, has agreed to act as  Chairman  of the Interim Board for the Telecommunications Commission. I seek leave to continue my remarks. 
Leave granted; debate adjourned. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
The purpose of the Bill is very simple. It is to extend the operation of the Stevedoring Industry (Temporary Provisions) Act 1967-1973 for a period of 2 years. The Stevedoring Industry (Temporary Provisions) Act was enacted in 1 967 to give legislative effect to the agreement entered into by the National Stevedoring Industry Conference which was set up by the previous Government under the chairmanship of  Mr A.  E. Woodward, Q.C., as he then was, with the object of achieving long-term improvement of conditions in the stevedoring industry. The principal features of the National Conference proposals were: A scheme for the permanent employment, on weekly hiring, of waterside workers in major ports; a pension scheme for regular waterside workers; arrangements for coping with anticipated redundancy; new procedures for handling industrial disputes; and disciplinary procedures appropriate to conditions of permanent employment. 
These proposals involved significant changes in the role of the Australian Stevedoring Industry Authority, whose functions in relation to permanently employed watersiders were to be largely transferred to the stevedoring companies. The necessary enabling legislation was originally introduced for a trial period expiring on 30 June 1970, by which time it was anticipated that legislation providing for permanent arrangements in the industry could be introduced. This temporary legislation has since been extended on 3 occasions. The reason for these successive extensions of the legislation was that at no time was it feasible, in the face of a continued rapid rate of technological change and because of associated financial and redundancy problems, to evolve permanent legislative arrangements for this industry. 
On the last occasion that the legislation was extended I indicated that this Government hoped to be in a position to introduce permanent legislation for the industry prior to 30 June this year. While this was not possible a great deal has been done in the interim to examine possible forms of organisation which might be adopted for the industry, and to obtain the views of the parties concerned. This, in turn, has required an extensive study of the legal and administrative problems which, while at an advanced stage, has not yet been completed. It is therefore proposed that the present temporary legislation be extended for a further period of 2 years. While recommending an extension of the temporary legislation for a further 2 years, it would be my intention to indicate to the Parliament the Government's proposals for the industry well before the expiry of that period. Extending the life of the Act will not of course preclude the introduction of permanent legislation at an earlier date if this proves feasible. Indeed, an earlier date for permanent legislation is desirable. I commend the Bill to the Senate. 
Debate (on motion by  Senator Greenwood)  adjourned. 
Since I answered a question on this matter last week when there were, from memory, about 60,000 articles still being held up because of the industrial stoppage which occurred a few weeks before, the position has vastly improved. There are now fewer than 30,000 pieces of mail held up - 
-I think that the honourable senator's interjection arises from the fact that unfortunately there was a report in one of the newspapers indicating that 60 million articles had been held up. I might say that I appreciate the work of one of my staff in helping to settle the dispute. The threat of another dispute this week has now been averted. The position has improved considerably. Last weekend a number of postal officials offered to work overtime and, except in a number of post offices, the mail clearance has been carried out very speedily. 
The decision to start such an examination was made by the previous 
Government at about the time when colour television was mooted because it was considered that there would be some need to improve the signals. The examination is currently being made. I understand that the Australian Broadcasting Control Board and the PostmasterGeneral's Department are almost in a position to make the report on suggested improvements to cable television. As far as I am aware, it will be available very soon. 
The Services have consistently followed a policy, even during the term of the previous Government- if the honourable senator read the information given to members of Parliament he would know this-that despite movements of manpower in all the Services there should be a continuing recruiting campaign. They argue that by following such a policy they are able to achieve more selective recruitment; they are able to choose a person who is more suited to their requirements than the person they would normally get. That is the policy which was pursued in the past and which is being pursued more vigorously now. The Minister for Defence has asked recruiting officials to make sure that recruiting is carried out in an attractive way. The honourable senator will remember that last week 1 said that the response to the new recruiting campaign has been more than satisfactory and that the Minister has been supplied with information from the Services that the people who are being recruited are of a high standard. 
Last week either  Senator Jessop  or  Senator Davidson  asked me for information in relation to the work-load at Woomera, and I have sought the information. As I have mentioned, a study is being prepared for the Government, but it has not yet been completed. At present about 70 members of the Royal Navy are at Woomera to conduct trials of the 'Seawolf' missile. While these are the first trials to be held at Woomera for some time, I do not think that they have increased the work-load there. I will find out the answer, see whether my statement is correct or incorrect, and let the honourable senator know. 
Of course that information will come out during the debate. But the facts are that the cost of subscriber trunk dialling calls will be increased. There will be a reduction in the charge for STD calls up to a range of 50 kilometres. There will be some substantial savings. We have sent out a list to every member of Parliament. I hope  Senator Young  has one. If he has not he should get one soon. The list indicates the benefits which apply under these new arrangements. Calls at certain hours of the night over that distance will be charged at the local call rate. I think that answers the honourable senator's question. 
-The Australian Post Office already has a meter which is available to subscribers. The extra cost of the meter is about $8 and no installation fee is involved. In addition a new metering system is being looked at which will enable a subscriber not only to register calls but also, where necessary, to cancel them out. The improved or more sophisticated meter will be more expensive. From the information I have the presently available meter is fairly satisfactory. The only fluctuation in relation to its performance is in respect of the area which is accounted for by the Post Office, or the length of time in metering calls by the subscriber. Generally it has proved to be satisfactory. The new system will be much improved. 
-I think that I should obtain more detailed information about this matter for the honourable senator. But with respect to the general scope of the question I can state that the policy of the Minister for Labor and Immigration and the Government in relation to the present target about which the honourable senator asked last week is to ensure that half of the target should consist of skilled people.  Senator Davidson  will recall that even though targets of 120,000 people and 100,000 people have been set previously, they have never been successful because of people returning home. I do not know what will be the impact on our new target of 80,000 people of the advertising in the United Kingdom, but I shall find out and let  Senator Davidson  know the results of my inquiries. 
Only this morning  Senator Drury  wrote me a letter asking me what was the result of an inspection we made at Woodside about a fortnight ago. A number of questions have been asked about this. In response to requests I went up there with  Senator Drury  and met the officers and personnel in the camp. Three main questions have been submitted to the Minister for Defence for consideration. One concerns those personnel who are on duty at the weekend and who normally would not be able to use the bus which is provided for them from their accommodation north of Adelaide to Woodside. We have asked the Minister to provide those servicemen on duty with a travelling allowance. 
Secondly, we have asked that the accommodation which is now provided be upgraded. We have asked that those long huts with dormitorytype accommodation be partitioned. Thirdly, we have asked that the welfare huts or the premises which are set aside as amenities be upgraded with improved furniture. The Minister has promised to give those questions as much consideration as he can. I have not received his reply yet but when I get it I will see that the honourable senator gets a copy of it. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 

 Mr President, this Bill is complementary to the amendments to the Post and Telegraph Rates Act 1902-1973 which I have just introduced. In order to implement the changes of which I have spoken in conjunction with the Post and Telegraph Rates Act amendments, it is necessary to make certain amendments to the Post and Telegraph Act and to the Postal Regulations, the Telephone Regulations, the Telegraph Regulations and the Radio-Telephone Exchange Service Regulations. As mentioned previously, this Bill also makes changes to the Post and Telegraph Act which are necessary to permit the introduction of a Post Office courier service. I commend the Bill to honourable senators. 
Debate (on motion by  Senator Durack)  adjourned. 
-The Australian Post Office insists that 90 per cent of the equipment which it purchases should be produced in Australia by Australian workers. The fact is that about half of the equipment involved in the contract to which  Senator Poyser  has referred is to be supplied by companies which are not to any large extent Australian owned, but these firms are the only suppliers of the sort of equipment which the Post Office needs for its technical services. 
If the honourable senator read the Veron Report he would see where the Commission - 
You see, he has not read the report; he does not know anything about it, yet hr is starting to tell me what my business is. If he had read the Vernon Report he would know that the Commission had inquired into the purchasing policies and industrial procedures of the Post Office in connection with the supply of such equipment, and that the Commission approved the present arrangements which exist with the manufacturers. I might point out for  Senator Webster's  benefit that the consultants also made inquiries into these matters and they were satisfied as to the specialised activities of the Post Office which of course have been built up over a number of years. 
The Government's policy has been announced several times by  Mr Barnard.  It is the view of the Government that such training should be voluntary. Schools with cadet units have been advised that if there is any compulsion official support will be withdrawn from those schools by the Government. I understand that there are some schools which could maintain cadet units at their own expense and in those circumstances perhaps they can apply their own rules. Only yesterday  Mr Barnard  pointed out that he had not finished his study of the report on school cadet units and that he had asked the Minister for Education,  Mr Beazley,  and the Minister for Tourism and Recreation,  Mr Stewart,  to consider it. Following their discussions there will be a submission to the Government in connection with the report. 
-It is expected that the construction of the building will be completed later this year, but because of the need to install a number of complex pieces of equipment, the facility as a whole will not come into operation until 1 975. The total cost will be about $ 1 5m, but the equipment itself is worth $8m. 1 might add that a number of matters have been put to me by the unions which will have members working in this building and, together with the DirectorGeneral of Posts and Telegraphs, I hope to have talks with the unions on the actual operation of the installation when it is completed. 
-I think that I should answer only that pan of the question in respect of which I have knowledge of what happened when these matters were first mooted. Really it is now a matter primarily for  Senator Wriedt  who, in this chamber, represents the Minister for Manufacturing Industry. Perhaps I could answer that part of the question and then  Senator Wriedt  might like to supplement it. When the defence vote was cut last year it had some effect on the defence factories. As soon as that became evident the Minister for Defence,  Mr Barnard,  advised the Australian Council of Trade Unions and the unions concerned of the cuts and what might happen.  Senator Primmer  might remember that, together with  Mr Barnard,  I took part in the talks with the unions, and as a result of those talks the so-called cuts were held. Since that time there have been no retrenchments. There has been some fall-off in the work force because of natural attrition. So the full impact of that was not as severe as had been first expected. 
Because attention was drawn to this circumstance again this year the unions again came along, I think considering that there were to be some new cuts. Perhaps  Senator Wriedt  might like to add to what I am saying, but the Government and the Minister in particular have met the officials of the unions and are taking whatever steps they can to ensure that in relation to these matters there will be minimum effect on the work force. 
-I think I should get the Minister's opinion on that. My own quick reaction would be that they would not be so classified because in fact they will be regrouped into a new industry. They are being retrained. My own opinion, and I state it only as my own opinion, is that they would not be included in the statistics. I might mention that, as the Senate probably knows, both the Statistician and the Department have some new method of calculating unemployment figures. In view of the significance of the question and the importance of the retraining scheme and the statistics I think I should ask  Mr Cameron  to supply an answer which I will give to the honourable senator. 
I cannot answer the question at this stage. I can only undertake to have the matter examined not only by the Minister for Labor and Immigration but also by any other interested Minister. I will let the honourable senator know the answer. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 

 Mr President, at the Premiers Conference in Canberra on 7 June 1 974 the Prime Minister (  Mr Whitlam)  announced that there would be substantial increases in postal and telecommunications charges. These are required to ensure that the rates which customers pay for Post Office services are sufficient to cover costs and also provide a surplus which can be re-invested to help meet the growing demand for service. Details of these proposed adjustments are contained in 2 
Bills. Comments on the main proposals follow. For convenience details are set out in the schedules now available to honourable senators. In the main, the effective date of variations is 1 August 1974. This Bill is to amend the Post and Telegraph Rates Act in respect of postal and telegraph charges. Another Bill will amend the Post and Telegraph Act and associated regulations. Certain miscellaneous charges will be adjusted by administrative action. 
Post Office Trading Results 
Although the Post Office's commercial accounts for the year ended 30 June 1974 are not available at this stage, it appears from preliminary estimates that the overall result was a break-even position only. At current tariffs, the Post Office loss could exceed $ 100m in 1974-75. In common with business undertakings throughout Australia, costs have risen because of higher wages, increases in material prices, and improvements in conditions of service, especially for recreation leave and superannuation. That proportion of costs which cannot be absorbed by productivity improvements needs to be passed on to customers. 

 Major changes in superannuation liability have occurred. In 197 1 it was decided to increase the Government's share of pensions and in 1972 the previous Government appointed Professor A. H. Pollard to inquire into methods of adjusting Commonwealth superannuation benefits. Resulting from his recommendation, the Superannuation Act 1973 provided for staff pensions to be adjusted by 1.4 times the percentage increase in the consumer price index. These actions increase future payments to past and present Post Office employees; so there must be a sharp increase in Post Office payments for superannuation liability. Post Office payments for superannuation liability increased from $49m in 1972-73 to $104m in 1973-74, and provision for payment of $ 130 m has been made in the Post Office budget for this year. 
One important change is being made to the financial structure of the postal service, which will offset in part some of the cost increases. As recommended by the Australian Post Office Commission of Inquiry, it is intended to write off accumulated postal losses as at 30 June 1974. This will reduce the postal service's interest bill by about $ 17m in 1974-75. Much of these losses has arisen because charges were set too low in relation to costs by decisions of the previous Government for economic or political reasons. Because interest has been payable on losses there is a spiral process which must be broken if the postal service is to be placed on a reasonable footing for the future. It is generally accepted that the Post Office should finance a significant proportion of postal and telecommunications expansion. The report of the Vernon Commission recommends that 50 per cent of fixed asset expenditure should be financed from internal sources- profits and provisions for depreciation and long service leave. This enables the Post Office to meet demand for service at a higher level than would be possible if finances were restricted to borrowings available through the Budget. 
In particular, it has been decided as a deflationary measure to restrict Post Office borrowings in 1974-75 to the same amount as in 1973-74, that is $385m. The effect of the proposed higher charges on the consumer price index is marginal; it is estimated at about 0.2 per cent in 1974-75. With the proposed charges and likely increases in wage rates, a profit of about $60m is forecast, which is more comparable with the $60m earned in 1971-72, and the $41m in 1972-73. 
Post Office  Tariff  Structure 
Last year, the Government made important changes in the Post Office tariff structure, by tackling concessional and uneconomic areas of Post Office activity which provided hidden subsidies to selected areas of the community. It is unfortunate that some of the Government's efforts to phase out concessions were obstructed, particularly the registered newspaper and periodical category which will lose about $9m in 1974-75. This loss continues to be met by other Post Office customers who must pay more than they should, on cost grounds, for the services they use. In these proposals, attention is given to public telephone and telegraph facilities, both of" which it is appreciated provide important community services. The public telephone local call fee was last varied in 1 963 and public telegram rates in 1 970. It is necessary for these to be adjusted to take into account cost increases since those years and thereby to reduce the loss which must be covered by other customers. 
For many years up to 1964, the rental for government and business telephone services was higher than for residential services. This recognised that the telephone service is far more valuable to the business subscriber than to the private subscriber. The businessman also has the advantage of claiming the telephone as an expense for taxation purposes. It is considered that these reasons are still valid and that it would be equitable to re-introduce a higher rental for business and Government services than for residential and other services. The practice of differential rentals is followed in many other countries including Britain, Canada, United States of America, and New Zealand. In the postal service also, an important change is being made in the tariff structure. The traditional letter and other articles categories, based on contents, will be replaced by standard postal articles and nonstandard postal articles, based on shape and size which are the major determinants of handling costs. Standard articles in envelopes conforming to the Australian Standards Association specification are the cheapest for the Post Office to handle, both in manual and machine systems because of their convenient size and shape, and should attract the cheapest postage rate for the ordinary mail. 
The Vernon Commission expressed the view that to meet the recommended financial objectives, postal tariffs would need to be increased at the rate of 15 per cent per annum and telecommunications charges at 7 per cent per annum. These proposals are in excess of those figures, being 22 per cent and 17 per cent, respectively. Costs have escalated at a much higher rate since this matter was considered by the Commission of Inquiry. At this point in time it seems likely that labour costs in 1974-75 will be about 25 per cent higher than in 1973-74, compared with the 12Vi per cent assumed previously by the Post Office and the Commission. 
The Government is concerned about the rate of inflation and will continue vigorous efforts against it with the object of reducing it to 8 per cent by mid- 1975. In the meantime, however, the cost increases being incurred by the Post Office must be passed on to a greater degree than formerly, as with other business undertakings. I commend the Bill to honourable senators. 
Debate (on motion by  Senator Durack)  adjourned. 
-I would say that, while the figures which were released by  Mr Barnard  yesterday relating to the annual end of year target are still short of the Government's aim, there were certain improvements, particularly in June of this year. 
-Senator Webster always tries to help, but he puts his foot in it. The figures show that the Army gained 427 in June, as against 356 in May and 319 in April. The Royal Australian Air Force gained 1 19 in June, as against 105 in May. There has been a decrease in officer resignations.  Senator Drury  might recall that the greater portion of those who resigned from the Services in May were people who were entitled for the first time to resign and take advantage of the improved defence forces retirement benefits scheme. In June there were 9 officer resignations from the Royal Australian Navy, compared with 17 in May and 24 from the Army compared with 32 in May. In the Air Force there were 16 resignations in each of those 2 months. There has been a pretty good improvement in recruitment rates, although the annual rates still have not reached the target at which we have aimed. In the Navy the rate increased from 58 per cent to 60 per cent at the end of the year, and in the Air Force from 70 per cent to 75 per cent. So it would seem that the Minister's statement is true. There is confidence in the community, and people are turning now, with the present labour market, to the attractions of Service employment. 
The service will provide the Post Office with a better and more efficient system for handling that part of its duties. It will also give a more accurate service to the customer. Steps are currently being taken to extend the service from Sydney and Melbourne to the other States. The first stage of computer processing started in Adelaide in March 1974. It is intended that this initial stage will be introduced in Brisbane and Perth in the second half of the year. Current planning is that subscribers' records in each State will be converted over a period of about 2 years. 
Normal air services have been resumed with Greece but mail for Turkey and Cyprus is still not being received by those 2 countries. Telephone services to Turkey and Cyprus are still out for an indefinite period. Telephone services to Greece were resumed yesterday morning but are still subject to some delays. Telex and telegram services to Turkey and Greece are operating but are subject to long delays. 
-I think I could say that the policy referred to by the honourable senator is what might be called a platform policy which will be put before the Moore conference in the early part of next month with the idea of seeing whether the employers and the unions will accept what the Minster for Labor and Immigration calls, and the Government suggests should be, a package deal. That package deal does not relate only to cost of living adjustments. The Senate will be advised precisely, I take it, later on by way of a report to it. Wrapped up in the so-called package deal, which will start with cost of living adjustments, is the proposition that the parties should then attend to what productivity factor should be taken into account m settling national wage demands. Related to this proposition is the question that the honourable senator raises about what happens if there are applications by unions for particular awards. It is presumed that in the package deal it would be recognised that trade unions and other people would be able to come to settlements by agreement or through the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission in relation to claims based on technology, changes in industry, differential rates and so on. That procedure would still apply. 
Let me come back to the first proposition. I do not think I should be too precise because really it is the proposition of the Minister for Labour and Immigration which is to go before the conference. I will obtain a copy of that proposition and give it to  Senator Carrick.  I think that the Minister is starting at a platform point and is proposing flat rate increases at a particular level. I think that the extent to which the Minister will be prepared to move from that concept will depend on the response he gets from the employers and the unions and the report that he gets from the conference. The Leader of the Government in the Senate,  Senator Murphy,  can correct me but, as I understand the position, the Minister must bring that report before the Cabinet. It seems to me that there is to be a certain amount of latitude in those discussions. I am not sure that I am quoting what  Senator Murphy  would say is Government policy, but it is my view that there ought to be a basis for negotiation to see whether there can be some policy which will minimise the number of disputes now occurring in Australia. 
I can only refer again to what seemed to me to be a fair interpretation of the package deal proposal. I repeat that I will ensure that all honourable senators receive a copy of what is determined by Cabinet. But in putting this package deal to the Moore conference the Minister for Labor and Immigration and the Government intend to argue that if this system, were adopted if would minimise stoppages because, as the honourable senator is aware, at the present time a number of disputes occur because of the inflationary spiral. To my knowledge, many disputes occur because unions and workers seek new pay levels because they claim that inflation has eaten into their present levels. The Minister proposes that if there is agreement on wage indexation, there will be a cost of living system and also an arrangement to work out what flow-on from productivity should go to the workers. If the unions accept that position there will be a cost of living adjustment which will be translated into basic wages at a certain proposed level. But I think that the options are open for a movement to be made in the conference if the unions react to this. It is to be argued that if the employers also accept that position it will minimise the number of stoppages which can be said to relate particularly to wage demands because of increases in the cost of living and rising prices. 
in reply- Firstly, I remind  Senator Davidson  that when a similar situation existed previously, that is when the Australian Post Office found that there were shortfalls in its earnings to the extent of about $8m,  Senator Anderson,  as he then was, introduced into this chamber a proposal to increase Post Office tariffs. On that occasion  Senator Davidson  certainly was recorded as putting up the same sort of argument as he has advanced tonight. In fact, at page 1543 of Hansard of 12 May 1967 he is recorded as supporting the question that the Bill be read a second time. He went along with all those honourable senators opposite who tonight are complaining about what  Senator Murphy  did in 1967 and what we are doing in 1974. Let me remind the Senate of the issues that are posed in this legislation. We are facing a situation which is no different from the situation which was confronted on 3 occasions by the previous Government which for 23 years managed the Australian Post Office. But every now and again the previous Government found that it had to advance a proposition- not in election years, as  Senator McAuliffe  said, but in other years- to increase Post Office tariffs in order to ensure that the earnings of the Post Office would not be less than the revenue and that there would not be calls upon taxpayersother than some fractional demands- to provide an amount of money to subsidise postal tariffs or telegraph tariffs. We are doing the same thing tonight. 
It has been argued that the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  announced these increased Post Office charges at the same time as he announced certain inflationary circumstances. But what the Prime Minister has done is in fact to seek a containment of Post Office expenditure. Honourable senators will recall that when the Prime Minister announced this decision and also when he spoke to the State Premiers he pointed out that in his opinion the Post Office ought to be contained to borrowings on account of the Budget to an extent of $386m, in the same way as it had been contained last year, which would mean that the Australian Post Office would be left with a restriction, a cut of 15 per cent. With that sort of proposition in mind- and I suggest that it was a proposition in pursuance of the general policies for restraint of the Australian Government- the Government has found it necessary, as did  Senator Anderson,  as he then was, and the then Postmaster-General in May 1967, outside the Budget to bring a request to Parliament to increase Post Office tariffs because in the present case if they are not increased there will be a shortfall of $ 146 m. 
Tonight much has been said about the situation in 1967. In 1967  Senator Anderson,  as he then was, brought before the Parliament Post Office tariff increases which provided for a profit of $67m. On current values $67m in 1967 would be worth $100m today. So in 1967 we had the situation in which the previous Government, which was in office for 23 years, said: 'Yes, there is a shortfall in earnings of $8m. We have to put up tariffs, and we propose a target of $67m profit'. Today honourable senators opposite are complaining about what was said of a government which set about earning a profit of $67m. As I say, on current values $67m in 1967 would be the equivalent of $100m today. That is the situation. No honourable senator who has referred to what  Senator Murphy  said in 1967 has mentioned what his Leader said at that time.  Senator Anderson,  as he then was, said: 
The facts are simple. If the adjustments were to be associated with the Budget and the proposals in this Bill introduced from 1 October, we would lose upward of $7m in revenue. 
That was in May 1967. We are saying that if we have to wait until the Budget is introduced in order to increase these Post Office charges, which the Opposition proposes in its amendment that we should do, we will lose $32m. I remind honourable senators opposite who were in this Parliament in 1967, including  Senator Davidson,  that when they put up this proposition at that time they said: 'Yes, that is the right way to go about it'. Of course,  Senator Cotton,  who is always a most capable  speaker  on financial matters, and who at one time was Acting PostmasterGeneral, is reported at page 1497 of Hansard of 12 May 1967 as having said: 
I think that business undertakings of governments are to be regarded as far as possible as commercial  undertakings  and they should be asked and expected to pay their way. There are a number of reasons why this is a wise policy. One reason which is quite relevant but is seldom discussed is that it is very good for the morale of the operators in an undertaking. 
At page 1498 of Hansard of the same date he said: 
Without a considerable change in the revenue structure of the Post Office, on the rates charged for its commercial services, heavy losses would have to be borne by the taxpayer who provides the general revenue. I think it is highly irresponsible to suggest that this should be permitted. 
I suggest to honourable senators opposite that the position today is the same. It is highly irresponsible for honourable senators opposite to be taking a certain course of action when we should be bringing down proposals which will increase charges and which will make sure that the Australian Post Office, which has been proved to be a highly efficient organisation, remains that way. 
-Senator Wright asked me for my proof. I take the point of view  Senator Cotton  took in the old days. Nobody can prove that it is an inefficient organisation. There has been no examination of it. 
-It is only a few years since  Senator Cotton,  as Acting Postmaster-General, was in charge of this enterprise. In 1967 there was no inquiry such as the Vernon Commission to justify the point of view which we are advancing. We know differently today.  Senator Wright  might try to reduce and sneer at the recommendations, but it was a most thorough inquiry. It has said that the Post Office is an efficient organisation and that it is justified in making statements which will provide that the Post Office should pay its way. The Labor Government is taking the first step to achieve this objective. 

 - Senator Webster was not a member of this chamber when the early debates on the Post Office took place. He was not a senator when the Labor Party was arguing that a commission should be set up or when a former Director-General said: 'It is time the Post Office was split from the Public Service Board. There should be a commission. The Post Office should pay its way'. The Government has reached that decision. We have asked people with great reputations in the community, as  Senator Wright  agrees, to adjudicate on these matters. They have reported. That report gives the Australian Post Office a clean sheet. They have said that the Post Office is performing its functions properly and that it should proceed to do the sorts of things that we want it to do. So we say that honourable senators opposite should do what  Senator Sir Kenneth  Anderson asked us to do in 1967. Honourable senators opposite did not mention that aspect. We should make sure that the gap is made up by increasing charges. 
What will happen if we do not pass these Bills? Honourable senators opposite tonight will vote against the Bills and will vote in favour of the amendment which seeks to defer consideration of the matters so that they can be examined in the context of the Budget. Honourable senators opposite expect the Government to provide funds to close the gap of $32m. They reject the idea that the Post Office should pay its way. If they reject that idea the loss of $32m from the postponement of the increased charges to apply as from 1 August will cause an increased delay in installing new telephone connections. While everybody is saying: 'Let the Post Office do more work. Let it be more efficient', the number of connections which cannot be made will increase to about 40,000. That number will not be dealt with if honourable senators opposite reject the Bills. 
The Government has already decided, because of the Prime Minister's containment proposals, that there will be a $30m cut in capital works for the Post Office. Having cut that by $30m and having said that there will have to be a further cut until the Budget is presented, the back-up industry, the telecommunications industry, which relies largely upon Post Office orders and which is related to the Post Office, will be seriously affected.  Senator Durack  has advanced the proposition that there is no national planning and programming by the Government to fight inflation, but by proposing these increases the Government is saying that the plan has to continue and that there should be no interruption to the services, connections and demands of the Post Office because to do so would create an unnecessary interruption. I think that the proposition may best be put by saying that it is clear that the $ 146m which honourable senators opposite expect the Government to provide from revenue cannot be applied to improving social standards. 
-Or child care and all other welfare basics. That is the simple proposition. We cannot do that. The Opposition seeks to take that amount of revenue from consolidated revenue to meet increased costs. 
I refer now to what one  speaker  said about the Treasurer  (Mr Crean).  The Treasurer, in his statement about the control of demand, which appears at page 507 of Hansard of 23 July, made it very clear that these increases arise because costs must be covered by the Government and that the Post Office should earn a profit which should be invested to help to finance expansion. That is the way in which an enterprise such as the Post Office should operate. We anticipate that the increases will mean a profit of $60m for the current financial year. The Post Office has two separate areas. In the postal area there will still be a loss of $ 50m. Everybody knows that in that area, which is labour intensive, the possibility of improving the position is not sound. We have had that situation demonstrated during the years of government by the Liberal and Country Parties. It is estimated that in the telecommunications area there will be a profit of about $1 10m. We have a clear position in which every action by the previous Government and every position taken by Opposition speakers tonight demonstrate that the Labor Government's actions are justified. 
The Bills will be defeated, but postponement of these matters until they can be examined in the context of the Budget simply means that Australian Post Office, which has been adjudged an efficient operation by the Vernon Commission, will be deprived of $32m in funds. Its activities and the sort of services which it should be able to provide more quickly, such as catching up the lag in telephone connections and telecommunications work, will not be done as quickly as possible. I know that a lot of senators opposite write frequently to the Minister about the need to make telephone connections and to improve various facilities throughout the country. After tonight it will be no good their writing to the Postmaster-General about these matters and complaining about delays because there will be many delays. 
Let me .refer to certain things which some honourable senators opposite said. My time is short because of the hour.  Senator Lawrie  referred to the network being under-used. He referred to country exchanges. He argued for some sort of subsidy for those operations. He compared the costs of country exchanges with the costs of exchanges in the metropolitan area. He stated tonight that he will vote for the amendment. He will find that business people and people in the country will have to wait if the Post Office is deprived of the revenue about which we are talking. He talked about trunk line calls. Apart from the increase in the cost of trunk line calls, there have been a number of reductions which would have applied in his area and which would have been of great benefit to his area. Many members of Parliament are now saying that as a result of the changes in the cost structure for trunk calls there will be many improvements. 
Opposition senators spoke also about what the Vernon Commission failed to say about rural conditions and facilities. The Vernon report says broadly that, if the Government decides that there ought to be some subsidies or special facilities in the rural area, the Government ought to provide funds for them but the organisations themselves should not have to do it.  Senator Lawrie  complained that a courier service had not been applied before. I would like to say that courier services have been operating for about 9 years. The previous Government had a chance to do what this Government has decided to do- it has now decided to compete with the private operators and to set up courier services. 
One of the most unusual view points was that put forward by  Senator Steele  Hall. He started off by saying that he agreed that the Australian Post Office had to recover its costs. He argued in his preliminary remarks in a sort of way in support of the Government's proposition but then he decided to change his tack and said: 'Anyhow, I am going to support the amendment'. He said that the Government had no leadership and no national plans to meet inflation. That is a curious position to adopt. It would seem to me that, if a person agrees that the Post Office must recover its costs, he should say that he will vote with the Government. The only contribution  Senator Steele  Hall made in relation to what cost savings might be made was when he referred to the Black Mountain tower. He said that somehow the Government should reconsider what it had done about this matter. It has been considered on 3 occasions by the Cabinet. It has been considered by all the departments responsible- the Postmaster-General's Department, the Department of the Environment and Conservation and the Department of Housing and Construction. Examinations and studies have been made by experts who have come to the view that, because of the expenditure of about $2m that has been made, the tower ought to be continued. The Government has finally accepted that position. Certainly I have no chance of changing that position. I do not intend to change the position because I think it has been properly tested.  Senator Steele  Hall may have received representations, as I have done, from local bodies. I have stated quite clearly that, in my opinion, the position of the Black Mountain tower has undergone technical testing and has been found to be satisfactory. The work is under way and cannot be stopped except by some legal position. 

 Senator Wright talked in a general way about the Vernon Commission and, in my opinion, tended to denigrate what had been done by the Commission. I think that when he reads the report thoroughly and considers the recommendations he will come around to the viewpoint that he held in 1967 when he voted for a Bill similar to the Bill now being debated. He referred also to industrial relations. It is true that the Post Office has had an unfortunate record of industrial disputes which very quickly affect communications. But if one looks at the record of industrial disputes one finds that the figures for hours lost by these disputes in the period 1969-73 show that the record of the Post Office has generally been better than the record of other Australian enterprises. 
-That is right, and many options have been taken on people because of their experience.  Senator Maunsell  got back to the real question of subsidy when he said that it was ridiculous that users should pay, that some part of it should come from revenue.  Senator Young  complained about the increases for category A and category B publications, which of course apply from 1 March 1975, but he forgot to mention that he in fact supported them. While it seems clear that the Opposition, with the support of the 2 independent senators, will prevent the Post Office from securing the funds it needs if it is to be an efficient organisation, we can expect them not to frustrate what might come out of the Budget. It is certain that the Government will have to apply increased tariffs in the Budget to make sure that the Post Office earnings do not fall short of expenditure. In that case all that the Opposition is doing is deferring something which ought to be provided now. In so deferring it the Post Office is being prevented from carrying out the sort of work aims and programs which it should carry out. It seems to me that this creates some uncertainty in the telecommunications industry generally because that industry should have a constant market from the Post Office. In those circumstances I am sorry that the independent senators have, as I understand it, so far decided to support the amendment. I think that the position is as it was in 1967. I know that the Government 's proposition is correct. 
Question put: 
That the words proposed to be left out  (Senator Durack's amendment)  be left out. 
Honourable senators will recall that when the present Government was in Opposition we often criticised the then Government for its failure to ratify conventions. The then Government used to argue this way: 'We cannot ratify conventions because we have to deal with the States'. For this reason, and various others, we thought that that Government was moving too slowly in ratifying conventions. I think that it ratified about 33 conventions out of 136 formulated by the International Labour Organisation whereas countries such as France have ratified as many as 93 conventions. Since the Labor Government has been in office it has ratified 7 conventions, the most recent being that ratified by the Minister for Labor which deals with the social consequences of cargo handling methods. I  think that our  record on this matter is much better than that of the previous Government. 
-The Post Office is now considering arrangements which should provide a superfast mail service for traffic between Australia and the United Kingdom and Australia and the United States of America. It is proposed that the service should start in August. It should mean that within 48 hours of the receipt of articles in Sydney and Melbourne those articles would be delivered to areas in the United Kingdom and in the United States. There will be a pretesting period to determine whether the service will be successful or not. As I have mentioned, the service should start early next month. 
I have seen the reports in the weekend newspapers but after yesterday's debate,  Mr President,  you would probably expect me to give the answer that Eliza Doolittle gave but which I cannot repeat in the Senate. It is not very likely that anything of the type referred to in the reports would be done. However, there is what is called by the Post Office a free post system which is similar to the business reply system. I suppose that is where the reports have their origin. It is planned to develop and expand this arrangement so that the ordinary customers of a number of advertisers might be able to use a similar system, using their own notepaper. It would seem that that is where the reports have their origin, but the developments are as I have mentioned to the honourable senator. 
-I do not think at this stage that I should embark upon an answer in relation to the issues in dispute because anything I say- I know that  Senator Wright  has made the same observation in the past- might not help to settle the dispute but might make it worse. But during the course of the day I will get as much relevant information as I can and give it to  Senator Wright.  If before the Senate adjourns I am able to say anything which will not worsen the situation I will certainly ask the Minister for Labor and Immigration to allow me to do so. 
Since  Senator Jessop  asked me a question about this matter last week I have asked the Minister for Labor and Immigration to give me whatever information he could about it. At that stage there was a suggestion that a wider group of interests would be convened to consider the matter.  I  am not sure of the current position.  I  am aware of the dispute and of the attempts by the Premier of South Australia, for example, and the Australian Conciliation and Arbitration Commission to make some arrangements. At the conclusion of question time  I  will ask the Minister for Labor and Immigration the current position. However,  I  suggest that the honourable senator should think twice before asking any government to use its defence Services to intervene in an industrial dispute because history has proved quite clearly that disastrous industrial consequences will result from intervention of this type. 

 -No. Senator Hall's colleague from South Australia asked me whether  I  would recommend that the defence Services be used to lift the cargo of steel, and  I  said that  I  thought that efforts to resolve the dispute ought to be accelerated.  I  said that to my knowledge-  I  suppose also to the honourable senator's knowledge- there had been a recent increase of the people involved in trying to settle the dispute. The final suggestion by  Senator Jessop  was that we should use the defence Services and  I  said that certainly should not be considered in these circumstances because such action could have very complicated and wide effects. But there ought to be,  I  agree, renewed efforts to solve the dispute.  I  will do what  I  can to give the honourable senator the information this afternoon. 
I think a number of matters are involved in such a judgment. I will examine the position with Post Office authorities and let the honourable senator know. 
-The Minister for Labor and Immigration has announced his scheme. It is not clear to me whether those particular categories to which the honourable senator refers would be eligible under that scheme but I will find out and let the honourable senator know. 

 -Senator Mcintosh asked me about this matter late last night. I have been able to obtain only some preliminary figures on it. It would appear that during 1972-73 a total amount of $ 1 . 1 m was written off as bad debts. I am told that, in fact, that amount corresponds with the percentage of bad debts in previous years. Of course, the amount written off as bad debts should be compared with the total earnings which are expected to be about $850m for the year. I am told by the Department- but I intend to make further inquiries into this matterthat every effort is made in the first instance to check the applicants' details on their cards and also to search departmental records to ensure that they do not have a history of bad debts. In cases where a customer does not pay very well, the Department provides interim accounts to be sent out to shake them up. But finally, if the debts are not paid, the services are disconnected and action is taken through the Department. 
-I cannot hear what the honourable senator is mumbling. If he wants to ask a question, why does he not get up and ask it? I am saying that as far as I can see the Department is taking the correct action. The figures that I have given are the Australian figures. As a result of  Senator Mcintosh's  inquiries, I shall have the matter further searched to see that every effort is made to have these debts recovered. 
-I do not think that there is any way in which the Government can obtain such information through legislation. Following  Senator Young's  inquiries in March I investigated the position and found that the situation is much the same as it was when I was more familiar with the industrial scene. In many cases a union management committee or council decides that the secretary of the union shall not receive his pay during a stoppage. I know of many such actions and decisions on that basis. I know that this matter is subject to the rules of the organisation concerned. I will try to find out the current position for the honourable senator. I know that in many cases union officials decide to waive such payments and that in other cases such payments are made during stoppages. As  Senator Cavanagh  has reminded me, during disputes and troubles of that nature or arbitration proceedings the secretaries of unions are involved in performing much more arduous duties and in greater expenditure than they would be ordinarily. My personal experience goes back to about 1950 when, as a result of a long solidarity strike, I lost 2 months' wages. I will try to get some more up to date information for the honourable senator and let him know about it. 

 -Recently Senator Drury and I visited the camp. Last week  Senator Laucke  asked me a question about certain matters in relation to the camp, particularly in relation to amenities. As was explained to me at the time of the inspection and also when the matter was raised with me some months ago, the servicemen's complaint was that anybody rostered for duty on a weekend did not get the usual Army transport. They were required to use their own vehicles on that occasion whereas many servicemen who had been posted or were located north of Adelaide were provided with Army transport during ordinary week days. The Minister for Defence has given directions that any soldier rostered for duty on a weekend will be entitled to a mileage allowance if he uses his own private vehicle. 
Substantial funds have been spent on the Woodside camp in respect of the RAR battalion quarters, the amenities blocks and accommodation for the intelligence section. But I do not think these changes have satisfied the requests of the people at the camp who are looking for new amenity centres and facilities. I can tell  Senator Drury  and  Senator Laucke  that these matters are under review. As soon as I can get a determination from the Minister I will inform them. 

 - Mr President, the honourable senator knows the answer to the question because he spoke in opposition to the proposal to increase tariffs. 

 - Senator, you read the Prime Minister's statement. I think you quoted what the Prime Minister had said would be the restrictions. 
-Senator Wright, I am answering the question. You are not going to interrupt me as you did last night on the adjournment debate. If we have to wait until budget time for increased tariffs, which we are now compelled to do because of the Opposition's actions, for a start there will be a loss of about $35m, which was the figure I mentioned. In addition since the tariff proposals that I put up were developed there has been already a further increased loss of about $ 1 5 m. 
Since the tariff proposals were developed. There will be a gap of nearly 3 months between that time and the budget time before the tariff proposals can be applied. The Opposition has made it almost impossible for the Post Office to operate. Not only has the Government said this. If honourable senators will read today's issue of the 'Australian' they will see that the Director-General, who had long experience under Liberal Postmasters-General, is reported to have said exactly that. The Post Office needs money and the actions to defer the tariffs have simply placed an unfair burden on the Post Office. The position is that the Post Office has already planned to cut capital expenditure by $30m. It will certainly have to further restrict many services and it now is an issue whether by budget time- after 3 months when we could have got increases to stave off these huge imposts- we shall have to place a bigger impost upon the people because of the Opposition's actions. This is quite inconsistent with what  Senator Cotton,  a former representative in this place of a Postmaster-General, argued in 1967, namely that the Government ought to provide the moneys and that the Parliament ought to allow those moneys to go through to make sure that the Post Office could work effectively. The lag in telephone connections, for example, could be increased by 40,000. 
At this point of calculation we need an extra $50m, over what would be raised from the delayed tariffs. What will be the position by budget time we cannot tell, because certain escalations may have to be taken into account. But what I am forcing home to the honourable senator is that the Opposition's action, which was a simple political decision, has stopped an efficient organisation from recovering by its charges and earnings finance expended. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
I seek leave to have the second reading speech incorporated in Hansard. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
I seek leave to have the second reading speech incorporated in Hansard. 
I am sorry to say that these irresponsible acts are continuing. Not only are instruments being destroyed and is the cost of maintaining such instruments being increasedthe Post Office spends over $lm a year in repairing these instruments- but also unfortunately very serious situations could be created in the case of injuries or sickness. My Department is cooperating with the police to make sure that whatever can be done will be done. 
Recently the reward for information leading to the discovery of persons causing damage was increased from $40 to $100 and the criteria for obtaining the reward were changed. Previously if a person was seen damaging a telephone instrument and was reported, an effective conviction against him would have to be obtained. Under the new arrangements it is necessary only to identify that person. However, I feel that the matter is very serious. Some publicity is being given to it in local areas. The problem applies not only in South Australia but also in the other States. It is pretty wide. I will ask the DirectorGeneral of Posts and Telegraphs whether it is possible to commence an Australia-wide program of publicity to encourage people to take a social stand on the question and thus reduce the current vandalism. 

 Mr GEORGI ERMOLENKO 
It is the intention of the Government to have the legislation passed this week. I could answer off the cuff the question raised by  Senator Greenwood.  However, I think it may be best to get a considered reply from the Minister for Labor and Immigration  (Mr Clyde Cameron),  and I will do so. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
I am not aware of the incident to which  Senator Keeffe  refers. 

 -Would Senator Webster let me answer the question? I shall make inquiries and let the honourable senator know the position. 
Yes. I have seen the Press statement. The position at the present time is that the Australian Post Office and the police are discussing the possibility of introducing such a radio system. The system would be used in circumstances where a police station is unattended because the officer is out on duty and is not available to accept telephone reports from citizens. If such a radio system is developed it would mean that telephone messages could be transmitted to the nearest police prowl car. The Post Office is in favour of introducing such a system because this type of service is important to the community: Although this matter is in the early stages of development we are hopeful that with the cooperation of the police and the Post Office such a system might be perfected. I will find out what up to date information is available and give it to the honourable senator. 
-I will be officially opening the new service on Monday, 26 August. From that date subscriber trunk dialling from Darwin will be operative, but it is not anticipated that 
STD to Darwin from other centres will be available before late October or early November. The new systems protection bearer will be available for television relays to Darwin from Brisbane. It will also be available for normal relays from the Darwin studios to the proposed national television stations at Katherine and Tennant Creek, which are due to commence operation in the last quarter of this year. 
-It has been the routine to table the manifests. That has been done on a regular basis. I do not know whether  Senator Marriott  is talking about the case which has come to my attention about permission being granted to  Mr Jonathan  Gaul, who was described as a Press officer of  Mr Snedden,  the Leader of the Liberal Party, to travel on a VIP aircraft. Following a complaint, this matter came to the notice of the Prime Minister. It follows on questions which have been previously put to me about  Mr Young  having travelled on a VIP aircraft. At that time the situation was clear and  Mr Young  had to pay his way. When the request was made by  Mr Snedden  's office to have  Mr Gaul  travel on a VIP flight, it was presumed by  Mr Barnard's  staff that this officer was an employee of the Public Service. It has since been found that he is employed by the Liberal Party. Consequently, the question is now under review. 
-The Post Office encourages advertisers whose business requirements necessitate special entry in the directories for people who are of foreign birth. While the demand is not great at the present time, the Department wishes all advertisers to know that provided there is an English translation with the advertisements, such advertisements in the pink pages could well be encouraged in their own interests and in the interests of the Post Office. 
I have been advised that the Minister for Labor and Immigration has asked his officers to make urgent investigations into the findings and the status of the people involved in that organisation. This matter relates to his responsibilities as Minister. I will ask him to see what he can do to provide information at this stage and also later when his own findings and recommendations are known. 
In addition I will ask the Minister to find out the position in that regard and tell us the results of the inquiries as soon as possible. 
The answer to the honourable senator's question is as follows: 
There are still some factors not yet resolved in determining whether and when push button telephones might be introduced in Australia. I will let the honourable senator have more information as soon as outstanding issues have been decided. 
Telephones: STD Tones (Question No. 103) 
-I understand that representations have been made by the Premier of Tasmania to the Australian Government on this matter. As the honourable senator will appreciate, this matter is currently engaging the attention of this Government. The general unemployment situation has in fact been the subject of discussions this week with representatives of the general employers and the unions. I expect the matter to be more precisely examined next week. But I will see if I can get any precise information in respect of specific questions related to the general situation in Tasmania. The Government is hoping that the schemes which have been promoted by  Mr Clyde  Cameron may be fairly directly tied to the situation if it develops any more. 
-Senator Young has asked this question a number of times. We are not in a position to find out whether currently union officials are paid their usual salaries during stoppages. I think I have told the honourable senator of my own personal knowledge of circumstances which preceded the most recent disputes, namely, that many officials of unions involved in disputes had their wages cancelled for the time their members were on strike and that when I was a union official in one case I lost, I think, 2 months' wages because of such a policy. 
-I think the honourable senator, knowing what is happening today, will agree that it shows that all the stoppages are not initiated by trade union secretaries, as people are saying. He can refer to the stoppages in the motor car industry in South Australia if he likes. Many of them are in fact, as he knows, wildcat stoppages organised by job committees almost following the pattern of the United Kingdom many years ago. So I do not accept the proposition that most of the activity is promoted by the union secretaries. I think that putting forward that proposition is the purpose of the question. The only relevance of the question is to whether those people are organising disputes. The fact is that we know disputation is developing and anybody who is sensible relates it to the general expansionary economy in Australia. The Government is trying to find solutions which will moderate that situation. The Minister for Labor and Immigration put before the Moore Conference last week a proposition which, if it is accepted by the employers and the unions, either in the form in which it was proposed or in a modified form, will go a long way towards reducing industrial disputes in this country. 

 - Senator Townley 's move comes as a surprise to me. Consequently, it has not been considered by the Government. Despite that, I say that the Government would resist the adjournment of the debate for these reasons: As the honourable senator will probably know- he may not have taken part in the debatesin May of this year a general proposition amending the Act was brought forward, lt involved amendments which are the subject of these 2 Bills, namely, in respect to amalgamations and agreements. That was the basic foundation of the legislation which has been presented on 2 occasions. Again, in October, the Government, having had its comprehensive arbitration amendments rejected, brought down further amendments. It left out of those amendments 2 contested provisions which the Opposition did not like. These were provisions which the Opposition objected to strongly, namely, provisions in regard to sanctions and the provisions concerning torts. When the legislation was presented on the first occasion, in May or June the Government adjourned the debate in the same way as  Senator Townley  is trying to do now. When the legislation was again presented in October the Opposition opposed the provisions which the Government now seeks to enact. The Government is saying that on 3 occasions honourable senators have had the opportunity to consider the Government's purposes and what it deems to be appropriate legislation in respect of 2 main areas. These areas more or less have been consolidated in the 2 Bills before the Senate. For these reasons, we would oppose the adjournment of the debate. We think that the matter should be proceeded with because it has been tested before and the Senate should again consider what is being put to it. 
-I wish to repeat briefly what I said earlier in respect of the Conciliation and Arbitration Bill 1974 with respect to amalgamations. 1 have stated- it is clearly in the records of the Senate- that this is the third occasion that legislation has come before the Senate in respect of these 2 subjects of amalgamation and agreements.  Senator Townley,  who has moved that the debate be adjourned, was a senator when this legislation was before the Senate on an earlier occasion.  Senator Hall  and some other senators were not then members of the Senate. But, generally speaking, the aims of the Government in respect of amalgamations and agreements have become known not only through public discussions and announcements by the Minister for Labor and Immigration  (Mr Clyde Cameron),  but also in the proposed legislation to which I referred earlier. That proposed legislation, which contained comprehensive amendments to the Conciliation and Arbitration Act, was introduced into the Parliament in May of last year and again in October of last year. It contained almost the same provisions as are now before the Parliament. At that time the Government made it clear that it objected to the stand of the Senate. The Government considered the Senate 's action in deleting those provisions a frustration. It is the opinion of the Government that the Senate's action in respect of this Bill and the other Bill constitutes a failure to pass. I think the Senate has had sufficient time to proceed and to debate them. These Bills were brought in this week and should have been dealt with. They should have been given the consideration of the Senate again. That consideration was denied first in June last year. Honourable senators have had ample opportunity to consider whether they want these Bills on the statute book. We will resist this motion and treat the matter in the way that I have announced on behalf of the Government. 
The answer to the honourable senator's question is as follows: 
Yes. The Department is aware from customer reaction surveys that a good many subscribers consider the STD tone is too long and that some find it annoying. It has been decided therefore to reduce the length of the signal. 
It is not, however, a simple matter of adjustment and it will be necessary to modify some 40,000 items of exchange equipment throughout the telephone network. Supplies of the replacement component required for the purpose are expected to take about 6 months to procure and the modifications will then be effected as quickly as practicable. 
Death Sentences in Chile 
-AllI can promise Senate Laucke is to take up his question with the officers of my Department and also, as required, to discuss it with my ministerial colleagues to see what can be done in this regard. I will let him know the answer. 
I have seen only the newspaper report of what  Mr Egerton  said and I have asked for more information of what he said and the letter he sent out to the unions. I understand his statement is related to some other comments he has made to the affiliated unions over which he presides. So before I comment on what he said or make observations on part of his address to the unions I would like to see the whole of his statement. I believe that as an important official of the Australian Labor Party and the trade union movement he is attempting to encourage the unions in this particular period to take stock of what is going on in the inflationary economy and to consider that perhaps their actions ought to be more measured. I agree with that part of the statement. 
As to what the Government is doing, honourable senators know of course, because the Minister for Labor and I have stated them before, the steps that we are trying to take. Only last week or the week before at the meeting convened by  Mr Justice  Moore around the question of industrial relations, attended by the most important people in the community,  Mr Cameron  proposed a system of indexation of wages. If such a scheme and the follow-up proposals were adopted it is our view that there would be a minimal amount of dispute arising in this area. It needs not only an acceptance of the principle of having quarterly adjustments but also an acceptance of related arrangements in relation to new wage claims and other relativities. That is the proposition put before the parties that have set up a study group to examine it. While the Government and  Mr Cameron  say that the scheme has to be accepted on a preliminary or platform basis, in my opinion it is quite possible for the reaction to his scheme to produce an arrangement between employers and unions which will benefit everybody. 
I thank  Senator Greenwood  and  Senator Hall  for giving speedy consideration to this matter. The short answer to the question is that it is not practical to introduce the new scheme in the time that is proposed. Since I have been in this chamber I have taken part in most debates concerning the stevedoring industry. Honourable senators will recall that on 3 occasions the transitional powers provided in this Bill have been granted by the Opposition. The subject has been canvassed more comprehensively than is possible on this occasion. Following World War II we recall that it was not until 1965 that the first efforts were made by the Liberal-Country Party Coalition Government to bring about an arrangement with the parties which formed the basis of the 1967 agreement. In those years the former Government presented the Tait report and introduced other measures connected with the stevedoring industry. Efforts were made on about 10 occasions to get the waterfront industry operating on a reasonable basis. All of us, including the then Opposition, applauded what was done in the 1967 national agreement on the stevedoring industry. For example, for the first time the industry was brought into line with Continental and European practice. For the first time there was a system of permanency of employment. 
Between 1964 and 1967 there was a minimum of industrial disputes in the stevedoring industry. After the 1967 agreement had operated for some time it was necessary to form a new agreement. We have found that every 2 years there is a fair amount of disputation on the waterfront because of the need to settle the terms of new wages and other working conditions in order to meet new circumstances. Although 755,000 man hours have been lost this year, half of that lost time is due to disputes concerning the arrangements involved in formulating a new agreement. The previous Government took many years to settle the first agreement. The agreement produced a better climate on the waterfront. After the disputes which surrounded the first agreement, there was relative peace on the waterfront for many years. Now a new agreement has to be contracted. 
This Government has received a report on the stevedoring industry. It has taken Government officials, including  Mr Norm  Foster who has been mentioned in this debate, a period of 18 months to collect the necessary information from the employers in the major ports. The report has been presented to the Minister for Labor and Immigration  (Mr Clyde Cameron).  If we reduced the time in which to introduce the new scheme, it would not result in the savings which  Senator Hall  mentioned because there have to be discussions between the Government, the employer, the Australian Stevedoring Industry Authority- the employer- and the unions. Those discussions could easily be conducted on a nonconstructive basis and produce more stoppages. The report is before the Minister. It has to be considered. We want time to consider it before tabling it and time to make a final decision on permanency. 
The previous Government, in all the years it was in office, could not settle the question of permanency. Therefore we think it is reasonable that we should be given the oportunity to bring down a final report. The Minister last year said he thought he would be able to do it this year. We find now that the work of  Mr Foster  and others has taken much more time than was expected. The Minister has given an assurance that the structural change will be brought down in the time that has been forecast. It is a reasonable time, because the stevedoring industry is an industry that has been upset by all sorts of great differences. I do not wish to go over the matters which have been canvassed in the other place. Many important and strong interests have to be reconciled in these matters. We think it is reasonable that in our first year of office we should have a chance to consider the report and the information which is available. As to when the report might be available to Opposition senators, all I can promise is that I will ask the Minister whether he can give to Opposition senators a precis or some of the information upon which we will act. 
I cannot give specific details. All I can say is that the employers and the Waterside Workers Federation are expected soon to reach agreement on redundancy and restructuring, but there is no guarantee that if the time of bringing in a government report is brought nearer there will be any saving. The chances are that until we get a wide agreement about all matters related to the new permanent scheme there will be more trouble, and there will be more costs because there will be more industrial trouble. 
-AllI can say is that I cannot give details because they are being discussed by the parties. Until I can give the correct information I should refrain from making a guess. The information we have, and I understand it is supported by all the interests in the industry, is that it is impossible in the time that has been proposed by the Opposition to bring down the sort of permanent structure that ought to be brought down. How is it that an Opposition which was in government for many years during which we suffered much trouble on the waterfront now proposes an amendment hastening the introduction of permanent arrangements? When in government it proposed temporary provisions on 3 occasions. It now says it wants permanent arrangements submitted to the Parliament in less than 12 months time. 
Question put: 
That the amendments  (Senator Greenwood's)  be agreed to. 
-I think the honourable senator's question warrants a detailed answer. I will obtain the particulars for him. 
-I think that the honourable senator is probably dreaming up the proposition but I will refer the question to the Minister for an answer. 
There has been some disruption. I can advise the honourable senator that following upon my instructions senior officers of my Department looked into the matter. The problem has been cured by the railways themselves operating normal services as from last Sunday. 
-This is the first time I have heard the case related by the honourable senator. I will make inquiries of the Minister. If the honourable senator has any particular information relating to the location of such cases I would be glad if he would pass it on to me so that I can ask the Minister about it. 
We have just listened to a speech from  Senator Sir Magnus  Cormack. We all came to recognise him as a great  President  of the Senate, but I think his facts on foreign affairs at this stage are somewhat out of date. He put up the argument that has been put from the Opposition benches, namely, that a good deal of the foreign relations trends that are now being developed by the Government and by  Senator Willesee,  who is an outstanding Foreign Minister, have been developed because the Minister wants to be appointed  President  of the General Assembly of the United Nations. 
All the countries to which  Senator Sir Magnus  Cormack referred as having a voice in the election of the  President  of the General Assembly of the United Nations have no voice at all. Everybody in this place was rather surprised to hear the honourable senator refer to many democratic countries, such as Barbados, as being under dictatorship. The last time I was in Barbados I saw a typical British parliamentary system. It was very much a copy of the Australian system, with a strong British influence and parliamentary traditions. I mention in passing that apparently I have a relation there in the form of a police prosecutor. He is a coloured person and his name happens to be Bishop. Certainly the recent history of the countries referred to is good. The history has not been one of dictatorship. As  Senator Willesee  has pointed out previously, the argument put up by the Opposition to the effect that  Senator Willesee  is bending towards certain countries with a view to gaining votes is quite false because these countries are not entitled to cast a vote. 
As everybody knows, since the Labor Government came to power there has been a breath of fresh air in our foreign relations.  Senator Willesee  is one of the most distinguished Foreign Ministers we have had. Opposition senators have always applauded him. I was rather surprised tonight to hear honourable senators opposite, who previously have applauded  Senator Willesee  as being a most moderate Minister, accomplished and reasonable in carrying out most of the jobs that he has had, say that he should be sacked. Why should he be sacked? This motion is a stunt by the Opposition in an endeavour to gain some political capital. The allegations have been completely refuted. This is the second time in recent months that the Opposition has raised this matter of the Russian who went home of his own accord. The Opposition has tried to get some capital out of this matter. I remind the Opposition and the people of Australia that the Opposition has used the argument that the Labor Party as a government and  Senator Willesee  as the Minister for Foreign Affairs should have used force to keep this man Ermolenko in Australia. What sort of argument is that to put up to a Foreign Minister? 
I remind the Senate that most of our neighbours now record that the Australian Government, and  Senator Willesee  and  Mr Whitlam,  have ensured that Australia has a new independence. Honourable senators opposite accepted for years the proposition that detente was all right. When Nixon was in power it was all right to go along with the Soviet Union in respect of great issues in order to maintain a peaceful situation; but now it is wrong. Honourable senators opposite want to attack the Soviet Union. They want to attack this Government over a situation which was brought about by accident. As  Senator James  McClelland said, it was simply the adjustment by a young person to a new environment. That is the situation. 
Let us be frank amout this matter. Most of my colleagues on the other side of the Senate who have been with me on overseas delegations or who have been members of other delegations are conscious of the facts. Recently I went with a number of members of the Liberal Party to Burma, Bangladesh, Sri Lanka and Nepal. If one were to ask the people in our neighbouring countries what they thought they would say that the Australian Government has had a new viewpoint since  Mr Whitlam  became Prime Minister and since  Senator Willesee  became Foreign Minister. There is no question about that. The Government's record has been applauded by most of the responsible foreign commentators and also by the Press. Our record is good. What is our record? What are we trying to do? 
I have sat under the chairmanship of  Senator Sir Magnus  Cormack on the Standing Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence. He is a most astute  chairman.  He is intelligent and usually he is up to date on things. He asks what is our foreign policy, as though it has not been stated before by the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam).  I will remind him of some of the things which have been placed on record by the Prime Minister. This is quite separate from the argument which I have put against the Opposition's claim in respect of the American alliance and what has been done to obtain a peaceful relationship with the Soviet Union. The Opposition wants to throw that alliance overboard and create antagonism. 
-There is no doubt that the honourable senator had qualifications about detente and what it would mean. He said that  Senator Willesee  was looking for new friends so that he could get their votes 
Right. I told the honourable senator that the countries which he mentioned have no vote anyway. He asked what our foreign policy was. I have with me some statements which the Prime Minister made in Washington in July 1 973. 

 - Senator Sir Magnus Cormack asked what our foreign policy was. I am trying to give the basis of our foreign policy.  Mr Whitlam  said: 
. Australia's past shortcomings, the mistakes in our international dealings - 
He was talking in Washington in July 1973 about, of course, the Liberal-Country Party coalition-  have sprung in large measure from a vague and generalised fear of our own environment, the feeling has been alien in our own continent and our own region. 
As a result, we have tended to swing between - 
Can I answer the question raised by  Senator Sir Magnus  Cormack? The Prime Minister said: 
As a result, we have tended to swing between isolationism and interventionism, between ' Fortress Australia ' - 
John Gorton's proposition-  and over-dependence on one great powerful protector; and, culturally, between slavish imitation and brash selfassertion. 
We were, as everybody knows, quite slavish to the United States of America in situations in which we should not have been. Such action has since been proven to be quite wrong. Recently the Prime Minister said: 
We have got our political relations right with the United States, with Japan, with China, with Indonesia- with the United States, the most powerful nation in  earth,  with Japan, our greatest trading partner, with China, the most populous nation on earth, with Indonesia, the great next door neighbour of ours . . . 
I told honourable senators opposite in February of this year- I suggest that they ask their colleagues who went with me to the countries I visited- that in those countries the Australian Government was applauded because of its policy. On 3 September Marshall Green, an internationally known diplomat, said on his return after meeting the new  President  Ford: 'Our relations will improve. They will get better. They are good'. So the fact is that  Senator Willesee  has been a most astute Minister for Foreign Affairs. He is as good as any Ministers whom honourable senators opposite might have produced. Some of the Ministers for Foreign Affairs from the party to which honourable senators opposite belong sometimes put forward a policy not unlike that of the Labor Party. Of course I refer to our last Governor-General Hasluck. Many times he said the sorts of things which we are saying now but he could not put those suggestions into practice because he was in the wrong government. I put to honourable senators opposite: What are you up to? 
What did the honourable senator want to do? 
-No, it did not. Whatever mistakes our Government may have made- we have made mistakes and so will honourable senators opposite- and whatever we did for the first time we created a new, national aspect, a new form of nationalism which was well accepted in our region. Because of this the prestige of our country has been enhanced. One of the people honourable senators opposite are attacking tonight, and whom they have often applauded, is the Minister for Foreign Affairs. He has some qualities which we all know. He has a certain casual attitude, a diplomatic attitude which has gone a long way towards strengthening our friendships. What did honourable senators opposite want to do? They wanted to use this situation about the Russian to ask  Senator Willesee  to force the Government to retain within Australia a young person. This is so, whatever the variations of the story might be and there are variations. The fact is that finally it became apparent that the young fellow wanted to get back to bis homeland. But on 13 August 1974, not so long ago,  Senator Durack  moved this motion: 
That the Senate demands - 
Not asks, not requests-  that the Government ensure that Georgi Ermolenko be able to consider free from duress . . . 
that he be not permitted to leave Australia . . . 
-That is the essential thing. 
There are other statements. 
I ask honourable senators to listen to me. I have not finished reading the motion which honourable senators opposite put up that Ermolenko be not permitted to leave Australia. 
That was repeated several times. Let me read a circular which was put out by the Federal  President  of the Liberal Party,  Mr R.  J. Southey, on 13 August 1974. 
-This is the great party which acts on its own and which receives no instructions from some central secretariat like the Labor Party! We agree with that policy in relation to conferences and executives. But this is a newsletter of 13 August 1974. 
There you are, you will not let me quote it. 
-A11 right, if the honourable senator wants it. The motion states: 
that he be not permitted to leave Australia - 
That is the important point-  until such time as he has had the opportunity (for 24 hours at least) . . . 
For heavens sake, what sort of logic is that in the reasoning of honourable senators opposite? They asked  Senator Willesee  to restrain by force this young bloke from leaving this country. If somebody did that to a visitor from Australia in the Soviet Union honourable senators would be up in arms, would they not? We would be, too. If anybody stopped me from leaving the Soviet Union or China I know that I would expect my country to defend me. Honourable senators opposite are saying that we have the right to stop this lad who had a certain change of opinion. I do not want to canvass that matter because it has been well canvassed. It is obvious that honourable senators opposite have instructions from their Federal  President.  One of the paragraphs in the letter to which I referred states: 
If the Government wished it could establish circumstances in which Ermolenko could be placed on neutral ground for a day or 48 hours . . . 
It then continues in another vein with very careful wording in the last paragraph: 
The solution is simple- have Ermolenko put on neutral ground to make up his mind certainly free from the pressures of 4 Russian companions and guards. We will know how to judge the Government by the results. 
Of course the Federal  President  was urging honourable senators to try to persuade the Government to take that action by force if necessary. Not only did honourable senators and their Federal  President  do that.  Sir Charles  Court supported the same petition in Perth. A report in a Western Australian newspaper states: 

 Sir Charles said he asked  Senator Willesee  to arrange for Ermolenko to be removed from the influence of the Russians. 
What sort of a situation was the Minister in? The situation is reported in the 'West Australian' of 15 August. It states: 
There were angry scenes at Perth airport last night - 

 Senator Willesee reported those scenes. The report continued: 
A torrent of abuse greeted the Transport Workers' Union secretary,  Mr R.  Cowles, the Musicians' Union secretary,  Mr Harry  Bluck, and the Trades and Labor Council secretary,  Mr Jim  Coleman . . . Others yelled: 'Traitors' and Murderers'. 
When Don Willesee was quizzed in Parliament on 16 August he stated the situation as he saw it. It seems to me that he completely justified his. action. After all, a Minister for Foreign Affairs surely has to be able to act as a Minister, not swayed by any unusual incidents. He has to act on behalf of his country in the protocol and tradition of his office as Minister for Foreign Affairs. He stated - 
-It is at page 1069 of the Senate Hansard of 16 August. It states: 
That is what  Senator Willesee  did. In my opinion, that is the sort of obligation which we would expect him to carry out. Tonight he has justified that obligation and he justified it formerly. All that has happened since is that honourable senators opposite, on the second occasion, have tried to make capital out of the 2 situations. I suggest that one situation has been completely spent, as  Senator Willesee  said today. Tonight this young bloke in fact is fiddling on in West Berlin. To suggest that we should have taken action by force to restrain him is futile. But what did  Mr Snedden  do? Have any honourable senators opposite promised to do anything about this? So far, the only statement we have from the Leader of the Liberal Party appeared in the Australian' of 9 September. The report states: 
A Federal Liberal Government would review Australia's recognition of Russia 's sovereignty over the Baltic States, the Leader of the Opposition,  Mr Snedden,  said in Melbourne yesterday. 
Addressing about 300 members of the Estonian, Latvian and  Lithuanian  communities,  Mr Snedden  stopped short of saying that he would reverse the decision. 
Honourable senators will see that he condemned the position but did not promise any action. They are the realities of the situation. I want to conclude my remarks by saying that in my opinion what has been put here tonight was not properly put in relation to the motion. We heard contributions from honourable senators who talked about a number of wide international issues. In my opinion,  Senator Willesee  has passed the test that has been applied to him clearly. He had the responsibility of acting for his country and did so in a correct manner. As many of the newspapers have stated, he has had a golden run as the Foreign Minister. He is an accomplished Foreign Minister in the best traditions of our country. It is hypocrisy for members of the Opposition to try to condemn him. I suggest that the Senate ought to get on with the business of assisting the Government to run the economy. 
The answer to the honourable senator's question is as follows: 
The numbers of Navy Officer resignations submitted by rank in December 1973, and in each month to June of 1974 were: 
I will not answer yes or no, as  Senator Greenwood  wants me to do. I will give some information that I have. The position, as the honourable senator knows because it has been stated previously in this chamber and in the other place by the Minister for Labor and Immigration, is that the Government and the Minister are committed to a policy of wage indexation. That proposal is presently before a study group which was set up as a result of the conference held by  Mr Justice  Moore. The Government hopes that there will be some progressive improvement and that the proposal will be adopted in order to avoid further inflation. 
Turning to that part of the question which referred to the 35-hour week, it is a studied program of the Australian Labor Party that in respect of the power industry a proposal to introduce a 35-hour week would be supported where it can be demonstrated by the unions that no excessive overtime would arise from the adoption of such a reduction in working hours. Basically, that summarises the support of the Labor Party for that claim which has been presented to the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission. It would seem to me that arising from that pro forma it is a matter for the Commission and the parties to argue whether in substance the claim by the unions that a shorter working week might be adopted should be tested. Basically, that is the test to be applied. 
I might say that in relation to my own administration of the Post Office, there is currently a claim to extend to other employees the 363/4-hour working week which was granted to postmen. Again the claim will be tested to ascertain whether the shorter working week which has been applied to one class of employees might be extended to other classes of employees on the basis that no loss of productivity will arise and that no excessive overtime claims will be made. So that is the test. It is a matter for the tribunals concerned to assess whether the claim can be substantiated. 
The answer to the honourable senator's question is as follows: 
1 ) The numbers of Air Force officer resignations submitted by rank in December 1973, and in each month to June 1 974 were: 
The answer to the honourable senator's question is as follows: 
The numbers of Army officer resignations submitted by rank in December 1973, and in each month to June of 1974 were: 
The answer to the honourable senator's question is as follows: 
1 ) Of the Army male officers who resigned in the period 1 January 1973 to 30 June 1974(a) 105 had served 12yearsor less, (b) 16 had served 13 to 19years and (c) 257 had served 20 years or more. 
Royal Australian Air Force: Re-engaged Personnel  (Question No. 86) 
The answer to the honourable senator's question is as follows: 
1 ) Department of the Prime Minister and Cabinet. 
1972-73- $43,216; 1973-74- $36, 123. 
The answer to the honourable senator's question is as follows: 
1 ) Of the male Naval officers who resigned in the period 1 January 1973 to 30 June 1974 (a) 34 had served 12 years or less, (b) 8 had served 13 to 19 years and (c) 52 had served 20 years or more. 
The answer to the honourable senator's question is as follows: 
1 ) Of the male other ranks Servicemen who re-engaged in the Army between 1 January 1973 and 30 June 1974: 
1,628 had served 6 years; 
953 had served 12years; and 
858 had served 1 8 years or more. 
Royal Australian Navy: Re-engaged Sailors  (Question No. 88) 
The answer to the honourable senator's question is as follows: 
1 ) Of the male Air Force officers who resigned in the period 1 January 1973 to 30 June 1974 (a) 106 had served 12 years or less, (b) 25 had served 13 to 19 years and (c) 111 had served 20 years or more. 
The answer to the honourable senator's question is as follows: 
) Of the airmen who re-engaged in the Air Force between 1 January 1973 and 30 June 1974(a) 1381 had served for 6 years, (b) 542 had served 12 years and (c) 865 had served 1 7 years or more. 
Army: Re-engaged Soldiers  (Question No. 87) 
The Minister for Labor and Immigration has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
Yes. 
Yes; all those among the 1,404 eligible persons who, to 30 June 1974, had registered with the Commonwealth Employment Service and had expressed interest in training. The training discussed with each person included full-time and part-time formal course training, correspondence training, and in-plant training in any skill in demand on the labour market. 
Yes. 
See (2) above. 
The answer to the honourable senator's question is as follows: (l) 
HQ Australian Force Vietnam (AFV) 
HQ 1 Australian Logistic Support Group 2 SAS Squadron 
The honourable senator will appreciate that because the negotiations are proceeding- on, I am told, a satisfactory basis involving quite harmonious discussions- I could not reveal at this stage the cost of buying the assets of the 2 companies. The honourable senator will recall that in 1963 when the LiberalCountry Party coalition Government decided that it would make this arrangement with the 2 private companies, it was done on the basis that it was a sensible arrangement because it would conserve the resources of the Post Office. But it has been conclusively proved in the meantimethe Post Office has insisted upon this being considered by the Government and the Government has agreed- that it is properly the function of the Post Office and so the negotiations have now commenced. There are about 20,000 telephones involved. I understand that one company is almost ready to complete the arrangements and that the other company is favourably considering them. 
In reply to the last part of the question about the triple-0 services,  Senator Young  asked this question on a number of occasions before I became Postmaster-General. It is certainly one of the objectives of the Post Office, having acquired the telephones, to attempt as quickly as possible to make those facilities available through the socalled red phones.  Senator Durack  asked me a number of questions about the matter in writing and I mention his name in connection with it. But perhaps I also ought to mention that the other advantage in taking over the red phones is that presently, as everybody knows, it costs about $lm to maintain our telephones in public places because they are often damaged by vandalism. The red phones are somewhat protected because they are in private places. I think that the move has been well received generally and I hope to be able to provide specific answers to  Senator Young's  questions at a later stage. 
-There will be no refunds of licence fees paid for any period commencing before 17 September 1974. But some people are prone, as with other commitments, to pay ahead. If their licence commenced after that date the refunds will be made promptly. The Department has records of those people and the refunds will be paid as speedily as possible. There is another matter which has also received notice and that is refunds to people who have purchased stamps. Those amounts will be refunded. 
To make sure that they are more speedily treated they might report to the Post Office authorities quickly, but I have asked the Department to get an inventory of those people as quickly as possible. I hope there will be no untoward delays. 
I am reminded that, in addition to the 2 places to which  Senator Bessell  has referred, Hobart and Burnie have been put on the list of areas to receive assistance. The present position is, as the honourable senator is aware, that structural payments are being made to people who are being relocated. Currently an examination is being undertaken by a Cabinet committee, in collaboration with two of our Caucus committees, to ascertain precisely what action should be taken in situations such as that to which  Senator Bessell  has referred; that is, whether in addition to the schemes now in operation and the one proposed by the Minister for Labor and Immigration some more direct assistance might be given to people in industries which are affected. I am not able to give the honourable senator any details yet, but I hope that some such schemes will soon be formulated. If I am able to provide more detail after consulting my colleagues, I will give the honourable senator  tba,  information. But certainly when those schemes are more precise and positive I hope they will be announced as soon as possible. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 

 Mr President, the Treasurer  (Mr Crean)  referred in his Budget Speech to the Government's decision to abolish broadcast listeners and television viewers' licences. This Bill contains the necessary amendments to the Broadcasting and Television Act 1942-1973. This is an important decision which will place Australia with Canada as the only 2 major countries whose governments provide a national service without charging radio and television set owners an annual licence fee. It will free close to 3.S million Australians, including 500,000 pensioners, of any future hability for licence fees which range up to $26.50 per annum. 
The Government believes that the national broadcasting and television service should not be regarded as resembling a business undertaking in which receipts are related to expenditure. The national service provides an information, educational, cultural and entertainment service to the community. The Government believes that all people should have equal access to such services and it is, therefore, proper for the costs of these services to be a charge on the community as a whole through taxation. Licence fees have been a means of requiring radio and television set owners to make a contribution towards expenditure on the national broadcasting and television service. The contribution has been substantial. When licence fees were increased in 1968 and 1971 by the Liberal-Country Party Government, the result was that about 75 per cent of expenditure was recovered through fees. This practice has resulted in annual fees of $26.50 for a combined broadcasting and television licence; $19 for a television licence; and $8 or $4.25 for a broadcasting licence, depending on the zone. If this practice had been followed today, a combined licence fee of at least $40 would be appropriate, an increase of about 50 per cent, with a fee of about $50 for colour television sets. 
Not only have the licence fees been substantial, but they have represented a poll tax applied uniformly throughout the community. Its burden is, therefore, relatively heavier on lower income earners than on the more affluent. This regressive aspect is accentuated by the requirement of only one licence for all receivers in any one dwellingthe affluent are more likely to be multiple set owners. Paying for the service from taxation collections which reflect the capacity to pay principle is more equitable. The licence fee has also become a relatively expensive tax to collect. The cost of administering the scheme in 1973-74 was $3.4m, representing almost 5 per cent of the total licence revenue, compared with a cost equal to about 1 per cent for income tax. Payment for the national service through the taxation system rather than by a special tax is, therefore, much more efficient. 
A considerable proportion of the expenses of administering the scheme was incurred in policing the licence provisions of the Act. Despite the active work of some 80 licence inspectors, evasion has been a substantial problem. It has been estimated that revenue of about $llm annually is lost through evasion, and of course evasions increase as fees rise. Last year, 23,000 people were prosecuted for not having licences. I wish to express appreciation of the staff of the Postmaster-General's Department, past and present, who have been responsible for establisina operating and policing the licensing system. Often the unpopularity of licences has been taken out on them personally by licensees and non-licensees, but they have gone about their work with commendable efficiency and good grace. The existing staff, numbering 247, are being advised that there will be no retrenchments and that they will be placed in other areas as vacancies arise and after any necessary retraining in departmental time and at departmental expense. 
There will be no refunds on current licences. However, in the case of licensees who have renewed, in advance, licences expiring after 17 September, a refund will be made as soon as practicable after this legislation is adopted. Any payments received subsequently for licences expiring after 1 7 September will also be returned to the payee. The abolition of the licensing system will cost the Government an estimated $50m in 1974-75 and $67m in a full year. This takes account of the saving in administrative costs. Refunds on unexpired portions of current licences would have cost the Government a further $30m in 1974-75 and made abolition too expensive to be contemplated. All licensees have escaped future payments and that should be a cause for considerable satisfaction. I commend the Bill to honourable senators. 
Debate (on motion by  Senator Durack)  adjourned. 
The answer to the honourable senator's question is as follows: 
) Of the sailors who re-engaged in the Navy between I January 1973 and 30 June 1974 (a) 342 had served for 9 years and (b)255 had served for 15 years or more. 
VIP Aircraft: Interior Maintenance  (Question No.115) 
The answer to the honourable senator's question is as follows: 
1 ) Maintenance of the interiors of VIP aircraft is carried out on a day to day basis by the RAAF and these costs are not recorded.  Major refurnishing  work is carried out as part of the aircrafts normal cyclical maintenance program and the cost of this work since December 1972 has been $25,300.34. 
VIP Aircraft: Purchase  (Question No. 116) 
The Minister for Defence has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
Two Hawker Siddeley HS748, three Mystere 20 and twoBAC111. 
HS748-$1.160m, Mystere-$ 1 . 072m, BAC 111-$3.367m. 
HS748-contract signed 6 April 1966, delivery January 1967 and February 1967. 
Mystere 20- contract signed 23 June 1 966, delivery March 1967, May 1967 and June 1967. 
BAC 111- contract signed 21 June 1966, delivery December 1967 and June 1968. 
No. 
VIP Aircraft: Catering  (Question No. 117) 
The answer to the honourable senator's question is as follows: 
and (2) The numbers of other ranks Servicemen by rank re-engaging in the Army in each month of 1973 and in each month in 1974 are contained in the following table: 
The answer to the honourable senator's question is as follows: 
1 ) and (2) The numbers of sailors by rank re-engaging in the Navy in each month of the period 1 January 1973 to 30 June 1 974 were: 
The Minister for Labor and Immigration has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
The following table shows the citizenship of the 176 persons to whom reference was made in News Release No. 48/74 issued by the former Minister for Immigration. 
The answer to the honourable senator's question is as follows: 
and (2) The numbers of airmen by rank re-engaging in the air Force in each month of the period 1 January 1 973 to 30 June 1974 were: 
The exemptions which have obtained over the past years still apply. 

 -As Senator Mulvihill has mentioned, tentative proposals from the New South Wales Government have been examined from time to time. Recently  Mr Morrison  had discussions with the New South Wales Minister for Lands. Whilst the New South Wales Government has put up no positive proposals - 
My advice is that it put up tentative proposals, but that they were not positive enough to warrant a direct examination being made of them. But the department is reexamining the matter. At any rate the matter will go before the inter-departmental committee. So the matter will be subjected to a number of examinations. It will be considered by the interdepartmental committee. More precisely, the propositions put up by the New South Wales Government are being examined. 
There is no intention on the part of the Post Office or the Government to stop these other services operating. The matter has been reconsidered during recent months. The Post Office and the Government consider it urgent that the Post Office should get into the business because it is profitable. Obviously the Post Office needs the revenue which can come from such an operation. It will be in competition. It will be a matter for the services concerned whether they survive in the face of the competition from the Post Office. 
The honourable senator's question is related to my earlier answer to a question from him on this subject. Recently it was found after some surveys had been made that a number of Australian Government departments were using on occasions not only private courier services but also other services provided by private operators in Australia which were, in fact, competing with Australian Post Office services. As the Post Office services are as good, as quick and as efficient as the other services, a direction was given to the Government departments that wherever practicable they should use the Post Office facilities. So in addition to what I said previously in reply to  Senator Durack  's question, I would like to say clearly now that Government departments will be expected, wherever possible, to use the Australian Government's own Post Office facilities. Otherwise, there will be free competition. But obviously, the Government cannot afford to see Government departments giving business to private operators when its Post Office service is equally as good and just as cheap as that provided by the private operator. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 

 Mr President, the Honourable the Treasurer  (Mr Crean)  referred in his Budget Speech to the need for higher Post Office charges than were previously proposed because of the Opposition's action in the Senate in July in deferring the increases which were to apply from 1 August, after the Opposition in the other place voted for the Bill. The deferment of those increases to 1 October would mean that Post Office receipts in 1974-75 would be about $30m less than was anticipated from that source. As far back as the Premiers' Conference of 7 June it was known publicly that the Post Office appropriation in the Budget would be held at last year's level of $385m. In the debate in this House I stressed that there would be no increase in that allocation. The effect of deferment has to be either higher charges to cover the shortfall or a cut in the Post Office's capital investment program. The Opposition's action has been strongly condemned from many quarters. The Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  at his Press conference on 30 July, termed the deferment grossly irresponsible. He said: 
It seems the grossest irresponsibility for an Opposition which, when it was in Government knew this would have to be done, which has now had that knowledge re-inforced by  Sir James  Vernon's Royal Commission, now to say it will reject these charges. 
The daily newspapers and the financial Press condemned the Opposition's action in equally strong terms. The 'Age' editorial of 1 August said this: 
Higher postal charges are not so much a part of the Government's anti-inflationary program as a first step towards making the Post Office commercially viable . . . Significantly, the Opposition did not oppose the increased postal charges in the House of Representatives. Their rejection in the Senate must be seen as a tactical manoeuvre based on opportunism rather than a valid objection based on reason or principle. One way or another, the public will have to pay. 
On 3 1 July the editor of the 'Australian Financial Review', under the heading 'B. M. Snedden 's Seven Cent Heroics ', wrote: 
Every so often opportunism can be dressed up to pass muster as considered rational policy. However,  Mr Snedden  was the man who campaigned on the necessity of pruning the expenditure side of the Commonwealth Budget. It is almost totally inconsistent of him to espouse this and at the same time scheme to prevent the Government increasing postal charges. 
The Government is not prepared to vary its previous decision and allocate more from the Budget to the Post Office because this could only be at the expense of our priority programs in the fields of education, welfare and health. It is generally accepted that the Post Office should finance a significant proportion of postal and telecommunications expansion. The report of the Vernon Commission recommends that 50 per cent of fixed asset expenditure should be financed from internal sources- profits and provisions for depreciation and long service leave. This enables the Post Office to meet demand for service at a higher level than would be possible if finances were restricted to borrowings available through the Budget. If borrowings through the 
Budget were increased, the percentage of telecommunications capital investment which is internally financed would fall well below SO per cent. 
After close study, the Government has also decided that it would not be appropriate to cut Post Office capital investment by some further $30m and let existing telephone applicants increase by 40,000 to 163,000. That would mean a telecommunications engineering construction program 6 per cent below the 1973-74 level of effort. It would obviously require substantial retrenchments in the Post Office's 18,000 capital works staff and in the telecommunications manufacturing industry staff of 20,000 where skilled resources have been built up over many years. 
In considering how some $30m should be raised from extra higher charges in 1974-75, the Government considered that the postal service with its huge losses must bear a significant part. The basic postage will therefore be increased to 10c, with other increases in associated charges which I will outline shortly. On the telephone side, it seemed completely inequitable for the residential subscriber to pay more directly because of the Opposition's action and it was therefore decided that the remaining shortfall should be borne by business subscribers. Business telephone rentals will be increased to $85 and there are also some further increases in telex call charges and rentals, for installation and removal fees for miscellaneous telephone facilities and for telegraphic code addresses. Otherwise the increases are identical with those included in the previous Bills. Full details of all the charges are given in the schedule circulated to honourable senators, but the major items are: 
Telephone service connection fees are being increased from $60 to $80 for new applicants where new plant is necessary and from $30 to $40 where an existing subscriber moves to another address and new plant is required, to raise $6m in 1974-74. 
Government and business rentals will increase by $30 to $85, instead of $75 previously proposed, and residential and other rentals by $10 to $65, to raise $58m in 1974-75. 
The local call fee will rise from 4.75c to 6c, but this will not be reflected directly into trunk call charges. Day time calls will rise by between 3.5 per cent and 5.3 per cent only, except for those over 645 kilometres where the increase is 26 per cent Night rates are being reduced by 3 per cent to 40 per cent, with the shortest distance calls up to 50 kilometres costing only 6c- that is the local call fee- for each 3 minutes. Variations in call charges will raise $31 min 1974-75. 
The basic postage for standard and nonstandard postal articles will be 10c and 11c, instead of 9c and 10c previously proposed. These higher increases will be reflected into charges for heavier weight items, bulk presorted mail, Category 'C registered publications, householder mail, overseas mail, airmail and priority paid mail. Variations in all postal charges will raise $43m in 1 974-75. 
The total extra receipts in 1974-75 from all increases is $146m. This is the same amount which would have been raised if the deferred proposals had applied from 1 August. A substantial amount of justification for the individual variations was given when these measures were first announced and it is not necessary to repeat it because it is readily available. In addition, more complete financial information is available in the annual Post Office White Paper which has been presented. It must be realised by the Opposition that the Government is determined to ensure that the costs of the Post Office are met by the users of the services. This is in line with the recommendations of the Vernon Commission, which saw the need for the Post Office to operate in a similar manner to other Government undertakings. Higher borrowings from the Treasury, year after year, are not the answer to the cost increases faced by the Post Office, and this Bill endeavours to correct the situation that has been accentuated by the Opposition's recent actions. I emphasise that but for these recent actions, the basic postage paid by the Australian people would be 9c instead of the 10c now necessary; the telephone rental on business and government services would be $75 instead of the $85 they must now pay. The price of the Opposition's previous irresponsible decisions is lc on every letter and $ 10 on every business telephone service. The people of Australia and the business community in particular will remember that. 
The date of effect of the variations to charges in the Bill is 1 October. The Opposition has had some 3 months to study them. It can consider them in the context of the Budget. It can now see the implications of its previous decision. What is needed is expeditious action to pass this legislation to avoid the Post Office being affected yet again. 
The purpose of this Bill is to amend the Post and Telegraph Rates Act in respect of postal and telegraph charges. Another Bill will amend the 
Post and Telegraph Act and associated Regulations. Certain miscellaneous charges will be adjusted by administrative action. I commend the Bill to honourable senators. 
Debate (on motion by  Senator Durack)  adjourned. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
This Bill is complementary to the amendments to the Post and Telegraph Rates Act 1902-1973 which I have just introduced. In order to implement the changes of which I have spoken in conjunction with the Post and Telegraph Rates Act amendments, it is necessary to make certain amendments to the Post and Telegraph Act and to the Postal Regulations, the Telephone Regulations, the Telegraph Regulations and the Radio-Telephone Exchange Service Regulations. 
As mentioned previously, this Bill also makes changes to the Post and Telegraph Act which are necessary to permit the introduction of a Post Office courier service. Initially, the courier service, to cater for the special need for a messenger service for urgent articles, will be provided in Melbourne, Sydney and Canberra, with subsequent extension to the other capital cities. The present privately operated ventures meet a substantial and growing customer need but are close to the traditional areas of postal operations. It is, therefore, appropriate for the Post Office to provide a courier service and it is expected that this will be a profitable operation. I commend the Bill to honourable senators. 
Debate (on motion by  Senator Durack)  adjourned. 
in reply- I thank the honourable senators who have spoken for their ready co-operation with the aims of the Bill. There has not been any great criticism of the Bill. It is a new and important reform. For many months both  Senator Douglas  McClelland and I have considered that we should recommend such a procedure to the Cabinet. We prepared submissions to Cabinet. I think the reform has been very well received. The old system in Australia was in the nature of a poll tax. Some other countries have abolished the fees for television and radio, as we have now done. Of course, in this sort of legislation anomalies are created. As soon as one decides on a date, or puts up a fence, as it were, there will be people who fall on either side. It is unfortunate that some people could not be advised of the proposed legislation. In relation to refunds, if we had decided to make such refunds it would not have been possible to carry out this reform. 
-I will tell the honourable senator. A number of people- I do not think I should give their names- were facing prosecution. I think that the best way I can put it to the honourable senator is that appropriate letters have been sent to the people concerned and as a result the aims of which he spoke will be attained. I thank honourable senators for the speedy passage of this Bill. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time, and passed through its remaining stages without amendment or debate. 
Sitting suspended from 1.3 to 2.15 p.m. 
in reply- To hear Opposition senators talk, one would think there was no provision for secret ballots in the legislation before the Senate or that the Government did not agree with secret ballots. Let me remind honourable senators of a state of affairs which existed before the present Government came to office: It was then possible for federal councils to elect union officials. The previous government never took action to change that state of affairs. It existed for years and it was not until the Labor Government came to office that anything was done about this. We inserted section 133 (1) (a) in the legislation providing that members themselves must vote in the election of union officials. 
On this occasion it will not be surprising to find that the Opposition will again frustrate the Government in implementing the two amendments that we have introduced. I want to remind the Senate that this is the third occasion on which the Opposition has adopted such an approach to such legislation as this. It has been said more than once and it ought to be said again that public statements were made before the last general election by the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  and by the Minister for Labor and Immigration  (Mr Clyde Cameron)  that we considered these measures to be necessary. The Prime Minister said that if Labor were returned to office it would facilitate the amalgamation of trade unions. He said that we would reduce government interference in industrial relations and put conciliation back into arbitration. 
-When the honourable senator talks about Australia controlling inflation he knows as well as I do that inflation is a symptom of the world in which we live. Our Government is doing pretty well in dealing with it and the Opposition, if in government, would not do any better. We have a great deal of industrial disputation which is no doubt related to the inflationary situation. I think that as the months go on the industrial situation will settle down. There has been some measure of settling down in the last month or so. For the first time, the industrial movement in Australia has a government which has not interfered with industrial negotiations. Because the labour market has been good, every organisation went out to improve its lot just as we, as politicians, tried to improve our lot. That was symptomatic of the society in which we live. Now the trade union movement- its officials and members- are starting to realise that they have to co-operate.  Mr Hawke  made a statement on this subject. The trade union movement has to co-operate with the Labor Government in order to enjoy the benefits which have been given wholesale to the whole country. Let me remind the Opposition of what the Government has done and what the Opposition tried to impede us from doing: Four weeks annual leave, an extra week's leave for shift workers, annual leave bonuses not only for Commonwealth public servants but also for Army personnel. 
The Government has decided to give many benefits, senator. This Government has allowed its representatives to appear before the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission in support of reasonable claims. The Minister for Labor has indicated his support for a wage indexation scheme.  Senator Steele  Hall has said that the Government is going cap in hand to the unions and to the Australian Council of Trade Unions. What better arrangement could there be? The Opposition, in its policy statements, has said that a need exists for arrangements to be made between the unions and the employers. It has also referred to industrybased unions. How would the Opposition seek to achieve this? 
The Opposition has criticised the Government for going cap in hand to the ACTU. In the policy statement of the Opposition, as point No. 5 under the heading 'Organisations' it states that the Opposition seeks to work with the ACTU in encouraging industry-based unions. How would the Opposition achieve that objective other than by agreements? The best agreements are those provided for in the Bills. The present legislation is just not working. The Opposition has been told here today by  Senator Button  and  Senator Donald  Cameron about the circumstances of the current amalgamation of the Ironworkers Union with the Federated Artificial Fertilizers and Chemical Workers Union of Australia which is bogged down and the amalgamation of the Australian Workers Union with the Wool and Basil Workers Union which is also bogged down. These are not giant left-wing orientated unions. They can be claimed to be moderate unions. Their negotiations are bogged down under the present legislation. Why? They are bogged down because that legislation is imperfect. When the Opposition left government it had not drawn up the regulations which were necessary to make this sort of situation work. 
The Opposition talks about what we propose to do. Of course we want to amalgamate unions but we think that if we make the necessary laws the task is then for the unions and their members to decide whether they want amalgamation. We think it is sensible but it is not the first time that that has been stated. I remind honourable senators opposite that the ex Minister for Labor and National Service,  Mr Lynch,  at first wanted amalgamations when the Opposition was in power. Later he changed his mind or somebody changed it for him. In March 1972- honourable senators opposite have forgotten it of course-  Mr Lynch  said: 
It is fair to say that provided the membership of industrial organisations does not lose effective control as a result of amalgamations, there are many advantages which can accrue from amalgamation. For instance, there are some 300 unions in Australia. Most of them are very small. It could facilitate the functioning of the arbitration system and relations generally between employers and unions if this number of unions decreases. I know of situations in which employers have sat across the table with no fewer than 15 unions in relation to one issue. Government departments have had this experience. 
He went on to say: 
The question of whether there should be changes in the legislation to specify more clearly the procedures under which organisations can amalgamate in the future is one to which the Government is giving detailed consideration. 
Honourable senators will recall that  Mr Lynch,  having announced that policy, received representations from some quarters and changed his mind. Rather than make provisions which made it easier to amalgamate he put many frustrating provisions in the legislation which have not worked and are not working yet. 
No, it is not membership control, senator. They are arrangements which will ensure that members of the unions will know that the amalgamation procedures are current. They will be advised by public advertisements and by advertisements in their own journals. We will go back to what ought to happen in Australiato what are, in fact, representative associations. We do not want the Government to control all activities as some people want to do. It is not only my view that the unions should amalgamate. What about the view of  Mr Lynch  when he first said: 'Yes, let us do it that way'? What about the comment of the National  President  of the Metal Trades Industry Association of Australia? On 24 February 1972,  Mr F.  R. Morgan said that his association had no objection to the amalgamation of the metal trades unions.  Mr Morgan  was speaking at the conclusion of a meeting of the Metal Trades Industry Association National Executive in Melbourne at which leaders of the metal trades industry from all States were present.  Mr Morgan  added that he would be conveying this decision to the Minister for Labor and National Service,  Mr Lynch.  Far from objecting to the amalgamation,  Mr Morgan  said: 
MTIA sees many practical advantages for industrial relations in the metal trades industry. The reduction in the  number of  unions with which MTIA and its members have to deal is a significant advantage. 
Another is that we can look forward to the elimination of costly demarcation disputes. 
He then went on to say that he would be informing  Mr Lynch  that the Metal Trades Industry Association would be opposed to any action by the Government which sought to prevent the amalgamation which had been carried out in accordance with the law. In 1970  Mr Ian  Macphee, whom we know now but who was then the Assistant Director of the Chamber of Manufactures in New South Wales, speaking at the New South Wales Employers Federation Industrial Relations Conference at Bondi, said: 
One may therefore express the hope that individual executives and officers in both trade unions and employer organisations may soon realise how ephemeral empires really are and that there is far more satisfaction in subsuming individual desires for personal recognition in a cause which benefits the community generally. When this realisation eventually draws a blow may really be struck for the material welfare of Australian employees and the peaceful and rapid development of our national resources. Such an advance would be greatly aided by rational amalgamations of unions and a similar unifying of employer organisations. 
That, of course, is what the Government is trying to facilitate. We are not saying that all unions have to be amalgamated but rather, as everybody has said and has recognised, that there are too many unions in Australia. There are 294, and there are some which are not registered in the courts. Of those 294 unions, there are 226 with fewer than 5,000 members. 
-This is what we are talking about. It was surprising to hear  Senator Jessop  and  Senator Hall  getting together on the transport workers dispute. 
-Usually those 2 honourable senators are sniping at each other at the first opportunity. I want to refer to what both honourable senators said.The first thing  Senator Jessop  said was that the transport workers union is an industry based union. That is what the Opposition says ought to be the current form of organisation. That is the Opposition 's policy. Secondly, what is more marked, as  Senator Button, Senator Cameron  and others pointed out, is the fact that demarcation was the origin of the dispute. If the grades and classifications had been combined in one organisation the dispute would never have occurred. Many disputes happen and not only this demarcation position is a source of trouble. The only figures we have available at the present time relate to industrial trouble arising from what are called trade union causes. This includes demarcation disputes and other related matters. The figures show that about 12 per cent of the total number of industrial disputes is occasioned by those sorts of disputes, and they are unnecessary. 
There are combinations, as I have said. I am not trying to hide anything. The honourable senator well knows, without my trying to hammer the point, that demarcation disputes are one of the damaging things in the industrial relations field. The employers do not want them and we do not want them. Therefore, we are trying to make it possible- 
The unions do not want them, as  Senator Cavanagh  said. There is no explanation of the 2 cases about which I told the 
Senate; but I put it to honourable senators that that is one of the troubles. In addition to those sorts of things we have the circumstances referred to in the quotation I recited from what was said by  Mr Lynch.  I refer to what happens when one sits down to negotiate across the table in relation to an industry where there are 15 unions. In fact, there are at least 6 Federal unions which cover the same areas, cover the same classsifications and have the same eligibility. In my case in the Post Office, as an honourable senator said, I have to talk to 27 unions in order to achieve satisfactory arrangements. 
I want to mention the position in other countries, particularly other Western democracies which are often spoken of in contrast with the Australian position. In Germany there are only 16 unions, in Sweden there are 52, in the Netherlands there are 53, in Belgium there are 361, in Norway there are 40, and in Australia there are nearly 300. Speaking about the Post Office, let me refer to something which is now within the knowledge of honourable senators. Some honourable senators have read the Vernon report on the Post Office. This is what is stated in paragraph 5.9 of that report: 
It can readily be understood that a large number of staff organisations exercising their legitimate interests in the welfare and employment conditions of their members would pose difficulties of communication and co-ordination for both management and the staff organisations. It would seem sensible that  action  be taken at some stage to rationalise staff organisation representation but this seems a matter principally for organisations and their members to decide. 
That has been my policy. But we want to make the climate easier for doing these things. This Bill and the other Bill are designed to facilitate agreements with employers and to facilitate amalgamation procedures which will suit the organisations. These things will be done in a voluntary way. There will not be the unnecessary cluttering up of provisions which has caused the problems that have been stated. 
The advertising, both public and in the journals provided for in the Bill before us is a satisfactory arrangement. If a union member complains about his union, whether it is the host union or the other union, he can still use the relevant sections of the Conciliation and Arbitration Act. He can still use section 140 or section 141 in respect of what he thinks are tyrannical or hindering rules of organisations. If he wants to he can make application to ensure that a ballot is conducted officially. In addition, for the first time ever, the Government seeks to make provisions for the payment of the cost. If an organisation decides that there should be an official ballot we have said that, if necessary and if requested, we will pay the cost of such a ballot. 
What is the position in both the Liberal and Labor governed States? None of the State arbitration Acts which enable unions to amalgamate requires a ballot. In New South Wales an application may be made to the New South Wales Industrial Registrar, and he has to hear and determine any application. In Queensland, unions in related callings may amalgamate on the passing of a resolution by a majority of members present at a general meeting or by other competent authority in the union. Objections may be lodged to the amalgamation and these are heard by the Registrar. In South Australia, where there is a Labor government, unions may amalgamate on the passing of a resolution to this effect and the lodging of it with the Registrar. In Western Australia, unions in related industries may amalgamate in the passing of a resolution by a majority of members present at a general meeting of each union, and objections to the amalgamation may be heard. After hearing all the fears expressed by opposition senators, in the light of that information about the State arbitration Acts I ask whether they still contend that it is dangerous to make amalgamation proceedings easier and that this will develop left wing unions and powerful unions? Of course that is not so. 
I mentioned earlier that the provisions inserted in the Act in 1972, when  Mr Lynch  was the responsible Minister, are creating a number of problems. I referred to the problems now occuring in respect of 2 unions. One of the problems relates to this question of a roll of members. The Act says that the Registrar, after 3 months, must ensure that a ballot of the members is taken. This is in section 1 58 of the Act. Also, the ballot has to be conducted in concert with the regulations. However, the regulations have not yet been drawn. They were not completed by this Labor Government because we had amendments to propose to the Parliament. Those amendments were rejected, and those regulations are imperfect. In addition, rolls cannot be securely established. This was pointed out by  Senator Cameron.  Consider one of the amalgamations being proposed at the present time. The roll available for the election was finalised in December last year. It is now nearly the end of 1974 and those concerned are no nearer perfecting a roll to provide for that election than the Registrar was when he first decided who should be on the roll. The fact is that many of the people who were on that roll have left the industry. We know that in some unions, and certainly in two of the unions concerned, there is a great turnover of labour. Some of the people who would vote in a current election would not be in the industry anyway. That is the case in respect of the present provisions. Therefore, the 1972 provisions are no good, although they might look all right on paper. 
I turn now to the argument about gazettal. What we propose would make it unnecessary to gazette the proposal after 3 months because that would be done as a preliminary. There is no doubt that there is a lot of objection to this provision because of fear.  Senator Scott  entered the debate by saying that if he felt that this provision would improve the conciliatory processes or improve the lot of the unions, he would support it. Then he went on to say that he would vote against the legislation. As I have spoken to honourable senators I have tried to indicate that that is the very aim of the Government- to provide a more conciliatory position, to make it easier for unions to operate within their own organisations, to make for better organisation and to make it possible for employers to engage satisfactorily in arguments with those on the other side of" the table. 
There is no doubt that the proposition that we are putting forward is a reasonable one. In my opinion, the amendments foreshadowed by  Senator Hall  are unworkable. Firstly, we oppose the compulsory side of the notion contained in his amendments because it has no relevance to the political argument that  Senator Hall  advances in support of his amendments. As I have said, we are trying to get more representative associations and to make unions free of all those inhibiting factors which have been placed upon them by Liberal-Country Party governments.  Senator Hall's  proposition cuts right across our policy aims. After all, it cannot be assumed that those who do not vote in an election concerned with an amalgamation motion oppose the amalgamation. 
The Opposition's stand on this occasion would seem to me to be a stand similar to that which it has taken on every occasion that the Labor Government has brought down amendments to the Conciliation and Arbitration Act. Our friends in the Opposition see the industrial situation as being one which requires a strong-fisted attitude. We on our side are the first to say that however difficult the industrial relations situation is, we have to develop the conciliatory processes. If one reads the Liberal-Country Party policy to which I have referred one will see in that policy that there is strong argument about developing conciliatory processes, but it is never put into action. 
On every occasion when we debate Bills similar to the Bill which we are presently discussing, honourable senators opposite decide to vote against them. I put it to the Senate that it ought to do what the Government requests  because we  have a mandate to do the sort of thing that we are requesting the Senate to do. 

 Mr Snedden has referred to the need to talk with the Australian Council of Trade Unions. I agree that those sorts of negotiations should take place. The Minister for Labor and Immigration  (Mr Clyde Cameron)  has talked with the ACTU. Yesterday and today there have been important discussions about economic policies. But there is no doubt that if one talks to the ACTU one has to take notice of what the ACTU says. The ACTU supports this Bill and the next Bill which we are to consider. On more than one occasion when I was in Opposition I came into the Senate and supported amendments to the Conciliation and Arbitration Act which had been arrived at by negotiation between the ACTU and the previous Government. On those occasions we supported the amendments to the Act. In my opinion honourable senators opposite should do the same thing and support the amendments that we are putting forward on this occasion. 
Question put: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
There is a greater need for agreement between unions and employers today in this inflationary period than has existed ever before. There is also a greater need for the sort of provisions which  Senator Greenwood  criticises, that is, the need, more than ever before for every member of a union to become involved in cementing these agreements. If agreements are pursued in the light of the present inflationary situation, the members of the union and the public generally will be aware of what is involved in the economy and they will be aware of the situation which may arise by reaching an agreement in the circumstances  Senator Greenwood  has mentioned in which the normal increase is greater than can be justified before the Prices Justification Tribunal. 

 Senator Greenwood has reminded me about the question he posed during the previous debate on this Bill. I do not think that I had an opportunity at that stage to reply to him and it was not satisfactory to write to the honourable senator. But I can read to him the reply which has been prepared in answer to his question. It is: 
The Bill facilitates negotiation and agreement between employers and unions. In its policy on wage indexation, currently under discussion under the auspices of  Mr Justice  Moore, the Government has put forward a package proposal which is designed to curb 'double-counting' with regard to prices in determination of wage claims. In addition, as part of its general policy in this area, the Government is examining the powers and functions of the Prices Justification Tribunal, lt is proposed to invite the Tribunal to scrutinise with care price claims that are based on wage costs in excess of awards. 
However, this Bill is not the appropriate vehicle for establishing how the Prices Justification Tribunal should act, and the Government's policy on prices and guidelines laid down by the Prices Justification Tribunal in no way affects the Bill or its purposes. On the other hand, there is nothing in the Bill which conflicts with the policy I have just expressed. It is obvious that an employer, or an employer organisation, when entering into agreement with unions, would bear in mind a number of considerations related both to his specific enterprise, as well as to his specific industry. One of these considerations would obviously be the guidelines of the Prices Justification Tribunal in relation to agreed wage increases. The employer is free, and will remain free to bargain for any wage rate he desires, whether they be higher than the general level in an industry or not and to reach agreement accordingly. 
The Prices Justification Tribunal has ruled that where such agreed wage rate increases are to such an extent that they cannot be classed as an 'unavoidable cost' in the eyes of the Tribunal, then the Tribunal will not consider them, to the extent that the increases are not unavoidable as a basis to increase the price of goods. An example of such a ruling is set out in the report by the Prices Justification Tribunal on 2 August 1974 on an application by Mayne Nickless to increase interstate freight rates by 1 8 per cent. This in no way infringes upon the machinery of the Bill, which is one concerned to encourage and facilitate the certification of agreements, and to ensure that these agreements are satisfactory to the majority of the union members concerned, and therefore more likely to be observed and honoured by them. 
I remind  Senator Greenwood  and other honourable senators that the provisions contained in this Bill before us tonight were first introduced in the comprehensive Conciliation and Arbitration Bill in April last year. Of course, at that time the economic climate was certainly different. It was more apparent that agreements could run easier and there were not the tests which the Government stated later should be made in respect to wage agreements. The Government is saying now to the union movement, employers and Government departments that there must be wage restraint. A stop must be put to wage claims which cannot be justified. It seems to me that normally  Senator Greenwood  would say that that is one way of curtailing the inflationary spiral. But he is saying now, as I understand him: 'Why do you do that? Why do you not make an agreement with the unions, even though the norm or the usual level of increase cannot be justified?' He knows that in this situation, simply because the Government has an overall economic and political policy, this does not mean that the Government is against the cementing of arrangements between the workers and the bosses. As I said earlier, there is more need for this. If there is an established procedure to make more agreements and have less arbitration, that procedure must be more satisfactory. 
The circumstances provided for in this Bill are not like those which existed in the old days when agreements were made. We all know perfectly well that agreements were made between management committees of the unions and the employers and that half the time the union members did not know what the agreements were edi about. But they made the agreements and in most cases they worked. In many cases, those agreements contained provisions like the disputes procedures provisions contained in this legislation. They were good provisions then and they would be good provisions now. It is expected that unions will continue to make agreements whether or not this legislation is passed. The honourable senator knows that the representatives of large organisations and the unions will meet across the table. They will be making agreements as they did before. They will be putting arrangements into their agreements to short circuit disputes. They will be arrangements such as the arrangements contained in the first oil companies disputes procedures clause. That is good, even though the economic climate is different now and even though the escalation or advance in the conditions or wages of employees may not have been as great as it would have been in the old days. There is certainly the same sort of need for such agreements. In fact, there is a greater need. 
What is the Government doing about it? Firstly, of course, last year the Government put forward the need to streamline the purposes of arbitration. The Opposition, as opposed to its argument in relation to the Conciliation and Arbitration Bill which provided for the amalgamation of unions, says that there is no need to place the testing of the agreement in the hands of the union membership. I say in relation to  Senator Greenwood's  complaint about the bans clauses that there is no intention to act in the way that he has envisaged. Bans clauses cannot be inserted in agreements on matters which are not related and confined to the area of the agreements - 
There cannot be bans clauses in the agreements in this way. There can be a bans clause in respect of what is contained in the agreement. The employer and the union can say: 'Yes, we will ban this practice or ban that practice on one side or the other'. But you cannot do that in respect of matters which are not within the agreement. 
-It does not matter. The honourable senator is arguing both ways. On the one hand he is saying that there is this irresponsible action by the unions and that the unions have taken over the countryside. He has said that the Government is going cap in hand to the Australian Council of Trade Unions. What we have done in relation to the Australian Council of Trade Unions has been done only on the basis of our need to reach agreement with the major industrial organisation in the country. If we make that agreement with the workers- the Austraiian Council of Trade Unions- then on the other hand we have to go to the employers and say: What about a system of wage indexation?'. We are trying to contain this great inflationary contest as a result of which the unions and the union members have had this great escalation of activity trying to get wage increases to keep up with prices. We know that there is no solution to that. As I said earlier, I think that the union movement and the union officials are starting to understand the position and are getting tired of the constant activity to try to get wage increases in a situation of inflation. This is also the position because in some months past the labour market was good. 
We are trying to act not only in respect to wage indexation. As honourable senators know, we put before the Premiers Conference- the meeting between the Australian Government and the State governments- various procedures which we think ought to be related to a proper conception of wage restraint. These are new initiatives to us. They are the sort of things which  Senator Rae  talked about. When  Senator Rae  was concluding his remarks in the previous debate he asked: 'Can the Government find new methods to control the position and can it take new initiatives?'. The Government is doing this. It seems to me that  Senator Greenwood  is again applying his old conservative line of argument. He seems to be saying on the one hand that the Government is arguing for agreements between the unions and the bosses which might have provided very good agreements, wage increases and conditions for employees which were above the norm. But now he is saying that such agreements should not obtain. We are saying exactly that. We are saying that there are still benefits in such agreements. We are saying that there are benefits for the workers and benefits for the employers. If such an agreement is made, it will be made in the context of the parties being aware of Government policy. I think that such agreements will be made on the basis of what is decided this week between the Australian Council of Trade Unions and the unions after their conference. What could be better than that? 
We hear Opposition members talk about  Mr Hawke  competing with  Mr Whitlam.  What could be better than to have at the source of industrial power, the union power, the  President  of the Australian Council of Trade Unions? He may have differed occasionally in his public statements from the views of our leaders but in fact - 
The honourable senator has seen Bob Hawke 's statements. Bob Hawke today is saying, and said yesterday to his Federal union conference, that unions must take account of the responsibilities they have in this inflationary situation, the need to preserve the Labor Government and to make new arrangements in terms of wage indexation under which workers will surely get an amount of money which will compensate them for price escalations. 
-That does not matter. I come back to the point I made earlier. In our society any move which involves more people in democratic action is a good thing. Mistakes will be made, as in the dispute involving the Ford Motor Company. I was involved in that dispute for a short time when  Mr Clyde  Cameron was away overseas and I must confess that on my entry into the dispute I could not solve it. Mistakes will be made, but if we can involve in any plant or union more members of that plant or union in the making of agreements, those agreements will be better understood. It has been stated, and some honourable senators have had the opportunity to examine the systems, that in countries like Sweden and Germany wide national agreements are made on wage matters, union membership, escalation and so on. In the United States of America it is common practice to have an escalation clause in respect of prices and wages. All we are saying is that despite the economic problems within this community today- and not only within Australia but also elsewhere- there is still just as much need for provisions which will allow wider agreements. There are new problems about which  Senator Greenwood  has spoken. I do not disagree that we have problems. I am saying that in my experience and in the experience of most people who have been in the union movement there is still a great need for wider agreements. They are better than arbitration, are more lasting and for those reasons the Opposition should support the Bill. 
Question put: 
The Minister for Labor and Immigration has supplied the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
1 ) The statement issued by the Prime Minister and the Minister for Overseas Trade on 18 July 1973 outlined the Government's decision to reduce tariffs by 25 per cent, the context of that decision and the assistance that would be available to workers who lose their jobs as a result of the tariff reductions and to firms who are seriously affected by imports. 
Yes. Some workers have lost their jobs. Strenuous efforts are made by the Commonwealth Employment Service to ensure that they are helped to find other employment and that where appropriate, they are advised of the special readjustment assistance available to them. 
) The main forms of assistance provided have been: 
special readjustment assistance, a weekly amount equal to the person's average weekly wage in the previous 6 months, until he or she is offered suitable alternative employment, up to a maximum period of 6 months. Proprietors of small enterprises affected may be treated as employees, if they wish; and 
b) retraining for those suited by age, health, etc. 
Yes. As at 2 August 1974, the latest date for which comprehensive statistics are available, 4,252 retrenched persons had submitted applications for Income Maintenance and of this number 8 were proprietors of small enterprises who had elected to be treated as employees. 
Hawker, Australian Capital Territory: Proposed Primary School (Question no. 58) 
I have seen some publications and information on this situation. As the honourable senator will know, the matter is largely within the authority of the State governments. I have heard of no case in the Australian Capital Territory or the Northern Territory but I will ask the Minister for Labor and Immigration to see to what extent he can inform these people of the need to observe Australian laws and assist them where required. 
The answer to the last part of the question is no. The honourable senator has seen the comments of the Minister for Labor and Immigration in the Press and I have stated them here. The Government has 4 programs to meet the situation. We are aware of it and we want to stay it. Only today, I think, a public statement has been made relating to proposals for regional employment assistance which were announced by  Mr Cameron.  Some projects in  Mr Stewart's  area of tourism have been taken up. Projects ranging in cost from about $250,000 to $500,000 are in the list. In addition, and I think this has been published also, the Government has set up a committee to activate a new scheme which might provide some more positive aims in particular areas than the structural assitance payments being made to employees who are redundant because of tariff decisions. There are 2 schemes. Unemployment is growing but the Government has 4 proposals to combat it . I think that very quickly a scheme will be adopted, as outlined to  Senator Bessell  in recent days, which will fit a situation which has been concerning people employed in industries affected by the tariff decisions. 
-The Government will take whatever action it can in respect of the schemes I have outlined. Nobody in the Government can accurately forecast what the situation might be at the end of the year. The last figures available are those for August. We do not have the September figures yet. It is no good my looking into the future and saying what might happen. I am saying that the situation has received special attention by the Government. We not only recently set up a special committee of Cabinet to look at the prospects but also are collaborating with two of our Caucus committees to make sure that particular programs are applied to meet situations considered to be acute. 
-The question calls for a studied examination of the figures. I have heard 2 versions from groups which have analysed the figures. I think it would be better for me to be precise with regard to the honourable senator's question. I will ask the Minister for Labor and Immigration to supply an answer to the honourable senator's question. 
On 14 August 1974  Senator Marriott  asked the Minister representing the Minister for Defence a question without notice regarding the tabling of manifests for the Royal Australian Air Force VIP aircraft from the day details were last given until 31 July 1974. On 12 December 1973 1 tabled details of VIP flights for the period 5 September 1973 to 3 1 October 1973. The documents I now table embrace all details of VIP travel in Royal Australian Air Force VIP aircraft for the period 1 November 1 973 to 3 1 July 1 974. 
The answer to the honourable senator's question is as follows: 
1 ) As announced by the Minister for Defence in the Parliament on 30 May 1 973, the Army 's organisation and career structure is based on an Army planning strength of 36,000. 
Australian Capital Territory: Pre-schools (Question No. 95) 
I cannot give the honourable senator plans of any future surveillance or new arrangements. I can tell the honourable senator that co-ordinated aerial survey patrols have been operating for some time and that since July the rate of aerial surveillance in the northwest has been more than doubled. Before the Labor Government came to power there was ad hoc surveillance by aircraft and ships on passage. Since we became the Government we have established a routine examination of the area. More recently, of course, the number of patrol boats stationed in Darwin for that purpose has been increased. I think that the total number is four. I know there has been certain public discussion in the newspapers about the need for surveillance of that area. Some attention has been drawn to the matter because of the presence of Indonesian fishermen, etc. In respect to any future planning, I think that I should ask the Minister for Defence to supply any additional information he can for the honourable senator. 
I have no doubt that this subject will be raised very shortly during the debate on the Post and Telegraph Bills. But as I think everybody knows, the general position is that it costs much more to establish subscriber connections in rural areas. From memory, I think the figure for the city is $1,500 and for the real outback about $9,000. Even in the country areas,  the figure is something just below $4,000. The postal services to the country areas are obviously more expensive to provide. Perhaps this is a question which can be developed better in debate on the Bills which will be brought on this morning. 
As a result of questions asked yesterday by other honourable senators I have asked the Minister to give me the information as soon as he can. As soon as it is available I will supply it to the honourable senator or to the Senate. 
-On Tuesday the relevant Ministers met and they approved sporting and recreational projects for the whole of Australia involving about $350,000. These types of projects are included in requests which have been received from South Australia. There was a request from Port Pirie for financial assistance for a drainage project. A decision on that matter has been deferred because sufficient information was not available. Another region of South Australiathe Port Lincoln region- has been added to the list of regions which would come under the scheme. At present 3 South Australian regions are involved. I will find out from the Minister and the committee that is dealing with this matter whether any other projects for South Australia are under consideration. 
Certain criteria have been established and made known, as far as I am aware, to all State governments and also most of the councils and corporations. The criteria relate to how the applications should be processed. I understand that local councils can make an application either directly to the regional office of the Department of Labor and Immigration or to the Minister. I am not sure whether any applications have been received in connection with the projects about which the honourable senator has asked. I can only undertake to find out whether any such consideration has been given. In addition it may be proper if the honourable senator directed the attention of the authorities concerned to the fact that they can apply directly to the Minister.  Mr Clyde  Cameron chairs the meeting, but there is in fact a committee of Ministers, including the Minister for Social Security and the Minister for Urban and Regional Development, which is responsible for determining, on the criteria, which applications should be approved. If the honourable senator wishes, I will ask for information in respect of the matters he has mentioned and see whether applications have been made. 

 - Senator McLaren, who initiated a campaign for the introduction of this reform, is renewing his application in a very cold situation, because snow fell in Canberra this morning. Anyway, the facts are as follows: Tropical dress has recently been made an optional dress for the Army during the summer months. If members of the Services so choose, they can wear an approved tropical dress. Previously of course, that option was restricted to tropical areas. I can say in addition that there is currently a review to determine whether there should be some modification and improvement of the standard of dress. 
in reply- I am rather pushed for time because of the number of Bills that we have to consider this afternoon, but I will do what I can in the time allotted to me to deal with all the matters that have been raised. I thank the Senate for its indication that there will be no opposition to the Bills. Perhaps I should first refer quickly to what  Senator Hall  has said. In a way I think he ought to know the circumstances. First, he charges me with agreeing to proceed with construction of the tower on Black Mountain. He has been in this place long enough to know that before I became the PostmasterGeneral the Government had tested the proposition to build the tower. In various ways the proposition was subjected to tests. Not just the previous Postmaster-General, but also the Cabinet and the Government decided to go ahead with the project. So it is no good  Senator Hall  belatedly saying that I personally am responsible for the decision to proceed with the construction of the tower. Since I have been the PostmasterGeneral I have seen all those groups who obviously have seen  Senator Hall.  But I will state the story which has been repeated by the Government. 
A number of Ministers have been involved. The Minister for Housing and Construction  (Mr Les Johnson),  the previous Postmaster-General and various other Ministers had tests conducted and heard arguments about the tower. It is doubtful whether any government building project has been so subjected to public argument as has the Black Mountain project. The project was tested at public hearings of the Parliamentary Standing Committee on Public Works, at legal proceedings and by an examination of an environmental impact study. There has been full argument amongst all the interested Ministers. I have not mentioned some of them. In addition, of course, as we all know, the legal proceedings were made possible only by the AttorneyGeneral  (Senator Murphy)  granting his fiat. The Australian Capital Territory Supreme Court found no environmental objection to the proposal to build the tower on Black Mountain. Currently there is a case involving this matter before the High Court. 
As regards the operations of the tower, the facts are that the technical information was tested in various ways by committees of the Government and by departments and at those other hearings to which I have referred. In the opinion of the people who looked at the question, technically such a tower was necessary.  Senator Hall  should know that unless there is some further legal obstruction, the construction of the tower will proceed. 
The strange thing about this debate is that all honourable senators opposite who have taken part in it generally have argued that they did not do anything wrong in stopping the proposed increased postal charges on the previous occasion. Of course, the facts are that they frustrated the Bills which came before the Senate on the last occasion, and the Government has had very little option other than to increase the postal tariffs which previously were before the Parliament to the rates which the Senate is presently considering. All that has happened is that we have had another debate about postal charges. Previously honourable senators opposite deferred the proposed increased postal charges and now they accept them. Those honourable senators opposite, particularly  Senator Jessop  and  Senator Townley,  who have spoken in the debate have said that there ought to be economies in the Post Office. I remind them that in the last four of its years in office the previous Government increased postal charges. It increased them in 1967, in 1968, in 1970 and in 1971. Honourable senators opposite have complained about interest charges. They have canvassed the argument which has been put on payment for services. But they supported the Government that applied the principle that the Post Office should pay interest. 
Nobody has mentioned what the Liberal governments in the States have done only in the last couple of days. Have a look at the Victorian State Budget under which liquor licence and tobacco licence fees have been increased; motor vehicle licence fees have been increased from $2 to $6; insurance charges are to go up; fares are to go up; and stamp duty is to go up. In New South Wales the same thing is occurring. What options are available to the Post Office? I admit that this has been argued from different sides in the past, but the options are very few. If we did as the Opposition suggests, we would have to subsidise the operations of the Post Office and the telecommunication services, or say that in future the services will not be as good as they have been or that they should be reduced. 
Mention has been made of the necessity for economies in the Post Office. It seems to me that the Vernon report has been discounted. That report contains some of the most satisfactory recommendations that have ever been put to any government. It is a most valuable report. We will be discussing that report later when we come to the general formation of the new corporations. In the report the highest regard and commendation is paid to the work of the Australian Post Office. The recommendations and conclusions in that report state that the Post Office offers a comprehensive range of postal and telecommunication services. The report says that the services are adequate. It commends the telecommunication services. It commends the general policies of the Post Office, including its industrial policies. It does make some criticism of the mail services in New South Wales. But generally the report gives the administration a fairly clean sheet. I think it is unfair to suggest that economies can be achieved. Without being personal, let me say that  Senator Jessop  and  Senator Townley  are used to operating businesses. I think  Senator Townley  may still operate one. If anybody said to them 'You should subsidise this with your own savings', they would reject that point of view. 

 Senator Lawrie spoke about the disabilities which are faced by country people. He referred to the attitude that this Government is taking in respect of tariffs. This is not new. The previous Government which he supported also did this. We know that services are not as good in some country areas as they are in the city areas. This morning I answered a question on the cost of connecting subscribers to telephone exchanges. It costs the Post Office about $1,600 to make a connection in the city. In the settled country areas it costs nearly $4,000. In the outer rural areas it costs $9,000. If there is no increase in tariffs, then services have to be cut down.  Senator Lawrie  made a different point. He said that services should be increased. He said that there ought to be improvements and that new technologies ought to be introduced. But we cannot just do that. The estimates which we had well before the Vernon Commission started to make its examination showed that for every $ 1 spent in country areas the Post Office recovered only about 49c. Because the 2 different revenues are taken together, often the Post Office is able to come out with a small profit. In accepting the view which it has accepted and which was put by previous governments, the Government was influenced largely by the opinions of the Vernon Commission. I think that is the real substance of the whole issue. 
I think that the comments of  Senator Townley  and  Senator Jessop  were largely political and should not be taken as ones which they, as members of a responsible body, would put forward if they were in government. It has been argued that the Vernon Commission proposed an increase of about 15 per cent in postal charges. At the time that Commission made that estimate it was not aware of the financial developments which have taken place in the community. In fact, on the last occasion on which we proposed to increase these charges we said that there was a gap amounting to $30m- which was correct- and at about that time we had to meet an increased wages bill and superannuation commitments. The Government, like every other organisation in business, is faced with these sorts of escalations. Each year the Post Office, as is the case with other instrumentalities which come before the Senate, has to re-examine its tariffs to see whether within the framework of its general operations it can or cannot avoid applying increases. I suggest to the Senate that having accepted the tariffs at the present time we have accepted that there must be increases. The Opposition is saying that we must examine this in the future. I think that with some luck, if not at the time of the next Budget then at the time of the one after that, we will have the 2 corporations set up. If those corporations operate along the lines recommended by the Vernon Commission they will apply the same sort of approach to this matter as the Government is applying at present. 
I think that substantially those are the main arguments that ought to be put on this matter. In relation to some of the constructive comments that have been made, I undertake to have them examined to ascertain whether I can add anything. In view of the time which has been allotted for the passage of Bills today, I have been asked to make my contribution short. I conclude my remarks by thanking those honourable senators who took part in the debate. Some of my own colleagues did not take part in it simply because they wanted to save time in order to facilitate the business of the Senate today. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time, and passed through its remaining stages without amendment or debate. 
The Minister for Labor and Immigration has supplied the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
Yes. 
Yes. As at 2.8.74, the latest date for which comprehensive statistics are available, 4,262 persons had submitted claims for special readjustment assistance as a result of the 25 per cent tariff reduction and subsequent structural change decisions such as the tariff reduction relating to the Consumer Electronic Components and Equipment industry. 
No formal applications for special readjustment assistance have been made on behalf of other persons. Any enquirers on behalf of other persons would be advised that the workers directly concerned are required to make their own applications for assistance. The total sum of money paid under this scheme to 2.8.74 was $443,757.08. 
Payments are made from funds under the control of the Department of the Prime Minister and Cabinet and appropriated under Division 922 in Appropriation Bill No. 2 of 1973-74. 
I should very briefly like to reply to  Senator Rae.  When  Senator Rae  raised this question last week I think  Senator Wriedt  was not in the chamber but the information had been given to him. The matter is the responsibility of the Minister for Manufacturing Industry  (Mr Enderby).  I am told that  Mr Enderby  was studying the report and had received the request from  Senator Rae  that  Senator Rae  be issued with a copy as soon as possible. The reply to  Senator Rae's  request from  Mr Enderby  was that as soon as he could make a copy of the report available he would. That is the position.  Senator Wriedt  will be informed of the request that  Senator Rae  made tonight with a view to obtaining more information from  Mr Enderby. 
In relation to the question of Tasmania, I understand that the Minister for Defence  (Mr Barnard)  issued a statement in Tasmania related to the sorts of examinations to which  Senator Rae  referred. I can only undertake to ask  Senator Wriedt  to respond to the invitation of  Senator Rae,  perhaps tomorrow. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
-Usually the Adelaide directory is distributed at the end of September. It will not be distributed until about 1 8 October because of a problem in getting suitable yellow paper. The printers' requirements are usually received by late May or early June. However, while white paper was received it was not possible for the printers to get from international sources sufficient pulp for the yellow paper. Unfortunately, because of the limitations in the availability of suitable pulp, the total order of approximately 500 tonnes of yellow paper could not be delivered in a single shipment at the required time. It could be supplied only in 3 lots. The first was received on 30 August, the second on 1 3 September and the third is expected on 5 October. 
The position is that when the report was first handed to the Government and received by the Special Minister of State, it was submitted to Cabinet and Cabinet accepted the recommendation. Since that time representations from the Overseas Telecommunications 
Commission were conveyed to the Prime Minister and to the Cabinet through me, asking that for some time the OTC be not involved in a merger. This matter has again been considered by the Government and the Government is of the same opinion as it held previously. That information has been conveyed to the OTC in discussions held last Friday by the interim  chairman  of the Telecommunications Commission,  Mr Bill  Gibbs, and also later in the afternoon by me in discussions with the Board and  Sir Arthur  Petfield. The target date set by the Prime Minister is 1 July. I think it would be rather a matter for me as soon as possible to bring down more positive recommendations in relation to the later position. 
-Whilst I have some allied responsibility for this as Minister representing the Minister for Defence, in fact the responsibility in this area lies mainly with the Minister for Manufacturing Industry,  Mr Enderby,  who is represented in this chamber by the Minister for Agriculture,  Senator Wriedt.  I do not answer for him, but I think that in order to present the picture as it is today, although  Senator Wriedt  might want to say something different, probably the best thing would be to make sure that we get a statement from the Minister as to the general position. 
The general position was referred to in the paper which was circulated with the Post and Telegraph Bill and the Post and Telegraph Rates Bill. The honourable senator will find the matter to which he has referred explained on page 5. But generally, in answer to the honourable senator, I point out that the Post Office provides a national mail delivery service at charges which mostly are uniform anywhere within Australia, irrespective of distance and the cost of providing a service in a particular area. Whilst competition can be healthy it is not reasonable for the Post Office to offer low concession postage for specified publications and then have the users make a convenience of the concession for high cost areas and deny to the Post Office whatever benefits there may be in also handling the business for the less costly and therefore more profitable areas. I refer the honourable senator particularly to the comments on page 5 of the documents to which I have just referred. Upon reflection, after reading the honourable senator's question in Hansard I will see whether there is any other information I should give to him. 
Questions have been raised about this matter here and there, including the Press. Queries have concerned whether the defence forces have sufficient patrol boats in the area. Recently  Senator Drake-Brockman  asked a question about the strength at Darwin, where there are 4 patrol boats. Proposals for acquisition of new patrol craft are being considered in the general defence planning. In addition the honourable senator probably will have read that  Mr Barnard,  the Minister for Defence, whilst overseas inspected a number of new types of pa1trol craft and will be considering what to do about them. There are 13 patrol boats operating and, as I advised  Senator Drake-Brockman  a few days ago, four of them are based at Darwin. One has most recently been added to the complement. 
The answer to  Senator Lawrie  's question is that unless the farmers themselves affirm in writing that, firstly, the service is not used predominantly for business purposes, secondly, an occupational entry is not required in the telephone directory and, thirdly, the telephone accounts for the service are not claimed as a business deduction for taxation purposes, they will be considered as private subscribers. If the requirements are met, the business telephone rating will not be charged, but they are the circumstances. They must comply with all 3 criteria. 
-To the present time the Australian Post Office has placed orders for about 130 mini vans, and it is expected that finally a work force of about 140 people will be necessary. The service will commence in Canberra, Sydney and Melbourne during the early part of next year. It is expected that about 62 vans will be delivered in the first instalment. The service will provide the sort of specialised services for customers which is partly provided by competitors at the present time. It will be an extension of the services provided by the Post Office, and it has been generally welcomed by the industry and by the public. 
Over the years- in fact, during the period of office of previous governmentsit has been considered to be adequate, once the legislation has been passed by the Parliament, for the tariffs applying to international mail to be simply promulgated. But because of new advice from the Attorney-General 's Department and having regard, I suppose, to the reasons put up by that Department in relation to the need for a new and sensitive outlook on international protocols and conventions, this matter was debated and it was considered that the thing to do now is to increase international mail charges by regulation.  Senator Murphy  and I conferred on this matter and we felt that although the practice followed in the past had been sufficient we would accede to the new advice we had received. I hope that the Executive Council will enact today the regulation which will increase the international charges. 
The case mentioned by the honourable senator was brought to my attention last night by  Mr Ron  Davies, the member for Braddon. It was pointed out- if the honourable senator would look at the Bill which went through Parliament he will see this himself- that the position as outlined by the editor of the 'Advocate' is not correct. If the honourable senator likes I will give him a copy of the circular which was sent to  Mr Ron  Davies for his information. 
I oppose the amendment. I wish to say a few words about what  Senator Marriott  said about the position in Tasmania. I ask  Senator Marriott  and all Liberal senators what they did about Tasmania in over 20 years of government. 
Of course you did.  Senator Marriott  talked about union amalgamations and transport costs. What did honourable senators opposite do about those things? Only a few days ago we put forward a proposal to stop demarcation troubles and disputes, which make up about 7 per cent of the industrial disputes in Australia. What did honourable senators opposite do? They did what they did on 3 previous occasions. They voted against it. We put forward measures to make sure that demarcation disputes were minimised. 
People ought to be able to get together. One of the leaders of the Opposition,  Mr Lynch,  said in 1971 that there ought to be more amalgamations; that it was better to have fewer unions. Yet only two or three days ago honourable senators opposite again voted against this Labor Government's proposal, although all the evidence clearly shows that that proposal is supported by employers and unions alike. Honourable senators opposite raise all these problems about demarcation disputes between one union and another in the shipping industry but when we provided a remedy they opposed it. 
What have they done about the cost of shipping to and from Tasmania? When they were in government they instructed the Senate Standing Committee on Primary and Secondary Industry and Trade to conduct a long-standing inquiry into problems relating to freight rates on the Australian National Line shipping services to and from Tasmania. In September 1971, when they were in government, a report was presented stating what ought to be done to correct the situation. What did they do about it? I refer the Senate to page 61 of that report where the Committee made a unanimous statement. I do not know whether  Senator Marriott  was a member of that Committee; I think he was. 

 - Senator Poyser was a member of the Committee. At page 6 1 of that report the Committee said: 
We recommend that subject to the requirement that the ANL meet its statutory obligations to pursue a policy directed towards securing revenue sufficient to meet all its expenditure properly chargeable to revenue, and to permit the payment to the Commonwealth of a reasonable return on its capital, the present tonnage limitation should be revised and the Line should have equal opportunity with private operators to provide any additional tonnage required on the Australian coast. 
In its conclusions and recommendations the Committee repeated the same sort of sentiment. What did honourable senators opposite do about them? Absolutely nothing. The Committee also made some other observations. In its conclusions, on page 7 1, it stated: 
Upgrading of the Tasmanian mainline railways would be beneficial and the granting of Commonwealth assistance should be considered. 
Honourable senators opposite did nothing about that recommendation. The only Government that has promised something about it is the Labor Government. Although all these great remedies were recommended in these reports relating to a situation which was causing increases in shipping tariffs, the Liberal-Country Party Government did nothing about them. 
The honourable senator keeps raising questions which his Party never at any time attempted to cure. The honourable senator and his Leader talk about the need for restraint. Every argument in this chamber and in the other place has been directed towards the Government not spending as much, yet when we go through the various items of expenditure honourable senators opposite say that we should spend more. They say that more money ought to be provided for defence, for child endowment and so on. What sort of situation do we have today? It is no different from what always obtained; yet the Liberal Party says that there ought to be restraint on Government spending. 
The only Government in Australia that has ever had a comprehensive policy on manpower is this Labor Government. The only Government which has ever been able to provide immediate assistance in the form of regional employment development schemes is this Labor Government. I want to refer to  Senator Marriott's  complaint about Tasmania. He has now left the chamber, but honourable senators will notice in the - 
Of course he is not here. 
The ACTING  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Marriott)-  Order! Interjections are very disorderly. 
I am sorry,  Mr Acting Deputy President.  I want to refer to what you said about there being no assistance to Tasmania. The Minister for Labor and Immigration,  Mr Cameron,  only recently pointed out the amounts given to Tasmania for programs under this Government's regional employment development scheme. In Hobart, the municipality of Huon is to receive over $2 15,000 to upgrade the obsolete water mains in Franklin. Provisional approval has been given. Provisional approval has been given for work to upgrade water mains at Crabtree Grove in Hobart at a cost of $12,700. The municipality of Huon in Hobart is to upgrade the water mains at Mountain River at a cost of over $16,000, and this work has received provisional approval. Extensions to the Midway Point sewerage scheme in the municipality of Sorell, costing $40,000, have been deferred because they are subject to agreement with the Department of Urban and Regional Development. Provisional approval has been given for a project in the municipality of Beaconsfield, Launceston, for a project costing $32,000 which involves the use of female labour in painting. Again in Launceston, provisional approval has been given for the employment of female labour at the council chambers at a cost of $4,500. There is another project in the municipality of Beaconsfield, and so it goes on. There are scores of projects not only in Tasmania but also in my State and in every other State. This is the only government which can marshal immediate assistance in the circumstances which arise as a result of this great problem of world-wide inflation. We have been able to approve projects immediately, despite the fact that people still talk about State problems. In addition we have organised the manpower situation. 
The strange thing about the Liberals, as I said earlier, is that they ask why we do not do all these things. They ask us why we do not cut spending and also why we do not approve more social services. Our policy has been successful. For once, even though there have been very serious inflationary crises throughout the world as well as in Australia, we have kept our promises relating to social welfare, education - 
-We have more than exceeded the claims made by anybody in regard to education and social welfare, as well as in regard to repatriation benefits. Honourable senators opposite ask why we do not spend more; yet their Leader,  Mr Snedden,  said that we should ensure that 25 per cent less would be spent, which would mean that there would be a cut of $900m. Would the Australian electorate countenance a cut of $900m in the program we have put forward? Would the electorate support  Mr Snedden  when he says that the main thrust of his policy is to reduce the acceleration in public sector expansion? He says that his Party would make a careful scrutiny within the areas of lower priority to determine which projects should be cancelled or deferred. Honourable senators opposite cannot have it both ways. They cannot cut and expand at the same time. Their propositions always have been the same. They come into the chamber and say that we are spending too much and that we should cut back. 
This Government has made sure that in a situation which certainly is not particularly secure the promises of the Labor Party will be kept. For example, we have made sure that the biggest single increase in the Budget is in spending on education. For the second year spending will rise. This financial year it will rise by 78 per cent to a massive $ 1,535m. This has never been thought about before. If the Liberals had been in power the people would not have had one-fifth of that amount spent on education. Would the educational grants to all the schools have been maintained? Of course not. Would the new additional allowances provided by this Government have been provided? Consider the welfare matters and the repatriation budget of the Department of Repatriation and Compensation administered by  Senator Wheeldon?  Would those things have been done by a Liberal government? Consider the increases in repatriation which have been approved following upon the vast increases that were granted when I was Minister.  Senator Wheeldon,  of course, has outmanoeuvred me and has made a better deal. Not only has he kept the promises made to the exservicemen; he is providing new benefits to the Commonwealth soldiers who served in the wars- - new things which never would have been countenanced. In the years when we were in Opposition we came along with the complaints of the Returned Services League and other exservicemen about lack of government action; but now we have the RSL and other ex-servicemen applauding the actions of the Labor Government. 
In regard to  Mr Uren's  plans for the big cities, we will spend more than $400m on old and new cities. This is the first time that there has ever been an Australian-wide plan which will ensure that old cities are renewed and that vast new complexes are built in co-operation with the State governments. This particular plan was accepted immediately in my own State by the Dunstan Government. The Australian Government and the State Government will co-operate on a planning committee. In addition to this plan there are plans for particular works like sewerage works and area improvement works. Money has been given to the State governments for these purposes. New South Wales has received more than $34m for sewerage works. Victoria has received about $34m for sewerage works and $4.2 5 m for area improvement works. 
Nothing, and they had no plan because they do not believe in planning. They say that planning is for the socialists. South Australia has received $3m for sewerage works, $500,000 for area improvement works and $4.4m for urban water supply works in the initial stage of construction. Part of the money is being provided by way of grant and part by way of long term loan. Tasmania has received $2. 7m for these works in addition to the particular projects to which I referred earlier. Western Australia has received $ 15.4m for sewerage works and $750,000 for area improvement works. Queensland has received $ 13.5m for sewerage works and $2.5 m for area improvement works. It was the Labor Party which for the first time said in its policy speech that the national Government ought to plan to provide sewerage for most of the important centres in Australia. We have done that. Our policies are being carried out. Of course, in addition we have allocated $75m to ensure that the Government's program for preschool and child care facilities gets under way. 
We are providing $28m to the States for modernising State hospitals. We are providing $ 1 .8m to the State governments to enable them to meet deficits incurred by religious, charitable and other non-profit organisations. We have doubled the grants to the States, to $ 10m a year, to build homes for single pensioners. I have already referred to repatriation benefits.  Senator Cavanagh  has provided nearly $70m in cash for Aboriginal projects. There has been a huge increase, from $7m to $54. 7m, in the Australian National Line capital expenditure program in order to increase the share of the trade carried in Australian ships. That is in contrast to the point I made earlier when I referred to the report by the Senate Standing Committee on Primary and Secondary Industry and Trade in 197 1 which recommended improvements in and an extra share of the trade to the Australian National Line- things which would have beneficially affected transportation between the mainland and Tasmania. But nothing was done. 
In addition to all these things, as we know, in my own area and in the area of  Senator Douglas  McClelland, 2,500,000 people who used to pay television and radio licence fees will no longer have to pay them. We have made sure that that fee, which was a poll tax, will be finished forever. We have followed countries like Canada in ensuring that benefits should be provided to all of the people. But all of the people cannot get benefits at the same time. From now on it will be remembered that television and radio licence fees were abolished by the Labor Government. We have increased our overseas aid, which was a policy pledge of my Government. The amount of aid will be increased by about one-third. The Liberal Opposition has never planned to do anything. It disagrees with our planning. It blames all the problems in the economy on the Labor Government. 
-Of course it does. When we propose to carry out our policies for which we have received a mandate from the people, the Opposition claims that we should not carry them out, that we should not be spending money. What have we tried to do? We have tried to ensure that defence spending reaches the level that we have promised. In relation to defence spending, we have shown that we want to ensure that every serviceman receives about the same rate of pay as people in outside industry. We have heard people say that Labor has cut down on defence spending. Last night  Senator Steele  Hall said that we are cutting down on defence spending. For the first time in Australia servicemen in all the Services can be sure that they will receive pay increases commensurate with those awarded to people in outside industry. 
When I was a member of the Senate Regulations and Ordinances Committee I found that 6 or 12 months after a pay increase had been awarded to fitters or to other people in outside industry a regulation would come along which promised to pay servicemen similar increases. As  Senator Wheeldon  will recall, very often the members of the Committee said: 'We should not pay these amounts retrospectively.' There was much contention within the Committee. On many occasions, because the increases were to be paid to defence personnel, we made sure that the payments were made. That was the old system. We have produced a new system. We have ensured that there are regular hearings in relation to defence pay. If we take into account all the increases in pay that we have made and the benefits that we have provided under the Defence Forces Retirement Benefits Fund we find that we have spent more than $300m in ensuring that servicemen receive pay and conditions commensurate with those awarded to people in outside industry. If we want a satisfactory defence force we have to ensure once and for all that servicemen are paid in the same way as their counterparts. 

 - Senator Carrick knows what we did. We rationalised the Services. The strange thing is that despite the criticism of honourable senators opposite, during the last Federal election campaign they never promised that anything more would be spent on defence. Whilst their defence spokesman and others in this chamber criticised the Government before the last election and whilst they have come back here and said that we ought to do certain things, none of them has promised to spend anything more on defence because they know that we are managing the defence Services properly. 
We have almost reached that figure, and  Senator Carrick  knows that. The figures clearly show that. In 1974-75 estimated outlays in relation to the gross domestic product represent 2.65 per cent. The estimated expenditure is 2.77 per cent, which is near enough to 3 per cent. 
Of course it is near enough. Compare it with the procrastination of honourable senators opposite and of their committee which dealt with the wages of servicemen. Compare that with what we did about rationalisation of the Services immediately we came to office. Did honourable senators opposite promise to implement any of the policies that we have enunciated and carried out? They have not promised anything. Why do they criticise us? If they were going to do something they should have stated it in their policy. But they fell flat because they know that all the things that it is possible to do in the defence area we have done. I say to  Senator Carrick  that it is simply carping political criticism to come in here without any evidence and say: 'You should cut back on public spending and at the same time you should spend more'. I cannot work it out, nor can anybody else. Then honourable senators opposite refer to the aims of the States. Of course some of the States have not received all the money they want. But some of the States will not plan with the Federal Government; they will not co-operate. I am pleased to say that my own State of South Australia is most willing to be present at any discussions with Federal Ministers in order to ensure that it gets the maximum from the Australian Government. The South Australian Government will plan with the Federal Government not only in relation to great urban projects but also in relation to railways and public transport. There are more plans to come. 
Although honourable senators opposite complain about the treatment which the States are receiving, if they look at the figures they will find that in 1974-75 the States will receive grants and advances from the Australian Government to the extent of $6,033m, which is an increase of 38.4 per cent over what they received last year. What have we done about other issues? What have we done about setting up tribunals and about prices? Honourable senators opposite know that for many weeks they held up the Trade Practices Bill. They know that they have held up other measures in the Senate on the ground that the Senate ought to be in a position to consider legislation. But in fact the Opposition held them up and the Leader of the Opposition in the Senate  (Senator Withers)  said: 'We are trying to make sure that there will be a double dissolution'. So the Opposition frustrated the work of the Government despite the mandate that the Australian Labor Party had been given to implement its policies which were announced in public and put in writing. We were the only party at that time whose program could be read by everybody. 
The honourable senator knows that it would not be unusual for him or  Senator Greenwood  to come into this chamber and say: 'Here is Labor Party policy'. We were the only party with a document setting out our policies and, of course, in most recent months the Opposition has tried to copy the document. It has tried to imitate the Labor Party's policies. 
-Of course it has. The Opposition has never had a policy document. One could not find in writing the policies of the Liberal Party or what its policies meant. It has never held public conferences. For many years the Labor Party has held debates in the public arena on its policies. The honourable senator could attend one of the meetings as a visitor and sit back in the audience and find out what the Labor Party was thinking about. But one could never find out such things about the Liberal Party. 
-Only recently has the Liberal Party decided to do this sort of thing, and maybe it has been brought about by the agitation of our friend from South Australia,  Senator Steele  Hall, who suggested that the Liberal Party is too conservative and the only way to get it back into power is to follow a line which is perhaps more that of a small '1' liberal and more moderated. There are reports now, of course, that  Senator Steele  Hall has been offered some inducement to join the Liberal Party in order to consolidate its forces. I hope that those reports are not right. 
Well, I saw a statement in one of the Sydney journals that  Senator Greenwood  might be deposed and  Senator Steele  Hall might be offered a position to ensure that he will vote with the Liberals all the time. 
Of course we are putting up postal charges. Let me talk about them. It is in this area that honourable senators opposite are hypocrites. I say that in a political sense and not in any personal sense. During all the years that we had Liberal Postmasters-General the argument was put up that the user ought to pay. Only on rare occasions when it suited the rural community did the Liberal Party agree with subsidies. In four of the last years that the Liberals were in government they increased postal charges and they criticised the Labor Opposition for claiming that the increases were too steep. On this occasion, of course, the Opposition deferred the increases proposed earlier in the year until the Budget session. Because of that we have had to increase the charges even more. On the principle put forward by Liberal Ministers in the past and also with the support of the Vernon Commission recommendations, it has been said: 'The user ought to pay'. We have increased postal charges for that reason. When we first proposed the increases the Opposition rejected them, but strangely enough it decided not to oppose them the other day. Opposition senators criticised them but said that they would let them go through. If Opposition senators were dinkum it appears to me that they ought to be consistent. So it seems to me that the criticism of postal charges has been answered. Both  Senator Douglas  McClelland and I have done something about which we are very proud, and that is to make sure that once and for all this poll tax on radio and television licences is abolished. 
The position is that television and radio services are national services and they ought to be considered on that basis. Because they are national services, we made sure that the contribution should not be based on a poll tax. The situation in relation to telephones is quite different because they are restricted to the user. That has no relevance at all. I think I can say quite clearly- everybody knows this-that although it has been claimed that we have been extravagant in Government we have kept our welfare promises. 
Of course we have. 
For heaven's sake, what about the education vote, the welfare and the repatriation pensions? This is the first time ever that pensions have been tied to a formula. The Opposition talked about it when in government but did nothing. In the old days when those in Opposition were on this side of the chamber they used to grant increases of 20c, and the largest increase that they have ever given since I have been here is $1. To show how good we are we granted an increase of $5, and we did not use the Budget to do so. We could have easily made that increase a Budget gimmick, but we did not do that. We gave that increase before the Budget was brought down. 
Of course, the Labor Party does have great problems but it is carrying on with the policies which it pledged to carry out. We are continuing with welfare proposals because that is what we ought to do. Maybe honourable senators opposite are critical of us but surely they ought to give us support in those matters which we have announced publicly. But instead of that, as everybody knows, on almost every occasion they have used all sorts of frustrating devices, the most recent of which was in relation to the amalgamation of unions, which  Senator Marriott  mentioned. Why do they want to keep doing these things? If they want to take over the reins of government they have to show a more responsible attitude than they are showing at the moment. They have to accept some of the socialist ideas that our Labor Party, our welfare party, has put into operation. Unless the Opposition can reconcile its own philosophies of free enterprise with the social welfare aims which are required in these days, it will never get back into government. 
So I suggest to the Opposition and to the people who may be listening to the debate that the Australian Labor Party has again kept its promises in Government. If the Australian people want a return to all the problems of yesteryear and promises which, as I have mentioned, were never given effect to, then they will put back the old conservative crowd again and do away with the progress that Australia is making at the moment. 
The answer to the honourable senator's question is as follows: 
The Post Office is currently negotiating with the two companies mentioned with the intention of purchasing their existing coin telephones leased to subscribers and taking over the current contracts with lessees on mutually agreed terms. 
In answering parts (a), (b) and (c) of the question I think it would be helpful to first provide the following background information: 
In 1963, approval was given to V.T.C. Pty Ltd and Elliott-Automation Pty Ltd (now G.E.C.-Elliott Automation) to lease local call public telephones to subscribers. The Post Office refers to these telephones as 'Company Coin Telephones' but they are respectively marketed by the companies as ' Red Phone ' and ' Easiphone '. 
V.T.C. Pty Ltd (a wholly-owned subsidiary of V.T.H. Pty Ltd ) is 80 per cent Australian owned by two private investment companies and 20 per cent owned by the manufacturers of the units- Tamura Electrical Works of Tokyo, Japan. G.E.C.-Elliott Automation is owned wholly by G.E.C. (U.K.). There are some 19.000 Red Phones and about 2,000 Easiphones in service. 
The approval given to the companies represented an extension of a long-standing Post Office practice by which a variety of special facilities required by only a relatively small number of subscribers and known as 'Permitted Attachments' such as answering machines, loud speaking telephones, etc. are made available by private enterprise direct to telephone subscribers. This is done to conserve Post Office capital funds and other resources for basic service commitments. 
The following conditions were attached to the authority given to V.T.C. Pty Ltd and Elliott Automation Pty Ltd: 
The Post Office reserved the right to withdraw the approvals to lease further instruments, with due notice. 
Applications from other companies to market similar units would be considered on their merits (no more have been received ). 
The rental charged by the companies for their units was not to exceed $ 1 20 per annum ( no change has been sought subsequently by the companies). 
The companies were to be responsible for all major maintenance. 
Post Office maintenance was to be confined to replacement of minor external components (to be supplied by the company). 
The Post Office reserved the sole right to meet all subscriber demand for: 
Multi-coin public telephones, i.e., those from which trunk as well as local calls can be made, and 
Local call only public telephones required by Government Departments. Public Institutions, Hospitals, Churches, Schools, etc. 
In regard to part (a) of the question the basis of the purchase price offered by the Post Office is the depreciated value of the existing coin telephones owned by each company. Both companies have indicated their willingness to sell their assets to the Post Office at an acceptable price. 
In regard to (b), the basic reasons for the proposed takeover are that the Post Office: 
Could expect to gain the very satisfactory level of profit which has been secured by the companies. 
Would have complete control over the design and maintenance of all coin telephones thus ensuring compatibility with future network developments. 
Would have a strong influence in the placement of subscribers' coin telephones in protected locations so that the provision of street public telephones could be avoided in areas prone to vandalism. 
In regard to (c), the position is that, if it is supplied with the necessary personal details of staff members interested in employment in the Post Office, the Department will advise the vacancies open to them, consistent with the conditions for employment in the Public Service. If staff members of the companies then wish to actively seek employment with the Post Office, each request will be given special attention. 
I understand from the Minister for Labor and Immigration that he has received very good co-operation from the State Ministers in respect of this matter. Only recently the  Hon.  F. E. Hewitt, the New South Wales Minister for Labour, applauded the Government's intentions in respect of the financial incentives which have been announced in the Budget. He said that they would act as a great inducement in this area. As the honourable senator probably knows, there is an Australian Apprenticeship Advisory Committee which meets regularly, chaired by  Dr Sharp,  the head of  Mr Cameron's  Department. On that body there are representatives of employers, unions and State governments. I am told that in this area the State Ministers are very co-operative. I do not have the figures with me but I will try to get them. The fact is that quite recently the incentives or subsidies provided to employers in relation to the intake of apprentices have very nearly been doubled. This is an indication that we are doing all we can with the assistance of industry and the State governments to induce apprentices to join industry. 
I understand the position to be that since 1960 no subsidy has been given to rifle clubs for ammunition. But generally speaking, since that date the practice has been that purchases have been made from the former Department of Supply- it is now the Department of Manufacturing Industry- and the rifle club associations which have made the purchases have then distributed the ammunition to the civilian rifle clubs. However, I am not aware whether since the decision in 1960 reconsideration has been given to this aspect. I undertake to refer the honourable senator's request to the Minister for Defence. 
I can only give the information that has been announced by  Mr Clyde  Cameron. He has announced that because of the employment situation it has been necessary to review the migrant intake target, which was 80,000 people. But in relation to that review, he has given an undertaking that family reunions will be given the highest priority, that applications which are presently being processed will not be affected, that generally the objectives to which the honourable senator refers will be maintained and there will be no departure from those objectives. I will ask the Minister for Labor and Immigration whether he can add to the information that I have given to the honourable senator. 
I do not think that our present offices overseas would be affected at all by the announcement by the Minister for Labor and Immigration, but I will check with him. I would be very surprised if they were. The honourable senator might not have noticed that  Mr Clyde  Cameron placed some emphasis on the need for skilled people. He referred to unemployment and said that in some fields unemployment was causing concern and because of that the Department had set a new target. He said also that in some areas of Australia there was a shortage of skills that was hampering production in the way that  Senator Davidson  has said; consequently nominations or applications in respect of workers in those employment categories in which there remains a strong demand will continue to be considered. I believe that the Minister will have regard to the sort of aims which are referred to by  Senator Davidson,  and he has already said so. I will ask the Minister for Labor and Immigration whether in precise terms he can add to my general comments on the question. 
I can only undertake to have the matter examined. It is a very involved question and may require an assessment by Treasury and the Australian Post Office. Although the rate has increased from 7c to 10c, because of the lifting of the weight restriction that was formerly applied there is an improvement in the present rate for the most commonly used letters. Previously many Christmas cards attracted a higher rate and would have cost 1 5c to post. They will now cost 10c. The provision of a special rate over Christmas would need legislation and would need to be considered first by Cabinet. I will have the matter examined by the Post Office. As to whether or not people use the service, the fact is that since the new rate was applied there has been a slight increase in the amount of mail posted when compared with the same period last year. I will let the honourable senator know the result of my inquiries. 
The answer to the honourable senator's question is as follows: 
180 in 1972; 251 in 1973. 
During the period January 1972 to December 1973 387 airmen with 20 or more years of service re-engaged for a further term of service. These airmen would have been eligible for a pension had they not re-engaged, and of course, will receive a pension when they leave the Air Force. 
The answer to the honourable senator's question is as follows: 
1 ) Of the male Air Force Officers who resigned in the period 1 January 1973 to 31 July 1974, (a) 134 were eligible for a pension under the Defence Force Retirement and Death Benefits Scheme; (b) 140 were ineligible for a pension under the Scheme; and (c) 144 were above 38 years of age. 
The answer to the honourable senator's question is as follows: 
1 ) Of the male Naval Officers who resigned in the period 1 January 1973 to 31 July 1974, (a) 55 were eligible for a pension under the Defence Force Retirement and Death Benefits Scheme; (b) 45 were ineligible for a pension under the Scheme; and (c) 53 were above 38 years of age. 
The answer to the honourable senator's question is as follows: 
1 ) Of the male Army officers who resigned in the period 1 January 1973 to 31 July 1974, (a) 290 were eligible for a pension under the Defence Force Retirement and Death Benefits Scheme; (b) 127 were ineligible for a pension under the Scheme; and (c) 308 were above 38 years of age. 
The answer to the honourable senator's question is as follows: 
1 ) 347 in 1972; 388 in 1973. 
During the period January 1972 to December 1973, 884 soldiers with 20 or more years of service re-engaged for a further term of service. These soldiers would have been eligible for a pension had they not re-engaged, and of course, will receive a pension when they leave the Army. 
The answer to the honourable senator's question is as follows: 
I am advised by the  Chairman  of the DFR&amp;DB Authority as follows: 
(1) 
The answer to the honourable senator's question is as follows: 
98 in 1972; 83 in 1973. 
During the period January 1972 to December 1973, 45 sailors with 20 or more years of service re-engaged for a further term of service. These sailors would have been eligible for a pension had they not re-engaged, and of course, will receive a pension when they leave the Navy. 
The answer to the honourable senator's question is as follows: 1 am advised by the  Chairman  of the DFR&amp;DB Authority as follows: 
(1) 
-There is the odd case of a person who is well equipped theoretically to pass the examination but who fails to do so. Following a recent representation a special examination was arranged for such a person who had tried several times. However, we do not intend to lower the standard. It is proposed to introduce Novice Amateur Radio Operators ' Certificates ' and 'Associated Amateur Radio Operators' Licences'. These novice certificates and licences will be available regardless of the age of the applicant. However, it is intended to restrict the power and the frequency of the station when so approved. 
The answer to the honourable senator's question is as follows: 
1 ) The report by the Defence Forces Retirement Benefits Board on the results of the Fourth Quinquennial Investigation of the Defence Forces Retirements Benefits Fund for the period 1 July 1964 to 30 June 1969, tabled in the Parliament on 26 October 1972, disclosed that in respect of the Pre 19S9 entrants there was an available surplus as at 30 June 1969 of approximately $14.9 million of which $3.1 million was attributable to pensioners; the report also disclosed that in respect of Post 19S9 entrants and pensioners there was a final net deficiency of $544,000. 
For the purpose of the investigation as at 30 June 1969 the Australian Government Actuary was required to assume that the Fund would continue in its then present form but with the introduction of the Defence Force Retirement and Death Benefits Act 1973, which received Royal Assent on 19 June 1973 with retrospective effect to 1 October 1972, the contribution and benefits arrangements changed. Under the provisions of the Defence Forces Retirement Benefits Act 1973 which also received Royal Assent on 19 June 1973 the moneys of the Fund are transferred to the Commonwealth and as the new Scheme is not funded, all benefits, irrespective of when members retired, are now payable from Consolidated Revenue. In view of the changed circumstances arrangements have been made for the Australian Government Actuary to make a final investigation of the Fund as at 30 September 1972 but until it is completed I am unable to advise the results. 
Yes, I have seen the report which appeared in the Press this morning. It is not true that the Woomera range will be closed down. It has been evident for some time that the work load foreseen for the range after 1976 could not be sustained at the present level of activity. It must be realised that the activities at Woomera are largely related to the requirements of the United Kingdom, which is our partner in the project. The Government has decided to run down the range after 1976 but to hold instrumentation facilities in readiness for revival. The whole operation will require a great deal of administrative and technical planning in consultation with the British who, as I have mentioned, are our partners in this project. However, the Woomera village will continue to be in demand for project Narrungar at least until November 1979. 
The subject matter of the question asked by  Senator Drake-Brockman  has been referred to in the Press. As the honourable senator knows, the production run was reduced from 75 helicopters to fifty-six. This decision was made, as the honourable senator knows, in the context of the last options in relation to defence requirements. The consequence of this is that the Bell helicopter company decided to abandon the production of helicopters for civilian use. That meant that there was a need to renegotiate the arrangements. The decision which was made offered a number of important savings to the Government. Although the original military program had some advantages in the sharing of overheads on a production run, the subsidy for the commercial program offset these cost advantages. When the decision was made the estimated subsidy had reached a substantial level. Because negotiations are at the present time being carried on between the Defence Department and the company concerned, I am unable to supply details of them. I shall endeavour to do so as soon as possible. 
When it was decided to enter the courier service a contract was made with Leyland for the supply of, I think, 1 30 Clubman mini-vans. I have been told that because this van is assembled in Australia there will be no difficulty about servicing or spare parts. I think the current problems with Leyland can be related more to vehicles which are manufactured in Australia. 
I do not have any information in relation to the gentleman referred to by  Senator Sim.  Had he let me know earlier today that he intended to ask the question I could have got some information. I will get it and forward it to him. 
My answer this morning to  Senator Donald  Cameron related to what was going to happen at the Woomera rocket range. I pointed out that there would be no crisis until the end of 1976. In fact it depends largely on the negotiations between our Government, the Department of Defence and the United Kingdom authorities. It may well be that, resulting from those discussions and negotiations with our United Kingdom partners, we will not take any action which will prevent the range from being re-activated. The clear position is, as everybody knows, that unless there is a consistent involvement by the United Kingdom in the use of the range project the Government will have to spend many millions of dollars to keep it in the state of activity that we are used to and that we have liked in the past. That does not mean, of course, that the capability of Australian defence scientists and our defence abilities will be reduced. It is rather a question of seeing to what extent in the future there may be further involvements. As I have said, at the present time it is intended that the full instrumentation and other general backup facilities will be kept there. We must have them there because of the involvement with Narrunga. As to the other question  Senator Steele  Hall has asked, I will see whether I can obtain some additional information from the Minister for him. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
The second reading speech is a 9 page statement. It is largely a technical statement relating to industrial conciliation and particularly to the Conciliation and Arbitration Act. I ask that the speech be incorporated in Hansard. 
The question raises the matter of discrimination. It concerns a young lady who applied for a position and was refused it. I have seen the Press cuttings on this matter and last week I discussed it with  Mr Cameron.  In his opinion it was a case of discrimination and he is going to see that it is referred to the Discrimination Board. He pointed out that recently the Government has ratified the appropriate convention of the International Labour Organisation which deals with this sort of situation. I will inform the honourable senator of any other details about the case that I can obtain. 
-I think that the part of the honourable senator's question which deals with retrenchments or redundancy of some employees of Borg-Warner (Australia) Ltd comes largely within the responsibility of the Minister for Manufacturing Industry, and  Senator Wriedt  in this chamber represents that Minister. The question refers to displacement and to industrial changes. The Minister for Labor and Immigration is concerned first with the employment prospects of people who might be retrenched or who have been retrenched and, secondly, with whether they could come under the respective schemes being promoted by the Minister. I cannot give any particular information in relation to the position of Borg- Warner; I will try to obtain it. As to whether the employees might be employable in other areas, I can only say that as the honourable senator would probably know,  Mr Cameron  presides over an ad hoc committee of Ministers whose aim is to set up regional employment schemes where possible. Whether the speculation the honourable senator makes as to regional displacement concerns that ad hoc committee I do not know. I will find out whether an application has been made and I think I should talk to my colleague  Senator Wriedt  in connection with the industry to see whether we can provide some more information. 
The question should be directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Social Security. I will discuss the matter with him but I would like to say in a general way that, as everybody knows, recently we have had to put up tariffs- a move which has been resisted in the community- to ensure that the Post Office is viable. However, in the light of those general remarks I will consider with the Minister representing the Minister for Social Security what can be given in reply to the honourable senator's question. 
The question is a very general one and deals with the responsibilities of the Minister representing the Prime Minister and the Minister representing the Treasurer. 
Let me reply, senator. I will give you what information I can. The Minister for Labor has been quite honest in evaluating the employment trends. 
-Will you let me reply? You can ask another question afterwards. He said last year, in an honest way, that unemployment will grow. He has stated that in his opinion it will increase but that he does not support the figures which are now being speculated upon by a number of employer groups and other people. Last year he promoted a number of important schemes to remedy these tendencies. For example, he was the first to propose a scheme of supervision training, providing subsidies to employers to enable people to train to be better managers and to be more effective in regard to productivity. In addition he developed the National Training Scheme, which has been operating since 1 October and which is designed to do the sort of thing that  Senator Carrick  mentioned. This is the first time that we have ever had a manpower policy in Australia. 
Recently the Minister developed and now chairs the meeting of the Regional Employment Development scheme, or the RED scheme, which is designed to deal with regional unemployment not really related to structural displacement. There are some other matters relating to general structural maladjustments upon which  Senator Wriedt  could more precisely report. In regard to the general employment queries I can only say that the measures which have been introduced by the Minister for Labor ought to be able to deal with the growing unemployment situation. The National Training Scheme should be able to divert young people from employment careers which would not be available at present to careers which might be available if some readjustment occurred. In those general answers I have outlined the remedies which the Government is trying to take. Perhaps  Senator Wriedt  can state whether anything new is under consideration- I am not sure of that position- by means of which the Government can avoid the growing unemployment situation which we know is developing in this country. 
The extensions which were agreed to by the last Liberal PostmasterGeneral created a situation which necessitated a subsidy which had to be met by every other subscriber to a telephone service. This Government decided last year that that practice was to be discontinued. That is policy now and it has been passed by the Parliament. If there is any specific case which  Senator Baume  would like to refer to me and which illustrates a particular hardship or about which there is special concern I will consider it. The honourable senator knows that this new policy was approved last year by this Parliament. In fact the Post Office says that when it first received a recommendation from the last Liberal Minister it considered that this was a mistake. It was a subsidy for which every other subscriber pays. 
-Recently I told  Senator Drury  that I had recommended to the Post Office that it consider a new and more national campaign against such vandalism, which seems to be growing. The latest estimate I have of the effect of these destructive actions is that this year it will probably cost about $2m to repair the telephones. The Post Office has agreed to conduct later in the year a national campaign to bring to the attention of the public generally and to subscribers the need to assist, where they can, in protecting public telephones of which there are, I think, over 30,000. In recent years the Post Office has been considering a number of modifications which would help to reduce vandalism, including strengthening the metal of the telephones and the introduction of some alarm system. This was one of the reasons why the Government has been negotiating to take over the Red Phones. Those telephones are kept in protected places whereas public telephones are subject to all sorts of attacks at times. Of course, that is a bad thing because when people want to use the emergency services often they are not available. 
The latest figures I have show that in Melbourne and Sydney sometimes about 1 5 per cent of public telephones are out of order. When the campaign is run the Post Office will do what it can and I know that the Minister for the Media will do what he can to illustrate this point. It will not only mean a saving but also will be of great assistance to the people in the community who use those telephones for emergency services. 
It is very difficult to give a correct reply to this question without knowing the circumstances. The manager or employer to whom the honourable senator refers may have a view as to how long it takes to retrain a person that is different from that held by the Department. After all, the Department has a number of experts in trades and industries; so it may be a matter of evaluation. I have not heard about the case before. I would like the honourable senator to give me the particulars of the case. I shall make inquiries into it and find out the reasons for such a decision. 
The answer to the honourable senator's question is as follows: 
Yes. 
Yes. 
I have informed  Sir Albert  Chadwick that his and similar requests have been discussed by Cabinet and that the decision to merge the Overseas Telecommunications Commission with the proposed Telecommunications Commission has been confirmed and will proceed as planned. 
-I have been able to get some information for the honourable senator because he asked me about this matter previously. As was pointed out in the debate in this chamber, the reductions range from 3 per cent to 20 per cent. It is estimated that approximately 49 million calls in the category to which the honourable senator refers were made in 1973-74, and rates for these trunk calls have now been reduced twice by the Government, first in the 1973 Budget and again this year. Using the 3-minute call as an example, the rates prior to October 1973 were 19c during the day and 15c at night. The comparable rates now are 12c and 6c. Taken together the reductions will benefit callers by approximately $5. 5m. 
The Vernon Commission in its report estimated that an increase of 15 per cent would suffice. But honourable senators will appreciate that at that time the Commission could not have foreseen the sort of escalation which has occurred. Let me remind the Senate that the Commission recommended that generally the user should pay for the services. This is the view of the Government and of people who know the situation. That is one of the principles that will be incorporated in the legislation. In the event of a new commission deciding what the tariff should be, I am unable to say to what extent the Government might decide to apply that tariff. But that is the general trend of the recommendations contained in the report of the Vernon Commission. 
The honourable senator will recall that in the previous reply of the Minister for Defence about Woomera, which I restated in the Senate, we pointed out that the future of Woomera still depends on the requirements of our partner in this venture, the United Kingdom. While it has been decided to apply the present policy we must still find out the future requirements of the United Kingdom. Until those requirements are determined it is not possible to say whether the Government ought to explore, or I should explore separately, some other venture in equipment which might replace the defence activity in the Woomera area. But I will try to find out from the Minister for Defence whether any negotiations between Australia and the United Kingdom will result in increased activity to the extent that the Government may have to change its policy. I think that is the first thing to consider. 
The Minister for Defence has said that he will ensure that research and development areas of the defence forces are viable. The honourable senator has asked whether, in the event that the arrangements with the United Kingdom do not obtain in the future, some consideration might be given to other ventures. Some have been mentioned in the Press, in addition to the one mentioned by the honourable senator. I will try to find out from the Minister for Defence whether there is any reason to believe that something may come from the negotiations. In the event that this seems unlikely, I will see to what extent  Senator Jessop  's propositions might be investigated. 
I simply want to say very briefly that I recognise the sorts of reservations which  Senator Greenwood  has just stated and which he expressed in his speech during the second reading debate. I can only say that the position which he puts can be answered only when the legislation is passed, because at that time we would expect a quick response from the unions, the employers and the State governments in the sense that I will have reported. It may be that one or other of them may say: 'Well, something more is required '. I do not know. I can only say that this legislation in fact was drafted in essence by  Mr Justice  Sweeney who at this stage would be probably the most competent authority to deal with the legislation. As I said earlier, the working party of the National Labour Advisory Council in the days of the former Government also worked towards the same objectives. 
I thank the Senate for the speedy passage of the legislation. I do not know what the position will be in relation to the bond or deed. I put again the position I put earlier. It may be that a State such as my own State would say that in effecting that sort of arrangement with the State branch of a Federal union it would be sufficient in fact simply to apply deregistration procedures. With those remarks, I thank the Senate for its consideration of the legislation. 
Bill agreed to. 
Bill reported without amendment; report adopted. 
The Government takes the view that the Parliament should now take the step of passing the legislation. As  Senator James  McClelland has pointed out, it is now over 5 years since the famous Moore v. Doyle case. It is over 5 years since a previous Liberal Government decided to set up a working party of the National Labour Advisory Council. That working party worked on this problem for about 3 years. It made observations in a report which has been circulated to members of the Parliament. I think the working party consisted of representatives of all States except one, of the employers and of the Australian Council of Trade Unions. All representatives on the working party were agreed that an attempt should be made to overcome the difficulties adverted to by the Australian Industrial Court. The report went on with some other comments in the same vein. In paragraph 1 4 it stated: 
Australian Government departmental representatives favoured an alternative approach based on the premise that, while it was basically a matter for the unions themselves to put their affairs in order, legislative provisions were needed to minimise the effects of technical irregularities and provide machinery to enable the unions to rectify irregularities. 
But, of course, this is not a question which concerns only the trade unions, as has been evidenced by the comments made by  Senator James  McClelland about the views of  Mr Polites.  This is not the first step. As a matter of fact, as most people know, in South Australia the South Australian Government provided some stop-gap industrial legislation which placed a moratorium on the sort of acts which might arise in relation to these matters flowing from that judgment. 
Later, as honourable senators know, when we became the Government the Minister for Labour  (Mr Clyde Cameron)  requested  Mr Justice  Sweeney and a committee to report on these matters. I suggest that the report of that committeethe Committee of Inquiry on Co-ordinated Industrial Organisations- which is now being discussed by us is, in fact, a classic report because it deals with the sorts of questions about which  Senator Greenwood  has talked. As to whether the legislation is constitutionally valid, I suppose that lawyers could argue the point.  Mr Justice  Sweeney has discussed it in the report, and the decision is that it could be. As a matter of fact, what we have done is simply to follow the suggestions and drafting recommendations of  Mr Justice  Sweeney. So, in fact, the Government has not done anything new. It has put into the Bill the recommendations of  Mr Justice  Sweeney and his Committee. As I said before, this is not the first step. As was admitted by  Mr Lynch  and by  Senator Greenwood,  on 8 May 1973 we took a step in relation to amendments to the Conciliation and Arbitration Act. As reported at page 1 76 1 of Hansard,  Mr Lynch  stated: 
The Bill proposes to allow employee organisations to include in their membership persons who follow an occupation in or in connection with an industry and persons engaged in an industrial pursuit otherwise than as an employee. This is the proposition which the Government has advanced as a partial solution to the very vexed problems of the case Moore v. Doyle. It is a stopgap arrangement more pertinent to the problems created by the power struggles within the Transport Workers Union than to the central difficulties created by the judgment in Moore v. Doyle. 
He made some other comments, and then he continued: 
The Opposition believes that there are 4 possible solutions: The enlargement of Commonwealth power to legislate for terms and conditions of employment in industry and for trade unions; the transfer of certain powers to the Commonwealth by the States without referendum; complementary State and Federal legislation; or the encouragement of unions to go through the procedures required by law for the dissolution of State unions and the formation or State branches of federal unions. 
Here we are not talking about what a Commonwealth organisation might do on its own account; we are talking about how a Commonwealth organisation might act in relation to its State branches.  Senator Greenwood  made remarks complementary to what  Mr Lynch  said.  Senator Greenwood  did not object to these provisions. As reported at page 1210 of Hansard of 16 October, he stated:  1 take the point which  Senator Mulvihill  raised. He referred to the Moore v. Doyle situation . . .The Bill contains a clause which seeks to overcome the Moore v. Doyle situation. The Opposition will not oppose that clause, but the Opposition certainly has reservations about whether it will stand up in a court of law if there should bc a challenge to it. We recognise that the resolution of those problems is not easy. The Prime Minister, when taxed about the recent industrial disputation in this country, said that the majority of the disputes which were taking place were caused by demarcation problems. 
He continued in that vein. We know the problems which have arisen. Some of these problems are referred to by  Mr Justice  Sweeney. In the report he talks about the Transport Workers Union and the great problems which arose subsequent to the Moore v. Doyle decision. He also refers to the disputation and disruption in the oil industry in particular, and to the Shell Oil Co. dispute which occurred only recently. He stated: 
I should add that written submissions were made to the Committee by each union. 
They are the New South Wales Transport Workers Union and the Federal Transport Workers Union. He continued: 
These stated that if a system of non corporate registration, as discussed later, is adopted in New South Wales the 2 unions can settle their differences and amalgamate and these problems will not then recur. 
I have been told that the Federal Transport Workers Union has decided since the amendment to the Act last year to amend its rules to meet that situation. I suppose the only defence which the Opposition has is to ask, as it has asked in the amendment, whether the unions will cooperate and whether the States will co-operate. 
I have already mentioned that the South Australian Government acted quickly. It told the Federal Minister for Labor and Immigration that South Australia is ready to introduce complementary legislation as soon as the Commonwealth Parliament passes this Bill. It would seem to me absolutely essential for this Parliament to pass the Bill and then take the initiative following the meetings between the State Ministers of Labor with  Mr Clyde  Cameron, which have been referred to by  Senator James  McClelland, in which this subject has been a matter of fairly continuous discussion. I would think that that is the stage to ask and urge the State governments to pass complementary legislation. We are satisfied that in the main the State parliaments will do so.  Senator James  McClelland has referred to favourable statements from the New South Wales Minister for Labour and Industry. What will the unions do about it? It is true that not every union which is concerned about this matter has answered the question, but only yesterday I was told personally by  Mr Souter,  the Secretary of the Australian Council of Trade Unions, that the ACTU supports the Bill. We know now that the employers are as much concerned about this matter because they are organisations in the same sense. They are registered in a similar way to the way in which the unions are registered. I shall read some of the comments made by  Mr Polites  representing the national employers in his submission which was recently sent to  Mr Clyde  Cameron. It was sent this month. The submission is headed 'Conciliation and Arbitration Bill Notes for Discussion'. He stated: 
The provisions of a Bill to amend the provisions of a Conciliation and Arbitration Act designed to implement the report of the Sweeney inquiry into the problems illustrated by the decision in Moore v. Doyle appear to be generally satisfactory. 
He dealt firstly with clause 3. He stated: 
This proposal was part of the Sweeney report and is probably necessary. 
He dealt with clause 4 which amends section 132. He stated: 
Therefore proposals implement the Sweeney report and follow changes made to conditions of eligibility. 
He talked about clause 5 which refers to schedule C of the Sweeney report which concerns the vexed question of property. He raised problems which we know exist but which do not deter the passage of the Bill. He agreed that in the main sections 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 12, 13, 14, 15 and 16 were not objectionable and were necessary for passing this legislation, etc.  Senator Greenwood  referred in his speech to the demarcation provision which will be inserted by clause 1 1. It refers to a situation arising from the new requirement of eligibility in the industry and provides for the commissioner to have certain responsibilities. Proposed section 142 A states: 
The Commission may, on the application of an organisation, an employer or the Minister- 
I am told that the Minister would not be worried if the word 'Minister' was taken out.  make an order providing that an organisation of employees shall have the right to represent, in respect of all or some industrial interests under this Act, a class or group of employees who are eligible for membership of the organisation, either generally or subject to such limitations as it may specify, to the exclusion of another organisation or organisations and may make such orders as it thinks necessary in consequence of such an order. 
In increasing the ambit it is absolutely essential that we have a power to make sure that a new situation does not develop which would create competition and disorganisation. The reason for that proposed section is that it is constructive and it has been recommended by  Mr Justice  Sweeney. We cannot see why anybody should object to these provisions. One of the measures discussed by the Committee of inquiry is the question of a deed or bond or some sort of penalty under the new arrangements which would obtain as a result of the passage of this Bill and the complementary legislation to be passed by the States. In some cases people have put this forward as a sort of remedy. The Government is not saying that this situation ought to apply. We are simply reporting that  Mr Justice  Sweeney indicated this as one of the things which might be done. In fact it may be for the States to decide whether any such enforcement procedure is necessary. I would think that in my State, which has generally followed the policies of the Federal Labor Party, there would not be any imposition of penalties. Rather there might be a requirement, in cases in which a body does not act consistently with the requirements of the State industrial arbitration Act, that it follow a policy of deregistration. 
So it seems to us that this is merely a delaying situation. This subject has been more than thoroughly canvassed. The working party set up by the Government in which  Senator Greenwood  was a Minister certainly advanced consideration of the problem, and summarised some of the things it should do. The then Minister for Labour and National Service argued that there ought to be legislation in the Parliament. That legislation was never brought into the Parliament during the reign of the Liberal Party. Seeing the issues and knowing the problems in industry generally- I refer to the disputations which arose as a result of the Moore v. Doyle case- we took it upon ourselves to ensure that the matter would be readily reported, and we brought a Bill into the Parliament. That Bill is here today. I suggest that the amendment simply delays something which should be done now. Having done it, there seems to be no reason that the States and the ACTU, acting and speaking for all the unions, should not readily co-operate in a constructive way to bring about the changes which are required. Everybody knows that those changes are intricate and complex. They are not impossible. The first step has been taken today. I suggest that if the Opposition votes against the Bill one puts beyond possible improvement the sort of industrial complexities which we have today when we should be aiming to solve many of them. 
Question put: 
That the words proposed to be added  (Senator Greenwood's amendment)  be added. 
The answer to the honourable senator's question is as follows: 
1 ) The modernisation of HMAS Perth commenced on 3 September 1974 at Long Beach Naval Shipyard, Long Beach, California, U.S.A. This includes a minimum of essential refit work associated with the installation and testing of new systems. 
The estimated total cost of the modernisation i.e. installation and setting to work of new systems, and the refit is $A6m including $A0.4m shipyard manufactured material support for HMAS Brisbane and HMAS Hobart. The capital costs of the new systems are not included in the above total. 
An order of cost for modernising HMAS Perth in Australia would be $A7.7m. 
The modernisation cost for HMAS Hobart and HMAS Brisbane is expected to be in the order of $A 7.7m for HMAS Brisbane and $A7.7m for HMAS Hobart. These modernisations have not yet started. HMAS Brisbane is scheduled to begin in January, 1976 followed by HMAS Hobart. 
The above costs include overheads in order to establish a valid comparison with the cost of HMAS Perth's modernisation. 
On 1 October 1974,  Senator Missen  asked me the following question, without notice: 
Is the Postmaster-General aware of complaints by the Australian Mail Contractors Association that they are forced to continue their contractual services at a rate which, over the last 12 months, has been so eroded as to be financially inequitable? Further, is the Minister aware of complaints that the Department's system of tendering is outmoded and unfair? Do the members of this Association provide a useful service, particularly in rural areas? Will urgent steps be taken to meet their complaints? 
At the end of my statement in reply I said that I would see whether there was any other information I should give  Senator Missen  and this information is now provided: 
My Department was aware some time ago of the difficulties which some road mail service contractors were experiencing as a result of increases in operating costs and commenced a review of the mail contract system. This review was recently completed and a number of changes, including a price variation clause in future fixed term mail contracts, have been approved. Arrangements have also been made to invite the present holders of fixed term mail contracts to apply for adjusted rates of payment based on substantiated cost increases. 
I saw the article in the Press about the mail. The facts are, as honourable senators will recall, that the increased tariffs for overseas mail did not apply until 3 October. The time for the closing of overseas surface mail was 24 October. Most of the mail had been received before the tariffs applied. In recent years increased tariffs have not affected general overseas mail. 
About a week ago  Senator Devitt  asked me a related question. He asked me whether the Government would consider a proposal to reduce the tariff to 5c. I promised to have the matter investigated. I have spoken to  Mr Lionel  Bowen about the matter but I am not aware of any promotion of this issue by him. It is actually a matter for me and the Government to determine. I am making sure that the estimates of costs offered by the Post Office are accurate and I am not in a position yet to indicate what sort of losses, if any, would occur. As soon as I have any information I shall give it to the honourable senator. 
There has been some speculation in the Western Australian Press about what might happen if the Minister for Defence,  Mr Barnard,  decides to seek a location in the Yampi Peninsula for holding joint training exercises. The Minister has inspected the area. I had the pleasure of going with him when I was Minister assisting the Minister for Defence. He is on record as saying that the area seems to be a suitable one for such exercises. As a result of that, a joint defence services working group has been set up to examine the position. That group will be visiting the area early in November. An examination has been made of the Derby airport and also of the airport at Broome. Those inspections and examinations have caused a good deal of speculation about what sort of operational requirements and what sort of upgrading will be necessary. Until the report of that working group is given to the Minister I do not think I can add anything fresh to what I have said already. However, I will ask the Minister for Defence whether he has any information additional to that which I have now supplied to the Senate. 
Perhaps the honourable senator had better let me answer the question first. All honourable senators have received representations from a number of people who claim to represent the unions with employees in the Overseas Telecommunications Commission. Because of that I am aware of what has taken place and of the reaction from the unions which represent most of the employees. A great deal of propaganda is being fed into the media about this issue. 
-Of course there is. The Government has decided that the merger should take place. In fact, only one union of which I am aware- it is a small union with fewer than 20 members; I think it has 16- is opposed to the merger. The largest union which has members working for the Overseas Telecommunications Commission, the Professional Radio Employees Institute of Australasia, has about 1,300 staff members in OTC out of a total membership of a little over 2,000. This union has come out in support of the merger. Yesterday its federal secretary said that he refuted the representations of some individuals who claimed to support the union movement. He said that his organisation was fully in favour of the merger. He also pointed out that representations were made to the trade union group which is now negotiating with departmental officers to make sure that the merger is satisfactorily completed. All those unions represented on the Council are in favour of the merger. What we are seeing now is a belated attempt by some people to misrepresent the position entirely. As I have said, the PREI is the largest union. It has a membership with OTC of 1,300 out of a total of 2,000 employees. The next biggest union has 140 members who favour the merger. Of all the other unions, some with only one or two members, there is only one of which I am aware which is against the merger. 
There was a situation causing a dispute between the postal unions, myself and the Public Service Board in relation to the Melbourne Cup day holiday. It arose because of a zoning application by the Public Service Board or a Public Service inspector. The position was that out of about 30,000 PMG employees in Victoria about 25,000 were receiving a holiday on Melbourne Cup day and the balance were not. The postal unions after some representations placed bans on certain Post Office works. Later on they threatened to impose bans which might affect transmission of the Melbourne Cup. I am pleased to say that only this morning  Mr Watson,  the  Deputy  Public Service Arbitrator, decided to meet the request of the postal unions. I would be confident that as a result there will be no more bans and the matter is satisfactorily settled. 
-I will look into the honourable senator's question. The legislation which we passed increased those fees. The fees had been very small and the increases were generally accepted. As far as I am aware the exemptions which applied before still apply. I will look into the matter for the honourable senator and let her know the position. 
Honourable senators will recall, of course, that the CT4 aircraft was developed from the Victa aircraft which was formerly manufactured in Australia. Our Government continued the discussions which the former Government had started in relation to the CT4 aircraft and agreed to purchase 37 of them. It was agreed that some of the components would be manufactured in Australia under arrangements of participation. The original project cost, which I do not think has been exceeded, was more than $3m. It is expected that the first of the 37 aircraft will arrive in January 1975 and that the remainder will be received progressivley The proposition at one stage was developed between the 2 countries that the delivery of the last 12 aircraft might be deferred. I understand that that proposition has now been rejected. I will endeavour to find out whether there is any other information I can give the honourable senator in relation to the matter. 
As I understand the position, once a person takes part in the scheme he is not classed as unemployed. Consequently, his name would be removed from the statistics which are prepared by the Department. 
It has already been pointed out that the Opposition often argues that we should spend more and cut back. I have seen the report of the statement which  Mr Lynch  made the other night suggesting that there should be a general Government cutback of 8 per cent. Of course already other Ministers have pointed out what might happen in relation to social services and defence, for example. As for the Post Office, I think that such a cutback would mean not only a reduction of about $30m in capital works expenditure but also obviously the sacking of hundreds of workers from the Australian Post Office. Perhaps, more seriously, a cutback would affect the employment of many people in industries such as the electronics and telecommunication industries which supply requirements to the Post Office. Perhaps even more seriously- this is the thing with which we are trying to contend in the Post Office in having to raise tariffs- it would increase the delays in telephone connections in every area, including that of the honourable senator and of honourable senators from Queensland. We are having enough trouble now trying to meet such programs. It is ridiculous, if we look at the general economic situation, to make such a suggestion because it would simply mean that no government could carry out its programs or meet its promises on social services. 
As the honourable senator knows, the Government has considered the matter. 
Yes, of course the previous Government did consider this matter, but it did not move any faster than we are doing at the present time. As the honourable senator probably knows, recently we sent a mission to visit other countries to consider the 2 types of aircraft to which the selection has been limited- the Orion and the Nimrod. But I undertand that the Boeing company has asked that its aircraft be placed again in the category for consideration. The Government has not decided which of the aircraft to select. The overseas mission to which I have referred has returned to Australia after considering what should be done. The report is not yet available. I understand that the report is expected to be given to the Government and that the Government will make a decision in this matter about the middle of next year. 
In addition to the overseas evaluation team to which I have referred, an industrial mission is presently overseas considering to what extent the Barra sonar system might be used in both the aircraft under consideration. I do not know what has resulted from those investigations. I might say also that one of the considerations in relation to the selection of a particular type of aircraft will be the extent to which there is participation by Australian industry in the construction of the aircraft. If I can obtain any more information for the honourable senator I will get it and give it to him. 
The honourable senator will know that since the Minister for Defence made that statement and I repeated it in the Senate the Government has considered what percentage of expenditure should be placed for defence needs. We decided that there ought to be a new priority when we came to government and that we should spend more money on pay and pensions for the Services, re-engagement bonuses and so on. Because of that policy some of the options which the Government had for new equipment were cut back. Everybody knows that at the present time pay, re-engagement bonuses and Defence Forces Retirement Benefits Fund conditions are really no longer the issues they were when we came into government because hundreds of millions of dollars have been spent in those areas. As to the re-equipment program the Government decided that a replacement for the Mirage aircraft should be put off. It has now been decided that the replacement will not be purchased earlier than 1978. 
The Minister for Labor and Immigration has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question:  (l)and(2)Yes. 
3 ) No. The information on inflation rates presented in the course of the 1974 National Wage Case by counsel for the Australian Government concerned only 10 countries- viz Australia, Canada, USA, United Kingdom, Japan, Federal Republic of Germany, Italy, France, the Netherlands, and New Zealand. It did not claim to cover all developed countries, but was in the same form as tables submitted by the Australian Government in previous National Wage Cases. The information presented was derived from OECD and other official statistics and was accurate. 
Two tables of statistics were given- one showing annual rates of change in the CPI from 1964 to 1973 and the other showing 5 year averages for the annual increase in the CPI over the same period. I take it that the honourable senator is referring to the 1973 figure in the former table. 
If this is so I would mention just 2 points. The first is that statistics were not given for 14 other members of the OECD, most of which are usually regarded as developed countries. The second is that I am advised that the statistics presented showed only the percentage change in the CPI for the month of December 1973 compared with the month of December 1972. (The figures for Australia and New Zealand related to the percentage increase in the December quarter 1973 over the December quarter of the previous year.) There can be significant differences in such statistics from month to month. For these reasons the generalisation put forward by the honourable senator is misconceived. 
5 April 1974. 
The Minister for Labor and Immigration has provided the following answer to the honourable senator 's question: 
1 ) It is correct that a portrait of Her Majesty the Queen no longer appears on the Certificate of Australian Citizenship. I am informed that the decision was taken by the former Minister for Immigration when amendments to the Citizenship Act including the design of the certificate were under consideration in 1 973, on the grounds that the design of the new certificate should be such that it was distinctively Australian. 
I will see that the matter receives consideration when the design of the certificate is next under review. 
Yes. The question also concerns the Minister for Social Security. I suggest that the honourable senator should place the question on notice. 
The answer to the honourable senator's question is as follows: 
1 ) to (5) I refer the honourable senator to the information provided by the Prime Minister in reply to Question No. 302 (Senate Hansard, 3 1 October 1 974, page 2 1 98 ). 
I am informed that the intake of Portuguese migrants (settlers) (a) for the individual calendar years was as follows: 
The Minister for Labor and Immigration has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
1 ) Visitor visas for limited periods were granted to three persons. Departmental records show that each has since returned to Italy. 
Character. 
Television: North-west Tasmania  (Question No. 147) 
-I know generally of the situation. In Sydney there are presently 7 mail exchange officers who have been accepted for employment because they have passed examinations but who are not naturalised. I will ask the Minister for Labor and Immigration to see what he can do to expedite this matter. I will also inform the Senate what action is proposed. Until such officers are naturalised they cannot take up permanent appointment. I will find out what I can this week and let the honourable senator know. 
The answer to the honourable senator's question is as follows: 
I have made no public announcement regarding plans to establish television transmitters in north-west Tasmania. 
Though the planning of such facilities is the responsibility of the Australian Broadcasting Control Board, and it is customary for my colleague,  Senator the Hon.  Douglas McClelland, to make announcements in this area, the actual establishment of such facilities is the responsibility of the Australian Post Office. 
In answering the honourable senator's question I can, therefore, say that a comprehensive network of translators is being provided to improve long-standing poor reception of the National television service in the Burnie, Wynyard, Smithton and Stanley areas. 
The total cost of the project is estimated to be about $500,000 and is expected to be completed by December, 1975. On present planning the improved services should be available about the end of 1975. Some buildings of the first stage will be completed by November, 1974. 
The four translators will be built at Round Hill, Table Hill, Lileah and Tier Hill. 
The Minister for Labor and Immigration has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
1 ) My Department carried out a survey of absence in a sample of undertakings in October 1973, the results of which have been published in the Personnel Practice Bulletin for March 1974. A rough estimate of the amount of sickness absence in 1973 can be obtained by adjusting the survey findings on absence rates to take account of the industrial distribution of wage and salary earners in the Australian labour force, and deducting estimates of time lost through industrial accidents and diseases. On this basis, an estimated 45 million working days were lost through sickness absence in 1973, representing an average of about  9'/s  days per employee. Similar figures are not available for the 2 previous years. (2), (3) and (4) Information was not obtained in the survey to enable comparisons to be made between sickness absence of unskilled workers and that of professional people in Australia. However, the survey indicated manual and nonmanual workers lost 6.2 per cent and 2.6 per cent of rostered time respectively during the period of the survey. Further information is provided by a survey undertaken in 1972-73 by the Public Service Board, on behalf of the Joint Council, of sickness absence among a sample of Australian public servants. This indicated that in the Australian Public Service about 40 per cent of managerial staff and 22 per cent of professional staff took no sick leave in one year, compared with about 9 per cent ofthe sample as a whole. 
 I should like to say that  Senator Mulvihill  's comments have not been forgotten. They are on record and I have already discussed them with the Minister for Defence  (Mr Barnard).  I will try to have discussions with the Minister about the regulation of the offshore wildlife sanctuaries in the way that  Senator 
Mulvihill has suggested. I support what the honourable .senator says in respect of the representation from the Department of Defence. It does not hurt to say, as  Senator Mulvihill  says, that the people who came along from all areas gave very expert and satisfying answers to all of the questions from members of the Committee. 
Proposed expenditure passed. 
Department of Manufacturing Industry 
Defence Research and Development Establishment -Administrative 
Proposed Expenditure, $64,706,000. 
I am not aware whether that company is in fact putting an embargo on the employees of Tulloch Ltd. All I can do is agree to ask the Minister for Labor and Immigration to work with  Mr Charles  Jones and to get the inspectors to see to what extent those things are happening. I shall let the honourable senators know when I have a reply. 
As  Senator Milliner  pointed out, on many occasions  Senator Lawrie  has put up a case for improved telephone services in rural areas. He has done that consistently. As he well knows, when his party was in Government the then Postmaster-General made the same observations that I have made with respect to some of these things that we are trying to achieve. The question is one of funds. As everybody knows, at the present time the Australian Post Office is run as one authority. Generally speaking, the postal side always loses a great amount of money. In this year the Post Office will lose about $50m and that will be made up for by the profits on the telecommunications side. The question is what resources should be applied to improvements, whether they be in areas of Queensland, South Australia or anywhere else, and to what extent certain country services can be subsidised. 
I will quote these figures off the top of my head. The installation of a telephone in the city will cost something like $2,000. In a settled country area it will cost something like $4,000. But in an outer country area it will cost nearly $10,000. This Government is no different from any other government. It has to decide how its resources can best be allocated, how the Post Office can best perform its functions and how we can avoid the situation where the metropolitan taxpayers are subsidising people in country areas.  Senator Lawrie  has the answers. They are in the document to which he has referred. 
I turn now to the statutory corporations. When they are set up they will be answerable to this Parliament. They will be subject to the same scrutiny in the Senate as are the departments we are discussing today. When these corporations are completely operative I expect that they will say to the Government: 'We think that the tariffs for postal services or for telephone services should be X amount.' The Minister in charge of the operations of the corporations may well be the Special Minister of State. If he says that in his opinion, for community or political reasons, that tariff is too high, the Government or the Treasurer will make up the difference between that amount and the amount which will be nominated by the Government for that particular service. There will be no decline in the Government's power with respect to the services. 
As I mentioned before, the Post Office has put forward the suggestion of establishing courier services. I have supported the suggestion. I think it is very necessary to make sure that the sort of business which is going out to private enterprise today and which might well be carried out by the Post Office ought to be carried out by the Post Office. Accordingly, I have given approval for the Post Office to purchase a number of vehicles for that purpose. A proper service will be organised. It will compete with the private operators. They will not be forced out of business. From memory I think that service will come into operation in about the middle of or some time during 1975. 
The question which  Senator Jessop  raised has been raised by him before. It is still under examination. But may I say to the honourable senator that it is not purely a matter for the PostmasterGeneral or for the Post Office. The Post Office is responsible for the technical performance of any television or commercial radio services which the Minister for the Media decides to operate. I am mindful of  Senator Jessop  's other question. I can see the time- I do not think it will be during the term of my responsibilities but it will certainly be during the term of the 2 corporations- when the telecommunications commission, which will be chaired by  Mr Bill  Gibbs, will undertake the sort of venture to which  Senator Jessop  has referred. As he knows, the Government has decided already that the Overseas Telecommunications Commission operations should be incorporated in some form in the new telecommunications corporation and we will be able to supplement the special activities which are now being engaged in by the OTC in the international field. I cannot give the honourable senator any more information than that, except to say that I am aware of the matters which concern him. I will discuss them with my colleagues at the earliest opportunity and when I am able to make a statement I will do so. 
Proposed expenditure passed. 
Department of Defence 
Proposed expenditure, $1,205, 158,000. 
 I do not think the question comes under this particular item but to answer the honourable senator's question I have already asked the Minister concerned to supply as soon as possible answers to the questions raised yesterday by  Senator Greenwood.  I admit that the honourable senator thinks they have not been answered correctly and may involve-- 
I think they have been explained. I took the honourable senator's questions reasonably and constructively and I think they have been answered. I am prepared to say that it would be worth while to have a statement from the Ministers concerned as to where the obligations for these various payments rest. In relation to organisation, the old Department of Supply became the Department of Manufacturing Industry and, with the exception of defence research and development, all those enterprises and factories which were formerly under the control of the Department of Supply and the defence departments are now the direct responsibility of the Minister for Manufacturing Industry. So if anybody were to ask me about the Maribyrnong factory or some other factory I would say that I could answer it but that it ought to be answered by  Senator Wriedt  representing the Minister for Manufacturing Industry. But in respect of the general question on payments, the structural adjustment payment, for example, which is the payment the Government has agreed to make to people who are displaced by tarin" actions, that criterion, while developed by the Cabinet as such, is a criterion which is the responsibility of the Minister for Manufacturing Industry. It is well established that the amounts that can be paid are amounts for up to six months and presently, as everybody knows, in many cases, including those of Launceston and Wangaratta for example, there are some people who are being paid those amounts for 6 months, unless they are employed in another job which suits them. If they get the sack from that job then they go back on to the structural adjustment plan. 
In respect of the other schemes, and I think these are questions which involve the Department of Labor and Immigration, there is the RED scheme, which is the Regional Employment Development Scheme. It proposes that moneys can be funded to sporting bodies or regional councils to enable people who are unemployed to be employed in constructive work. Those funds are established through an ad hoc committee which is chaired by the Minister for Labor and Immigration  (Mr Cameron)  and presently there are some 400 projects which have been approved for construction in that way. In addition, as I have mentioned many times before- and I could debate this all night- the Government having decided on a manpower policy said that there should be a national training policy- the National Employment and Training scheme. The NEAT scheme was designed to provide training for people who may be unemployed or redundant because of changes in technological methods in the community. 
So there you have a system of payments or compensation for people who might be displaced in the community and they are the sorts of schemes which operate at the present time. I can only say to  Senator Greenwood  that I hope that within the week I will have a comprehensive statement setting out in a general way the sorts of things I have talked about, a statement which any senator can use as a comprehensive statement on the payments which can be made to people in various ways. 
Proposed expenditure passed. 
Department of Labor and Immigration 
Proposed expenditure, $107,466,000. 
I will reply first to  Senator Mulvihill  's first remarks in relation to Cyprus. At the present time there is, in fact, a group of specialists in Cyprus who are looking at the question of bringing out to Australia a number of people who have been hardest hit in the conflict, at the question of sponsored relatives and also at the question of single girls and other classifications of people which that group of specialists thinks ought to be brought out to Australia. I can say only this: The Minister for Labor and Immigration  (Mr Clyde Cameron)  responded very quickly to the need to send people to that country. He did not try to have prospective migrants assessed from Athens, London or Australia. In fact, he sent a group to Cyprus. This group is composed of people who may be called specialists in this field. As a matter of fact,  Mr Cameron  seconded a member of my staff, a young Greek lawyer who he thought might be useful because he knew the language. That group of specialists is working there presently. I say to  Senator Mulvihill  that I am quite sure that they wil do what is necessary to ensure that there wil be a minimum of hardship in relation to those people. 
Some 3,000 civilians are expected to arrive in Australia from ChUe this year. Many of these people will be refugees and others who are suffering political discrimination. I think that  Senator Davidson  was being rather nostalgic when he raised the matters that concern him. I think he was looking back at the time when he was  Chairman  of the Immigration Advisory Council and when the general immigration needs were different from what they are present. When the Government decided to amalgamate the Departments of Labor and Immigration it stated that there was a need to ensure that the workforce requirements were more directly geared to our immigration targets. That was explained to  Senator Davidson.  For example, who would say today with the unemployment we have that we should not be very cautious about the sort of migrants that we have, the skills of those migrants and their relationships with people in Australia? None of this has been changed. AU those personnel overseas who were at the posts under the previous Government are still at their posts. They are doing the same sort of job, except, of course, that under the present 
Government they have been supplemented by specialists in social services and in other fields. So nothing has been lost. 
It is not of much use for the honourable senator to complain about the Minister not answering his queries earlier. All honourable senators could cite similar cases of which we have knowledge. I know that in the old days when I was a backbencher I used to wait for months and months for Ministers of the previous Government to reply to such questions. The delays always seemed to be unreasonable. But we know now that many of these inquiries have to go far afield. So I can only say in respect of what  Senator Davidson  is doing tonight that I think he is being a bit personal.  Mr Cameron  was made the Minister for Labor and Immigration by Government decision. In my opinion, he is doing a good job. But he is making sure that the targets for intake of labour are related to the workforce requirements of this country. If we did not do that, we would have a position worse than the position we have today. After all, what government, apart from the Labor Government, has done these great things for migrants? Since we came to office- the previous Government did not do this- we have provided pensions overseas for some 600 Greeks, 600 Italians and 100 Yugoslavs. They are presently receiving pensions which they did not receive before. So I can only say to the honourable senator that the experience he has had in relation to our Minister for Labor and Immigration is perhaps the same as we had in relation to Ministers of other governments. 
I have obtained some figures in relation to the National Employment and Training Scheme. The figures relate also to existing schemes. Perhaps I should give them in 2 categories. I will cite first the figures in relation to the group A employment training scheme before the introduction of the NEAT scheme. There were 2,745 trainees engaged full-time, 2,145 trainees on part-time, and 1,750 trainees in plant. Of course, these figures included the trainees working under schemes operated by the various departmentsthe Department of Repatriation and Compensation, Housing and Construction and so on. The estimated figures as at October 1974 in relation to the B group- that is, the National Employment and Training Scheme group- show that there are 4,245 full-time trainees, 2,595 parttime trainees and 1,800 in-plant trainees. I think these are the figures that  Senator Jessop  wanted. In respect of the honourable senator's last question as to why such people were not included in the list of unemployed persons, I state that once they join the scheme they become students in the same way as anybody else who is training is a student. I think that I have answered the questions that honourable senators have asked me. I thank honourable senators for the speedy consideration of these matters. 
Proposed expenditure passed. 
I can only undertake to draw to the attention of the Minister for Labor and Immigration the references made by  Senator Mulvihill.  I will let the honourable senator know when I have some precise information. 
The answers to the honourable senator's questions are as follows: 
1 ) No. The Royal Australian Navy does not go into any ocean to hunt the submarines of any particular nation in cooperation with any other nation. The Royal Australian Navy does of course take a proper interest in any naval activity, surface or below surface, in the waters surrounding Australia. It also conducts surveillance, and will continue to do so. Australia also co-operates with friendly nations in the development and improvement of scientific techniques and equipment for such maritime surveillance. 
No. 
Not applicable. 
-The Minister for Labor and Immigration yesterday announced a number of approvals in respect of Queensland. Some 60 projects have now been given provisional approval. Until that announcement was made yesterday there was a total of 42 projects which had been approved. The total cost of these projects will be $2m. Of that amount almost $ 1.75m was provided by the Government. The measures are designed to assist not only local councils but also sporting bodies etc. 
The recommendation of the Post Office to me was that the cost of servicing and of setting up the various administrative, training and examination personnel to do the job was of such magnitude that there ought to be some increase. The increase is not massive. I accepted the recommendation for those reasons. I do not know whether it is possible to consider special cases. If the honourable senator will give me particulars of what he considers to be special cases I will see to what extent I can advocate any change in relation to them. 
The answer to the honourable senator's question is as follows: 
1 ) Department of Defence holds 68 hectares of which it is proposed to re-develop 28 hectares with a frontage to Avoca Street for working and living accommodation for Army units in the south eastern metropolitan area of Sydney. The balance of 40 hectares is occupied by the Navy Supply Depot. 
Yes. It is planned to build residential accommodation in permanent construction for officers, sergeants and rank and file members of the Army who are required to work at Randwick and in the Sydney metropolitan area. All new buildings will be in modern construction and designed to complement each other and harmonize with the surroundings. 
Plans are not yet firm on the numbers of floors to be constructed in each building. The number of storeys is under investigation with the Department of Housing and Construction. Accommodation is expected to be provided for some SOO single service personnel. This is still being examined. When eight married quarters currently under construction are completed, a total of 19 service families will be accommodated. 
The answer to the honourable senator's question is as follows:  (1), (2), (3) and (4) The Government's decision to purchase two patrol frigates from the United States of America was taken only after a thorough examination of all the factors involved. 
 By entering the United States program the Australian Government will be sharing in a larger ship production run based on a well researched development program with the attendant benefits of lower technical risk, cost savings, and product support. A contract for the purchase of the vessels has not yet been negotiated with the United States. A Memorandum of Arrangements has been signed with the United States Deputy Secretary of Defence which meets our firm intent to proceed with the purchase only if satisfactory technical, financial and contractual conditions can be negotiated. 
It should be noted that while the 1973 estimated value of the DDL project was $355m, only $37m would have been attributed to Australian dockside labour. The DDL project would not have been, by any means, a primarily Australian project. 
The answer to the honourable senator's question is as follows: 
The five patrol boats transferred to the Papua New Guinea Defence Force were built in the late 1960's specifically to undertake tasks in Papua New Guinea waters. Since these tasks will now be performed by the Papua New Guinea Defence Force, the five patrol boats need not be replaced. 
The two Attack Class patrol craft given to Indonesia were drawn from Reserves. The question of the need for patrol craft is a matter which is under continuing study along with other Defence capabilities in the current cycle of the five year programing process. 
1 refer the honourable senator to a statement made to the House of Representatives on 23 August 1973 in which the Minister for Defence announced that: 
We have decided that there is no need to proceed at this time with the construction of a Fast Combat Support Ship, capable of underway replenishment of the fleet. It has been assessed that such a ship would not be required before 1980, when HMAS 'Supply ' is expected to be retired. I believe that a less sophisticated and less costly ship than that originally proposed at a cost now estimated at around $69m might be more suitable. This is being further examined. 
The type of vessel to be acquired, its. cost and the timing of its introduction into service are also being considered alongside other defence capabilities in the current cycle of the five year programing process. 
On 2 October 1974,  Senator Townley  asked the Attorney-General the following question, without notice: 
I ask the Attorney-General a question relating to the increased PMG charges. Is the Attorney-General aware that under the common law where a fee for service is paid in advance this constitutes a contract and the fee cannot be altered until the contract expires? I ask: Do not telephone rentals and mail box rentals paid in advance constitute a contract between the renters and the Postmaster-General's Department? Does the Attorney-General feel that the Postmaster-General should not be allowed to ignore such contracts until they are at an end? 
At the end of his statement in reply,  Senator Murphy  said that he would refer the matter to me to see whether I could give  Senator Townley  any further information. The following information is now provided: 
The Postal Regulations prescribe that the fee ordinarily payable for leasing a private box covers an annual period from 1 April to the following 3 1 March. The increased fees recently authorised by Parliament do not become effective until 1 April 1 975 except in the case of new services let after 30 September 1974, for which the new rates apply straight away. 
In the telephone case, for obvious practical reasons, not all subscribers' bills can be sent out on the same day, so rental charges are not statutorily tied uniformly to specified dates. The Telephone Regulations provide that where rental for a telephone service is paid in advance (this is the normal situation) and the amount paid is greater than or less than that prescribed, the subscriber is entitled to a refund of or is liable to pay the difference between the two. In these circumstances, the Post Office has a statutory obligation to apply to all telephone subscribers services from 1 October 1974 the rental charges authorised by the Parliament to operate from that date. 
-On 30 October 1974,  Senator Guilfoyle  asked me the following question without notice: 
Is the Government aware that the policy to increase by 100 per cent the licence fee which has to be paid by amateur radio operators will disadvantage voluntary organisations such as the Surf Life Saving Association of Australia and the Volunteer Coastal Patrol which provide services to the community. 
The following is the answer to the honourable senator's question: 
The Government is aware of the effect of increasing the licence fees for radiocommunication stations. The new scale of fees has regard to the cost of administration and supervision involved in the licensing and regulatory functions associated with the different classes of stations. 
The reduced fee for outpost stations such as those in the Royal Flying Doctor Service or stations used solely in connection with rural fire fighting or ambulance operations have been maintained at $2 for many years. This concessional fee was recently extended to private voluntary organisations concerned solely with the preservation of life (such as life saving organisations). 
The answer to the honourable senator's question is as follows: 
The draft zoning regulations to control the land use surrounding the Avoca Street Defence property are Residential Al to the north and west of the propery and Residential B to the South of the property. These zonings restrict construction to single unit dwellings and town house/duplex type dwellings. 
Both Residential Al and Residential B zoning do not provide for the construction of apartments. Also it is understood that the approval of the Administrator of the Council is required to high rise proposals. 
No. In view of the size of the Defence area, a limited high rise building set back from the boundaries and properly landscaped, would not be out of character with the surrounding area. However an earlier proposal to construct a high rise building for a rank and file barracks block is being reviewed and it is possible the number of floors will be less than the nine originally envisaged. The plan for the development of this area features extensive landscaping, tree plantings, and general aesthetic treatment to ensure that the property will be attractive when viewed from outside the area. 
The answer to the honourable senator's question is as follows: 
Yes. 
The land being developed is Australian Government owned land and will provide much needed updated working and living accommodation for many service personnel in the Sydney metropolitan area. The State and local authorities have raised no objections to this proposal. 
The Avoca Street land occupied by Army will be fully utilised when the redevelopment is achieved. There will not be residual land available for other uses. However plans for the redevelopment of the Naval Supply Depot adjacent to the Army area are still to be considered. Whilst it is unlikely that land could be made available from the Navy area, your proposal to make available open space for the people of the Randwick Coogee area will be investigated during the development of the Navy scheme. 
The answer to the honourable senator's question is as follows: 
and (2) The Government will continue to ensure that the feasibility of local production is examined whenever proposals arise for the acquisition of new ships for the Royal Australian Navy. Many factors are involved and it is not possible to give an unequivocal assurance that all such vessels would be constructed in Australian shipyards. 
The answer to the honourable senator's question is as follows: 
1) to (5) I refer the honourable senator to the information provided by the Prime Minister in reply to Question No. 302 (Senate Hansard, 3 1 October 1974, page 2 1 98). 
-I have been told by the Minister for Labor and Immigration that he will be in New Zealand next week to attend the 
South Pacific Region Labour Conference. He has already arranged to talk to his counterpart in New Zealand about the matter which  Senator Mulvihill  has raised. 
-The decision by the Post Office to require the installation of this so-called new equipment is the result of an international agreement. The countries operating in the area have decided to require the installation of this new equipment because it is more selective and it reduces the amount of interference in the frequencies which are necessary for emergency operations. I understand that the new equipment is much more expensive. The purpose of requiring the installation of this equipment is to ensure a greater amount of safety with less interference in the frequencies which are used. As to whether it may be possible to exclude some very small craft from this requirement, I shall have the proposition examined and I will let the honourable senator know the result of my investigations. 

 -Senator Bessell will know, because I have referred to them many times, the various schemes which the Minister for Labor and Immigration has been able to get the Government to endorse to cover these situations. Apart from the magnitude of the education vote, a number of schemes, including the National Employment and Training Scheme, have been designed to give people the opportunity to take a study course where there is no employment available in their particular categories. The honourable senator referred to students who have been able hitherto to get employment in the Christmas period. I am not aware of the number. I have seen the report. I will ask the Minister to indicate the consideration that has been given to providing some avenues for them. As soon as I have the information I will give it to the honourable senator. 
Apparently the figure that has been cited in the Press report- I have seen it- is a figure which was given at some time in 1973 during the work of the Vernon Commission. The figure does not apply today because the latest of the regular service tests, which was carried out by the Post Office on 4 November, shows that at the present time approximately 92 per cent of the mail is cleared through the Sydney Mail Exchange without delay and a further 8 per cent of mail is delayed by only one delivery. 
The honourable senator is relying on a Press statement issued over the name of  Mr Tucker  who is at present campaigning in the Queensland State election. I have been informed by his office that he is preparing submissions to be made to the Prime Minister which will contain more details than the Press statement did. As to his ideas in respect of this outback telephone proposal, I can only say that the information in the Press statement is not sufficient for me to give any assessment of the proposal. Until I have copies of the submissions and until they are examined by the technical experts, because they involve the adoption of a number of technical requirements, I will not be in a position to make any assessment of the proposals. 
A few weeks ago I gave some progress information about these negotiations. At present the Post Office and the Victa Red Telephone Company- owners of the 'Red 
Phone'- expect to have the agreement available for signature by both parties at the end of next week. Commencing from this week interviews will be conducted with the Victa staff who wish to seek employment with the Post Office. The Post Office is still negotiating with G.E.C.- Elliott Automation Pty Ltd- owners of 'Easiphone'-and it is expected that those negotiations will be successfully completed within the near future. 
-I shall ask the Minister for Defence to provide a more precise answer to the first part of the honourable senator's question than I can provide at present. I hope to be able to obtain that information during this week. However, I can provide some information relating to fishing activities about which  Senator DrakeBrockman  asked me recently and which adds to what I told him at that time. I have the information here because it relates to the current situation. On the basis of surveillance reports - 
It is not a Dorothy Dixer. I am answering in the same way as I answered  Senator Poyser.  Because of the interest in this matter I have information given to me regularly. On the basis of surveillance reports over an extended period it now has been assessed that there is no longer a need for intensified activity to locate and deal with the seasonal problem of intruding Indonesian fishermen and the normal patrol activity has now been resumed. A fleet of Taiwanese fishing vessels remains at work off the north-west coast. They have been in the area for some 18 months and no fisheries infringements have been reported since the arrest of the masters of 2 vessels in May 1973 and the subsequent forfeiture of their vessels. Current sighting reports confirm that the Taiwanese fishing fleet remains clear of the declared fishing zones and no request has been made by Australian fisheries authorities for special surveillance. In addition to the continuing normal patrol activity, the defence force remains ready to react to any need for special effort in any particular locality. For example, the naval patrol boat HMAS 'Barricade' was withdrawn recently from an international exercise for small boats off the Queensland coast and retained in the Cairns area to patrol and provide quick reaction to any infringement by foreign vessels fishing in the vicinity of the Great Barrier Reef. 
-The latest information I have about Woodside- it applies also to 
Smithfield where the defence Services are holding various homes- is that the homes are required for the operations there and for the personnel who are now stationed there. The last information about Woodside is that it is probable that various units will be in occupancy there for some time and because of that these homes will be required. The surplus homes at Smithfield, for example, which were not required by the Royal Australian Air Force, will now be occupied by the Army. While the position at Woodside is in some state of flux as to which unit will occupy the area I think I should get an answer to the question from the Minister so that I will be sure in giving the correct details to the honourable senator tomorrow. 
It is only a few weeks ago that Opposition senators were complaining about the Government not being able to attract recruits. For several months now the intake into the Army, as a result of revised recruiting procedures of the Services, has been satisfactory, as the senator notes. The recruits are people who wish to make a career in the Services. To try to turn that situation into a query about what the Government might not do about unemployment, to me, is a bit of a joke. Everybody knows that this Government has done more than any other government in relation to manpower policies. I have more than once recited the sort of attractions that the Minister for Labor and Immigration has had approved by the Government. These include the various training schemes, the structural adjustment schemes, the new career information centres in all the States and the retraining programs which for the first time were established by the Government. Yes, there is unemployment, as everybody knows, and it is not common to Australia, for the reasons that have been given by  Mr Whitlam  and our leaders. It is a matter which was well understood and recognised by the Minister for Labor and Immigration. He told the Parliament and the people about it. We are taking what measures we can in relation to unemployment, and we are providing specialised officers for the different systems. This year approximately 500 people have been specially recruited in the employment services, to cope with the situation about which I am talking. 
I have explained to  Senator Durack  the real situation in relation to the Overseas Telecommunications Commission and the 2 new commissions. For some reason somebody in OTC is resisting being absorbed into the new telecommunications commission. Because of that there is some agitation among the staff who fear the future. These people have been reassured by myself in public statements made at regularised meetings which have taken place between the unions and the people concerned in the arrangements for the transfer. We have told the staff that they are guaranteed that their promotion rights, and so on, will be protected. With respect to  Senator Durack  's question about the Professional Radio Employees Institute of Australasia and the Australian Association of Professional Engineers, I explained before that the Professional Engineers are opposed to the merger. That Association has a membership of about 20, to my knowledge. *As far as the PREI is concerned, initially it was opposed to the merger but it is now taking part. Its Federal Secretary and  President  are taking part in what is called JUG- that is the Joint Union Group- in consultations with officers who are carrying out the preliminary arrangements. The PREI now accepts the takeover by the commission. 
Because of some events somebody is trying to maintain that the OTC should stop outside the telecommunications commission. It would be wrong for the Government in those circumstances to give way to these sorts of persuasions. The Vernon Commission decided and recommended that the OTC should be absorbed. On 2 occasions the Government was asked by me about its position. Cabinet determined that OTC should go into the commission. As  Senator Durack  knows, since that time I have arranged for him to talk to the leaders of the Post Office. Shortly he will be invited to talk to the Board of the OTC. We have had an unfortunate range of events with the OTC. Some members have retired and, unfortunately,  Sir Arthur  Petfield has recently died. He has been replaced by  Mr Bill  Gibbs. This may be a subject for discussion later on so I mention here that the Government and myself are very grateful to  Mr Bill  Gibbs for assuming these positions. He has made it a condition that he do so without remuneration. That is the position. I hope that when  Senator Durack  meets these people he will be able to persuade them to take part in the joint discussions in a constructive way. As far as I am aware the officials of the unions concerned are doing just that. 
* See page 2567. 

 - Senator Carrick knows that general economic information has been given by  Mr Whitlam  and by  Senator Murphy  in this Senate. They have explained to the Senate that the ratio of unemployment in Australia is not unusual in the Western world. They have pointed to countries with similar economies to ours whose rates of unemployment are much higher, even double and treble that of Australia. They have pointed to the remedies which this Labor Government has taken and it is not for me to repeat what has been stated by  Senator Murphy  or the Prime Minister. 
Of course they have said something. They stated what we have done as part of our economic policy to stop inflation. We have applied correctives when irregularities have occurred in relation to tariffs, in relation to the motor car industry, and so on. In addition, as I explained earlier, when we came to office we became the first Government to establish a correct manpower policy and to gear immigration to manpower policies. 
-OK, we accept.  Mr Clyde  Cameron- I have made the same statement in this House- assessed that there would be rising unemployment because of the world problem of inflation. 
-Created it? The honourable senator knows as well as I do that it is a characteristic of the western world. 
-Of course it is. What was the position when the Opposition was in power and introduced the various horror Budgets? It never cared about retraining. It cared nothing about placing young people in student jobs and educating them for technological change. Did it provide a scheme like the National Employment and Training Scheme? No, it did not. Did it set up a careers information centre in all the States? No, it did not. Did it increase the number of apprenticeships within the government services? No, it did not. We have done so. 
-I am about to tell the honourable senator. The Government is doing whatever it can to provide avenues of employment in its own services. It is attempting to take as many school leavers as possible into the government services. If the Government carried out the policy that was put forward by the Leader of the Opposition yesterday it would have to make cuts throughout the whole range of government departments of up to 8 per cent. For example, at a time when people want telephone services, if the Government did what the Opposition wanted and cut expenditure by 8 per cent I would have to sack 1,000 people from the Post Office and that would add to the unemployment problem. Whatever is possible and practical within the organisation that we have we are trying to do. We are attempting to remedy a situation which is not unique to Australia. I have strong memories of all the bungling of the Opposition while it was in power without any attempt being made to establish training schemes, retraining schemes or structural assistance policies. Did the Opposition provide those things? Of course not. When a man got the sack he was finished under the Opposition's policies. The argument no doubt will be sustained but the facts are, as  Senator Murphy  has said more than once, that if the Opposition had played a constructive role in this Parliament from the time that we became the Government half of the troubles we have now would not be with us. 

 -Mr President, I would like to correct some union membership figures I gave in answer to a question by  Senator Durack  in respect of those unions operating in the Overseas Telecommunications Commission. The numbers are small but I think that they should be corrected. I think I said that the Australian Association of Professional Engineers had only 20 members. I meant the Professional Officers Association which, as far as I am aware, has 16 members. That was the organisation which opposed merging with OTC. The Australian Association of Professional Engineers has a membership of about 85; PREI has 1,266; the Administrative and Clerical Officers Association has 140; and the Association of Architects, Engineers, Surveyors and Draughtsmen has a membership of 35. That is the membership of the main unions involved out of a total of 2,067 staff members. 
I just want to take 5 minutes to clear up what  Senator Townley  said. On 2 October 1974 in Hansard page 1595 after talking about this issue- the introduction of demarcation legislation-  Senator Townley  said: 
The fallacy of this argument can be illustrated by the fact that there have been numerous demarcation disputes within the Amalgamated Metal Workers Union which have led to industrial dislocation and stand downs - 
-This I think clears it up. The argument can be canvassed some other time.  Senator Townley  continued: 
Since the amalgamation of the Amalgamated Engineering Union, the Boilermakers and Blacksmiths' Society of Australia and the Sheet Metal Workers Union into the Amalgamated Metal Workers Union. 
After  Senator Townley  said that,  Senator Mulvihill  reported it to the Amalgamated Metal Workers Union. As  Senator Mulvihill  pointed out tonight- and as is contained in the document tabled by him-  Mr Garland  said: 
The records will clearly show that, since the end of 1972. there have been hardly any major demarcation disputes between the three former unions: Boilermakers, Engineers and Sheet Metal Workers, or between any two of the three former unions. 
As a result, it can be said, except for the odd case like Renison Bell, that amalgamations substantially reduce any union conflict on a wide range of matters, not only demarcation, and an elementary examination of the position will show this to be correct. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Senate adjourned at 11.7 p.m. 

 -Although Senator Bessell brought the question to my notice just before 10 a.m., because of the amount of information required, it was impossible for me to get what the honourable senator has sought. I will get it as soon as possible. The question calls for details not only about Regional Employment Development grants but also about unemployment percentages. I will see whether I can get it early next week. 
I do not have the figures in my head but I undertake to obtain the information for the honourable senator. 
The senator, to ask such a question, must be kidding. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
I seek leave to incorporate a copy of my second reading speech in Hansard. 
This matter was raised in the other place last night in the adjournment debate. On 19 September the Director of Operations in the New South Wales Public Transport Commission advised the Postmaster-General's Department that it was the Commission's intention to withdraw Travelling Post Office services from 1 February 1975. At no stage did the Post Office initiate the discontinuance of the service. The Post Office is happy with the Travelling Post Office system. The Director-General of Posts and Telegraphs spoke this week to the New South Wales Minister for Transport,  Mr Morris.  He pointed out that the Post Office did not favour discontinuance of the service. The DirectorGeneral told  Mr Morris  that if the New South Wales Government persisted with its move to abolish Travelling Post Office services, the Post Office would need an appropriate time to plan an alternative service. I have asked the DirectorGeneral to have further talks with the New South Wales Minister for Transport. 
This proposal is not something which the Post Office wants. The service at present is a satisfactory one for country people. Its discontinuance will embarrass a lot of ordinary country residents and firms because the service is complementary and necessary for the carriage of mails and parcels. I can only tell the honourable senator that despite the propaganda that has been issued about this matter, the Post Office is trying to resist the discontinuance of the service and undertakes to endeavour to continue the service that is presently being provided by the New South Wales Department of Railways. 
-Mr Clyde Cameron yesterday made a statement- which I noticed reached the Press- pointing out that the Regional Employment Development ministerial committee had met yesterday and that it is also to meet today. So I am aware that the Committee meets at least once or sometimes twice a week. Yesterday it approved 19 new projects which will cost nearly $2m. I understand that it prescribed new areas. There is now a new area for consideration by the meeting of Ministers. It includes local government areas. That is a new feature. The committee can meet once or twice a week. It is continuously considering applications. I am not sure of the total number of projects that have been approved or are under consideration. I will try to get the information. I understand that the scheme will be in operation until the present situation is overcome. 
In making his report about yesterday's meeting on the Regional Employment Development scheme,  Mr Clyde  Cameron pointed out that previously when areas had been declared eligible for participation in the scheme they have encompassed the entire employment office areas administered by the Department of Labor and Immigration. Today the new pockets added to the list of areas eligible for the scheme are individual local government areas. I am told that the new areas in South Australia now eligible are those of the Gawler Municipal Council, the Whyalla City Council and the Murray Bridge District Council. 
The previous question by  Senator Young  was sent to the Minister for Labor and Immigration and the Minister for Social Security. I know that both Ministers have met in connection with this matter and no doubt the honourable senator has seen  Mr Cameron's  observations about the people he described as bludgers on the community. I will have to ask the 2 Ministers concerned for specific answers to the questions. I will get the information for the honourable senator. 
-While the matter has not been finalised, the new tariff will be the tariff that has been settled by the Parliament. I have asked the Post Office to investigate the question of adjusting the instruments to provide access to the emergency lines and to see what it can do as soon as possible. 
I will answer the last part of the honourable senator's question first. Under a Labor Government people who are unemployed can be assured that they will receive reasonable payments. As  Senator Wheeldon  mentioned yesterday, before this Government came to office there had been no proper relationship between such payments and the minimum wage. This Government has made sure that anybody who is sick or unemployed will receive reasonable compensation. As I mentioned yesterday, as a result of the Government's tariff cuts- which it freely admits were designed to stop inflation- various schemes were set up and are now operating. In addition, some adjustments are being made to those tariff cuts in accordance with the reaction to them. 
Yesterday I did not say that the National Employment and Training scheme and the absorption of certain people into the Public Service were the main avenues of remedy for the unemployment situation. I said they were some of the measures which could be taken. The clear facts are that no government has made a quicker response to the situation than this Government has made. I mentioned structural adjustment payments and new location payments which have been made. 
-I wish that the honourable senator would let me answer the question. Like  Senator Webster,  he is very good at continually interrupting people who want to answer his questions. If he is not satisfied with the answer he can try again. I repeat that the various schemes which the Minister for Labor and Immigration has proposed and which the Government has endorsed are structural adjustment payments, the new location payments which have now been approved, and the Regional Employment Development scheme which is now in operation and, as was mentioned this morning,  Mr Clyde  Cameron has announced that an additional 90 applications for projects have been approved. The Government has also set up the National Employment and Training Scheme and the career centres which I have mentioned. The Government has decided to take more apprentices into the the Public Service than the previous Government took. More people will be employed in  Mr Clyde  Cameron's Department to cope with these new positions. The Government has also lifted the ceiling on the Public Service to provide opportunities for young people. 
Let us look at the policies of the Opposition. On one hand it says 'Give us more' and on the other hand it says 'Cut Government expenditure'. As I said yesterday, if as PostmasterGeneral I were to carry out the policies of the Leader of the Opposition,  Mr Snedden,  and cut the expenditure of the Post Office by 8 per cent I would have to sack about 1,000 people from the Post Office, and they would become unemployed. I replied yesterday to  Senator Carrick  in the same manner as  Senator Murphy, Mr Whitlam  and  Dr J.  F. Cairns have replied this morning. Unemployment is a characteristic of the sort of economy we have. 
Has the honourable senator forgotten the horror Budgets of his Government. In 1956 and 1960 did his Government care when it stopped manufacturing in all the States? Did it care when it stopped the spare parts industry? What he says is rubbish. He ought to know because he says that he is running a furniture factory. Here is a man who is running a joinery factory. He is sitting in the Parliament in a red seat and he says he is running that factory. He is complaining because the Labor Government and the unions gave his workers too much money. He says that is the fact. Of course it is. No government in Australia has taken more positive steps than this Government has taken, but it has the added circumstance of a general inflationary position which applies to Australia as well as to every country in the Western world. If the Government had more co-operation from the Opposition it would be able to cope with these problems better than it is doing today. 
I have not recently checked the information. I answered an earlier question from  Senator Mulvihill.  I checked with the people concerned. I had meetings with them at a conference. I was in Melbourne when I met all the representatives. We were considering the changes that would be required. I understood that only one organisation was in fact opposed to the merger and that was the Professional Officers Association. The unions that I have mentioned, such as the Professional Radio Employees Institute of Australia, the Administrative and Clerical Officers Association, the Association of Professional Engineers, the Association of Architects, Engineers, Surveyors and Draughtsmen, the Australian Journalists Association and some other unions with small memberships like the Miscellaneous Workers Union, the Electrical 
Trades Union, which has a few members and the Transport Workers Union of Australia with 2 members in OTC, are all taking part- except those with two or three members involved- in discussions at the present time with my officers to work out the framework and infrastructure of the new Commission. One union has resisted the merger and has said that there should not be a takeover and that the OTC should remain on its own. Some activity has been engendered by some people- not many people- to frustrate what the Commission and the Government have determined. 
The realities are as I mentioned yesterday.  Senator Durack  met the rank and file committee and heard its petition. I think the real reason for members of that committee ventilating their feeling is that they are still concerned about their rights in the new enterprise. The honourable senator knows about the trade union group which is meeting the departmental representatives. There are regular discussions. The views of the committee are being taken into account. I have arranged for him to meet next Tuesday the Director-General and  Mr Spratt  who will be a member of the commission so he can get first hand the information which I have given. As far as I can see, there will be a number of questions about the takeover but there will be no general obstruction to the merger by the union movement or by staff members. 
Yesterday  Senator Young  asked me a question about Woodside Army Camp. The answer I have also answers questions by  Senator Drury  and  Senator Laucke  about related matters. I have confirmed that although the ultimate future of Woodside camp is still undecided, under current planning it is likely to be occupied by at least one or two major Regular Army units for some years. The transfer of the Third Battalion Royal Australian Regiment, the major unit at present in the area, is being planned. However, this transfer would be in the long term as it is dependent upon the availability of satisfactory accommodation in a new locality. In answer to that section of  Senator Young's  question regarding the occupation of Army married quarters in the Woodside and surrounding areas, I point out that there are at present 1 1 5 Army married quarters, only nine of which are unoccupied. Of those nine, three are allocated and the remaining six are in the process of being allocated. There are 80 Army personnel on the waiting list. In addition,  Senator Drury  made representations to me about getting a swimming pool for the use of servicemen in the camp. I have put that request to the Minister for Defence and it is currently being considered. 
This is an important question. I will give the honourable senator the information I have in front of me but I think that after I have tendered it I should ask the Minister for Defence whether he would like to add anything to what I have said. As to the question of resignations generally, it is true that we have maintained that the attractions which the Labor Government has provided in the form of pay, defence forces retirement benefits, annual leave loadings, re-engagement bonuses and various other things have been factors which have helped to retain satisfaction among the Services. Formerly, as honourable senators will remember, pay increases and things like that were always belated. On many occasions the Senate's Regulations and Ordinances Committee raised objections to payments that were made retrospective in order to catch up the backlag. We did a number of things to correct that situation when we first came to office. 
The October figures on the resignations of officers are not yet available. 1 am told they will be out this week. I have a report from the Minister for Defence on officer resignations in September. The number of male officers resigning and leaving the service totalled 43 in September, the lowest number since April 1974 when it was 42 and the second lowest since December 1973. Twenty-two of the resignations were from officers who were eligible for a pension under the Defence Forces Retirement Benefits Scheme. As to the general question of re-organisation, at this stage I can only repeat a notification which was received in a report from the  Chairman  of the Chiefs of Staff Committee, Admiral  Sir Victor  Smith, which he gave to  Mr Barnard.  This controversy has reached the newspapers. Of course reporters are speculating as to what is really happening. Various reasons have been given for what has leaked out to the Press. In relation to the briefing which was given to senior officers of the Services Admiral  Sir Victor  Smith stated: 
Except for 2 officers at one or the meetings, whose questions could have been better phrased, there was a genuine interest in what  Mr White  and I had to say. A newspaper report thai the briefing ended in an uproar is completely false  as is the allegation that grounds for courtmartial action were firmly established. 
So in relation to the 2 Air Force officers, I think I should ask the Minister for Defence to reply to that question. In relation to the Chief of the Air 
Staff, I understand that his 6-year contract expires in March. 
The period expires in March. I am told that he has indicated that he does not intend to seek an extension of the period. But the information I have only partly meets what  Senator Drake-Brockman  has requested. I shall ask  Mr Barnard  to give a further answer. I shall try to get it this week. In answer to the last proposition as to whether the Services are now under civilian control, I point out that recently the Department gave figures which indicated that at the top, where these matters are considered, there is a greater proportion of Service officers than there was before the reorganisation. 
Last week the dispute at the Lane Cove Post Office was brought to my attention. Bans have been applied because some people, at that stage, had refused to join the union. I suggested that senior officers, together with  Mr Hancock  from my own office, should talk to the employees concerned. The earliest opportunity to have such discussion was yesterday. I am grateful to be able to say that the New South Wales Director and the Assistant Director of Postal Services, with  Mr Hancock,  talked to the people yesterday. They agreed to join the union. The bans have been lifted. I would like to thank those associated with the union and the other people concerned for the satisfactory way in which this dispute has been settled. 
-I thought 1 told the honourable senator last week that  Mr McGrane,  Federal Secretary of the PREI, had put this notion to the working party. All 1 can tell the honourable senator about the situation at present is that we anticipate making a submission to Cabinet either this week or next week in which the full scope of the organisation will be set out. As soon as possible thereafter I will tell the honourable senator what Cabinet decides. A lot of the information which he seeks about the situation will be answered tonight, I think, when he is meeting the Director-General and  Mr Bert  Spratt who has been appointed to the proposed Postal Commission. I am sure they will give him as much information, in a public sense, if not more, than I can give him at the present time. 
-I would be interested if the honourable senator would indicate at this stage the attitude of the Opposition to the Commission and to the Vernon report. If he has a strong point of view, now would be a good time to introduce it. A debate will take place later but if he has a point of view different from that held by people in the industry it would be a good thing, I suggest, to put it to the Government. 
The honourable senator's question was, I think, generally alluded to by  Senator Carrick  last week at question time and asked the Minister for Labor and Immigration to give consideration to the matter raised. I will see what information I can get in reply to  Senator Sheil  's question further to what has already been asked for. 
The Minister for Labor and Immigration has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
1 ) Yes. The meeting concerned was the 7th Session ofthe ILO Advisory Committee in Salaried Employees and Professional Workers attended by tripartite delegations from 24 countries including Australia which met in Geneva in September 1974.  Mr Grenville  was one of the 2 worker representatives in the Australian delegation. The other members of the Australian delegation were 2 government and 2 employer representatives. 
To my knowledge  Mr Grenville  was not a member of any ILO commission. However, I understand that as a worker representative he took part in meetings of the workers' group, an unofficial grouping consisting of worker representatives attending the Advisory Committee.  1  am told that the workers group adopted a resolution concerning Chile. I am also informed that the  chairman  of the workers group sought leave from the  chairman  ofthe Advisory Committee to read that resolution to the Advisory Committee. This was granted but there was no discussion or vote on the resolution in the Committee since il was not related to its agenda. For this reason, the text of the resolution does not appear in any of the records of the Advisory Committee's proceedings. However, I understand that the  chairman  of the workers' group subsequently passed the groups' resolution to the ILO Director-General. I should make it clear that the proceedings of the workers' group arc not open to government or employer representatives nor are they part of the formal proceedings of the Committee. Consequently the group's deliberations and the manner in which votes are taken are not a matter of public record from which I can indicate how  Mr Grenville  might have voted on the resolution. 
No. 
The worker delegates for all ILO industrial and analogous Committee meetings to which the Australian Government is invited to send a tripartite delegation arc selected in accordance with the provisions of the ILO Constitution under which Member States 'undertake to nominate nonGovernment delegates and advisers chosen in agreement with the industrial organisations, if such organisations exist, which are most representative of employers or workpeople, as the case may be, in their respective countries' (Article 3:5). In pursuance of this obligation I seek nominations for worker representatives from the Australian Council of Trade Unions, drawing attention to the need for the nominees to be drawn from workers organisations having a substantial  membership in the industry or occupational grouping concerned.  Mr Grenville  was nominated by the ACTU as a worker representative at the meeting in accordance with this established arrangement. 1 might add that the expenses of non-government representatives attending this Advisory Committee were borne by the 1LO. 
I have not seen the message to which the honourable senator refers. I suggest the best thing to do would be to put the question on notice and I shall obtain an answer. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
I seek leave to have my second reading speech incorporated in Hansard. 
-The Post Office has now made arrangements for the campaign. It will commence on 1 December, first in Sydney and Melbourne because those are the areas of greatest vandalism. The theme of the campaign will be to emphasise the public telephone as a community lifeline on which people's lives may depend. The campaign has a small budget of $50,000. However the cost of vandalism is about $2m and obviously any money spent on the campaign is well spent. The television advertisement of 60 seconds duration will depict the effective use of the telephone in a road accident situation. We will make an evaluation of the success ofthe campaign in Sydney and Melbourne before extending it to other cities. 
What  Senator Jessop  has said constitutes, I think, a serious charge against the officer if he is doing as  Senator Jessop  alleges. 1 presume that  Senator Jessop  is relying on information which has been given to him. The only proper way in which to deal with such a matter is to submit it to me personally without prejudice to the person concerned, or to put the question on the notice paper. Whichever course  Senator Jessop  chooses, I will ascertain the information for him. 

 - Senator Button warned me this morning that he would ask this question. I have some information and I am getting an answer from  Mr Clyde  Cameron to the latter part of the question. The information I have is that business visit visas were issued in Tokyo to  Mr Yamada  and 16 staff members of his company. The visas were endorsed 'employment prohibited '. No inquiries were made in Australia prior to the issue of the visas because it was not realised that the group comprised a salvage crew. However, it is understood that before salvage operations commenced the agents of  Mr Yamada  in Newcastle discussed the matter with the Newcastle Trades and Labour Council, which agreed to work commencing on the condition that the work team included 8 local dockers and 3 local shipwrights. The Japanese group is no longer in Australia. I will follow up the honourable senator's question and see whether I can get further information for him. 
The Minister for Labor and Immigration has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
I am informed that- 
1 ) a, b and c. The number of persons receiving Unemployment Benefit, Income Maintenance and in training under NEAT in each State at end-October 1 974 were: 

 - Mr Crean, who stood in for  Mr Clyde  Cameron at yesterday's meeting of the RED Ministers, has given the information that for South Australia the Ministers declared the outer metropolitan area, coming within the administrative responsibility of the Elizabeth City Council, as being eligible for assistance under the scheme. The Elizabeth City Council is within the boundaries of the area served by the office of the Commonwealth Employment Service at Elizabeth. The same applies to the Redcliffe City Council in Queensland. The Elizabeth City Council, the Redcliffe City Council and local bodies in those areas may now put forward projects for consideration under the RED Scheme. 
-Senator Mulvihill has asked a number of questions about these people and we have been trying to get the information. I now have the information. The first of the mail officers was naturalised on 13 November 1974 and was appointed to my Department on the same date. The second was naturalised on 15 November 1974 but has not yet produced his citizenship certificate to my Department. He is expected to be appointed as from 2 1 November. Another cannot be naturalised until 21 March 1975. Another was naturalised on 4 November. He will be appointed from 2 1 November for permanency. There is no record of the other 2 officers having applied for naturalisation. We cannot find any such applications. We are making further inquiries. The remaining employee has not yet applied for naturalisation. 
in reply- I thank  Senator Maunsell  and the Senate for the contributions which have been made on this matter.  Senator Maunsell  was a member of the Joint Select Committee on Defence Forces Retirement Benefits Legislation, as was  Senator Devitt,  which, I think it is fair to say, under the guidance of the Minister for Defence  (Mr Barnard)  quickly adopted the Jess report and introduced the improvements in this area as quickly as possible. There are, of course, some anomalies which the Minister has stated previously will be considered but at the present time that cannot be done.  Senator Maunsell  referred to the need to set up a joint select committee. This was raised by the honourable member for Herbert,  Mr Bonnett,  in the other place. The Minister for Defence has already invited  Mr Bonnett  and the Opposition parties to make suggestions in relation to this proposal. As far as I am aware, it is under consideration by the people concerned but it has not yet been submitted to the Government. In reply to a question from  Mr Bonnett  the Minister for Defence said: 
As 1 have already explained in this House, in reply to the honourable member's earlier question on this matter, there are a number of matters raised by and on behalf of retired members of the forces that are already under examination by the Department of Defence in consultation with the Services and with the Defence Force Retirement and Death Benefits Authority. I cannot see any real need for the appointment of a parliamentary committee, as he suggests, to inquire into these matters. However, if the honourable member wishes to submit terms of reference to me, which I presume would incorporate the anomalies that he is referring to, then I would be happy to examine the matter on its merits. 
We also know that during the debate in this place in May or June last year a suggestion was made by  Senator Byrne  to provide for reversionary benefits to flow to specified relatives on the death of an unmarried contributing member. That is at present being considered by the Government but it is not yet in a position to decide what to do. In my second reading speech on this Bill 1 pointed out that it had been decided to defer the question of a permanent method for adjusting servicemen's pensions under both schemes until all relevant aspects had been thoroughly examined. On behalf of the Minister I said:  1 would have hoped by this time that it would have been possible for details of the adjustment methods to apply in the future to be incorporated in the principal Acts. 
Because of the need to make adjustments and in response to current superannuation movements it was necessary to carry out these improvements at the present time. It is also fair to say, I think, that the legislation on the new superannuation scheme to come before the Parliament will raise new considerations in relation to these schemes. I can only say- most of us would agree- that what has been done is a vast improvement and that the matters raised by  Senator Maunsell  and by his colleagues in the other place are under active consideration. As the Minister has said, he hopes to bring in some remedies in the near future. In addition, if the Opposition wants a select committee as has been proposed, the Minister is prepared, I think, to give the suggestion full consideration. I thank the Senate for its consideration of this Bill. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time, and passed through its remaining stages without amendment or debate. 
I only want to say that the question as to who signed the telegrams can be investigated next week. I cannot do it now. But I put it to honourable senators that what  Senator Cavanagh  is complaining about is that in relation to an issue which will be debated in this Parliament next week, the Premier of Queensland has sent telegrams to all the chairmen of the Aboriginal councils in Queensland putting words into their mouths as to whether they would like to support this proposition. 
-Of course. What  Senator Cavanagh  is saying is that the chairmen did not send the telegrams but that the Premier of Queensland or somebody from the Premier's office inspired the chairmen to do so. Because of that it could be- and I will not know until Monday or Tuesday- that even when those chairmen did not react.  Senator Cavanagh,  as the Minister concerned, received telegrams to this effect. They were addressed to him and also to the Prime Minister. The contents were not contents drafted by the sender of the telegram, by the  chairman  concerned. They were words put into the mouths of the  chairman  and not in fact uttered, as far as we can see, by the  chairman.  These are the words: 
My people shocked to hear of new law proposed which will destroy way of life enjoyed by Aboriginal people on this reserve. 
Then the message continues. In that regard, surely it must be evident to everbody that even though it may be proved finally that the chairmen did give their consent to such a proposition, this sort of practice is most improper. For the Premier of a State to ask the chairmen - 
-Of course it must be improper. As somebody said, it is an inspired idea. The people concerned have had a proposition put before them. They have not been asked their views about the matter. It is a studied telegram. That is  Senator Cavanagh  's proposition. As regards the point raised by  Senator Sir Magnus  Cormack, I certainly will inquire on Monday to ascertain who signed the telegrams. But I think that it is most improper that the Premier of a State, or the secretary of his department, should so inspire or attempt to inspire or collude with people to do these things. If he wants to get an expression of opinion, the proper practice is to ask the  chairman  concerned: 'What is your opinion about the legislation?' That is  Senator Cavanagh  's complaint, and I fully support it. As regards the effect of the regulations and the law, I will make proper inquiries about that.  Senator Cavanagh  has just explained to me that he has 20 telegrams. He thinks that the chairmen never signed the telegrams. I will make inquiries into that aspect. 
-I will forward  Senator Mulvihill  's comments and his request that  Mr Clyde  Cameron should meet the AttorneyGeneral in connection with the matters he has raised. 
It is not for me to comment upon the adjudications of  Mr Taylor  who has made his determination. I am not in a position to say whether the Government will make any review of the situation that might arise. It concerns 3 Ministers. The Government has made clear that it is placing a lot of weight on its wage indexation policy and a case to implement such a scheme is presently before the people who should determine such matters. It has been argued by the Minister for Labor and Immigration and the Government that, if wage indexation is accepted by the union movement and the employers and is supported by the Government, it will go a long way to easing many of the pressures that are currently being placed on the economy. 
The honourable senator calls for a lot of information in his question and I will seek it from the Minister,  Mr Cameron.  I would like to say briefly that when  Mr Cameron  announced this scheme it was not intended to apply to privileged people. It was intended to apply to people who might be able to increase their work capabilities and fit into the economy in particular job classifications. It was intended that such people would be trained for those jobs. 
As a result of this great reform lots of applications have been received from people who do not know whether they qualify. I shall get full details in reply to  Senator Jessop  's question. 
-On 14 November last the Minister for Defence,  Mr Barnard,  announced that this meeting would take place. Presently discussions are going on in the United Kingdom between the British and Australian officials. They centre on the future of Woomera, taking into account the foreseen decline in the British work load. The Australian delegation will be reporting to  Mr Barnard  on its return. I understand that a series of studies and further meetings will be necessary. In due course the appropriate British Minister and  Mr Barnard  will announce the agreed plans. That is all the information I can give the honourable senator. 
I have only seen the Press statement. I do not know whether the Prime Minister said these things. I think the question should be directed to the Minister representing the Prime Minister. It is for the Prime Minister to say whether he made this statement and upon what his views are based. I am not going to add to any contention by  Senator Carrick  by following up this hare that he has let loose. I suggest that he put the question on notice and the Prime Minister can reply to him. 
-I want to add that  Senator Cavanagh  had questioned the source of the telegrams. As honourable senators know, the matter was referred to in the debate on the motion for the adjournment of the Senate. My investigations show that without exception the telegrams originated from telephone numbers leased by the Queensland Department of Aboriginal and Island Affairs. The document simply lists the name of the sender as shown on the telegram, the time and date of lodgment, the method of lodgment, the lessee of the telephone service, if sent by phonogram, and the addressees. 
The Minister for Labor and Immigration has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
1 ) Lieutenant Lajos Miko was granted permanent domicile in Australia. 
Three years residence in Australia is a prerequisite for Australian citizenship so that Lajos Miko would not be eligible to apply until 1977. Candidates must satisfy the Minister that they are fit and proper persons for Australian citizenship and normal enquiries would be made in this connection if  Mr Miko  should apply. 
The initial report was prepared by an officer of the Department of Foreign Affairs and the case was then assessed by senior officers in the Department of Immigration. 
No. 
All persons entering Australia as migrants have permanent residence; only those who apply after three years residence may be granted Australian citizenship. A record of persons granted Australian citizenship is maintained. 
On 3 1 October 1974,  Senator Drake-Brockman  asked me, as Minister representing the Minister for Defence, a question without notice, relating to the replacement programme for the RAAF Winjeel training aircraft. 
The Minister for Defence has supplied the following additional information in answer to the honourable senator's question: 
A reassessment of the number of CT4 Airtrainer aircraft required has confirmed the decision to proceed with the original quantity of 37 but with a deferred delivery option for the last 12 aircraft by up to twelve months at no extra cost to the Australian Government should this be required. 
The project cost is $2. 765m and it is not expected that this cost will be exceeded. 
The first aircraft for the RAAF is programmed for delivery in January 1 975, with the last three aircraft due for delivery in January 1976. It is not intended to exercise the deferred delivery option for the last 12 aircraft. 
RAAF Aircraft: Long Range Maritime Patrol 
On 3 1 October 1 974,  Senator Maunsell  asked me, as Minister representing the Minister for Defence, a question, without notice, relating to the replacement of the RAAF Neptune aircraft. 
The Minister for Defence has supplied the following additional information in reply to the honourable senator's question: 
The types of aircraft under consideration for final selection for replacement of the RAAF Neptune have been reduced to two- the Nimrod manufactured by Hawker Siddley Aviation, U.K.. and the Orion P3 manufactured by the Lockheed Aircraft Corporation, U.S.A. However, the Boeing Company has represented that its aircraft be reinstated as a competitor. 
As part of the evaluation process, a mission has visited Hawker Siddley Aviation and Lockheed Aircraft Corporation in September/October 1974 to discuss operational, technical, contractual and legal aspects. This mission also visted the Boeing Company to assess its latest proposals but on the understanding that this is without any commitment to the Australian Government. The contending suppliers are being advised in detail of Australian industrial participation requirements. The level of Australian industry involvement offered by suppliers will be a consideration in negotiations leading to the final selection of the aircraft. 
A recommendation on the type of aircraft to be acquired is expected in the first half of 197fc 
The present position is that the Australian Postal Workers Union, in protest against the decision of  Mr Taylor,  has decided to carry on a number of stoppages. There is also currently a threat to impose an overtime ban at the Redfern Mail Exchange. The information I have is that some stoppages are occurring and some are listed. I am not sure yet whether the stoppages listed will take place. Even if they do the effect on Christmas mail will not be as great as stated by a number of observers. We have been fortunate in the Post Office that in the last 6 months we have had almost no industrial trouble. I think this is mainly due to better communications. One of my ministerial assistants is in constant touch with the unions. I have asked him to tell the unions that in my opinion the decision of  Mr Taylor  is such as to warrant the Australian Postal Workers Union Federal Executive considering taking action other than that currently being taken, lt seems to me that there are other avenues that the Union could canvass to settle its grievances, including recourse to arbitration. I have asked  Mr Hancock  to put that position to the unions concerned, including the Federal Secretary of the APWU. I hope that as a result of those representations other action might be contemplated. 
I mentioned in reply to  Senator Laucke  that the Post Office has enjoyed a strike free period of almost 6 months. There is no doubt about that. May 1 mention that this coincided with my becoming PostmasterGeneral. When I became Postmaster-General I delegated one of my staff who is experienced in industrial matters to talk to the unions and also to the people at the Redfern Mail Exchange. It is fair to say that there has not been in the past 6 months activities such as we had formerly but there is currently certain action taking place. So the industrial trouble at the Redfern Mail Exchange as observed by the Vernon Commission has to some extent been mitigated by the arrangements we have been able to make. I am sorry that this sort of trouble is occurring just before the Christmas period. I do not want to come into this and say certain things about the Arbitrator. Perhaps  Senator Durack  should read his decision. It would seem to me that the postal workers expected an increase of $9 and because they did not get it and other classifications in the Public Service were awarded an increase and also retrospectivity, the postal workers feel aggrieved and consequently they are taking 24-hour stoppage action which in my opinion is not the sort of action they should take. I said to  Senator Laucke  that I told  Mr Hancock  to tell them on my behalf that I believe they should contemplate taking action other than industrial action to air their grievance. 
As to the Redfern Mail Exchange itself, I have already mentioned the strike free period of 6 months which to me is very satisfactory. It may not be well known that although the area of mau and postal services is a very sensitive one, the incidence of industrial disputes in the Post Office is relatively low compared with other fields in the community. There is one other factor about mail exchanges which has not been given the significance that it should have received. It is partly a constructional one and partly an environmental one. No doubt  Senator Cotton  understands this. When the Government he supported built the Redfern Mail Exchange it thought that was the sort of structure which should be erected. I am quite satisfied now that that was a mistake and the concentration of so many personnel in a place which is not at all natural in terms of the environment is one of the hazards facing this industry. In future any Postmaster-General or relevant commission ought to consider the separation of the types of employment in such an organisation, and more consideration should be given to the working situations from an environmental point of view. I hope that my representations to the unions will result in some second thoughts been adopted about the action that is now being taken. 
-The last figures which were revealed were for November. I understand that the Department of Labor and Immigration is making an investigation into the aspects which the honourable senator has raised. The investigation is being made not only in respect to school leavers but also, in collaboration with the Minister for Social Security, in respect of the real incidence of unemployment of people who are now registered for unemployment benefits. What  Dr Cairns  said in June of this year, it seems to me, was a statement of his own views.  Mr Cameron's  Department has given to him accurate forecasts of unemployment, as honourable senators know. As stated by me in this place and by  Mr Cameron  elsewhere, the Department has forecast fairly accurately the developments in unemployment which have occurred and which we, as a Government, say are characteristic of the mixed western economy that we have. 
Only yesterday the Minister for Labor and Immigration forecast that towards the middle of next year the trend in employment will improve. I can only be guided by the fact that the figures given to the Minister for Labor and Immigration by his Department- at the time people thought they were extravagant- seem to have been proved to be correct. This is perhaps because of the Department's very ready access to industry. The Minister's forecast yesterday was that the unemployment position would improve in about June. The best thing I can do, because I accept that these things ought to be seriously surveyed and forecast, is to ask the Minister for Labor and Immigration to see whether he can get a quick reply to the matters raised by  Senator Carrick. 

 - Mr Deputy President - 
No  Senator shall  use offensive words against either House of Parliament or any Member of such House, or of any House of a State Parliament or against any Statute, unless for the purpose of moving for its repeal, and all imputations of improper motives and all personal reflections on Members shall bc considered highly disorderly. 
So that we will know how to behave in the future, do you still claim that a senator can reflect on the corruption of a Party or government, and that that is allowable in this chamber, but may not reflect on the honesty of another senator? Do you rule, as you did in the case of  Senator Wheeldon,  that where it is a matter between a senator and another senator the point of order is upheld but that if the senator makes the same accusation against a Party, government or a House of Parliament it is allowable? Is that regarded in your opinion as being fair comment? 1 am not trying to be difficult; I am looking to the future in seeking your guidance based upon your experience in the chair. 
The  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Webster)- Senator McAuliffe  has asked a question of me. I think reference to Hansard tomorrow will indicate that he has used a variety of words to test the answer that I gave. He has used the word 'government'; he has used the word group'; he has used the word 'Party';, and I think he used the words in relation to a political Party? I will take advice from the  Clerk  on the matter. My understanding is that standing order 4 1 8, as  Senator McAuliffe  has read it, states: 
No  Senator shall  use offensive words against cither House of Parliament. . . . 
I believe that no offensive words were used against either House of Parliament. Then it says:   . . or any Member of such House . . . 
I believe that in respect of the words used by  Senator Wheeldon  it was my duty to construe those as offensive words to me used against a member of this House and I would do the same were a Labor member or any member of this Senate said to be cowardly. I would see it as my obligation to immediately take that as an offensive word whether an honourable senator raised the point or not. Standing order 418 goes on to say: 
Or of any House of a State Parliament . . . 
I think  Senator McAuliffe  would agree with me that from some sides of the House in this place I have heard words used on many occasions against State Houses of Parliament. Standing order 418 goes on to say 'against a member of a State House '. However, that was not the case on this occasion. Standing order 4 1 8 then goes on to say:  or against any Statute . . . 
That does not come into question-  unless for the purpose or moving for its repeal, and all imputations of improper motives and all personal reflections on members shall be considered highly disorderly. 
It would be my own ruling that I have ruled correctly. I will seek the advice of the  Clerk.  I ask the Senate to hold to order for a moment. (The  Deputy President  having consulted the  Clerk)- 
The  DEPUTY PRESIDENT-  The  Clerk  advises me that he finds nothing to disagree with in my ruling. 
The  DEPUTY PRESIDENT-  Order! I will hear  Senator McAuliffe. 
The  DEPUTY PRESIDENT-  I have been through the standing order and I find nothing in it which states that a senator or member cannot refer to a government. I think  Senator McAuliffe  would agree with me that it would be improper if a government were to be relieved from all responsibility of any charge and that must stand in my view. If Hansard does show tomorrow that a charge of corruption was made against a government I would find no reason to vary my own attitude. 
A  Senator who  has spoken to a Question may again be heard, to explain himself in regard to some material part of his speech which has been misquoted or misunderstood - 
It goes on but I do not quote the balance of it. I rise because I certainly did say in a - 
The  DEPUTY PRESIDENT-  Order! I believe the appropriate time to rise on this matter is when the senator who is on his feet, who is in actual fact  Senator Bishop,  has completed his statement. 

 -Mr Deputy President - 
The  DEPUTY PRESIDENT-  The  Clerk  advises me that  Senator Greenwood  should have an opportunity to speak. 
The  DEPUTY PRESIDENT-  I think the Senate may assist me to regain order in this place. I had called  Senator Bishop. Senator Bishop  yielded, on my request, to  Senator McAuliffe. Senator Bishop  was not in control of the Chair at that stage. I am advised, and I believe correctly, that  Senator Greenwood  should be heard at this moment. 
The  DEPUTY PRESIDENT- Senator Greenwood  has the call on this matter. I believe he is making an explanation. 
Government supporters- Oh! 
The  DEPUTY PRESIDENT-  1 believe there is a firm basis to your comment,  Senator Grimes.  I believe  Senator Greenwood  has completed his remarks. I call  Senator Bishop. 
The  DEPUTY PRESIDENT-  I call  Senator Bishop. 
The rulings that have been requested from you,  Mr Deputy President,  I suggest to the Senate, show clearly that this Senate is reaching a stage in this debate and also in debates held at times when the proceedings are broadcast- I refer to last Wednesday- when the people of Australia may question whether the parliamentary system is working as it should do and whether the Opposition is using its role as it should in constructive criticism of a government and the way it should perform that constructive criticism. What has been demonstrated here tonight, particularly in regard to the comments of  Senator Greenwood,  is that he has completely misrepresented a very honourable Treasurer. In my time in the Parliament I have never heard anybody personally attack the Treasurer, Frank Crean, who is known to be personally an honest man and when he gives a decision or gives an answer to a question everybody in the countryside recognises that Crean is giving an honest deal, an honest answer to the questions which are raised. 
On 3 occasions this week- this is not the firstthis question of Curtin House has been raised. What is the position about Curtin House? The first thing I want to say is this: I have been in the Parliament for some years and I do not wonder why Australians now wonder whether the Parliament can perform its duties. I say it is a discredit to the Opposition when proceedings of the Senate are broadcast to use that time not to debate the Bills before the chamber but to attack the Government when it is not warranted because last Wednesday we had the same situation, when every member of the Parliament - 
Of course it is very usual for you,  Senator Greenwood.  You are used to this tactic. In this Parliament when everybody is trying to complete the work of the Government and of the Parliament - 
I will refer to your halo,  Senator. You  came along here last week and alleged that an arbitration inspector had attended a union meeting-- 
I am replying to this interruption. Talking about halos he came along here and said something about an arbitration inspector. Everybody thought the man had attended a union meeting outside his duties. It happened to be a union member- a member of the Administrative and Clerical Officers Association. The honourable senator attacked the member. He got Press publicity, and that was the situation. He never had the guts to get up in the Parliament and say: 'Look, that member is a member of the union'.  Senator Greenwood  comes along here tonight. He has read the Hansard. He has read the document from the First Assistant Commissioner of Taxation. He knows what the history is. The history is clearly demonstrated by  Mr Crean.  Let me quote what he said yesterday in answer to a question asked by  Mr Collard.  The question reads: 
My question is addressed to the Treasurer. While 1 appreciate that even if he is in a position to do so he would never disclose the names of any companies concerned, could he nevertheless tell the House whether or not some companies did apply for and in fact were actually granted tax deductions on moneys donated towards the building of McEwen House? 

 Mr Crean replied. This is the  Mr Crean  who a little while ago you were all so very sympathetic towards because he is going to be the Minister for Overseas Trade. He is an honest man. We all know he is an honest man. Frank Crean said this: 
The answer to the honourable gentleman 's question is yes. 
Today, for the third occasion  Mr Sinclair  raised the same question. No doubt  Senator Greenwood  has read the Hansard copy.  Senator Greenwood  is using the arena here publicly to broadcast to the people of Australia matters which are not relevant The Government is trying to get Bills passed. Because we are, in fact, trying to do the work and not intervening in debates to the extent that we should,  Senator 
Greenwood raises these extraneous questions, not only about  Mr Crean  and the Taxation Office and McEwen House but also about what  Mr Cameron  is doing in patronising. I refer to  Mr Crean  's reply to  Mr Sinclair: 
No individual, 1 emphasise, may receive a deduction for contributions, to Curtin House, McEwen House or even Menzies House. I am not drawing any distinctions. 

 Mr Crean went on to refer to related matters.  Senator Greenwood  is using this forum to get his story out to Australia. 
No, everybody knows you did it last Wednesday. We were then discussing Bills and a number of senators, including  Senator Greenwood,  used the first reading stage of the Bills to expand on their political analyses of the Australian economy. The Government will rise or fall on its own record. Honourable senators opposite do not have to use the occasions when the Senate is being broadcast to exploit such situations. The Government is bound not to continue the debate and we on this side of the House are containing ourselves to make sure that the Senate rises at a reasonable time. I refer again to what  Mr Crean  said to  Mr Sinclair: 
I am simply stating as a fact that some deductions were allowed in respect of McEwen House. No deductions have yet been allowed for Curtin House and whether they are allowed in terms of section 5 1 will be for the Commissioner of Taxation to decide. 
That is the clear announced policy of the Treasurer. It is as clear as day. Opposition senators allege corruption on the Government's part. The very shady tenor of  Senator Greenwood  's statement was clearly that he intended a personal attack on an official of the Department. We have never done this. It is a pretty poor thing for an opposition or a government to complain about the people that they control. It is improper and it should not be done. I think it is quite unfair. I am not surprised because every now and again  Senator Greenwood  does those things. He should use this occasion, in my opinion, to apologise for the comments he has made. They are not political comments at all. In fact, in my opinion, they misrepresent the situation. It is clear, if we look at  Mr Crean's  answer, that companies contributed to McEwen House. Everbody on our side who knew that favours were being bestowed in those days said: 'Why can't we do something for the Labor Party?' In this case some very important people are involved. Are honourable senators opposite saying that people like  Sir Richard  Kirby and  Sir Thomas  Playford who are members of the Committee which is trying to get donations for Curtin House as recognition of the work - 
The honourable senator, who was once Attorney-General, had many matters to deal with in connection with the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission. Tonight, in respect of a taxation commissioner he makes a number of assertions, influences or reflections which are not proper. I have never heard one of our members make such assertions. It is improper. Honourable senators opposite are alleging that in society today there are no men of principle. I say that  Sir Richard  Kirby and  Sir Thomas  Playford are men of principle who believe that the leader of a great political party ought to be commemorated. Consequently  Sir Richard  Kirby and  Sir Thomas  Playford are in that group of people who are trying to raise funds. 
Finally let me refer, of course, to the principal position. What has been happening in the Senate for several weeks now? I do not contest the right of the Opposition- it is its job- to try to criticise constructively the performance of the Government. We have made mistakes; of course we have. But we have done great things. The great things we have done are now alleged to be patronage. The improvements we have made in the industrial field are said to be things we have done because we want to get votes.  Senator Cavanagh  has been criticised for patronage because he is improving the lot of the Aborigines.  Mr Beazley  has been criticised about education matters.  Senator Greenwood  talks about the patronage of  Mr Cameron.  I have said this time and time again: This the first time in Australia than any government has ever established a manpower policy-- 
Yes, in peace time. It has also set about to assist not only trade unions but also management. I have repeated the sorts of things which  Mr Cameron  has tried to do. He has tried to provide subsidies for management where managers need to be trained and to train people in production to ensure productivity and better management. We are doing all these things. In turn we are giving subsidies to the trade union movement for education. In relation to economic matters the Government proposals are well known. We have unemployment. We forecast it.  Mr Cameron  says that next year it will decline. In answer to  Senator Greenwood  I say that the record ofthe Department of Labor has been outstanding. Where we have had dislocations we have readily made remedies. That was not the case with the previous Government. When I was a member of the Australian Council of Trade Unions years ago many waterside workers were to be displaced at sugar ports. It took us many months to get the sort of relocation allowances which the Government has now readily brought about in a few months. 
It is to sad to think that in the last stages of this Parliament Opposition speakers have tried to misrepresent the interpretations of a very responsible Minister. I hope that it will not continue. After all, the Opposition and the Government have to make the Parliament work. If honourable senators opposite behave in the fashion in which they are behaving we will see a situation in Australia where Parliament is completely discredited. There has to be some code of principle and honour. Let all of us try to keep it. 
The  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Webster)-  I think the Senate will agree that in the discussion of this Bill I have allowed the debate to roam fairly wide of the mark of taxation. It is traditional and quite in order for the Senate to do that. In the interests of progress I think honourable senators should restrict their remarks to the Bill. 
It was introduced officially by me on Monday night at a function. Honourable senators will recall of course that subscriber trunk dialling out of Darwin was introduced in August of this year. 
The decision by the Minister for Defence in relation to an inquiry into the Services cannot be simplified by referring to the one sector of psychology. As the honourable senator knows, the criteria in respect of the inquiry have been announced. It will be an inquiry into all aspects of the Services like any other inquiry, such as those advocated by the Department of Labor and Immigration into the work force or in regard to particular industries to ensure the greatest job satisfaction. It is not a new idea. The idea of obtaining satisfactory employment performance on the part of an employee or a serviceman is many years old. In fact the Duke of Edinburgh, as everybody knows, has spent a good deal of time advocating that, industries and governments take more interest in this aspect. He inaugurated conferences on this in 1956 and I attended one such conference. The idea was to make sure that people in any field of employment, including the Services, should get the greatest satisfaction from industry. Of course the Labor Government has increased pay and improved conditions of servicemen. 
-You have been told this before. It is estimated that during 1974-75 a record amount of $590m, or more than 8 per cent in excess of what was spent in 1973-74, was expended by the Labor Government on improved conditions and increased pay. As the honourable senator knows, for many years when he was Minister for Air and all the Services had separate Ministers, servicemen had great difficulty in getting improved payments. They were all subject to determination and often our own Regulations and Ordinances Committee delayed payments because the claims involved retrospectivity. We have put this on a proper basis. In addition, as the honourable senator would know, we have increased pension payments and because of this some officers have resigned. Then the honourable senator asks: What is wrong with the Services?' I suggest that what we are doing in relation to the inquiry into the Services is what any intelligent management would do in respect of any field of employment, whether it be the Services or ordinary industry. 
-I have been advised this morning that the Postal Workers Union intends to appeal to the  President  of the Australian Conciliation and Arbitration Commission. I presume that the Union is now considering what it has been proposing in relation to stoppages. I think in that event that I should not do any more than say I have been trying, as the honorable senator knows, since I have had this portfolio, with the assistance of Don Hancock, to minimise the number of stoppages in the Post Office, and we have been successful. I have figures to show that. At this stage I would not intervene or make any comment. I hope what I have said and what the honorable senator knows will help to obviate what would be, in my opinion, unnecessary delays to mails, particularly during the Christmas period. I hope to be able to talk some time today to  Mr Bob  Hawke to see to what extent he can help in this regard. 
I answer that question in the same way as Ministers representing Ministers for Labor answered similar questions when  Senator Jessop  's Party was in government. In the circumstances of what could easily be action by the unions to settle the dispute, and having had some experience in these matters, I do not think I should make any comments at this stage. 
The answer to the honourable senator's question is as follows: 
) and (2) No; over many years all uniforms purchased for the Australian Army have been made in Australian factories using for the most part Australian made materials. 
To ensure uniformity of texture, colour and shade the materials used for Army uniforms are first purchased by the Department of Manufacturing Industry and then issued to the clothing contractors from Army stores. The same procedure applies to uniforms made in the Government-owned factory. 
All woollen and wool mixture cloths purchased for making uniforms have been made in Australian mills. In the case of cottons and other non-woollen fabrics some comparatively small quantities have been imported including some from Japan. By far the greater proportions of these types of cloth, however, has also been produced in Australian factories. 
TheDepartment of Manufacturing Industry which arranges the contracts for Service requirements has advised my Department that all of its usual suppliers of uniforms are still tendering for Service contracts. Some of these firms may have been affected by the present conditions in the textile industry but any reduction of workloads being experienced is not due to Service uniforms having been purchased overseas. No such orders have been placed. 
Yes. 
The Minister for Labor and Immigration has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
1 ) NEAT is intended to assist persons unemployed for various reasons, those facing unemployment or other persons experiencing difficulties  .I,:es in  obtaining satisfactory employment. Persons a1   j/ed  Ibr training under NEAT may be eligible for training allowances. As under the employment training schemes introduced by the previous Government and in accordance with the recommendation of the Tripartite Committee of Inquiry into Labour Market Training, training allowances are not subject to a means test. However, as previously announced, training allowances paid under NEAT arc liable for income tax. 
Periods of training are determined according to the length of time needed for a trainee to attain the level of skills required to find suitable employment. Past experience has been that average periods of training are less than 12 months. 
Training allowances are paid for the duration of the approved training period subject to the trainee making satisfactory progress. 
No. Persons are not eligible for assistance in these circumstances. 
Trainees are expected to enter employment on completion of training and the services of CES are made available to assist them find suitable employment. The great majority of trainees enter training related employment, but they cannot of course be compelled to do so. 
-On 20 November 1974  Senator Drake-Brockman  asked me, as Minister representing the Minister for Defence, a question without notice relating to patrols by maritime reconnaissance squadrons in the Indian Ocean. 
The Minister for Defence has provided me with the following information: 
Aerial surveillance patrols are conducted in the wider maritime spaces of the Indian Ocean. These patrols use as appropriate, Western Australian bases of Learmonth and Pearce, as well as others, for example Edinburgh in South Australia. 
In addition to the long range maritime patrol sorties specifically tasked for ocean surveillance, some aircraft tasked for coastal surveillance search sufficiently far to seaward to provide additional maritime surveillance data. 
The RAAF has increased its long range maritime patrol surveillance activity in the Indian Ocean over the past six months. 
The Minister for Labor and Immigration has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
1 ) Officers of the Department of Labor and Immigration are currently in the following countries: Arab Republic of Egypt, Argentina, Austria, Belgium, Brazil, Britain. Chile, Denmark, Fiji, Finland, France, Germany. Greece. Hong Kong, India, Ireland, Italy, Japan, Kenya. Lebanon. Malaysia, Malta, Netherlands, Papua New Guinea. Peru. Philippines, Poland, Portugal, South Africa. Spain, Sri Lanka, Sweden, Switzerland, Turkey, United States of America, Yugoslavia. 
In a number of instances officers visit neighbouring countries on immigration matters. In these and other countries where there is no immigration officer permanently located. Department of Foreign Affairs officers are responsible for immigration matters. 
The number of migrants obtained over the past three years from each country in which there is an immigration officer/s is as below. Settler migration would not of course, be the total responsibility of all these officers. 
-I will take the question forward. I think that it affects more than the Minister for Labor and Immigration. Anyway, I will try to obtain an answer for  Senator Mulvihill  before the Senate rises this week. 
-Yes, I will do what I can to facilitate the tabling of the document referred to. 
I am not aware that any such calculations have been made by the Air Force but I shall try to get the information for the honourable senator. 
The position is that the Minister for Labor and Immigration recommended to Cabinet the appointment of  Dr Wilenski  to the newly arranged department, which, as  Senator Davidson  well knows, is not now just the Department of Labor or the Department of Labour and National Service, as it used to be, but the Department of Labor and Immigration.  Mr Cameron  reported his recommendations to Cabinet. He considered that  Dr Wilenski,  with all his qualifications, was the most suitable officer for that appointment in view of the new scope of the Department. With respect to the other questions which  Senator Davidson  has raised about the position of officers of the former Department of Immigration or the Department of Labor, I will try to obtain answers for the honourable senator as soon as I can. 
The honourable senator will recall that Ministers on the ad hoc committee meet once a week to consider applications made by various interested bodies. Projects have been approved to the extent of about $4.5m. It is estimated that finally a total of $22m will be expended in respect of the projects. The scheme should employ 7,000 or 8,000 people. At present employment has been found for about 1,500 people. I understand that the most marked improvement has been noticed in Tasmania where there has been a downturn in employment. There has been some demand for labour in that State resulting from the RED scheme. Attention, of course, in now being paid to consideration of other projects. 
-While the responsibility for answers on this subject really rests with  Senator Cavanagh,  I am able to say that because of the attention that has been directed to the defence aspects of this matter inquiries have been made. In fact the Australian Post Office recently monitored all the frequencies which would be closely related to the Omega system and it has found that no such operations are at present taking place. The monitoring was conducted only a few days ago. Let me say in addition, speaking on behalf of the Minister for Defence, that there is no such transmitting facility of any sort at North West Cape. 
I have been in almost daily contact with the Secretary of the Amalgamated Postal Workers Union and Bob Hawke. I was advised during the week that the dispute was in the hands - 
As everybody knows, whenever there are important stoppages or national stoppages, the most effective method of dealing with them in an organised way, where there are factions in the work force, is to support in every way the taking over of the disputes by the Australian Council of Trade Unions which then has power to control all the elements in the disputes. For that reason I have had discussions with the Secretary of the Postal Workers Union and the  President  of the ACTU, and the advice given to me was that the postal workers had put the dispute in the hands of the ACTU. In addition, the Secretary of the APWU advised me that an appeal was being lodged to the Full Bench of the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission. That appeal has now been lodged and the reasons for the appeal have been stated. It must be clear that the postal workers have a claim and feel aggrieved. 
I am taking whatever steps are possible. The  President  of the ACTU has drawn to the attention of  Mr Slater  and the union that once the ACTU takes control of the dispute actions of the kind that we saw yesterday, which were unfortunate, should not obtain. Without getting into an area of controversy which may make the situation worse, I say it is deplorable that only 400 members of the staff at the Redfern Mail Exchange which numbers about 2,500 should make a decision confronting the policy of the federal executive of the union. I am assured by  Mr Slater  that action is being taken to ensure that the federal executive will carry on its activities within the framework of the ACTU and be bound by ACTU rules. It will be able to ask the Full Bench of the Commission to hear the appeal next week in which case, I would imagine, the dispute will be, if not over, at least controlled. 
As  Senator Durack  knows, in the area of the Redfern Mail Exchange, which has always been a very difficult area, I have allowed one of my officers, whom I should have on my staff helping me with my duties, to work full time on corresponding and communicating with the unions. We have had a strike free period of about 6 months. It is unfortunate that any section of a union should imperil a system which has paid off and been of benefit to the union and the postal employees generally. If that system does not work I shall be forced to take some other measures. I am doing as much as I can to overcome the situation. It is a very serious one, but I think that action is proceeding along the right path. 
During question time yesterday  Senator Drake-Brockman  requested that I table the file relating to the entry into Australia of the Dungca family. In reply I promised that I would do all I could to facilitate the tabling of the documents referred to. I now advise the Senate that  Senator Douglas  McClelland and I, in the company of  Senator Drake-Brockman,  viewed the complete file. Later, with  Senator Drake-Brockman,  I discussed the file with the Leader of the Opposition,  Senator Withers.  We all agree that for the reason that the file contains a reference which may damage individuals it should not be tabled. I add that there is nothing in the file which reflects on any departmental officer or on any member of the Parliament or the staff. 
The Minister for Labor and Immigration has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
Yes. 

 Mr Ermolenko was invited to visit the Department to discuss his request of the previous day to remain in Australia. 
No. 
None. 
) The visit was interrupted to allow  Mr Ermolenko  to go with his friends to the Hotel Parmelia. 

 Mr Ermolenko indicated during the interview that he had to keep an appointment at the Hotel Parmelia at 1 1 a.m. and was told that he could return to complete the immigration interview after that 
No. There was no further contact other than when the temporary entry permits of members of the party, including  Mr Ermolenko,  were extended. 
The answer to the honourable senator's question is as follows: 
The Minister received a telex message relating to Quail Island from Ward Keller, Solicitors, Darwin, on behalf of the Northern Land Council. He replied by telegram on 22 November 1974. 
The Minister for Labor and Immigration has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 1 refer the honourable senator to the answer given by the Prime Minister, through his representative in the Senate, to question number 302 on 3 1 October 1974 (Senate Hansard, page 2 198). 
-The Australian Labor Party's policy has always had in it a prescription of the type mentioned by  Senator Young  but in a form different from the one to which he has referred, and it has been applied by the Minister as accurately as possible. I do not know whether the Minister for Labor and Immigration has informed  Senator Young  that, in respect of the 2 Czechoslovakian seamen about whom representations have been made by him and by some other people, he has invited  Mr Tony  Lamb, who is the Secretary of the Federal Parliamentary Labor Party in Canberra and a Victorian member of the Parliament, to visit and talk to these 2 people, one of whom is at Tennant Creek and the other at Alice Springs. 
-I should have said at Darwin. I think they have been advised of the impending visit of  Mr Lamb.  When the Minister receives  Mr Lamb  's report on the facts concerning the individuals and the circumstances of the case he intends to act on it. I will attempt to find out when the visit will be made. I know that arrangements are being made for it. I am quite sure that the Minister, when he receives the report, will act upon it sympathetically and consistently with the policy of our Party. 
Following the cyclone I discussed the matter with  Dr Patterson  and the then Acting Prime Minister,  Dr J.  F. Cairns, and on a visit to Darwin we announced a number of important concessions. Telegram, telephone and telex charges were reduced by about one-third and there was an arrangement, which I think is now well known, for free postage out of Darwin for standard letters. For the other related mail services there were cuts of from 25 per cent to 50 per cent. In addition, very special arrangements, which still continue, were made for charitable organisations such as the Red Cross and the Salvation Army to have free services not only in the capital cities but also in their agencies in Darwin. Very extensive deductions were made. The Government plans to meet the cost of those deductions by special appropriations. Of course, they were justified in the circumstances. 
One or two questions have been asked about Darwin. Without reflecting or commenting upon the employees in the other departments, I wish to say specially that the Government and I appreciate the efforts which were made by members of the Australian Post Office staff who, as from after the calm before the cyclone, worked for many hours giving a voluntary service in damp and bad conditions. Also, they lived in very difficult circumstances. By a great co-operative effort they were able to feed, look after and accommodate in special emergency arrangements other Post Office staff. That service ought to be recognised by me. I am doing that suitably through the Department. 1 thought that I should mention it at this stage. 
-I think  Mr Clyde  Cameron has announced some of these figures. The total appropriation is over $50m. Of that amount, about $44m comes from the Australian Government. Throughout Australia over 2000 projects have been approved. Employment opportunities have been provided for nearly 20 000 workers. The amount provided by the Commonwealth Government for South Australia is nearly $5m. I am not sure of the number of projects approved in South Australia so I will get the figure, but most of the projects which have been submitted in South Australia have been approved, and I think employment opportunities have been provided for about 1000 workers. 
The answer to the honourable senator's question is as follows: 
The control of civil disturbances and maintenance of internal security in Australia are responsibilities of the civil law enforcement authorities. Section 51 of the Defence Act provides for call out of the military forces in aid to the civil authorities in certain circumstances. No element of the Defence Force has ever been called out in Australia in aid of the civil authorities. 
Members of the Australian Army are not given training in relation to control of civil disturbances and maintenance of internal security. A number of training courses for officers include some lectures and instruction in the theoretical aspects and principles of assistance by the Defence Force to the civil authorities. 
Limited training in respect of aid to the civil power is conducted by elements of the Papua New Guinea Defence Force (which at this time remains part of the Australian Defence Force). It will be recalled that the Papua New Guinea Government has announced that one of the responsibilities of the Papua New Guinea Defence Force after independence will be 'to be able to assist the police in the maintenance of public order and security as a last resort if the police cannot reasonably be expected to cope. ' 
On 19 November 1974,  Senator Devitt  asked me the following question, without notice: 
The Minister will be aware of the departmental policy requiring all future installations of ships' radios to be of the single side band type. I ask: Is he aware that the single side band radio is twice the cost of the type of radio currently in use, in other words, about $1,200 as compared with $500 or $600? Is he also aware that there is no need whatsoever to require single side band sets to be installed in those vessels commonly referred to as small ships, that is, yachts, pleasure craft and vessels of that kind? In view of the discouragement to install radios because of the very great cost involved in single side band sets does the Minister appreciate the reduction in the safety aspect of small ship usage? Will he seek a review of the situation? 
The following is the answer the honourable senator's question: 
The change in the transmission mode to single side band is being introduced on a world wide basis by international agreement as a means of relieving serious congestion in the high frequency radio spectrum so that services may continue to operate without harmful interference. 
The plans for the change in the method of operation in the maritime service, which were announced in May 1972, provide that no new or replacement double side band equipment may be installed at any coast station or in any ship station for normal communication purposes after 1 January 1974. However, the plans also provide that ship stations licensed before 1 January 1974, which operate on frequencies above 4 MHz are not required to change to single side band until 1 January 1978, and these which operate only on frequencies below 4 MHz, until 1 January 1982. Yachts and pleasure craft mainly fall in the latter category. 
It is true, as I indicated previously, that the new single side band equipment is more expensive than double side band equipment. Nevertheless, it is not considered desirable to grant exemptions from the requirement on this account. There is no need for the safety of small vessels, such as yachts and pleasure craft, to be in jeopardy, however, as provision exists for their owners to install double side band equipment fitted for operation on 2182 kHz, which is the international distress and calling frequency and on which all official coastal radio stations keep a continuous listening watch. Owners of small vessels may also belong to one of the many clubs which operate around the Australian coast and participate in the safety harbour mobile communication services which are normally provided. 
Furthermore, my Department's policy now provides for the establishment and operation of very high frequency maritime radiotelephone services in Australia which will be designed to cater for the communication needs of small vessels operating in coastal waters and it is hoped to announce details of the new types of these services shortly. 
About a fortnight ago  Mr Barnard  announced that the German Leopard tank had been chosen, after very extensive trials, and orders had been placed in the Federal Republic of Germany for 53 tanks. Arrangements have been made with the 2 manufacturers in respect of offset orders. It is expected that as a result of the negotiations which are taking place about 30 per cent of the related spare parts will be made in Australia. In addition, it is proposed to produce the ammunition in the government factories. 
-I think I have given these figures previously to the Senate. It is estimated currently that the amount of investment required to connect a telephone to the network would be: for the city, $ 1 , 600; for the closely settled country areas, $3,600; for the outer country areas, $9,000. 

 - Senator Greenwood, representing the Liberal-Country Party coalition and speaking on behalf of his leader,  Mr Snedden,  is suggesting that the policies that the Opposition would pursue now would bc different from the policies that it pursued when it was in government. Does anybody forget the stop and go policies of past Liberal governments when regularly they cut down industries, interfered with manufacturing and waited for things to correct themselves in a world climate which was a vast improvement upon what we have today? Today the world climate is affecting the Australian economy. Honourable senators opposite now rather tardily say: 'Well, it might affect you, but most of your troubles come from internal policies'. But the facts are that if anybody looks at the world situation he will find that the Australian economy, the Australian standard of living and the Australian standard of social services are much higher than those in most of the developed countries. I refer to those countries in the great economic community which everybody expected would be the guide to how government should act for many years. Those countries now are being affected by this world economic downturn. It has affected problems concerning unemployment and inflation in those countries in the same way as it has affected us. 
The policies which  Mr Snedden  has announced on behalf of the Liberal Party- of course they have been received very quietly by the Press and by people generally- offer no new solutions. If one examines what is proposed one finds that most of the remedies and most of the incentives for investment in private industry are now being carried out by this Government. Let us look at what the Opposition is saying. 

 - Senator Young, the Opposition is saying the same old things that it said before. The Opposition says that we have to cut Government spending.  Senator Greenwood  just re-echoed that statement. Does anybody forget what  Mr Snedden, Senator Withers  and other speakers in this Parliament said as soon as the Budget was announced? They said that the Government should cut Budget spending by 25 per cent. But they were not game enough to nominate the areas in which those cuts were to be made. Talking about there being no business for the Senate, as everybody knows, members of the Opposition have been complaining about the multitude of legislation that has come through the Parliament. 
The Labor Party takes the view that if it has promised to do things in accordance with its policy it is bound by its mandate to introduce those things into the Parliament. Everybody knows that, and it is well recognised. But the Senate is still frustrating all our legislation. When Appropriation Bills are introduced to provide funds for education, social services and other things members of the Opposition get up and say that the amounts ought to be increased. They want to tack addendums to the end of motions and say that the amounts ought to be increased. The Opposition is still trying to get it both ways, but it cannot have it both ways. If it cuts government spending it will do what it says it is not going to do. We know that the Opposition would cut government spending. It would not worry about the people who would be dismissed from government departments. On the other hand we have declared- we did so before Christmas- that as part of our recovery policies we would take more people into the government service. We have done that and we have also announced that we would increase the number of apprentices. If honourable senators opposite had listened to the speeches and read the documents they would know that. 
There are no new policies coming from the people opposite who had these stop-go policies years ago. They are not going to tell the people how they are going to cope and how they are going to restore business confidence. If any body in Australia has helped to destroy business confidence more than any other body it is the body of Liberal Party members in the Senate. Without giving the Government a chance to legislate, from the start they immediately carried on a pattern of frustration and of interfering with the aims of the Australian Labor Party and the Government. Now they are continuing to do the same thing. They are not game enough to say that they will have an election now or later in the year. They are trusting that the propositions that the Minister for Labor and Immigration  (Mr Clyde Cameron)  and his Department have put forward will improve the economic position so much that in the second half of the year unemployment will drastically drop. They know that as well as anybody else. In 1971 members of the Parties sitting opposite set in train a downturn in the economy by rejecting the advice of the Department of Labor and National Service, as it then was, which advised the Treasurer- this was stated by  Mr Clyde  Cameron- that there ought to be an expansionary policy. They set these forces in train and since that time there have been changes in world economic conditions affecting everybody. I challenge anybody who has travelled around the world in recent months to try to tell me in which countries conditions are better than those in Australia. I am quite sure that  Senator Wright  and  Senator Drury  noticed this. 
I have just come from West Germany. If the honourable senator wants to talk about the cost of living and prices he knows quite well that standards in our country are generally better. I give all credit to the German Labor Party which has done so much in that country. But the world situation affects everybody. Nobody can discount that Australia must be affected by it. It must affect our trading relations with the Western powers and the United States of America. There is a downturn in all those countries. Nobody mentions the economic position in the United States today, the great image of the free traders and the people who talk about free enterprise, because unemployment there is somewhere between 7 per cent and 10 per cent, even on all sorts of variable bases. Nobody says that things like this are bound to happen in a highly technical state like America. Instead they say that it is about time people looked at Labor's record. 
The motion we are discussing contains words to the effect that the Labor Government is incapable of preventing hardship and that it is depriving hundreds of thousands of Australian workers of jobs. Never has there been a government in the history of Australia which has done so much in such a short time to make sure that Australian citizens shall not be deprived and shall not suffer hardship. 
The honourable senator knows that what I say is true. Consider the social service standards and the pension increases, all the things that the honourable senator said were extravagant. He referred to some of these things earlier. He started his contribution to the debate by talking about the great things that this Labor Government did in its early months. At that time we said that for many, many years under Liberal-Country Party governments employees of the Australian Government did not have the sort of standards that they should have. It may be that we were ambitious, but we did those things. I often thought that we were going too fast but the Labor Party and the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  took the view that these things had to be done. I think the Prime Minister was right. If the Prime Minister and the Government have policies which they consider are just then they believe they should be enacted in legislation. It is true,  Senator Greenwood,  that in those few months, despite some of the Opposition's frustrations, we made those great improvements. 
We then tried to cope with the problem of inflation. The Government decided to introduce tariff cuts but at the time we did not have the mechanisms to make sure that the advantages which should have flowed from the tariff cuts went into the pockets of the ordinary consumers. Largely that was the result of the Opposition's objections and agitations. That is the fact and we know it. If people really want to know the situation they should get a recent copy of 'Newsweek' in which were quoted a number of figures from the International Labour Organisation and the United Nations, together with some comments. The figures are some months old by now. On page 35 of 'Newsweek' of 20 January figures are given representing people on the dole. It is true that in some countries the basis of calculation is different but the figures would not be any less than what is quoted. This article shows how the figures for people on the dole have changed in the period from the end of 1973 to the end of 1974. 
In Great Britain at the end of 1 973 the percentage of people on the dole was 2.7 and at the end of 1974 it was 2.8. I think that the most recent figure I saw was 4 per cent. At the end of 1 973 the figure for Singapore was 3.5 per cent and at the end of 1974 it was 3.5 per cent. In France at the end of 1973 it was 2.7 per cent and at the end of 1 974 it was 4 per cent. In West Germany, from whence some of us have just returned, the figure at the end of 1973 was 1.2 per cent and the official figure at the end of 1 974 was 4.2 per cent. I think it is now more, because I looked at the basis of the calculations. In Italy at the end of 1 973 the figure was 3.5 per cent and at the end of 1974 it was 5 per cent. In the United States it was 4.8 per cent at the end of 1973 and currently it is over 7 per cent. In Denmark, where there have been unstable political features affecting government, at the end of 1973 the figure was 4.7 per cent and at the end of 1974 it had reached 10 per cent. The writer of the article made certain remarks, quite properly, which I think should be noted. On page 34 of the article reference was made to unemployment, the world outlook, the growth of unemployment, the difficulty of young people getting jobs and the need for training. The writer said: 
The story is much the same round the industrialised world. Layoffs are rippling through sick economies in everwidening circles and suddenly unemployment- not inflationhas become Public Enemy No.1. The figures speak for themselves. The number of people out of work in the United States last month- 6.5 million- was the highest since 1 940. 
-It was 7 per cent of the work force. The writer of the article went on to refer to the European Economic Community. Many honourable senators on both sides of the chamber have looked with ambitious eyes at the EEC as being a new federation of countries with reduced customs and tariff barriers which would be an example to the world. They were for a time. They will survive, I am sure. The writer continued: 
In Europe nearly every EEC country once boasted full employment; now it is only a pleasant memory. With Western Europe's recession in full swing, nearly one million more workers are jobless today than a year ago. All told, 3.5 million people (or about 4 per cent of the EEC labour force) are out of work. 
No doubt  Senator Wright  will speak of his experiences in those countries. They are sending back large numbers of casual and seasonal workers which they have always needed to improve their economy and to keep their industries going. That is the world situation. In my opinion, Australia is doing far more than most other countries to improve its position. I shall quote again what  Mr Clyde  Cameron has said. I have quoted his figures previously. The figures released by his Department have been the most accurate figures released by any Government department. It is because the Department of Labor and Immigration is closer to industry and commerce than other departments are. I have mentioned the Minister's pronouncements last year. I did not disguise the fact that he said that there would be an increase in unemployment. He has recently pointed out that there is an improvement. In his most recent report he said: 
There is, however, some comfort for Australia. Our seasonally adjusted unemployment figures showed some marginal improvement this month. The Australian Government, which has a binding commitment to full employment, has, over recent months, initiated a wide range of policies which will expand employment opportunities. Similar policies are now being implemented in other major western economies. Our measures are beginning to take effect, and we are confident that by the middle of the year there will be a very substantial reduction in unemployment. 
I repeat my observation that the forecasts by that Minister and his Department, more particularly by his Department, have been the most accurate forecasts as far as I can see. In effect, he is saying- I think most reasonable people now accept- that by the middle of the year there will be a great improvement, and we will expect it in the latter part of the year. There is no doubt that the Opposition parties are looking at this matter. At their party meetings they are wondering whether they should take the Government on now. If they won an election, with the improvement in the latter part of the year, they would say: 'We did it'. That is the real issue today. This is the agitation that we are getting in the Parliament. So, what I have said previously appears to me to be the sort of lesson which has been put up by the Opposition parties. They are saying, among a number of other things, that we must cut government spending. They are saying the same old things as they said previously. Every time we ask: 'What would you do? Would you cut the Post Office budget? Would you cut works and housing? Would you put many thousands of people out of work?' they will not answer. 
I was involved in industrial matters when previous governments had these stop-go policies. They knew less about how to run the economy than this Government does. At least they did not have the economic downturn throughout the world to cope with. They had many advantages which they did not employ. Their supporters, as we know, turned them down, as  Senator Greenwood  said earlier. He admitted that at one time these stop-go policies nearly lost an election. It would seem to me that there is no reason for anybody in Australia to believe that those people could be trusted to do better than we have done. During the reign of the Liberal-Country Party governments, while generally they gave support to the principle of full employment, everybody in the industrial sphere knew that they did not believe in that principle. One did not have to hear  Senator Greenwood  espouse his Government's policies or  Mr Malcolm  Fraser espouse his policies to know that. Their policies rely on the iron clad fist. If they are returned to power they will use every endeavour to strengthen the Conciliation and Arbitration Act. We know what that means. We do not have to read all the fine print. The strengthening of the Act means the end of any sort of free bargaining between workers and management. More recently  Mr Fraser  has put these precepts in a document which I understand is now being circulated. The Opposition parties will strengthen the industrial inspectorate in every industry, not only those industries in which unions can decide to have disputes procedures. I believe in disputes procedures. I have advocated them for many years. I gave support to the early cementing of those procedures. I do not believe that there can be disputes procedures as a form of collective bargaining if employers try to reinforce them with penal sanctions. 
We have had a turbulent year in industry because we have had inflation. In this time of inflation, despite Labor Ministers' statements and Labor policies on wage restraint and trying to get the unions to agree to it, up to now we have not been successful. I believe that as a result of the present application we will be successful. It is wrong for any advocate before the Commission today to say what the Australian Council of Trade Unions might do. 1 am convinced that once the Commission decides to introduce wage indexation, which is Labor's policy, the majority of unions will accept it. That is the sort of thing that senators opposite should be supporting. One or two ex-Ministers are supporting it. As a nation and as a combined parliamentary group we should be saying: 'Let us do it that way'. I wish to quote now what the present Leader of the Opposition said when he was Treasurer. 
Debate interrupted. 
I referred earlier to what I thought was the basis of Liberal philosophy. While the Opposition parties say that they believe in full employment, they do not mind if there is a large group of unemployed. They would not mind now if they were in government. One can find this sentiment expressed in the statements of the present Leader of the Opposition. On 15 April 1971, when he was Treasurer, he said: 
Every country which has created or permitted unemployment as a weapon against inflation has failed miserably. We take full employment as a cardinal act of political faith and we will not resort to unemployment to achieve our objective. 
He said that at the Canberra Press Club. On 22 January 1972, while he was still Treasurer, when reviewing the 197 1 Budget and the growth in unemployment, he said: 
We have achieved what we set out to do in that we have created an environment in which over award payments are depressed. 
So I think it is hypocritical for the Opposition parties to say that the Labor Party is doing it all wrong. I wish to enumerate the remedies which we have put into effect. Everybody knows that the Regional Employment Development scheme has been of great advantage not only in absorbing unemployment in regional areas but also in providing in areas of local communities, local councils and regions the sort of improvements which they would not have if it had not been for the Labor Party. A number of other schemes have given benefit to the local communities. I was talking last night to the Mayor of Port Pirie. The aid which has been given there since we have been in government, not only through the RED scheme and other schemes but from all Australian Government sources, has amounted to $400,000. Authorities there have been able to tackle work which they would not otherwise have been able to undertake. This work includes the provision of sewerage facilities, flood mitigation works, council work, and the provision of facilities for the Young Men's Christian Association and recreation areas. Everybody knows that this work is going on. 
You either have to sup- " port things which are good or try to be hypocritical. The Government's program has been a fine one. On the records we know about and on the things we can trace, the Commonwealth Government has given $44m to these projects. Another $8m or $9m has come from State government sources to make all these things possible. Employment has been given to nearly 20 000 people out of work. In all 2100 projects have been undertaken. Many of the projects are not like those undertaken by the previous Government to combat unemployment. The previous Government gave men jobs digging up weeds. We have undertaken projects which have been useful in the community instead of undertaking all sorts of unproductive work as the previous Government did. We are helping with the construction of homes for the aged. We are making sure that people can get sewerage systems. We are building swimming pools, recreation centres and so on in all States. So far only one Liberal State government is taking action against the Federal Government because in some way it is jealous of the Federal Government's intervention in assisting the Australian community. 

 Senator Greenwood talked about the tariff system. As soon as we saw the failure in that system and realised that we could not apply any remedies because of the lack of tribunals and other machinery we applied income maintenance, which has meant that money has been paid out to people who have been disturbed. We provided structural assistance. As soon as the effects of the tariff cuts became evident we established redundancy payments, income maintenance and structural assistance. The Department of Labor and Immigration for the first time set about devising a manpower policy for the country and an immigration policy applied to the work force and manpower. It had never been done before. In all the years the previous Government was in office it never decided to copy European countries on which it had case histories. We have done that even in bad times. 
We have provided subsidies for trade union training and for management training. For the first time we have a government which says that it believes in the trade unions being involved in management, running the enterprises and being taught how to run the enterprises. We have increased the apprenticeship subsidy. This is one of the great things previous Ministers for Labor used to talk about. We have increased it out of all hand. We have increased the intake of apprentices into our own government service, and we have persuaded the State government ministers to take on more apprentices. Can anyone give me an example of any government in the past giving the sort of assistance that the present Government has given to the motor car industry? Can anyone refer me to a case in which assistance was given as it was given to the Leyland company? The Federal Government paid $20m for a piece of land to get the great Leyland enterprise out of trouble. 
We are asked what we have done. We have reduced personal income tax, reduced company tax and deferred the payment of company tax. We have changed the banking system and reduced the short term interest rate. We have done a host of important things. We have increased the unemployment benefit.  Senator Greenwood  was worried about hardship. Since we have been in power age and invalid pensions have been increased. The married rate has been increased by 49.3 per cent and the single rate by 55 per cent. The pensions for class A, B and C widows have increased by 40 per cent, 79 per cent and 79.7 per cent respectively. Unemployment and sickness benefits have been increased. It will be remembered that for many months the Opposition said that the Government was paying bludgers for being on the dole. The allowance for married couples has been increased by 106 per cent, the adult single rate by 82.4 per cent, the single rate for those under 21 by 82.4 per cent, for persons between 1 8 and 20 by 181 per cent and for persons aged from 16 to 17 years by 330 per cent. I said earlier that there has never been a government in the history of Australia which has done so much to provide new social service standards. 
My time has nearly expired. I thank the Senate for its patient hearing. Of course unemployment and inflation are vexed questions. The Government is satisfied with the remedies it has set in train. The early policies we implemented certainly balked. They balked not because the Government did not want them to succeed but because we never had the mechanisms to make them succeed. Unfortunately within Australia today, with the vexed situation we have with State and Commonwealth governments, we still have great problems. It seems to me that if the Opposition has constructive policies it should put them up. If it is going to challenge the Government let it get on with it and say: 'We will take you on now' or 'We will take you on later in the year'. 
I am aware of the case about which  Senator Mulvihill  asks. It happened just before Christmas. As a result of the sacking of the Chilean women the case was brought to the attention of  Mr Grassby,  the special consultant in community matters, who has been preparing a report. I have been told that his report is ready for submission to the Minister for Labor and Immigration. I am not able to say what the report contains. I will find out and let the honourable senator know. 
-I am able to say only that I have noticed reports of one of the facts to which  Senator Jessop  referred, that is, the experiments in South Australia with an battery electric car, and that people are interested. I know that both  Dr Cass  and  Mr Charles  Jones are interested in obtaining as soon as possible some experience in this area. I am not sure whether any orders have been placed. I will find out and supply the information to the honourable senator. 
Inter-capital and overseas mail despatches from Darwin are operating normally although initially, as the honourable senator knows, they were sent to Adelaide. Letters and other airmail articles for Darwin are being despatched direct to Darwin from various points in the States. Honourable senators may be interested in looking at these figures. Before the cyclone 15 postmen delivered mail to about 1 1 700 street addressees. As at 7 February 4 postmen were delivering to about 1500 addressees. In addition about half the private boxes previously rented are now in use, 2500 at Darwin Post Office and 1000 at Winnellie. All the post offices in Darwin, with the exception of Casuarina, are now operating normally. Although there are very few people in the Casuarina district, because of the state of that post office it is intended to open it in about a fortnight 's time. 
I will have to obtain some of the answers to the honourable senator's questions from the Ministers concerned. I know that the Minister for the Northern Territory,  Dr Patterson,  in endeavouring to provide emergency accommodation quickly, did sign an agreement to locate the Chandris ship in Darwin harbour. Some discussions took place with his ministerial colleagues. I am not sure of the terms of the agreement. It was obviously an attempt by the Minister to ensure that the people who have gone to Darwin to carry out certain construction works will have adequate accommodation. As everybody knows not only departmental people have been sent to Darwin but also many of the unions have sent volunteer tradesmen to rebuild the city. 
As  Senator Cavanagh  has pointed out it was able to provide accommodation quickly for 1000 workers. Everybody knows the conditions that were present in Darwin. Even some weeks after the cyclone, as the honourable senator probably knows, a number of Post Office people were living under canvas. 

 -Would Senator Wright like to answer the question? 
Yes. Obviously the Minister prima facie had a good case for doing what he did. I cannot give the details to the honourable senator but I will get them as soon as possible and when I get them I will give them to him. 
-I understand from  Mr Cameron  that there is quite a congestion of applications because more people applied than the Minister anticipated. I will put the request of the honourable senator to  Mr Cameron  and try to get an answer for him this week. 
The position is that in concert with the States the programs which will be encouraged and discussed will be an in-depth investigation of road accidents to see whether there are more effective means of identifying causes, and the effectiveness of any penalties now being imposed on drivers and others. Mainly, the programs will involve related activities. In addition to these programs the Federal Government is providing funds to the States and through local authorities for many safety devices. I think that the most important part of the policy is a decision by the Minister for Transport and the Government to locate at Albury-Wodonga the new National Authority on Road Safety and Standards which will consist of special operators. It is planned to have about 200 people who specialise in various areas of safety and design working for the new Authority. It will be a new authority which will take over from private enterprise. For example, at present motor vehicles are tested by the manufacturers of the vehicles. In fact, they are the people who decide whether a vehicle meets the standards that are required nationally. This new authority which will cost about $10m will be the main authority to decide motor vehicle standards. Of course, in addition it will investigate other important community issues such as emission controls, community standards and environmental impact. So it can be seen that the project is immense. It has been decided to establish the authority and plans for so doing are now in hand. 
-The attention of  Mr Cameron  already has been drawn to the report. He is concerned about what is happening in the northern suburbs of Melbourne and he has asked his Department to investigate the complaints and to make a report. In addition his Department already has commissioned a study related to this sort of circumstance and, in particular, there has been a nationwide survey of some 8000 migrants who arrived in Australia between 1963 and last year. That study has been completed. Both studies are being examined by the Minister and he hopes to be able to make some determination on aspects of the matter in the near future. 
I can assure  Senator Cotton  that the Hansard records will indicate that my statement is true. He may well remember the arguments in the debate on the reduction in services and retrenchments by Qantas Airways Ltd. I am pretty sure that the matter was raised in that debate. 
I knew of the investigation. As a matter of fact- as I mentioned, I think, last week- the mayor of Port Pirie was in Canberra recently interviewing all Ministers to see to what extent the Federal Government could continue its assistance. I will refer the particular matters raised by  Senator Jessop  to the Minister for Transport, to see whether he can supply an answer to the honourable senator. 
-I did not know that  Senator Cotton  had asked a question about the report. I will find out the position. Only yesterday I became Minister representing the Minister for Transport.  Senator Cotton  well knows that when he was Minister for Civil Aviation it was not unusual for reports of Qantas Airways Ltd and other bodies not to reach the Parliament when they should have. There were various good reasons for the delay. I certainly will find out the reason in this instance. 
I have seen the publicity. Last night I viewed the performance of the Royal Australian Air Force Central Band on television. I also have the record, which is a very stirring record of all the songs that servicemen sang during the last war. 
Well, certain songs. There is no question that the Air Force band and the other Service bands are very good. I do not think the reports I have seen are accurate. I do not think any great revenue was obtained from the arrangements made for the Air Force band. It may be true that the publicity which flows from band performances is good for the Air Force and the other Services. I think the idea that  Senator Drury  has put up- namely, that tighter arrangements should be made in the future- is a good one. I certainly will put it to  Mr Barnard  to see whether he can arrange for future performances to be given in the circumstances suggested. 
Some time ago I reported that an agreement had been concluded quite satisfactorily with the Victa telephone company on the so-called Victaphones. Since that time my officers have been conferring with the Easiphone company. As a result of those conferences very satisfactory arrangements have been made and we will take over the Easiphone organisation in April of this year. 
Very serious damage to the station has been reported to my colleagues  Senator Willesee  and  Senator Douglas  McClelland who also are concerned with this matter. There was quite extensive damage, running into some millions of dollars, to the transmitting aerials, masts and other related equipment. As honourable senators probably know, the employees who service the station have to go across the harbour in a launch. Unfortunately there was one death as a result of the cyclone. The question we have to discuss is whether the money ought to be spent in that location or whether some other location might be more suitable for the service. We have arranged, mutually, before making a submission to Cabinet about restoration of the service at that site in Darwin, which presents some difficulties, for an examination to be made of the cost of the project and of the general technical efficiency. The three . of us have arranged for our departments to consult about it and make a report to us as quickly as possible. As a result of that report we will make a submission to Cabinet about the facility. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
The provisions of this Bill are exactly the same as those of the Bill concerning amalgamation of organisations under the Conciliation and Arbitration Act that the Senate rejected last September. It proposes the dismantling of the barriers to amalgamations deliberately erected by the joint Liberal-Country Party Government. 
The arguments for encouraging amalgamations have now been canvassed several times in the Parliament and I do not intend to go over them all again. However, there are some points I wish to make. 
I doubt very much whether employers will thank the Opposition for its continuous obstruction of the reforms proposed by this Bill. After all, they derive considerable benefits from formation of larger unions. Frequently several unions are parties to a single award or agreement, as is the case in the metal industry award, and often there is a multiplicity of separate awards and agreements which operate in single establishments. Amalgamation of organisations will operate in this situation not only by reducing the number of unions party to single awards and agreements but also by limiting the number of awards and agreements applying within single establishments. Negotiation and agreement on industrial matters would also be facilitated if the employer had to deal only with one or two unions instead of, as is often the case with larger employers, a number going into double figures, each operating under different rules and procedures and not necessarily pursuing common policies. 
One needs to look no further than Government instrumentalities to get an idea of the number of unions one "employer may have to deal with. A total of 28 unions are represented in the Postmaster-General's Department. Workers in the Sydney Mail Exchange are covered by not less than 20 unions. The workforce of Trans Australia Airlines is covered by not fewer than 26 unions. The men and women employed by the Commonwealth Railways belong to 14 unions. 
It is no wonder that in February 1972 before the introduction of the legislation which erected the present barriers to amalgamations, the then  President  of the Metal Trades Industry Association issued a Press statement stating that he would be informing  Mr Lynch,  the then Minister for Labour and National Service, that the MTIA would be opposed to any action by the Government which sought to prevent the amalgamation of 3 metal trades unions which was in progress. The statement said that far from objecting to the amalgamation, the MTIA saw many practical advantages for industrial relations in the metal trades industry. Specifically mentioned were the reduction in the number of unions with which the MTIA and its members would have to deal and the elimination of costly demarcation disputes. The Liberal-Country Party Government took fine care not to prevent that amalgamation. Similar care was not taken of the interests of other employers and employees. 
I have no doubt that the Australian community has every reason to deplore the Opposition's obstruction of the reforms proposed. The benefits to unions, employees and employers that would flow from fewer and larger unions would go a long way towards a more efficient industrial relations system, one which would be conducive to a substantial improvement in industrial relations. More specifically, in the longer term, a relatively small number of unions could effect a reduction in the number and frequency of wage claims and, I think it is reasonable to suggest, a consequent moderation in the rate of wage increases. With nearly 300 unions our industrial relations area is in a state of constant ferment with unions making claims, negotiating agreements or undertaking arbitral proceedings to bring their members' conditions up to parity with, or to improve upon, wage rates obtained by other unions. Wage claims are made in such numbers and with such frequency that it is extremely difficult for union officials or anyone else to know whether a union's claim will maintain the members wage position relative to that of the members of other unions or will comprise the initial bid in a new round of wage increases. If the only effect of amalgamations was to lessen the number and frequency of wage claims, that in itself would be a significant benefit to the Australian community. 
The truth of the matter is that there was no reasonable justification for the erection of the present barriers in the way of amalgamations. Some little time before the introduction of the enabling legislation in 1972, the then Minister for Labour and National Service,  Mr Phillip  Lynch said: 
 I think it is fair to say that provided the membership of industrial organisations does not lose effective control as a result of amalgamations there are many advantages which can accrue from amalgamation. 
For instance, there are some 300 unions in Australia. Most of them are very small. It could facilitate the functioning of the arbitration system and relations generally between employers and unions if this number of unions decreases . . . 
Those barriers were erected to placate the hysterical fear of certain former members of this Parliament and their supporters. Their fear was too unreasonable to permit any consideration of the enormous benefits to unions, employers and the community that could flow from amalgamations of unions. 
They feared that larger unions might also be more militant, using their industrial strength in reprehensible ways. That would be a possibility. But, if we were to allow our every thought for action to be influenced by the possibility that some unwanted consequence might follow, it is doubtful that we could bring ourselves to the point of daring to act at all. Size and militancy are not automatically concomitant. The Australian Workers Union is one of our 2 largest unions and few would disagree with its reputation for conducting its industrial relations in a moderate manner. On the other hand, that same fear blinded its holders to the fact that comparatively small unions with members employed in carrying out functions whose continued operation is vital for the economic or social wellbeing of the community can exercise industrial strength out of proportion to their numbers. I suggest that the importance of the Bill's provisions merits the response of reasoned consideration rather than blind prejudice. 
The Government's firm commitment to the provisions of this Bill is endorsed by the general support given to amalgamation by leaders of both sides of industry and by industrial relations experts both here and overseas. The 1974 Statement on Employment and Industrial Relations Policy endorsed by both the Country Party and the Liberal Party said that 'the multiplicity of unions and the spread of certain unions through many industries makes the task of consultation and negotiation more difficult with problems of one union unnecessarily flowing to others. ' This 
Bill gives members of those Parties an opportunity to do something constructive about those problems. The Government regards it as imperative that this Bill be passed and I invite all honourable senators to support it. Finally, I should remind honourable senators that the continuation of the 1972 amalgamation provisions means that Australia is not honouring its international obligations. Australia has ratified International Labor Organisations Convention No. 87, Freedom of Association and Protection of the Right to Organise, and did so on a commitment to undertake amendments to the amalgamation provisions which infringe the Convention. This most undesirable state of affairs must be brought to an end. I commend the Bill. 
Debate (on motion by  Senator Greenwood)  ajourned 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
This Bill is concerned exclusively with industrial agreements. Its principal provisions can be summarised as dealing with the certification of agreements, their operation and cancellation. They are integral elements of the Government's industrial relations policy. The primary objective of that policy is the promotion of an industrial relations system that will be the most efficient possible in providing harmonious and mutually satisfactory industrial relationships. The Government is trying to make good the results of the neglect, ineptitude and harm in the field of industrial relations that characterised the time in office of the joint Liberal-Country Party Government. It is trying to provide a system that will be able to accommodate the needs of the future. 
This Bill is in terms identical to those of the Bill rejected by the Senate last September. I do not propose to deal with its provisions in detail. Honourable senators wishing to refresh their memories may refer to the second reading speech I made on 13 August last year. 
On that occasion I said: 
The Bill recognises the wide and increasing incidence of voluntary agreements. Of a total of 800-odd federal awards, approximately 500 were arrived at wholly by agreement. Many of the remaining 300 incorporate agreed portions. Thus the Bill responds to the needs arising from this industrial environment by providing procedures both facilitating agreements and their operation according to their tenor. ' 
It has been maintained that the fact that these agreements were reached within the conciliation and arbitration machinery is an argument against change. It also has been maintained that the Bill's provisions, which do no more than recognise the existence of that trend and facilitate its development according to principles which will benefit not only the parties but also the community, are part of a scheme to bypass and weaken the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission. These assertions reveal a lack of appreciation as to how the industrial relations system and the conciliation and arbitration system really work. 
The Conciliation and Arbitration Act does not set up, and was never intended to set up, machinery through which claims had to be channelled for approval or disapproval. I realise that members of the Opposition hold this view of the function of the Commission but it is a mischievous and even dangerous misconception. The Commission is set up to prevent or settle disputes and the need for conciliation or arbitration by the Commission does not arise unless the parties to an industrial relationship cannot reach agreement on the terms governing the continuance of that relationship. In 1904 it was natural that unions looked to the Court of Conciliation and Arbitration for protection. They were impoverished and their members were poor. All the advantages of money and power lay with employers. It is understandable that in the circumstances pertaining in the first half of this century unions may have developed a habit of looking to the Court. However, the trend towards agreements indicates that this is no longer the position. Unions now have self-respect and the respect of others. They have acquired a status in the community. Their members are often well educated- in the case of some unions, extremely well educated. The majority know that they can now treat with employers on the basis of equality. They no longer regard the Commission as a source of protection or as some sort of authoritarian 'Big Brother', but view it, as I suggest it should be viewed by all, as the proper place for parties to receive assistance when they cannot resolve a matter between themselves. This Bill will not result in the Commission's being bypassed or weakened. It should not be necessary to point out that the Bill retains the requirement that agreements be certified by the Commission. What the Bill does is to reflect the need to adapt the Act to accommodate the changes that have occurred. We cannot afford to close our eyes to those changes. If we do, we run a very real risk that the Commission will be of increasingly less relevance. We must not let that happen. 
The Commission is, of course, well aware of the changes that are occurring and is showing its willingness to accommodate to those changes. It is putting much greater stress on conciliation and encouragement as the 'amicable agent' of the parties. In this regard, I refer honourable senators to the Eighteenth Annual Report of the  President  of the Australian Conciliation and Arbitration Commission tabled on 13 February. However, there is a limit to what the Commission can do in the circumstances now prevailing. 
The attitudes of some union officials need to change. Today people in general are not as willing as they once were to accept decisions that are unilaterally imposed. It should not, therefore, be surprising that rank and file union members are unwilling to endorse agreements that union officials have decided are in the best interest of the members but which do not take account of the real needs and desires of members because no one thought it necessary to try to find out what the members are thinking. If fixed-term agreements are to be that in fact as well as name, it is essential that rank and file members be consulted and kept informed on the progress of negotiations and account taken of their wishes. Their involvement must be such that they can recognise that the agreement provides the terms and conditions they are seeking or a compromise acceptable to them. 
It is quite unrealistic for anyone to think that where such basic matters as wages and other important conditions of employment are concerned trade unionists will be willing to accept less than they believe to be reasonable and fair. It is quite unrealistic for anyone to think that trade unionists will abide by fixed term agreements which they believe, after weighing the pluses and minuses', provide for less than is justly due to them. It is quite unrealistic for some trade union officials to continue to assume that the rank and file will abide by decisions in the shaping of which they had little or no part. It is quite unrealistic for those trade union officials not to share the process of decision making with the rank and file because of fears that their authority will be usurped by shop stewards; they must have more regard for the views of members at the shop floor level and recognise that shop stewards are an important, even essential element, in the process of identifying and transmitting views and ideas from the rank and file to union management and vice versa. It is unrealistic for employers to disregard the obvious fact that an agreement reached with union officials might not be observed if the rank and file have not been involved in the substance of the negotiations and fail to co-operate with union officials in designing procedures which will enable the rank and file to be involved in the negotiating process. 
It is fortunate that there are many trade union officials who welcome democratic controls and processes. Regrettably, there are some who do not. One of the purposes of the provisions proposed by this Bill is to encourage those officials to democratise the decision making processes in their unions in relation to proposed agreements concerning the members' conditions of employment It has been claimed that the provisions of this Bill will weaken union leadership and 'union leaders would have no authority or incentive to make anything stick'. In fact, their effect will be precisely the reverse. The knowledge that the Commission, if it is not satisfied that the terms of the agreement are acceptable to a majority of the union's members, may direct that a ballot be held to obtain the members' views, will be a strong inducement for union officials to ensure that agreements made by them reflect the wishes of the members. Union officials would not willingly allow themselves to be caught in a position which revealed a lack of rapport with the members they were elected to represent. Accordingly, they will be forced to establish and keep open effective lines of communications with their members. This will increase their knowledge of day to day union affairs which, in turn, should increase their confidence in their right to act authoritatively in their dealings with others both in and outside the union. Having entered into negotiations armed with up to date information on what is expected of them by their members, they will be able to give undertakings and enter into agreements confident that the undertakings and agreements will not be disowned by the rank and file. Having entered into an agreement with the knowledge that it reflects the wishes of the majority of union members, they will be in a very strong position in their dealings with members who may be reluctant to abide by the terms of the agreement. 
I want to refer briefly to the provisions of the Bill which permit a member of the Commission to certify an agreement on any industrial matter unless he believes certification would result in a major detriment to the public interest, in which case the  President  is empowered to determine whether the matter should be determined by a Full Bench. These provisions are aimed at striking a reasonable balance between the need to facilitate agreements and the need to protect the public interest. To be effective in reducing industrial unrest it is essential that employers and unions should be able to negotiate with reasonable certainty that whatever agreement they reach will stand. It is therefore important that the Commission should not be able to withhold certification because of some minor consideration. It is equally important that they should be able to negotiate and agree on the whole range of matters relevant to their relationship. Negotiation is a matter of give and take and the process just could not operate satisfactorily if one of the matters of main concern had to be excluded from the discussions. 
The successful negotiation and operation of industrial agreements is crucial for the survival of our conciliation and arbitration system. The Government desires to encourage such agreements as a means of paving the way for some coordination in the presentation of union wage claims and of achieving moderation in wage claims and as a rational alternative to industrial strife. It should be seen as inter-related to the Bill on amalgamations. The 2 Bills complement each other in assisting to achieve 2 major objectives of the Government: The rationalisation of our industrial relations system and a dampening of inflation. This is an important Bill. I commend it to the Senate. 
Debate (on motion by  Senator Greenwood)  adjourned). 
The question which  Senator Young  asks is substantially the same as that asked by  Senator Withers.  I do not intend to respond to that part of the question. In respect of the latter part of the question about the assistance schemes and the various forms of payment that the Government has provided, as everybody knows they have been most expansive and they will be kept in operation until the situation has eased, as we have pointed out before. 
Yes, I have seen the correspondence and it is most misleading. My Department has not and I have not at any time taken any initiative leading to the withdrawal or restriction of the travelling post office service. The Post Office wants the service to continue. The Australian Government recognises the importance of this service to the rural areas of New South Wales. The agreement with the Government of New South Wales under which the service is provided allows for a withdrawal of the service by either party on 12 months notice. 
My Department will not request any such withdrawal. On 10 December last I wrote to the then New South Wales Minister for Transport pointing out our objections to any withdrawals. Certainly in our opinion New South Wales should support the continuation of the service. 
Last year the Minister for Labor and Immigration announced some new schemes to attract more apprentices into the Australian Government service. As a result of benefits which were introduced and which are quite new in Australia, the number of apprentices in every department was increased. As a result of the special subsidies a total of 500 more apprentices were brought into training. In addition, the Minister has taken the matter up with the State Ministers concerned, seeking support for a scheme which, it is hoped, will result in the employment of an additional 500 apprentices, which of course will add to the Australian skilled work force. As a result completely of new measures which have been introduced by the Minister- last week I mentioned not only apprenticeships but also management trainingemployment of something like 1 500 new apprentices has been gained.  Mr Clyde  Cameron certainly has paved some new ground. 
-A total of more than $30m has been allocated for works under this scheme. More than $4m has been allocated to South Australia, of which I think a third already has been spent. This is one of the initiatives which  Mr Charles  Jones took to assist the States in providing some road hazard remedies such as crossing lights, pedestrian crossings and in some cases flashing lights at railway crossings. This smaller scheme has proved very successful. As a matter of fact, a large part of the moneys already has been expended in co-operation with the States on specified hazardous conditions. I understand that  Mr Charles  Jones already has informed members of Parliament of the sort of projects which have been either completed or approved in their respective electorates. 
It is true, as  Senator McAuliffe  said, that there was a major implementation of the Regional Employment Development scheme as a result of talks between  Mr Cameron  and the Lord Mayor of Greater Brisbane, Alderman Jones. The value of the proposals will be about $15m. This amount will be used to carry out projects which will include recreation facilities, reafforestation, foreshore improvements, work on Mount Coo-tha botanic gardens complex, relief draining, upgrading of traffic and road signs, paving, kerbing and other works. As everybody knows, these are very valuable works. The RED scheme has been of great advantage to many areas of Australia, including my State. As I mentioned only last week-  Senator Jessop  is familiar with this- the value of the works undertaken in Port Pirie alone is nearly Sim. I return to  Senator McAuliffe  's question. It is anticipated that there will be employment for a total of 1000 people as a result of these projects being undertaken. Presently, and instantly there is employment for a number of women and also school leavers. 
I have heard  Senator Mulvihill  refer to this matter before. To my knowledge neither  Mr Clyde  Cameron nor  Dr Everingham  have recently met to consider the position. I shall ask both of them whether they will consider the question which  Senator Mulvihill  has asked me. 
I heard part of the statement concerning this matter this morning on the radio. I suppose I should say straight off that I would have as much chance of controlling the postal workers as the honourable senator has of controlling his Premier. 
-I will not. I think that is the clear position. If in the first place members of the Opposition parties had been able to persuade the Premier of New South Wales to do the traditional and correct thing- some tried to persuade him- unions and other people in society would not be trying to take some sort of retaliatory action. That is the position today. I do not personally approve of either position. I would say that the whole situation could develop to a stage where the work of our Parliament could be impeded by some people. But the origin of this possible impediment lies in the action taken by one in the Liberal-Country Party movement from whom one would think we could expect better. I can only say that when action is to be taken the Government will consider what should be done in respect of both matters. 
-The Minister for Labor and Immigration has not yet set in course any evaluation of the Borrie report.  Senator Wriedt  has already mentioned some of the factors related to that report. I think we must wait, as  Senator Wriedt  has pointed out, for a proper examination by the Government, the specialists and the Ministers concerned. In respect of what  Mr Clyde  Cameron said at Terrigal, the honourable senator might remember that one of the questions he asked me previously was whether the Government was going to attract people with the skills that are needed in Australia. One of the resolutions which the Minister for Labor and Immigration had passed is to ensure that that will be done. I think he has already acknowledged too that presently, at any rate, the source of migrants would be those areas which are recommended in that report. I do not think there have been any changes in policy but I will ask the Minister for Labor and Immigration to examine the honourable senator's question and give a more complete answer, if possible. 
All I can do in this regard is ask the Minister for Transport,  Mr Jones,  to answer  Senator Wright's  request. 
-Senator Devitt was good enough to tell me this morning about the question. The Minister has advised as follows: The Melbourne Trader' is en route to Australia at present. It is expected to enter service shortly after its arrival on 19 March. Following a detailed study of cargo flow projections through to the end of 1978, terminal turnabout capabilities, ship carrying capacities, etc., 2 searoaders and the 'Melbourne Trader' will operate from Melbourne to northern Tasmanian ports, thence to Sydney and North Queensland, giving an integrated additional weekly service directly from north Tasmania to Sydney in support of the Australian Trader'. Each vessel will spend one week in three in Bass Strait, supported by the third searoader, giving 2 vessels in Bass Strait continuously. The line is confident that these arrangements will provide sufficient capacity adequately to cover Bass Strait requirements until 1979. The following ships are at present on order for the Australian National Line: For the coastal trade, one seacoaster, 6700 dead weight tonnes, general cargo vessel; two 25 000 dead weight tonnes bulk carriers for overseas trade; two 12 100 dead weight tonnes bulk carriers; two 137 000 dead weight tonnes bulk carriers; and one 29 000 cellular container ship. 
Just before Christmas we announced that it was expected that the service would be operating from about 1 May. It is anticipated now that the service will not commence until early in July. The vehicles have been received, with sufficient spares, but there is a need to adjust the radio equipment, which is being supplied by Amalgamated Wireless (A'asia) Limited, as a result of new standards being set by the Post Office. The delay is occasioned by the need to accommodate the new radio communications system. The service probably will not be in operaton until the later date I mentioned. 
Yesterday  Senator Wriedt  and I in answering questions- I think  Senator Davidson  asked me a question- indicated that it was anticipated that the Government would, after proper consideration, determine what it would do about the report. That is the information I have. The Minister for Labor and Immigration has said that first the Government has to consider it. In the meantime he has authorised a continuing 2-year study by the same team to refine the projections. The implications of the report will be considered also by the Australian Population and Immigration Council and all I can do is refer to the Minister for his further consideration the comments of honourable senators who ask questions. 
The Press report yesterday or the day before referred to the fact that the Royal Automobile Association of South Australia Inc. had claimed that the seat belt anchorages had been loose. The RAA had reported the complaint to the Nissan Motor Co. Ltd, whose representatives were to meet representatives of the RAA on Friday. In the meantime, officers of the Department of Transport have been told to get in touch with the Nissan Company and the RAA in connection with the matter. I have been advised that while the seat belts meet the Australian specifications, there is some question about the bolts being loose. Officers of the Department are consulting the interests concerned to see what the position is. 
-Two 25 000 tonne bulk carriers are being built in Australia, the seacoaster is being built in Australia and the searoaders are being built in Australia. May I indicate that the Minister's attitude has been that, because of the urgency of some of these demands, consideration must be given in some cases to the vessels being built overseas. 
I do not have the information that  Senator Young  has sought. I will ask  Mr Cameron  whether he can supply the information during the week. 
The Minister for Transport has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
1 ) The Australian National Airlines Commission is a statutory authority established by the Australian National Airlines Act 1945-1973. The Commission is a body corporate and its powers, functions and obligations are defined in the Act. 
The conditions applicable to the appointment of officers of the Commission are prescribed in Section 1 7 of the Act. Subject to the provisions of awards and agreements, the Commission has power to determine the terms and conditions of employment of its staff. The rate of salary payable to the General Manager is determined by the Remuneration and Allowances Act 1973. The rates payable to other offices arc determined by the Commission, subject to the approval of the Minister for Transport where the rate of salary exceeds $13,700 per annum. 
The Commission was advised by me that the claims for salary increases by the Federation of Air Pilots should be determined by arbitration before the Flight Crew Officers Tribunal. Following this arbitration which resulted in a lower rate of increase than that agreed by Ansett Transport Industries and the Federation of Air Pilots, the Commission was informed that it should exercise its own managerial judgment and decide what changes in salaries and conditions it should agree with the Federation of Air Pilots. 
The Minister for Labor and Immigration has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
1 have been informed that the visitor visas granted to Delano Antonius Ruess and Friedrich Frei were for single entry to Australia. Entry having been made the visas are no longer valid. 
Visas will not be granted to them in the future unless circumstances of an exceptional nature indicate that refusal of visas would not be appropriate. 
The answer to the honourable senator's question is as follows: 
Post Office studies on the possible introduction of pushbutton telephones are expected to be finalised in a few weeks. I am unable to say, at this stage, when such telephones will be introduced but will let the honourable senator know as soon as possible. 
-A field trial was carried out recently in Melbourne using what is known as a Battronic electric van. The van was borrowed from the Australian Electric Vehicles Association at no cost to the Post Office and was used on various city deliveries and pick-ups. In addition it took bagged airmail between the Melbourne depot and Tullamarine Airport. The range of the vehicle before recharging varied between 35 and 50 miles, depending on the nature of the work. Although the design of this vehicle is not ideally suited for postal needs it certainly offers consideration as a vehicle of the future. I should think that within a couple of months the Post Office will be better able to assess whether such a vehicle might find its way into the Post Office's stocks. 
Since November there have been departmental representatives in Cyprus looking at the situation from a humanitarian point of view. Up to the beginning of February almost 800 Cypriots had been approved for migration and of that number almost 700 were displaced persons. 
As far as I am aware, there has been no change in the analysis or assessment which has been given to the Minister for Defence, even having regard to some of the things which  Senator Maunsell  remembers. I am advised that against the present agreed assessments of the global and regional situations the 
Government considers that Australia retains adequate forces to meet foreseeable tasks and the limited contingencies which might arise in the future. Australia's forces in being meanwhile constitute a basis for expansion at any time to meet such contingencies. If there is anything that  Mr Barnard  would like to add to my answer I will obtain it for the honourable senator. 
I do not think there could be a specific answer to the question in the terms in which  Senator Scott  has asked it. I want to remind the honourable senator that, as he probably knows, one of the questions which the Vernon Commission canvassed was the proposed regional organisation in the future. The Commission received reports from consultants and made recommendations. The recommendations have been put to the Government. One of the recommendations raises the question of the future regional organisation not only of the Post Office but also of the Telecommunications Commission, The report of the Vernon Commission states at page 249: 
The Commission therefore recommends that the boundaries of the regional administrations be determined on the basis of the business characteristics of the network and not on State boundaries; but that each region should satisfy the criteria that on the business transacted, a regional administration is justified, and that the region presents a reasonable management responsibility for a senior executive of the corporation. 
What is happening in the Post Office is that in arranging to give effect to the recommendation to the Government, and in view of the probable passing of legislation, consideration has been given on the technical side to what might happen when the 2 commissions operate. I have been asked about some rumours of re-arrangements. I have been able to tell the Senate precisely that no program will affect particular cities or towns. Unless the honourable senator can nominate a particular area about which I can obtain some information, I would be unable to give him a general picture. I do not think the Post Office or anybody else is in a position to say precisely what will happen, but there will be a general re-arrangement. As the honourable senator understands, there must be re-arrangements because in some places the telecommunications administration must be shifted away from the Post Office, and vice versa. In other cases they will probably be joined. In some cases the country regional administration will be shifted, perhaps to different towns. If the honourable senator would like to tell me of any particular area about which he is concerned, I will see to what extent I can supply reasonable information to him. I do not think the complete picture will emerge until the legislation is passed. What will be done will not be clear until some months after that. 
The request which  Senator Drake-Brockman  has put forward certainly seems to me to be a constructive one. I will request the Minister for Defence to ask the organisations concerned whether consideration should be given in the future in that connection. 
in reply- I commence by repeating what the Government has said before. We think it is scandalous for an Opposition to hold up legislation in relation to the amalgamation of unions- a principle which the Opposition has supported on many occasions.  Mr Deputy President,  as you will know this is the fourth time that this conciliation and arbitration legislation has been brought into the Parliament and rejected. At the same time, as everybody knows, understate governments, many of which are Liberal Party governments, amalgamations are achieved much more easily than is aimed for in this legislation. For example, in New South Wales an application may be made to the State Industrial Registrar. He has to hear and determine any application. In Queensland, unions in related callings may amalgamate on the passing of a resolution by a majority of members present at a general meeting or by other competent authority in the unions. Objections may be lodged to the amalgamation and these are heard by the Registrar. In South Australia where there is a Labor Government unions may amalgamate on the passing of a resolution to this effect and the lodging of it with the Registrar. In Western Australia, unions in related industries may amalgamate on the passing of a resolution by a majority of members present at a general meeting of each union and objections to the amalgamation may be heard. 
After hearing all the fears expressed by Opposition senators I cannot understand why they should not reaffirm what some of their previous Ministers and members said. I refer briefly to what their leaders have said previously in order to put it on record again. For example, in March 1972  Mr Lynch  said:  lt is fair to say that provided the membership of industrial organisations does not lose effective control as a result of amalgamations, there are many advantages which can accrue from amalgamation. For instance, there are some 300 unions in Australia. Most of them are very small. It could facilitate the functioning of the arbitration system and relations generally between the employers and the unions if this number of unions decreased. I know of situations in which employers have sat across the table with no fewer than 15 unions in relation to one issue. Government departments have had this experience. 
In 1970  Mr Macphee,  who is now in the House of Representatives, had a number of comments to make about the same thing when he supported amalgamations. He said when speaking to the New South Wales Employers' Federation 1970 Industrial Relations Conference: 
One may therefore express the hope that individual executives and officers in both trade unions and employer organisations may soon realise how ephemeral empires really are and that there is far more satisfaction in subsuming individual desires for personal recognition in a cause which benefits the community generally. When this realisation eventually dawns a blow may really be struck for the peaceful welfare of Australian employees and the peaceful and rapid development of our national resources. Such an advance would be greatly aided by rational amalgamations of unions and a similar unifying of employer organisations. 
It was. It was said by  Mr Macphee  when he was Assistant Director of the Chamber of Manufactures of New South Wales. Since that time he has entered the House of Representatives and during the debate on 19 February in the other place in a speech which was generally supporting the legislation, although he finally voted with the Opposition, he made a number of observations which I think I should put on record. At page 49 1 of Hansard he is reported as having said: 
In conclusion I would like to refer to another matter raised by the honourable member for Burke. It is a matter on which I am in agreement with him and at some variance with my colleagues. The honourable member said that a 30 per cent vote is a good result for a trade union. It is a good result. It is a very good result for a registered employer organisation, too, I might say. I do not doubt that an employer organisation or a trade union is doing very well when it gets a 30 per cent return. As I have said, I know that this is at variance with the views of some of my colleagues, but I hope that they will respect my practical experience on these matters. 
He went on to say that he supported amalgamations and saw the need for them. Obviously the situation now is as it was when this Bill was first introduced although then, of course, the provisions were in a comprehensive Bill. At the end of 1973 there were 294 separate unions in Australia, 226 of which had a membership of fewer than 5000 and of these 103 had fewer than 500 members. As the Minister for Labor and Immigration  (Mr Clyde Cameron)  rightly said, this situation is not satisfactory industrially. It leads to leapfrogging. It leads to a struggle for identification from each of the unions, large or small. It leads to industrial conflicts which appear in the records of the country and about which employers too have often spoken. I would like to quote from the 1974 annual report of the amalgamated group now called the Chamber of Commerce and Industry S.A. Inc. As honourable senators know, the organisations which formed this body had the wisdom in recent years to come together. This organisation said in supporting the activities of its Industrial Matters Committee at page 20 of its report: 
The number of industrial matters brought to the Committee continues to increase, both in number and complexity. The instances of strikes, demarcation issues and industrial cases handled by Chamber Officers have increased by approximately one-third compared with the previous year. 
A great many of those cases are clearly demarcation cases. In fact they are cases which could be avoided under the sort of legislation which is proposed by the Government. The Minister made the point when the Bill was introduced on various occasions that a situation where we have this large number of unions only adds to the inflationary trend because each union competes with the other. If, as is the purpose of the legislation, a situation were to develop in Australia where unions in globo and employers in globo tended more to enter agreements perhaps once in two years it would lead to a stabilisation which we all want. Instead of that each union today is in competition and all of the resulting problems are reflected in the economy and in negotiations. It is this Government which for the first time has brought into being a comprehensive system for amalgamations which will satisfy all the aims of reasonable people. 
The first half-hour of the meeting, which  Mr Snedden  summoned from 9.30 a.m., was taken up by frequently bitter debate about whether there should be a secret or open ballot to decide whether the Liberal leadership post should be declared vacant. 
Various newspapers nominated those who either supported a secret ballot or were against a secret ballot. In the Bill before us, and honourable senators can read it for themselves, proposed new section 158G states: 
1 ) The scheme of amalgamation shall not be submitted in accordance with section 158F before the expiration of 35 days after the date on which compliance with the requirements of sub-section (2) is completed. 
Each of the organizations shall cause a copy of the resolution of its committee of management and of the scheme proposed to be submitted to be published- 
where a periodical journal or other publication of the organization is issued within I month after the date of the resolution of the committee of management- in that journal or other publication; and 
in any case- in each State, in a metropolitan daily newspaper. 
The Opposition has defended the legislation. But nowhere did that Act prescribe that the members had to elect their officials. As is well known, many of the Federal officials were elected by committees of management. Action was never taken to alter that situation. What we see in this Bill is an advanced form of legislation which the Senate ought to approve or, if it does not approve it precisely, it ought to bring into focus what relevant amendments should be considered. However, as we know, that is not possible because the Oppositions intends to vote against the Bill. 1 will deal with another 2 clauses which deal with the rights of members of trade unions. The rights of members are preserved by the requirement of the Bill that a ballot be conducted in the case of each organisation concerned in a proposed amalgamation. The ballot is to be conducted by the organisation itself or officially where its official conduct is sought by either the committee of management or by 250 members or 5 per cent of the members, whichever is the less. Where the ballot is conducted by the organisation, it is to be conducted in accordance with any rules of the organisation that are applicable so far as is reasonably practicable and consistent with Part VIIIA. Where no rules are applicable, the ballot is to be conducted under arrangements approved by the Industrial Registrar. The rules of an organisation must be filed independently with the Registrar and must be such as to comply with the requirements of the Act. Regulations must otherwise not be contrary to law. The rights of members are further protected by proposed section 133 which requires that the rules of organisations be such as to ensure that every financial member of an organisation has a right to vote at any ballot taken for the purpose of submitting a matter to a vote of the members. The situation that we are aiming at is to make amalgamation of trade unions easier. There was a time when the Liberal Party decided to try to do that- in 1970 and 1971. But because of some late representations, the then Minister for Labour,  Mr Lynch,  the honourable member for Flinders in another place, backed off from that requirement. 

 Senator Greenwood also spoke about the Amalgamated Metal Workers Union amalgamation. 1 want to put on record some observations about this matter which reflect the proper position. It had been known since 1968 that the 3 unions concerned had been conducting negotiations on amalgamations. The proposals for amalgamation were initiated in 1966 and more seriously in 1968. The federal conferences of the 3 unions agreed to amalgamate in 1969 and early 1970. At all stages of the amalgamation proposals the 3 unions acted within the provisions of the Conciliation and Arbitration Act and the accompanying regulations. They consulted with the Industrial Registrar to ensure that each step in the amalgamation proposal was conducted in accordance with the Act. 
In March 1971 the 2 unions proposing to reregister held ballots of members as required by the Act. The then Amalgamated Engineering Union, which was merely expanding its rules to accommodate members of other unions, also held a ballot of its members to see whether they approved of an amalgamation, even though it was not required to do so under the Act. The amalgamation proposals and the ballots to be held to obtain the members' approval were publicised widely in the official journals of the unions which were distributed to all members. The ballots of the 3 unions showed that a majority of those voting in each of the 3 unions were in favour of amalgamation. The returns were as follows: For the Amalgamation Engineering Union, the yes vote, expressed as a percentage of votes cast, was 85.7 per cent and the no vote, expressed as a percentage of votes cast, was 12.7 per cent. '1 he yes vote, as a percentage of total membership, was 8.08 per cent and the no vote, as a percentage of the total membership, was 1.2 per cent. For the Boilermakers' and Blacksmiths' Society of Australia, the yes vote, expressed as a percentage of the votes cast, was 73.2 per cent and the no vote, expressed as a percentage of the votes cast, was 25.5 per cent. The yes vote, expressed as a percentage of the ballot papers issued, was 44.4 per cent and the no vote as a percentage of the ballot papers issued, was 15.5 per cent. For the Sheet Metal Workers Union, the yes vote, expressed as a percentage of the votes cast, was 69.9 per cent and the no vote, expressed as a percentage of votes cast, was 29.5 per cent. The yes vote, expressed as a percentage of ballot papers issued was 24.3 per cent and the no vote, expressed as a percentage of ballot papers issued, was 9.2 per cent. 
1 do not have them with me, but 1 will give them to the honourable senator. The facts are that that amalgamation has been achieved. Nobody will say that that amalgamation is not better for the industry. 
The honourable senator is talking about wider economic matters, but I refer the honourable senator to what was said by spokesmen on this subject on the other side of the Senate chamber. At the time of the amalgamation and since employers have gone on record as saying that they would rather deal with one group of unions than with a whole host of unions. In saying that, I am simply repeating what was also said by the honourable senator's own Minister for Labour when the Opposition was in government. The Opposition has never changed its position in regard to this matter. 1 want to say this clearly: There were no amalgamations achieved under the Opposition's proposals. Some proceedings were taking place but no amalgamations were achieved. In our case, we have proposed a situation which will reduce very rapidly the number of unions. For example, in the Australian Post Office 27 unions are involved. From the union point of view to elect a person as a commissioner on the new Interim Commission in the Post Office we have to go to the extent of holding many conferences and asking the unions to select a person to be nominated. There ought to be one organisation. In Germany. the United Kingdom and other countries the trend is to reduce the number of unions. In vital matters there ought to be fewer people to talk to because when there are fewer people to talk to it means that more frequently there are more constructive discussions. There is less contention. 

 Senator Greenwood went to some pains to attack the Australian Council of Trade Unions, the Government and other people who are endeavouring to see that inflationary trends are minimised. I want to go on record to put the matter in its proper context. To do this, all I need do is quote from the transcript of the case so that people can evaluate it. I think that in these circumstances it is best to let the case proceed and then see what can be done after a determination has been made about the issues. I shall quote what appears at page 8 1 3 of the transcript of evidence.  Mr Jolly,  speaking on behalf of the ACTU, said: 
If the Commission pleases, in view of the widespread press speculation as to what was contained in the ACTU executivedecision regarding the questions that have been raised by the Commission during this case to the ACTU, I think it is best that I clear the air and inform the Commission as to the contents of thai statement now. . . . These are my instructions. After consideration of the request made by members of the Bench during the National Wage case the ACTU executive makes the following statement: The trade union movement strongly believes the introduction of wage indexation to be a vital element in securing economic justice for the great bulk of the Australian community dependent directly or indirectly upon wages and salaries. 
The ACTU has discussed the circumstances in which wage indexation could be reintroduced in Australia and possible trade union responses to that situation. To the extent that the Australian Government is initiating supplementary economic measures and has appointed a Committee of  Inquiry  into Taxation Indexation, we welcome the emergence of an environment within which wage indexation has the best chance of effective operation. 
From the ACTU point of view the pursuit of wage justice has historically been a  two-fold  process- those major aspect* to which the ACTU itself has assumed collective responsibilities and those which have remained within the province of the individual unions. Within the new context of which we are speaking the position would remain the same. At the national level with cost of living movements covered by indexation the ACTU would continue to handle claims for wage increases based upon national productivity improvement. Within individual awards and determinations we would expect the claims of unions to reflect the economic context to which we refer. As it has been put, such claims will be based upon changes in work value and the relevant or special considerations. 
We would regard ii as quite unreal Ibr us to give ;in exhaustive definition of work value or a complete catalogue of relevant or special considerations. The Commission and the Court before it have never in 70 years done so In general terms changes in technology and in the circumstances under which work is performed have always been acknowledged to bc significant and to be such as not to enable sensible enumeration. 
We would indicate, however, that the relative failure in the past years of the tribunal to reflect in national cases by way of appropriate increases the fundamental fact of increasing prices and productivity has inevitably led to a proliferation of claims on other named grounds both inside and outside the tribunal. 
Wc suggest it would be reasonable to have a reciprocal expectation should the tribunal move fully to take account of movements in prices and national productivity. Particularly in such circumstances we would say that the question of Mow-on into other awards of increases in one award given on other than these grounds would be clearly within the procedures of the Commission. 
We also point out that if the Commission saw lit to accept indexation as proposed by the Government (that is. by the Australian Government), then should any union decide to make claims for increases in wages in excess of average weekly earnings for reason of price increases, it would bc a matter to be pursued by the union itself without involvement 01 the ACTU 
Some of the above relates to the area of over-award payments, but in regard to that question we make these final observations. No more than in regard to individual award matters is the ACTU some dictatorial organisation instructing each affiliate as to what it shall do. However, it is clear that we expect wage and salary claims to reflect the economic realities of the environment within which they are made, and our affiliates are aware of that expectation. 11" the Commission pleases, that is the statement that was passed by the ACTU executive yesterday and it was endorsed unanimously. 
-The point that  Senator Milliner  has made is that it is no argument to take out of context something which the Australian Council of Trade Unions has said by resolution or what  Mr Jolly  might have said before the Commission. When the case is determined will be the time when a proper approach by the Government to the ACTU might be more satisfactory and a resumption of the conferences under the control of  Mr Justice  Moore more fruitful. It is true that the ACTU has complex problems because of the large number of unions that are members of the ACTU. That is one of the things that we are trying to cure. 
I cannot understand the honourable senator or his Party. In 1970 and 1 97 1 the present Opposition agreed that amalgamations were necessary. Many of the people in  Senator Greenwood's  Party, including the giant employers, have always said: 'We believe it is better to deal with fewer unions across the table. We know them better. It is better to deal with the ironworkers and it is better to deal with the Amalgamated Metal Workers Union. Sometimes it is better to deal with the militant unions because they have stronger control over their members'. Employers said that to me when I was in the union movement. They have said it more recently to our counterparts who are presently in the trade union movement. 
I point out that some of the industrial disputes which have occurred obviously have been related most closely to the inflationary problem. One of the cures is to provide the remedies that we are trying to provide. In addition, simply as a method of pointing out what we were saying in June and July, it appears from the evidence of the latest figures on industrial disputes that there was a drop in the number of working days lost in November. The figure was the lowest since October 1972, as honourable senators opposite might say it should have been, except for the months of December and January when the level of disputes is generally much lower than for other months. What has been happening in the economic world generally is that endeavours to catch up with rising prices and failure to take the remedies which the Government is proposing have resulted in too much industrial activity. The most pressing industrial need in that situation is the achievement of some moderation of inflationary wage claims. It would seem to me that what we are aiming at not only achieves that but also lays the basis for fewer unions. 
That is a reply to  Senator Scott  who said that he wanted to see a new team spirit. He said that he wanted to see new life given to the former National Labour Advisory Council to enable it to work, as it did previously, with the ACTU and the national employers. How can one settle these general Australian problems if one must settle them in the complex situation of the number of unions to which 1 have referred? The cures are in the remedies which we have proposed. I think it is a shame that these pieces of legislation, which provide for the first time that it shall be mandatory for all unions to elect officials, some yearly and some 2-yearly, for the fourth time are to be denied to the Australian industrial scene. 
Question put: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
in reply- I again remind the Senate that this is the fourth occasion on which such legislation has been before the Senate. It first appeared in a comprehensive Bill, the intention of which was to assist employers and unions to get together to make agreements instead of settling their industrial differences by dispute. The legislation we are now discussing is designed to do that. Of course it contains some prohibitions, but the fact, as everybody knows, is that the trend internationally and within Australia is towards agreements. Of a total of 890-odd Federal awards made in Australia, 550 are wholly by agreement and many of the remainder incorporate agreed portions.  Senator Greenwood  knows that during the reign of the Government of which he was a member frequent consultations, organised through the Australian Council of Trade Unions and otherwise, were held between unions, a number of employers and Government departments to reach agreement about a wide range of matters such as wages, salaries and Public Service conditions. 
The trend today is towards agreements. We want to ensure that that trend continues. We want to ensure that there is a continuing trend to define agreements, to define circumstances under which matters in the agreements can be arranged and certified and to define matters in which certification will not apply. Perhaps I should deal first with the issue about which  Senator Greenwood  talked, namely, the failure to certify in certain issues where bans and limitations clauses are applied. Of course a general bans clause to apply throughout, say, the metal trades industry cannot be inserted in an agreement which refers, for example, to a wage for a fitter and turner and perhaps the way to work a machine. The intention is to restrict the agreement to matters contained in the agreement. If the unions and employers want to set up a disputes procedure clause- something which is becoming very common now- and to place restrictions on bans they should do it only in respect of the matters which are in the agreement. 

 - Senator Geenwood docs not want wider responsibility in such matters. When speaking to the Conciliation and Arbitration Bill (No. 2) (1975) he argued quite differently from the way he argued in speaking to this Bill. In this debate he argued that the committees of management should have sole responsibility for settling matters that arc the subject of an agreement and the rank and file should not necessarily be involved. We are saying that the trend is towards agreements. Overseas- for example, in America and Germany- if agreements are made on a yearly or 2-yearly basis in the motor vehicle industry or in the chemical industry every worker on the job knows about the agreement because he has a stake in it. With fewer unions and with a more direct relationship between the union and the worker on the job, the worker will be more involved in the settlement. So agreements not only will be more effective in satisfying matters that are the subject of dispute but also will be more likely to run their length of time and to be better. 
In Australia, if the unions and the employers want to embark on a general restriction about matters in the industry they will have to do it on the basis of the relevant award and probably in concert with the national union body, the ACTU. That would surely flow. It must flow. Of the 890 awards in Australia, 590 were the subject of agreement. Ten years ago there would have been perhaps 200 agreements. The oil companies, the chemical companies and various other companies always had agreements. The ACTU always promoted agreements, and it still does. If we want to make agreements work and to tighten them up we have to involve the rank and file more and more. To me  Senator Greenwood  's argument is just fatal and conflicts directly with the position. 
It is growing regardless. For the first time we are trying to make a legislative provision for definitions so that agreements are encouraged, despite all the difficulties of inflation. Leaving aside the argument on which  Senator Greenwood  entered the debate, the basic argument ought to be that where we can provide a new legislative framework for employers and bosses to get together in a better and more involved union involving not only the man at the top but also the worker on the ground floor we ought to say: 'Yes, we will consider it'. We should not hold it up in the way that the Opposition has. 

 Senator Greenwood said that the Government had no mandate to do these things. The Australian Labor Party's platform is well known. The Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  pointed out in his policy speeches the sorts of remedies and reforms which would come about under a Labor government. The Opposition challenged many of the Government's proposals, saying that they were too extravagant or too generous. For example, in most recent times reference has been made to equal pay for women and 4 weeks annual leave. We said that we would provide many things and we have provided most of them. The Opposition has said that we had no mandate to do so. We always had a mandate, and we introduced this legislation into this House and the other place 4 times. The approach of the Labor Party is quite different from that of the Opposition. When the Opposition was in government it never had a written policy. It has only now written its industrial policy, and all that it can promise the unions and the employers is that it will put enforcement clauses back in the legislation. We are saying that the trend towards agreements is growing and ought to be cemented. 

 Senator Greenwood advanced a very curious argument. It seemed to me that he was saying that regardless of who wins an election the Senate Opposition will please itself about the matters upon which the Government went to the electorate. Surely, under the form of parliamentary democracy we have, the Opposition, whether in the House of Representatives or in the Senate, ought to acknowledge that once a government assumes power, having put its programs to the people, those programs, having been properly identified, ought not to be resisted unless there are special circumstances. There are no special circumstances in this matter, because the Bill is a piece of industrial reform legislation. It is supported, as I have mentioned, by most reasonable thinkers. In the arbitration reports each year the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission has said that there are more and more agreements, except in these inflationary times. Perhaps agreements are more necessary in inflationary times than in normal times. Perhaps we can stop the inflationary drive by getting agreements which will last for a longer period and stop the 300-odd unions every month of the year having to leapfrog and to negotiate new agreements because somebody else has moved up the scale. 
In these days we ought to be able to advance the notion that there ought to be support by the Government, by the ACTU and even by the Opposition for a desire to have agreements which last longer. Why should we not have an annual agreement in most industries? Why should we not have a national agreement between the employer and the union? If we used the procedures contained in this legislation we would be moving towards that reality. To sum it up, it would seem to me that that is the real issue. 
We have, of course, argued these matters before. Not many new aspects have been brought into this debate except perhaps today when  Senator Greenwood,  more than he has recently, talked about the purpose and the strength of the Opposition and what it might do. Secondly, he reversed the attitude he developed in the last debate when he indicated that committees of management or union executives ought to be the responsible groups which settled agreements. I think the reverse should be the case. I know from experience that the reverse is the case. The more rank and file people are involved the fewer will be the number of industrial disputes. There are, of course, presently some difficulties in some industries in Australia where the rank and file people are curiously unaware of the procedures. If one takes an industry where the agreements have run- year after year- for example, the oil industry, everybody knows what is involved. As everyone is aware the stevedoring industry in recent times has had the longest run of industrial peace for many years. There have been fewer industrial disputes than ever before. Why? It is because the trade union membership, the committee of management, the unions themselves and the stevedoring employers- certainly assisted by the officials of the Department of Labor and Immigration- have been able to secure agreements which ought to run. 
I should just like to add this small comment: I have told the Post Office and the unions concerned that it is my desire that there be more agreements between management and the postal workers generally and that they should seek to settle disputes, as far as possible, across the table. I should like to say that, in the time I have administered my present portfolio, with some few exceptions we have been able to secure such a state of affairs. I conclude by saying that I am more than sorry that the Opposition again intends to frustrate what is a good piece of legislation.  Senator Greenwood  has been persistent in his attitude to this legislation. I hope that we will finally see the legislation on the statute book. I hope that perhaps some Opposition senators will reconsider the position when they vote on this Bill. 

 Senator GREENWOOD ( Victoria )-Under standing order 410 1 seek leave to make a personal explanation because I have been misrepresented or misunderstood. 1 am not making any accusation. I wish to refer to a matter about which I have already spoken. 
The  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Webster)-  Is leave granted? There being no objections, leave is granted. 
-The Minister for Labor and Immigration, considering all the factors involved in the cases of the 2 Czechoslovakian seamen, has decided that approval for permanent residence be granted to them subject to their meeting normal migration requirements. As everybody knows, it would be necessary for them to qualify in order to gain citizenship. That qualification is based on 3 years' residence. 
The only information I can give the honourable senator is that a study is being made at present of the performance of the existing Attack class craft, as to whether that performance might be enhanced and as to their eventual replacement. As part of the examination the Navy has completed a study of the roles in which the patrol craft would engage in future. The results of the study are being taken into account during the consideration of the new equipment program. Consideration also is being given to the question of what should take place in respect of the ship which sank, HMAS 'Arrow'.  Mr Barnard,  the Minister for Defence, told me this morning that he expects the report soon. He will be able to make an announcement about the matter following receipt of the report. 
I think it was  Senator Young  who yesterday also asked me a question about Ermolenko. At the time I did not have the information but later in the day, as honourable senators now know, the Minister for Labor and Immigration made a statement to the effect that Georgi Ermolenko and his parents would be migrating to Australia and that they had been advised by Australian officials in Vienna that they could be eligible for assisted passages. In view of the question asked yesterday and in order to answer  Senator Mulvihill  it might be as well to add to what  Senator Wriedt  has said by quoting from a cabled Press report which was made available to me and also to  Senator Wriedt.  I refer to the following questions and answers which are from an extract of a Press report of an interview at the Australian Embassy in Vienna: 
Why have you all decided to leave. Originally, it was the son who wanted to go. Now all three of you want to go. 
I wanted to go back to be with my family and to try to get the legal way out of Russia with the family to Australia. 
At the time of your decision, you said before, that you would like to remain in Australia. You then changed your mind. Was it not at the back of your mind that you would have to leave your parents behind? 
I did not think. 1 was too young and thought I could leave without my parents. I made a mistake and now I find that the best way to go back is to go with all my family to Australia. 
Is there any particular reason why you chose Australia? 
Because I think that what I saw of Australia was nice. It is a big, beautiful country. I hope to spend the rest of my life there and to give my musical and cultural life to the Australian people. 
I have not finished yet,  Senator. If Senator Carrick  listens for a little while he will learn that  Mr Ermolenko  supports what the Government did. It is interesting to note that  Mr Ermolenko  senior made comments to Australian officials of his own volition and in English; I have a copy of them with me. He said that he was 'grateful to  Mr Whitlam'  for having helped his son to return to the Soviet Union since only in this way could the family have been reunited overseas. Finally I quote from the editorial in this morning's 'Australian': 
It now seems apparent that those well-meaning acquaintances who tried to prevent Georgi from leaving Australia last year were wrong. It now seems that the Minister for Immigration,  Mr Cameron,  has some justification in claiming that his Government's decision to fly Georgi and his party out of the country by RAAF plane was right. 
-The Post Office and  I  are considering what seems to be a need to provide licences at a reduced fee and to reduce examinaton fees for those people who might claim to be novice amateur radio operators and who can qualify in a fairly basic examination in theory and also have minimum morse operation experience. The idea would be to encourage those who have made radio operating a hobby and not to restrict the hobby to people who qualify at the higher level. All 1 can say to  Senator Drury  is that the matter is under active consideration and  I  hope to be able to give some details and finalise it within a couple of weeks. 
I think that the honourable senator should put the question on notice. I will then get the information. 
This is a question which people used to call a hardy annual. As everybody knows by now, the Prime Minister and  Mr Dunstan  signed an agreement on this project. The only reason for the delays in the survey was the wet weather during last year. The legislation has been passed by the 2 parliaments. I am advised by the Minister for Transport that the Commonwealth Railways are presently examining the question of contracts and that the first contract will be let shortly. It will be for earthworks and drainage for the first section of the railway. 
-I think the Minister for Defence said recently that the future of Woomera depends on what arises out of talks with the British. The Minister stated recently that Woomera would be placed under care and maintenance and that its possible use in the future would be properly examined. The village was to be retained. The British and Australian officials concerned met late last year and are scheduled to meet again this month. I understand that arrangment stands. I think the Minister pointed out previously that whilst Woomera could be affected as a result of these talks its future would depend on possible work loads from that quarter. The Salisbury establishment will not be affected, except for the trials section, if there is some need for a downturn in operations. 
As the honourable senator well knows, there is a question on notice which relates to the matter he has raised. In order to get a reply to that question I have sent it to the AttorneyGeneral and have asked whether it is proper for the PostmasterGeneral to answer it. It may be a question of whether in any circumstances a person who is a customer of the Post Office should have his personal affairs related and detailed in the way in which  Senator Greenwood  wants them detailed. My referring this matter to the AttorneyGeneral of course does not in any way recognise or identify any default to which the honourable senator refers. When I am able to obtain the Attorney General's view on the matter I will give  Senator Greenwood  the information. 
I think I answered  Senator Mulvihill  last week and pointed out that the Minister had said that the Borrie report would be properly considered, that this consideration would take some time, and that the Borrie committee had been asked to continue the examination in more detail and give more description of the recommendations it had made. I do not think I am able to give an answer to the second part of the question which would assist the honourable senator at this time so I will ask  Mr Clyde  Cameron to supply the answer. 
The honourable senator has asked me several times what progress has been made. Perhaps I should point out, firstly, that it is not intended to set up a base there. When and if the area is acquired, it will be used for joint training exercises. 1 mentioned previously that a joint working party had started a study of the matter. Included in the study is the question of whether Derby Airport and /or Broome Airport might be upgraded to accommodate Royal Australian Air Force aircraft which might take part in any joint exercise. As a result of the examination, the working party has visited the area. There have been discussions between the Departments concerned, including the Department of Transport and  Senator Cavanagh  's Department, related to the possible extension of Broome Airport. Those discussions are continuing and no firm position has been taken on the matter. 
In August last year I think I gave the estimated cost of any such extension, which was approximately $4m. The latest information I have is that the detailed study is continuing. The study was necessarily protracted because of the need to examine factors in addition to the specific points contained in the proposal. These factors include possible conflict between military and civil air space requirements and possible restrictions on the defence use of the area because of the issues that I have mentioned concerning  Senator Cavanagh  's Department and the people with whom he is concerned. The completion date of the study cannot be stated precisely, but it is expected that the Minister for Defence will be able to make a firm decision on acquisition in about the middle of the year. 
-I cannot tell the honourable senator precisely but I think it was about 2 weeks ago. 
1 can answer only one part of the question on the information before me. I suggest that the remainder of the question which seeks detailed information be put on notice. The information I have from  Mr Clyde  Cameron is that the total amount which has been provided under the Regional Employment Development scheme is $77,31 1,000, of which the Commonwealth Government has provided $60,662,000. 1 ask  Senator Bessell  to put the remainder of the question on notice. 
I do not have with me the information sought by  Senator Maunsell  but it is contained in an answer given, I think yesterday, to a question asked by  Mr Killen  in the House of Representatives. I do not know whether there is any other information that the honourable senator wants. He will find in that answer information about how the costs were shared. If the honourable senator wants any further information I will get it for him. 
-I think that the substance of  Senator Sheil  's question can be answered only by referring to the experience gained from the recent cyclone in Darwin. The answer is yes. Previously the Services had to provide such supplies but I think that it would be clear from their participation recently in the provision of relief following such disasters as floods, fires, and the more recent cyclone in Darwin, that they would be specially funded. I will have to get a precise answer for the honourable senator. I will send it to him during the week. 
The answer to the honourable senator's question is as follows: 
Yes. 
No. 
No. 
The consolidation of the information sought would reveal an operational capability which would not be appropriate for me to release. 
The answer to the honourable senator's question is as follows: 
Employees of sensitive defence establishments are screened to a level appropriate to the required security level of the establishment. 
I have not the names with me, but I shall give  Senator Bonner  the names of those organisations. 
-I know that the matter has been considered by the Department of Labor and Immigration. It is a very complex question. It is known that there is a lack of mobility, particularly with married women, in the Sydney metropolitan area which means that teachers are not readily moving to where vacancies are located. The population projections and their implications revealed in the recent Borrie report on school populations have to be taken into account, and this is being done presently by the Department. I consider that the campaign being waged by the New South Wales Government against the New South Wales Teachers Federation and its members is likely to be detrimental to school children in that State, and this action follows the action by the New South Wales Government in recently refusing the inclusion of the preference clause in the latest teachers award. In view of the matter raised by  Senator Mulvihill  I have asked the Minister for Labor and Immigration to consider seriously that proposition. I shall give the honourable senator the reply when I have it. 
The honourable senator has asked me a lot of questions. I received the nomination of the person mentioned by  Senator 
Bonner from a number of Aboriginal organisations and individuals. When I received it I referred the matter in the first instance to the appropriate person, the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs, for his consideration. The Stamp Advisory Committee had submitted for my consideration the names of a number of people who should be included. When I received the first nomination I suggested that consideration might be given to the princess involved.  Ms Reid  was involved in the suggestions. I considered the matter and I determined who should be the persons depicted on the stamps. I was guided not only by the people who had made representations and the Stamp Advisory Committee but certainly by the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs who suggested that the nomination was a good one and a correct one. 
-My 2 colleagues,  Senator Willesee  and  Senator Douglas  McClelland, and I discussed this matter soon after the very serious damage occurred to the Radio Australia facility at Cox Peninsula. The advice which we received was that to repair the facility would entail a very large amount of money. There was also the consideration whether that situation was the right situation for the facility. In addition there was some damage to accommodation and to the sea transport that was necessary to take the staff to the station. Finally we recommended to the Cabinet that there ought to be established in Western Australia, at one of three places, a facility with a reduced capacity. We have ordered the 2 transmitters and the necessary aerial operations and facilities. We did so because it was necessary to get something going quickly. It is expected that the supporting transmitting facility will be operational by the end of 1975. 
I was in Brisbane the day after the Premier made the statement and I offered to meet him. I conveyed through the Post Office people the suggestion that I might talk to him to consider his claim because I had received a complaint from the union involved. From the information I had got from the Post Office it was clear that the claim was quite outrageous and incorrect. I spoke to the Under-Treasurer in Brisbane who said that he had seen the Premier, that the Premier had stated that his comments were simply made as a joke and that the PostmasterGeneral 's Department had at all times given him the best co-operation. He could see no good purpose in meeting me. I explained the position to the union concerned and it accepted the way in which the matter had been handled. I think the last part of the question is a matter for the Attorney-General. I discussed this matter with  Mr Enderby  at the time. I think that I am right in saying that since he has been the AttorneyGeneral no such action has been taken by him. 
The question previously asked by the honourable senator was conveyed to the Minister for Transport. Of course the matter is also the responsibility of the Minister for the Northern Territory  (Dr Patterson)  who was involved with  Mr Charles  Jones in deciding to employ this ship. At the time, as all honourable senators know, there was a most urgent need to have some sort of accommodation established quickly for the purpose of housing persons who would be engaged in the rebuilding of Darwin. That is why the Ministers decided to have the Patris' there. I can give only the information which I have, but I will again request the Ministers to answer the question more fully. 
Since that time I have seen reports that both  Mr Charles  Jones and  Dr Patterson  have been involved in the discussions. For example, a request was made by the Seamen's Union that the manning scale should apply to a vessel in port which is being used as what one might term hotel accommodation. All I can say is that the Ministers, in their wisdom, thought that it was urgent to have this accommodation available, as it was. I think the responsibility really was  Dr Patterson's.  I will again refer the honourable senator's question to the 2 Ministers and ask whether they will be good enough to speed up their replies. 
-This morning Don Hancock, my adviser on industrial relations, met the unions and the departmental officers. As a result, the bans have been lifted forthwith and mail deliveries are returning to normal. An arrangement has been made that a joint committee, with representatives from the unions and the Department, will consider what changes, if any, should take place at the Sydney Mail Exchange. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
The main purpose of this Bill is to amend certain provisions of the Commonwealth Railways Act 1917-1973 in order to create the Australian National Railways Commission thus providing for the increasingly wider functions and responsibilities of Commonwealth Railways including the transfer of State railways; to ensure that the powers, duties and functions of the proposed Commission are, where possible, consistent with other statutory authorities with a similar nature; to make amendments to the Act, which will bring it into line with current commercial practices of statutory authorities; and to overcome administrative problems raised by the Auditor-General. At the same time the opportunity will be taken to make several amendments of a machinery nature in relation to financial provisions of the Act and to effect some largely formal amendments. The proposed amendments are intended to update the Act, which has not received a major review since its enactment in 1917. 
The amendments will also enable the proposed Commission effectively to perform its role as one of Australia's major rail systems and provide it with the organisational structure and operational powers necessary for it to consolidate into a single system the State railways that may be transferred under the Government's rail transfer program. 
I would like to draw the attention of honourable senators to the development of the Commonwealth Railways and its significant achievements over its 63 years of history. Historically, the Trans-Australia Railway was one of the principal inducements for Western Australia to join the other Australian colonies in Federation. This railway was the first railway built by an Australian government and had as its prime purpose to link Australian States, whereas most State railways had been built with the object of either exploiting individual States' resources or channelling trade to State capitals. The building of the Trans-Australia Railway of over 1 ,680 kilometres was a major achievement in itself. It was commenced in 1912 and despite the inhospitable nature of the terrain and wartime supply problems the line was finished in October 1917. A significant factor in this achievement which contributed to the speed of construction of the line was the use of track laying machines. 
Innovation and preparedness to accept new technology has marked many Commonwealth Railways achievements. In 1951 it operated the first mainline diesel electric locomotive to be manufactured in Australia and within 6 years Commonwealth Railways were completely dieselised, at a time when some Australian railway systems were still placing steam engines in service. Today the Commonwealth Railways is a leader in railway operating practices, especially in the design of large freight wagons and operation of high horsepower diesel locomotives. 
The importance of Commonwealth Railways to Australia's total transport system has increased dramatically over the last decade and this trend is continuing for in 1973-74 traffic on the Trans-Australia Railway reached new records, although the freight carried on the Central and Northern Australian railways declined due to severe flooding. The reasons for the overall increase in traffic include growth in the Australian economy; the realisation by many shippers of the advantages of rail, especially forwarding agents, and their consequent diversion of freight from other modes to rail; and the increased operating efficiency of Australia's railways resulting from improved rolling stock and rail standardisation. Passenger traffic on the Commonwealth Railways has also increased due to the high standard of comfort and service offered on trains of world class such as the Indian-Pacific and the Trans-Australian. 
Commonwealth Railways has recently commenced a railway project of world stature- the Tarcoola-Alice Springs line. This line  runs from  Tarcoola on the Trans-Australia Railway to Alice Springs, 830 kilometres to the north. This railway presents a modern-day pioneering challenge. By any standard it is a mammoth undertaking; it is in fact the longest new railway built in Australia since the Trans-Australia Railway in 1917 and, when one considers that it will be only 70 kilometres shorter than the rail distance between Melbourne and Sydney, some idea of the size of the project can be gained. The average person has little comprehension of the complexity of a project such as this. It involves a meticulous survey by both air and land over hundreds of kilometres of featureless country; the opening of ballast quarries; the welding of miles of continuous rail; the laying of hundreds of thousands of sleepers; the building of a telecommunication system; and the feeding and quartering of men in some of the most inhospitable desert country in Australia. The decision to make Commonwealth Railways the constructing authority for this project is a recognition of the high standard of its engineering and organisational skills. It is estimated that the project will take 5 years to complete, but within 3 years a railhead will be established to enable the road-rail movement of goods. When completed, the new line will provide a vastly improved railway service for Central and northern Australia. 
The Government has also recognised the chronic shortage of intersystem rail wagons which at present is over 3200 vehicles. This shortage has resulted in the diversion of freight to other modes with resultant economic and social costs to the community as a whole in the form of damage to highways and accidents. In addition, due to the inability of the railways to handle the freight offering, cargo has had to be carried on the Australian coast by unlicensed vessels. This led to hostility and ill feeling among maritime unions. This Government was quick to react to this problem and in the 1974 Budget the Government announced a continuing rolling stock purchasing program which over the next 2 years will provide some 1300 modern bogie wagons for intersystem use. 
With the election of the present Government came a new approach to Australia's railway problems. It was realised that a basic obstacle to the creation of a modern and efficient railway system for Australia was the division of responsiblity for railways between 6 States and one Australian authority which in the past had led to intersystem rivalries; duplication of facilities; misallocation of resources; and the lack of a national approach to railway policy. The Prime Minister  (Mr Whitiam)  recognised this in his 1972 policy speech when he offered to accept the transfer of the railways of any State that was prepared to offer them. Honourable senators will be aware South Australia has accepted the Prime Minister's offer and agreed to transfer its non metropolitan railways to the Australian Government. I am also pleased to say that negotiations on the transfer of the Tasmanian railways are progressing very satisfactorily. Regrettably the Liberal and Country Party State governments have either refused to discuss the possibility of a transfer or have withdrawn from transfer discussions. However, I am convinced that good sense will prevail in the long run. 
The rail transfer program, coupled with initiatives the Government has taken in relation to rolling stock, and major projects which the Government is undertaking such as the Tarcoola-Alice Springs railway and the standard gauge connection for Adelaide, usher in a new era for Australia's railways in which the Australian National Railways Commission will have to play a major role. Consequently it is essential that the Commission be established now, and be given the necessary structure, powers and functions for it to operate as an efficient statutory authority charged with making a vital contribution to Australia's national transport system. 
Let me now speak separately to the main provisions of the Bill. I am having circulated an explanatory memorandum to assist honourable senators in their consideration of this Bill. Firstly, the name 'Commonwealth Railways' will be changed to the 'Australian National Railways'. 
The new name is more in keeping with the responsibilities of the new Commission which will have as its task the operation of a national railway, ultimately constituted as a result of the amalgamation of what were previously State railways. As I have indicated, Commonwealth Railways is undergoing a period of expansion and growth. This is placing an increasingly heavy burden on a single commissioner, as the Commonwealth Railways is presently constituted, and in the event of a transfer, this burden could become intolerable. It is therefore proposed to create a Commission which will be called the Australian National Railways Commission. It will consist of 7 commissioners of which one will be a full time chairman and the other six parttime commissioners. Appointments to the Commission will be in accordance with the usual practice, by the Governor-General, and will be fora 5-year period. 
It is the intention of the Government to recommend to the Governor-General the appointment of a prominent trade unionist as one of the parttime commissioners. This will be in accordance with the practice the Government has followed in relation to other statutory authorities such as Qantas Airways Ltd, the Reserve Bank Board and the National Pipeline Authority. I should also point out that in relation to government transport undertakings this is not only the policy of the Australian Labor Government; the New South Wales Liberal Government appointed  Mr Barry  Unsworth, an organiser of the New South Wales Labor Council, as a commissioner of the New South Wales Public Transport Commission. Sections 5 to 1 5 of the proposed Act provide for the establishment of the new Commission and contain the normal provisions relating to appointment, salary determination, leave of absence, resignation, termination of appointment and meetings, appropriate to statutory authorities of this type. In my opening remarks I indicated that the proposed Act would make provision for the transfer of a State railway to the Australian Government. This provision can be seen in section 16a of the proposed Act which provides authority for State railway systems acquired by the Australian Government to become the property of the Commission. 
As honourable senators will know, most State railways provide some form of non-rail services, particularly in relation to door-to-door delivery of goods and the provision of road passenger services. Consequently, if the Australian National Railways is to provide the same range of services as former State railways it is essential that it have the power to operate such services. Section 3 IB is intended to empower the Commission to provide these services. The section has been the subject of some misunderstanding particularly by road transport organisations which saw it as giving the Commission the power to enter into unfair competition with them. This was not the intention of the section. To put the matter beyond a shadow of doubt the Minister for Transport accepted, in another place, an amendment proposed by the Opposition which limited the road services the Commission could provide to those 'incidental or supplementary to, or in association with, the transport of passengers or goods on the railways'. This amendment is incorporated in the Bill at present before the Senate. Similarly, some concern has been expressed in relation to section 31a which gives the Commission power to provide road and engineering services for Australian Government departments and Australian Government authorities. Much of this concern stems from a misreading of the word 'Australia' in section 3 1 a which has the same connotation as the word 'Commonwealth' has in the present Commonwealth Railways Act, that is, Commonwealth of Australia. 
Section 3 lc enables the Commission to carry out arrangements with the Australian Shipping Commission and the Australian National Airlines Commission for the transport of goods and passengers. A similar provision is contained in the Australian National Airlines Commission Act. I am certain that honourable senators from Tasmania will recognise the importance this section could assume in the event of a transfer of the Tasmanian Government Railways and the benefits which would flow to that State from a co-ordinated transport service provided by the ANL and ANR. I also said in my opening remarks that one of the purposes of the proposed Bill is to ensure that the power, duties and functions of the proposed Commission are, where possible, consistent with other statutory authorities with a similar nature. This particularly relates to the new financial provisions contained in sections 55 to 57 of the proposed Act which replace sections 55, 56 and 57 in the principal Act. The purpose of the new financial provisions is also to provide the new Commission with a degree of financial autonomy including the power to open and maintain bank accounts- section 57b.' The only major financial difference between the new Commission and similar statutory authorities, such as the Australian Shipping Commission and the Australian National Airlines Commission, is that it is proposed to continue the exemption of the railway from paying tax. This is provided by section 57h. The reasons for this decision are that no State railway is subject to taxation and the Government does not want to put the ANR at a disadvantage vis-a-vis State railways, and that the ANR will not be in competition with private organisations as are the ANL and Trans-Australia Airlines, lt is also the intention of the Bill to amend the principal Act so that it will be brought into line with current commercial practices in statutory authorities. The proposed amendments to section 2 1 of the principal Act will empower the Commission to lease railway property. Subject to section 23 which requires the approval of the Minister if the lease is to run over 1 0 years, this amendment will enable the Commission to gain revenue from land which is not immediately required for railway purposes without referring each individual case to the Minister for his approval. Section 23 of the principal Act will be replaced with a new section which increases the value of contracts the Commission may arrange without ministerial approval from $10,000 to $100,000. This is a realistic figure in relation to the responsibilities of the Commission and modern commercial practices. A comparative provision exists in the Australian Shipping Commission Act 1 974. 
The amendments proposed for sections 27 and 28 are basically operational provisions relating to the carriage of dangerous and bulky goods respectively, so that persons are not permitted to carry or require the Commission to carry such goods. The amendments also extend the provisions of section 27 and 28 to road vehicles owned by the Commission. The replacement of section 33a with a new section will enable the Commission to sell, among other things, liquor to travellers and non-travellers without distinction. The wording of the present Act is such that the Commission cannot sell liquor to friends of travellers or to his staff in remote locations. The Auditor-General's report of 1972-73 brought to light administrative difficulties in relation to sections 50 and 51 of the principal Act. The Auditor-General took the view that under section 50 the Commission should certify that positions were required before making appointments. Section 51, which was last amended over 21 years ago, provided that the creation of an office with a salary of more than $1,700 per annum was subject to approval by the GovernorGeneral. 
The proposed amendments repeal sections 46, 50, 51 and 52 and replace them with new sections, 46, 46a, 50 and 51. The new section 46 A has been included, providing for the position of General Manager of the Commission. The net effect of the new section is to remove the administrative problems sections 50 and 5 1 presented by providing that the Commission may appoint such staff as it thinks necessary and that the Commission may determine terms and conditions of service subject to approval by the Public Service Board. The Commission may not determine a position at a salary rate exceeding $16,282 which is at present the salary of a Class 1 1 officer in the Public Service, without ministerial approval, unless a higher rate or method of determining the higher rate is provided by regulation. This in effect overcomes the necessity of continually amending the Act with each increase in salary for railway employees. 
The new section 50 requires that the Commission furnish a report to the Minister annually of the number of permanent officers in the railway service; while the new section 5 1 is a standard section and provides that the Commission is an approved authority for the purpose of the Superannuation Act, and makes provision for superannuation for the  Chairman  and the General Manager of the Commission. Clauses 27, 28 and 29 of the amending Bill are transitional provisions enabling the Commission to take over from the Commissioner. There are also some formal amendments and these are detailed in the Schedule to the Bill. I commend the Bill to honourable senators. 
Debate (on motion by  Senator Jessop)  adjourned. 
The Minister for Labor and Immigration has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
I am informed: 
) The numbers of (a) total registered unemployed and (b) unemployed excluding school-leavers in the Canberra Employment Office area, which covers the Australian Capital Territory, the Municipality of Queanbeyan and the Shire of Yarrowlumla, for the period September 1974 to January 1 975 inclusive, were as follows: 
The Minister for Labor and Immigration has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
1 have been informed that crew members from the vessel 'Theodore' were accommodated at the Burlington Hotel, Sydney, whilst awaiting repatriation to Pakistan. Cost of accommodation in such cases are normally met by the agents for the vessel and whilst I have no positive information 1 assume that this is what occurred in respect of the seamen from the 'Theodore'. 
The owner of the vessel is recorded as Neptunia Incorporated, Liberia. Hetherington Kingsbury Pty Ltd were agent for the vessel at Sydney. At Port Kembla the agents were Union Bulkships. 
The Minister for Labor and Immigation has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
Yes, the report was tabled in the Senate on 1 1 December 1974 and in the House of Representatives on 1 1 February 1975. 
The answer to the honourable senator's question is as follows: 
Yes. 
In September 1972, the Expert Group on Road Safety completed a report on the Road Accident Situation in Australia which contained a section on emergency medical services. To obtain information for this section, a literature review was commissioned with the School of Social and Preventive Medicine, Monash University. The review discussed the operation of roadside communication systems in Australia and overseas.  Dr Pacy's  system  at Tea Gardens was considered to be an example where an emergency roadside telephone may be justified on a sparsely populated highway, as it is a location at which numerous crashes occur. Capital costs and the availability of public telephones and other means of communication appeared to limit their use elsewhere. 
Unfortunately, detailed information concerning the magnitude of delays in the provision of medical attention to casualties in accidents in country areas is sparse. The Department of Transport is currently sponsoring the development of a comprehensive plan for an in-depth study of accidents on rural roads in south-east Queensland. One of the factors to be studied will be the possible benefits of emergency roadside telephones, which will enable a proper assessment of their wider use. 
Yesterday I promised that I would give  Senator Bonner  a complete list. I have not got the complete list but it might be appropriate if I mention now the names of the people who nominated Princess Truganini for inclusion in the stamp series, they having understood that no Aboriginal person had been nominated for inclusion in the series. The list is not complete. The names are: W. B. Butler, Aboriginal community, Port Augusta, South Australia; E. W. and D. Irwin, Western Australia, Quakers -noted for their interest in Aboriginal affairs; D. Squires, State  President  of the Women's Service Guild of Western Australia; G. Elphick,  President,  Council of Aboriginal Women; Tim Aguis, Executive Secretary, Aboriginal Legal Rights Movement; Dick Roughsey,  Chairman,  Aboriginal Arts Board; the Institute of Narrative and Music of Aborigines and the Adelaide Aboriginal Orchestra-  Dr Ellis,  I think;  Mrs L.  Hume,  President,  Aboriginal Advancement Council of Western Australia; and Ken Colburg, Aboriginal Cultural Co-ordinator. I will get a complete list and send it to both honourable senators. 
I directed the honourable senator's previous question to the Minister for Transport and discussed the matter with him. I think that between three and four weeks ago the Minister issued instructions that the report should be printed. Today, if I can, I will find out exactly when the report will be available. 
The information I have is that the Royal Australian Navy has completed a study of the roles in which patrol craft might be employed, in peace and in war, and of the more appropriate types of craft for the Navy. The Defence Forces Development Committee has examined the question of acquiring a new class of patrol craft and has agreed that phase 1, which it calls 'Project Definition' should be started as soon as possible. I am told that the Minister anticipates that he will be able to indicate in a statement some time in May the intentions of the Government in this respect. 
-The Minister for Transport replied recently- I have no doubt that  Senator Laucke  has seen the reply- and gave a long list of figures, which I have not got at my fingertips but which I can obtain. The figures indicated, for example, that receipts from the operators at the main airport terminals did not match the amount of money which was required to be spent to clean the terminals and that some arrangements ought to be made to adjust the rates. I will obtain a copy of those figures for  Senator Laucke.  I think the best thing I can do in giving a correct answer is to refer to the reply which has been given by the Minister. It refers to these charges. It clearly shows that the domestic operators have to make up the leeway in the costs, and discussions have been held with the operators in that respect. As I have said, the best thing that I can do is to obtain those figures for the honourable senator. 
Generally speaking, as I think everybody knows- certainly  Senator Cotton  would knowconsideration of what should be the appropriate charges at airport terminals started during the term of office of the previous Government. If I remember correctly, the matter was discussed by several of the Senate Estimates Committees. The determinations of how to approach it and what sort of criteria should be set down were not then set down. What has been done by the Government recently is related to economic management and returns to the Government for services which are very expensive these days. Because of the importance of the question, I think I should get a studied reply from the Minister indicating the charges I have referred to so that the honourable senator can inform himself. If he wants to follow up the question after that I shall be willing to get further information. 
Yes. 
I understand that some examination has been made but I am not aware of any decision which would affect the situation mentioned by the honourable senator. I will try to get the information from the Minister for Defence this week. 
-The Department of Labor and Immigration has investigated the facts and has found no discrimination against the Chilean women. However, there was the question of their salary entitlement on retrenchment. This matter was referred to the Australian arbitration inspectorate. It was later discovered that the matter should have been investigated by the State Department of Labor and Industry because these women were covered by a State award. Consequently the matter has been referred to the New South Wales Department for investigation. I will see whether I can get more information for the honourable senator. 
I suggest that the honourable senator put the question on notice. 
The mileage is 830 kilometres and the cost at present is $85m. 
Bill agreed to. 
Bill reported without amendment; report adopted. 
-On 13 November 1974,  Senator Mulvihill  asked the Minister representing the Minister for Labor and Immigration the following question without notice: 
I direct a question to the Minister representing the Minister for Labor and Immigration. In view of the heavy expenditure of Australian government funds with Commonwealth Engineering (NSW) Pty Ltd for the construction of Commonwealth Railways rolling-stock, will the Minister through his industrial inspectors and in conjunction with the Minister for Transport,  Mr Charles  Jones, ascertain whether this firm has vetoed the employment of redundant metal workers from the recently closed Tulloch Ltd company at Rhodes? Will he also ensure that Commonwealth Engineering keeps its work force at the maximum number to ensure that it meets its contracts for the Australian Government? 
In my answer to the question I undertook to obtain details for honourable senators. The Minister for Labor and Immigration has provided the following information: 
My Department has made inquiries into the matters raised by the honourable senator and there is no evidence to suggest that Commonwealth Engineering (NSW) Pty Ltd has vetoed the employment of workers made redundant by the recent closure of Tulloch Ltd. Of 185 employees retrenched by Tulloch Ltd, 94 sought the assistance of the Commonwealth Employment Service in obtaining alternative employment. The Commonwealth Employment Service subsequently approached various firms including Commonwealth Engineering in an effort to assist these men and Commonwealth Engineering indicated at the time that they had received some applications privately from retrenched men and were trying to place them. It should perhaps be pointed out that the various categories of workers retrenched by Tulloch Ltd did not match the categories of employees being sought at the time by Commonwealth Engineering through the Commonwealth Employment Service. 
As to the second part of the honourable senator's question, I regret to say that at present the Australian Government is not in a position to directly influence companies carrying out contracts on its behalf.  
I am able to say, however, that in accordance with Government policy I have directed my Department, in consultation with other Departments and Authorities, to examine the feasibility of developing a labor code which would have application to contractors to the Australian Government. 
As I mentioned earlier,  Senator Willesee, Senator Douglas  McClelland and I have not only discussed the question of the Cox Peninsula transmitting facility, but also have considered what should be done generally to upgrade the Radio Australia transmitting service. Radio Australia's main transmitting station at Shepparton is now 30 years old. The transmitters are becoming obsolete and that problem, together with the serious damage sustained in the Darwin situation, is of course of concern tous. Accordingly, I have reported this matter to the Prime Minister and the Cabinet and I am pleased to advise that the Prime Minister has directed that a broad-based inquiry into the role and future development of Radio Australia be made urgently. I have asked the DirectorGeneral of the Australian Post Office to carry out that inquiry. 

 -Yesterday Senator Martin asked me a question concerning restriction on air travel in defence departments. I promised to give the information today. I take this opportunity to do so. The Minister has supplied me with the following information: 
As a result of a review of defence expenditure to the end of February, in the light of appropriations, it was decided that defence travel should be restricted to conserve expenditure and it was left to each Service to determine to how best economies could be achieved. 
It is to be expected that travel on commercial airlines would be affected along with other modes of travel. 
Other activities of the Services are not similarly involved; however there is a continuing requirement within the Services to exercise economy in carrying out their functions. 
I have not any information as to whether other Government departments are acting similarly in those connections. 
in reply- I wish to thank the Senate for the fairly speedy consideration of the Bill. Perhaps I should first of all direct my attention to some of the points that  Senator Jessop  made. He questioned why we had to call the Bill the Australian National Railways Bill and the new Commission the Australian National Railways Commission. The idea is that it meets the objective mentioned in the Minister's speech. He said the purpose was to create the Australian National Railways Commission, thus providing for the increasingly wider functions and responsibilities of Commonwealth railways, including the transfer of State railways. We have a new and wider responsibility, and we are trying to bridge the gap that has occurred over the years, created by the lack of consideration and cohesion between State governments and previous Commonwealth governments. I do not unduly criticise  Senator Jessop  's interest in the railway issue. With some other people in the Senate, since I came here in 1962 1 have continued to take an interest in railway projects. For a long time I was a secretary of our Transport Committee and I made contributions urging first of all that the route should be considered. It was finally considered and surveyed, so each of us in turn has made a contribution. 
The satisfaction for me from my point of view as Minister is that while we have been in government we have done some very impressive things. For the first time we have the State railways in consultation, realising the gap in relation to rolling stock and the need for standardised procedures. Previously we have talked about that, but for the first time the Commonwealth Railways, supported by the Commonwealth Minister, took a survey of State governments and their rolling stock and wagons. In the first year of the program 500 additional wagons have been ordered, and in the second year a further 800 wagons will be ordered. Turning now to the cost of the changeover, is not the cost of setting up a national commission better than the old situation? In the old situation, each State vied with other States and the Commonwealth. We did not have standardised vehicles or titles and we had consistently a worse problem of demurrage than we have now. Rolling stock from some States could not travel to other States, and the Commonwealth Railways could not carry many of the State vehicles. That situation to a large extent has been overcome, and the overcoming of it is part of the progress towards standardisation which saves terrific amounts in railway expenditure. 
While there will be some initial expenses in setting up the new commission, the proof of its value is in the agreement with the South Australian railways, and shortly we expect that to be followed by an agreement with the Tasmanian Government. Referring now to  Senator Jessop  's remarks about delay, what we did in South Australia took 12 months from the date when the Prime Minister said he was willing to consider the transfer of railway disabilities or responsibilities from the States to the Commonwealth Government. It took 12 months for discussions between the State Premiers and Ministers and our own Ministers to cement what is in the agreement. Already  Senator Jessop  has referred to some things he thinks are good, and although it took 12 months, this is the Government that is building the line, and whoever made the contribution to it, it is fair to say that what we have done is consistent with our policy.  Senator Jessop  asked why we did not have a long debate on the matter. We are prepared to have that debate at some time. He indicated what he thought was a constructive point, saying that he would support the proposition. The same attitude was taken in the other place, and the points made by Opposition spokesmen in the other place were accepted by the Minister. 
I know, and on that question, as the honourable senator well knows, arguments about railway operations could go on for years. As we all know, State railways have great responsibilities, because generally speaking the State Railways Act does not allow the commissioneror the commissioners, if there is a board of commissioners- to set freights and fares. Frequently State governments must carry commodities and produce over the railways at uneconomic prices because of decisions by State governments. It is no good blaming the State or the Commonwealth railways in situations where we have to carry out the sort of work referred to and where the railways must operate emergency services for what the Government considers to be the good of the country. Every State railways system has had its problems over the years; that is the reason why every State system suffers this great debt. In this case, the present Australian Government, in its discussions with South Australian representatives, made what I say was a very generous agreement. This is, of course, in addition to whatever might be given to the metropolitan services. In relation to metropolitan services, if the State governments do not come into the scheme, this is what will happen: Under our urban improvements scheme, which includes many railway projects publicised by  Mr Charles  Jones and State Ministers, we are paying twothirds of the cost of approved projects. In the case of South Australia, there is no doubt that, even on the basis of the very generous agreement, there will be some more improvements in the metropolitan services assisted by the Commonwealth Government. 
I should like to mention one or two things, because  Senator Jessop  just skated on the edge of them. In addition to the important matters of finance and operational costs, honourable senators will see in the agreement that the Commonwealth Government has given certain assurances about the pay and conditions of the railway men in the State. Such assurances are necessary and are the subject of some concern by Commonwealth Government employees. In the document entitled 'Principles to Govern the Transfer of the Non-Metropolitan South Australian Railway System to the Australian Government', paragraph 10 states: 
The Australian and State Governments agree that no employee will suffer loss of pay or be otherwise disadvantaged by the transfer. 
That should be a sufficient guarantee to those Commonwealth employees who are concerned that the Commission will be required to have regard to the views of the Public Service Board in relation to pay and conditions. Paragraph 1 1 states: 
The Australian Government will consider the transfer of the headquarters of the Commonwealth Railways to South Australia as indicated by the Prime Minister's letter to the Premier dated 2 August 1974. 
That is important from the South Australian point of view, as  Senator Jessop  knows. 
It is important, and I know the honourable senator would welcome it as he has spoken about the South Australian railways. Paragraph 16 of the document contains assurances that entitlements and payments in respect of long service leave, sick leave, workmen's compensation, and so on, will be properly accepted as a current expenditure, and refers also to transfer of superannuation. Generally, the position of the employees will be guaranteed in that respect. As a matter of fact, I understand that  Mr Charles  Jones is meeting the unions at Port Augusta tomorrow to discuss these points. 
I turn now to several other important aspects. The first relates to the sort of guarantees being given about standards in the States. In this agreement, which is the first practical application of the Commission's intentions, paragraph 3 states that the Australian Government will agree to continue to operate the railways in the State to standards in all respects at least equal to those obtaining at the time of the transfer. It goes on to give assurances that the State Government was concerned about. Last year, the South Australian Minister for Transport  (Mr Virgo)  was concerned that in any transfer of powers, standards and facilities might be less than those prevailing at present. 

 Senator Jessop has heard the debates in this place about the choice of Outer Harbour or Murray Bridge. When the committee on containerisation travelled around the country, one of the things it was concerned about was getting standard procedures for loading and unloading ships and wharf facilities. An example we thought to be a good idea was the new container facility to be set up at Outer Harbour. The facilities centre at Outer Harbour is more than just a metropolitan facility. It is intended to be what would amount to an important trade facility, and I hope it continues. As to Murray Bridge, that very important revenue earner has carried vehicles and all sorts of other things. The Murray Bridge section must be upgraded, and there is also the ancillary obligation to provide services for Monarto. I do not think  Senator Jessops's  strong stand is warranted if he considers its relation to the general economic question. 
As to the question of road enterprises generally, the Minister, having put that important definition in the Bill, guarantees that there will be no general takeover of road services. I want to indicate to the Senate what reservations there are in some railway services in relation to road organisations. For example honourable senators would know that most of the State Acts restrict the railways commissioners to making sure that road operations are only incidental to the rail services. In some cases that certainly embarrasses State governments. I know of cases where the railways cannot operate in competition with road hauliers and that where they might be able to do so this is restricted. The same restriction operates in the present Act and should not cause any undue concern. It was accepted by the Opposition's spokesman in the other place. Our policies are well known. We have said that these things were our policies and we are achieving them. 
I have spoken about the railway losses and perhaps I need not say any more except to refer to the question about Darwin. All that the Commonwealth Government has done at present is to say that it will agree to a feasibility study. I think honourable senators would know that the 5 years of work on the present project will entail all the resources of the Commonwealth Railways. It could well be wrong to use resources for any other construction program. However there will be a feasibility study. We all have regard to the cost of these projects when they start, as did the Opposition when in Government. 
Another question was asked about the Commission. The Commission has been widened and in my view this has been done in anticipation of having on it representatives from the States so that the States will be involved in the need to coordinate and have better relationships in regard to transportaion. That point has been well recognised over the years. If one looks at railway systems anywhere one finds that most of the rolling stock of a State travels only within that State. We want to get a situation where the movement of that stock will be developed and we will not have problems associated with lack of standardised vehicles. 
A question was raised about the trade union representative. Yes, I am sure that the trade union representative will be a person who will reflect the views of all workers in the industry, not only the mechanical staff, the operating staff and the fettlers. That representative will be able to bring to the Commission's discussions knowledge not only about the industrial relations trends which should be developed but techniques in industry. It is well known that on many occasions people involved in an industry, those who do the work, the work force, have some very good ideas and techniques which are often not well known to management. In my own State of South Australia, as  Senator Jessop  knows, the State Government put  Mr Shannon  on the South Australian Railways Commission. He takes not only his own skills to discussions by that body; he takes to the Commission the views of the unions whenever they are important. This is part of a trend. Honourable senators know that this is the aim of this Government. We are doing this in every new structure that we set up. Honourable senators know that in my portfolio we have set up 2 commissions and we have already put on the interim commissions a representative of the unions nominated by all the unions in the services. As to the fixing of wages and salaries in relation to management, this will be done by the remuneration tribunal. I think this is the first time that we have included in such a Bill matters relating to salaries and other aspects affecting management and the work force. The requirement is that regard should be paid to Australian Public Service standards. 
I have spoken of that in this way: In the future discussions with systems which presently have not come to the party we want the governments concerned to work with the new commission. I have seen, for example, the correspondence between the New South Wales Government and the Australian Minister. We think that the future of such railways and their financing when they remain outside is a matter for negotiation. I pointed out to the honourable senator in answering this question before the advances made already as a result of our policies - for example, the urban improvement projects which in more cases than not, I think, include improved transportation and railways. We are providing two-thirds of the cost. There has been joint work by all the State Ministers and the Federal Minister in projecting  the idea of a universal coach. That is one of the things that will be worked out in the future. 
-Of course. I hope that apart from whatever financial arrangements are made, the State governments will review what seems to be a lack of acceptance of the attitude taken by South Australia and New South Wales. 
The flooding of roads in the Northern Territory is a matter for my colleague,  Dr Patterson,  as the honourable senator well knows. I am aware of what is happening but I cannot give any guarantee because it is not my responsibility. I will try to find out for the honourable senator. Generally speaking, as the honourable senator well knows from what happened when  Senator Wright  represented the then Minister, we have all been concerned at times about the flooding not only of roads but airports and other areas. This is a very big question requiring a great deal of assistance. If there are any other points that honourable senators believe I have not answered they might direct them to me and I will get the information for them as soon as possible. I thank the Senate for its speedy consideration of this Bill. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. 
In Committee 
The Bill 
I ask  Senator Bonner  to be good enough to put the question on notice because it also involves  Mr Daly. 
The matter was brought to the attention of  Mr Hancock  of my staff last Wednesday. He discussed it with the union. We arranged for an investigation of the circumstances of the case. After consultation with officers of the Attorney-General 's Department, it has been decided to charge the person concerned under section 493 of the State Crimes Act. We have also considered the question whether extra provisions should be included in the relevant Commonwealth Acts. Consideration will be given to the insertion in the telecommunications and postal Bills, which will come before the Parliament shortly, of provisions which might give the maximum protection to Post Office staff. Before I decide on that course, I will discuss the matter with the Ministers concerned. 
The honourable senator would have noticed last week during the debate on the new Commission that in the memorandum of agreement between the South Australian Government and the Australian Government, item 11 provided that the Australian Government would consider the transfer of the headquarters of the Commonwealth Railways to South Australia, as indicated to the Premier by the Prime Minister's letter dated 2 August 1974. I have since talked to the Minister about this matter and he has said that this will be a matter for consideration by the incoming Board of Commissioners when it is appointed. The Commissioners will then put forward recommendations to  Mr Jones  for final decision. 
There is an alternative route via the Carpentaria Highway. It is available for limited loads, and mail presently is being conveyed along that route. Because of the additional distance- approximately 350 kilometresand the restrictions on loads and traffic flow, there are some slight delays in delivery. 
-I think it is clearly a different question.  Senator Devitt  now asks me whether I knew that he made the request to the Minister for Defence for a vessel to visit King Island. At the time when I answered previously I did not know. I now know that  Senator Devitt  made the representations. They had nothing to do personally with  Mr Barnard.  As a matter of fact  Mr Barnard,  like myself, has never been to King Island. At present it is not in his electorate. 

 - Senator Jessop ought .to know because he. like myself, visits naval establishments. If he wants to have the practice of Service ships and aircraft visiting provincial centres and cities discontinued, let him say so. I know that when 1 was the Minister Assisting the Minister for Defence I received numerous requests from members to have such functions held. The request clearly had nothing to do with  Mr Barnard  personally. He was the Minister who could give the approval in the circumstances. 1 did not know that  Senator Don  Devitt and  Senator Jessop  had been interested in the question. 
Last week  Senator Missen  asked me some questions about the vessel Patris' at Darwin and I undertook to get the reply as soon as possible from  Dr Patterson.  The reply is that the Australian Government chartered the Chandris ship 'Patris' at a cost of $15,100- tax free- per day for an initial period of 6 months. The agreement followed discussions with the management of the Chandris Line at which time the question of purchase was explored. The owners indicated that they were not interested in selling the vessel. The salvage value of the vessel is not known nor was it important that details be obtained in view of the attitude of the owners. 
The heads of agreement which represent the approved terms acceptable to the Government and the management of the Chandris Line involved detailed and complex negotiations involving representatives of the Treasury, the Attorney-General's Department, the Department of Transport, the Department of Labor and Immigration and the Department of the Northern Territory. The possible implications of proposed crewing and pay rate arrangements were fully explored before approval was given. The heads of agreement provided that the crew would be paid at rates under the Greek Convention except that if Australian unions made representations for rates of pay in excess of those paid under the Greek Convention, the additional amount incurred would be met by the Australian Government. In fact employees of the Chandris Line were paid at rates in excess of the Convention. 
After receiving representations from the Australian Council of Trade Unions and the maritime unions a conference was arranged by the Department of Labor and Immigration at which time union representations were considered. These included a claim for an additional $50 per week for all members of the crew, from deck boy to master. The Government considered the representations and agreed that no member of the crew would receive a wage less than the Australian minimum wage. To this end, rates for all members of the crew would be increased by an amount equal to the difference between the lowest paid classification and the minimum wage, subject to a deduction of $5 per week for board and lodgings. The Australian Council of Trade Unions was advised that the application of this formula meant rates would be increased by $50 per week with effect from the date the vessel arrived in Darwin, that is 14 February 1975. The terms were accepted by the Australian Council of Trade Unions and the unions. 
There have been no representations made of inferior living conditions. 
There is a full assurance that the negotiations have been conducted having regard to the need for emergency accommodation for persons rendered destitute by the cyclone and for other essential workers in Darwin and having regard for the need to ensure proper use of the funds of the Australian Government. 
The answer to the honourable senator's question is as follows: 
Yes. 
In September 1972, the Expert Group on Road Safety completed a report on the Road Accident Situation in Australia which contained a section on emergency medical services. To obtain information for this section, a literature review was commissioned with the School of Social and Preventive Medicine, Monash University. The review discussed the operation of roadside communication systems in Australia and overseas.  Dr Pacy's  system at Tea Gardens was considered to be an example where an emergency roadside telephone may be justified on a sparsely populated highway, as it is a location at which numerous crashes occur. Capital costs and the availability of public telephones and other means of communication appeared te limit their use elsewhere. 
Unfortunately, detailed information concerning the magnitude of delays in the provision of medical attention to casualties in accidents in country areas is sparse. The Department of Transport is currently sponsoring the development of a comprehensive plan for an in-depth study of accidents on rural roads in south-east Queensland. One of the factors to be studied will be the possible benefits of emergency roadside telephones, which will enable a proper assessment of their wider use. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
I seek leave to incorporate my second reading speech in Hansard. 
This matter has already been raised with the Minister by  Senator Willesee.  The Minister for Transport has given me the following information: Late last year Qantas carried relief supplies destined for Cyprus free of charge from Australia to Athens. Further to this, and in view of the continuing situation in Cyprus, arrangements have once again been made for Qantas to carry free of charge supplies on a space-available basis. The position of the Cypriot Society in South Australia has been brought to the notice of the Minister, who has now arranged for TAA and Ansett to carry the supplies from Adelaide to Sydney, free of charge. 
-I recall that only last week in the debate on the Australian National Railways Bill I think it was  Senator Jessop  who indicated that he would not be available to attend the opening ceremony. I do not know what other members of Parliament have told the Minister for Transport. I can only say that I went there and 2 State Opposition members were there. If the honourable senator wants me to inquire of the Minister for Transport,  Mr Charles  Jones, as to what happened in respect of Opposition spokesmen I will ask him. In respect to the second part of the question, the Minister has told me that before the line from Tarcoola to Alice Springs is completed he will give consideration to the Bureau of Transport Economics undertaking a feasibility study of an extension of the line northwards from Alice Springs. 
Australia is faced with a very long haul which entails quite considerable cost, whereas in the European area the hauls are short. Consequently the charges would be relatively lower. 
Would  Senator Wright  let me answer? Would he like to answer the question, or will I answer it? He has been complaining for years about the disabilities in Tasmania occasioned by a similar geographical situation. Another factor which must be taken into account when considering Australian air mail charges is that we receive much more air mail traffic than we send out. For example, in 1973-74 over 66 million letters were dispatched by air from Australia to overseas countries, but more than 136 million air mail letters were received from abroad. This means that the Australian Post Office must carry the extra cost in that regard. 
-The new title Army Reserve is in use. There will need to be legislation, which will be introduced later on, to change the title legally. Instructions have been issued to give effect to the initial reorganisational plans for the Army Reserve. Some units whose current strengths are so low as to preclude any reasonable prospects of their becoming viable are to be closed down or amalgamated. It is expected that the major aspects of the reorganisation will be effected by the end of 1975. Pay and related conditions of service already have been referred to  Mr Justice  Coldham. I understand that his report either is available now or is expected very soon. The honourable senator will remember that an interim increase of 1214 per cent was granted as from, I think, July 1 974. He referred also to home loans. The position is that preferential housing loans for members of the Army Reserve who render appropriate lengths of service will be considered by the Government in conjunction with other recommendations. Changes in clothing entitlements for the Reserve have been approved and implemented. 1 think I can assure the honourable senator that because the Army Advisory Council has been constituted already by  Mr Barnard  and is to meet shortly, everything possible will be done to ensure that the recommendations will be carried into effect without delay. 
The system has now been introduced and is available to anybody who may not be able to pass the existing examination and who would qualify for a certificate to be called the novice amateur operator's certificate of proficiency. The idea arose because a number of people had written to myself and to other Postmasters-General indicating that they could not reach the standard necessary in theoretical and practical experience. As a result of some borderline decisions it was agreed that there be a novice certificate which would allow those who could pass a basic theoretical test to qualify. They would pay a minimum fee. The system is in operation as from today. I think it is a good thing because it allows young people who have not reached a state of proficiency, but who will later be of great benefit to the country in a more professional sense, to pursue a socially useful hobby. I am glad we have introduced the system. 
Legislation to set up the 2 commissions is in the final stages of preparation. We expect that the Bills will be introduced into the Parliament late next week. In relation to what the logos or the symbols should bewhether the 'Royal Mail' insignia should remain- I point out that the 2 proposed commissions will be business organisations.- The interim commissions which have already been set' up, as the honourable senator knows- one under the chairmanship of  Mr Jim  Kennedy and the other under the chairmanship of  Mr Bill  Gibbs- have made suggestions as to what general insignia should be used by the commissions. 1 think the best thing I can say is that when the 2 Bills are introduced honourable senators might examine them, and if they want to raise any objection to the general outline of the new structure there will be an opportunity during the debate to do so. 
For the information of honourable senators, I present a statement by the Minister for Defence on the appointment of a Development Council for the Australian Defence Force Academy. 
-I recall the honourable senator's proposition on this matter. I think he put it forward on the basis that when pensioners moved for the first time- the period was to be restricted to one month- they ought to be granted a reduced postal redirection fee. At the time the matter was considered by me and my colleagues. While it has not been determined, because I think that there is a case to be made out in relation to such a proposal I will be quite happy to discuss the matter again with my ministerial colleagues, including  Mr Hayden,  to see whether it is possible to make a move in this regard in the Budget context. 
-The Minister for Labor and Immigration,  Mr Clyde  Cameron, has for some months been pursuing this objective following the adoption of the policy and has put it to the Government. The Government has now announced that there should be such a bureau. It will be called the Bureau of Labor Economics. It is intended that the Bureau will play a key role in the determination of the efficiency of Australian manpower, industrial relations and population policies. It will commission research, where necessary, to discover where jobs might be required. This area, of course, is of great importance because of the findings of the Borrie report. I think the Government ought to be complimented upon its action because it is one of those necessary actions which have been absent during the years. 1 know from my own experience that for many years the Australian Council of Trade Unions has been' promoting such research facilities. Having determined the policy, the Minister for Labor and Immigration has now received government approval for such an organisation. 
-The Minister for Transport,  Mr Charles  Jones, has examined the question and has given me the following information: In 1974-75 the total cost of operating airport terminal buildings, including over a generous 40-year period the amortising of capital costs, was a net $9m after deduction of revenues derived from business concessions, car parks and so on. The amount received as rental from airline tenants for the same period, was $2. 2m. It can be seen that they are subsidised to the extent of about $7m a year or 70 percent. As an example, the rental received from the Sydney international terminal building is $553,029, but in 1974-75 the projected total cost of maintaining and operating the terminal is $5.4m, and the net cost to be recovered after deducting business concessions and car park revenues is $3. 6m. Further examples of some of the direct costs last year include: Cleaning costs, $525,000; building maintenance costs, $442,000; airport terminal patrol and security costs, $175,000; administration costs, $126,000; service charges, $267,000; and local government rates, and so on, $163,000. The tenants have now been asked to pay amounts proportionate to the use of terminal facilities as the basis to recover 100 per cent of the cost of operating the terminals. Where the airline operators use these facilities but are not tenants charges are levied against the operator handling the services. 
The Post Office presently is formulating plans for push-button telephones of 2 types. The first type, called the Decadic type, can fit into the ordinary exchanges and is a bit similar to our present telephones. The other is the cone signalling type which has to be related to the more modern exchanges. The Post Office has called tenders for the first type and it is expected that it will be available within 12 months, after certain service examinations and acceptability. The other type probably will take another 12 months to get into operation. 
I am rather surprised at  Senator Townley  's question because each day in this place we get questions from the other side about the need to assist some industry. This morning  Senator James  McClelland and  Senator Wriedt  were asked why the Government does not provide money to sustain industries which are falling for various reasons. Now  Senator Townley  says that we should not spend the money. I have said repeatedly here that the real content of the Opposition's complaint is that we must spend more but we must cut back. As to the last part of the question, I agree entirely with the Treasurer- so does the Government; so does the Cabinet- that the basic approach is to avoid unemployment where we can. Special assistance and a multitude of funds have been given to many industries to sustain that employment. Every Minister is working earnestly to see that there is full employment. Nobody should ask what the Government is doing about the position. We are doing the best we can. Obviously, the trends show an improving employment situation, mainly because of the lack of Opposition attacks since the change in leadership. I will put  Senator Townley's  question to  Mr Clyde 
Cameron to see whether he wants to add something to my comments. 
The Minister for Labor and Immigration has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
I am informed that an updated final immigration table for the financial year 1973-74, as outlined in the answer given on 26 November 1974 to House of Representatives' Question No. 524, is as follows: 
I think I answered a question last week from  Senator Drury  and said that 3 locations were under consideration, namely, Gnangara, a place called Wagin and Carnarvon. A decision has now been made. It is considered that Carnarvon, the old site of the NASA tracking station, is the most suitable for a number of technical reasons. Consequently, the temporary facility will be located there. 
I am not able to give the information requested by  Senator Durack  because the matter has not been developed to the stage when a proper report might be made. I think I answered a question from him at the Estimates Committee E meeting last week. 
There you are-  Senator Durack  is very clever. 
Opposition senators-  Hear, hear! 
Listen to my reply first, before you laugh. In the first place, the legislation has not come before the Parliament. 1 would be guilty of presumption if I should give the information to the honourable senator without first having the Parliament approve what is proposed by the Government. That is the first point. Even if I had the information, I should not give it to the honourable senator. I told  Senator Durack  last week that we hoped that the Bills would be put before our legislation committee and other party committees and confirmed, and that I would try to introduce the Bills in the Senate on Wednesday of this week. I hope that I can do so. If I do, the honourable senator will have the opportunity during the period of the recess to consider that legislation. 
In relation to the aims of the 2 commissions, what was recommended by the Vernon Commission and what amounts to an examination by expert groups in the Post Office, consideration has been given to the location of premises for both commissions in various regions. But this matter is indeterminate because in many places, as I told  Senator Durack-  I can answer with respect to specific areas and I can get the information for him- the commissions will be located in the present premises. In other places, they will move into separate premises. The telecommunications commission will be requiring premises in some areas. 
Generally, there will not be any early disruption. There certainly will be no disruption of staffs in the first 12 months. There will be a necessary planning period to get the 2 commissions working. Let me point to one urgent factor. I hope that the Opposition will support the legislation; I presume it does accept its earlier statements about corporations and commissions. The urgent point is that it is intended at this stage to help the management and the staffs to get on with the job by passing the legislation. On the information that I have and from the inspections that I have made I believe that both sections want the legislation passed as quickly as possible. I suggest to the honourable senator that after the Bills have been introduced into the Parliament, in the course of the forthcoming break the Opposition committee which will consider the legislation might like the assistance of departmental officers to answer as to specific locations. I am quite sure that they will give the honourable senator as much information as it is possible to give at present. 
I have seen the statement. I would have thought that  Mr Killen  would remember that the projects had been approved by the previous Government, because the $20m aid program to assist Indonesia in maritime surveillance was originally announced in Jakarta on 8 June 1972 by  Mr McMahon  when he was Prime Minister. While the previous government did not give formal approval to specific items in the maritime package, there is no doubt that the first aid program included the gift of Attack class boats, which was specially mentioned, and also some types of aircraft. So, really, the present Government and  Mr Barnard  are simply carrying out a commitment which they considered ought to be continued by the present Government. That is the origin of the decision. 

 - Senator Marriott gave me a copy of his question earlier and 1 was able to obtain some information for him. The information given to me is that most of the air traffic concerned is bound for the mainland. The nature of the noise abatement procedures, including the preferred flight path in use at the present time, is dictated very largely by the high terrain in the area. With regard to the air traffic during the late night and early morning hours, this is mostly piston engine aircraft involved in freight operations between Launceston and Melbourne. Because of the poor climbing capability of these aircraft compared with jet aircraft, there is a requirement for them to gain altitude to the south of the airport before setting course for Melbourne. This procedure is necessary because of the high terrain and has been the cause of many of the complaints. I am told that the procedures are reviewed regularly and that the existing arrangements are the most satisfactory. Because of the additional request of the honourable senator I will ask the Minister to look again at the answer he gave to see whether something else could be added to it. 
In the first place, I am very surprised that  Senator Greenwood  has not followed the courtesy or formality of advising the Minister representing the Minister for Labor and Immigration in this place about the matter that he has raised. If he was so much concerned about the case, I would have thought that he would have come along to me and said: Look, I am aggrieved about this matter. You can check it with the Minister for Labor and Immigration'. That is the understood practice in the Senate not only with respect to these matters but often with respect to questions. Honourable senators seeking information contact the Minister concerned. 
I am not in a position to reply in regard to the case that  Senator Greenwood  has raised but I wholeheartedly support what  Senator Mulvihill  and  Senator Georges  have said. We can all recall many occasions when complaints were raised in this House about the actions of previous Ministers for Immigration in refusing entry to Australia for various reasons. Those matters were directed to the relevant Senate Minister representing the Minister in the other place.  Senator Mulvihill  examined among others the Rover case in which, while this man was overseas, his passport was withdrawn.  Senator Mulvihill  has told me that he has a file containing the names of at least 20 persons who, for various reasons, were refused entry to Australia by former Ministers for Immigration. Refusal in many cases after examination in the light of circumstances, information given to the Minister and information obtained from overseas sources is no surprise. All I can say is that it is quite contrary to what the Labor Party has been saying and quite contrary to our policy to presume that anybody would be discriminated against on political grounds. If the honourable senator would like to reinforce his argument presented today by giving to me all the evidence he has, or states that  he  has, in his possession I certainly will take it up with the Minister for Labor and Immigration, have it checked out and later report the circumstances to the Senate. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a first time. 
I wish to reply briefly to  Senator Greenwood.  He refers to a case which was determined in November last year for reasons which he himself admits were good. He wants to pursue the case. 
The honourable senator accepted the various guidelines and criteria which the previous Government had used. The honourable senator has had since November to raise the matter in the Senate. He did not see the Minister for Labor and Immigration  (Mr Clyde Cameron)  personally by deputation. He has had every opportunity to raise the matter in the adjournment debate or in some other more appropriate discussion, but he would rather frustrate the business of the Senate today. The honourable senator excused his behaviour by saying that honourable senators on this side of the House did the same thing. The honourable senator could have had this matter vetted in the Senate Estimates Committees. The Committees were attended by specialised officers of the Department of Labor and Immigration- not the Minister, I agree- who are experienced in the matters about which the honourable senator talks and who have had postings overseas. The honourable senator would receive more information and satisfaction from those sorts of inquiries than he will receive today. 
I cannot reply fully because, as I mentioned earlier, I was not warned about the cases which the honourable senator has brought up. For those reasons it seems to me that  Senator Greenwood  in bringing this matter up is personally and politically motivated. Surely an examination of these cases could be carried out in a more constructive way. Had I been wishing to bring up the matters I would have gone to the Minister straight away and requested the hearing of a deputation and then complained to the Senate about things with which I did not agree.  Senator Greenwood  has had since January to come along to me or to ask me to take him to see  Mr Clyde  Cameron. He could have ventilated the case in the Senate. In the circumstances it seems that the honourable senator does not really want anything done with the cases; he just wants to bellyache. 
-The only information I can give to the honourable senator at present is that I know the Minister for Labor and Immigration is aware of the situation. I think he has responded by making some points to the New South Wales Government. I shall endeavour to get some more up to date information for the honourable senator. 
The newspaper report to which the honourable senator refers, I think, was based on speculation. The Minister anticipates that he will make a decision some time during May and then make a statement. At present negotiations are still proceeding. The number of contenders involved in the negotiations has now been reduced to two. Honourable senators might remember that the Boeing company requested the Government to reconsider its application. After the mission which went overseas in September last year had made further inquiries and after investigation of the proposition put forward by the Boeing company, the Government decided to consider that proposition. The Government has now resolved that 2 contenders will be considered. 
The Minister instructed that the service be set up in February of 1973. 1 understand that at the time it was established it was proposed that it would be used mainly for emergency situations. Since that time, because of the calls upon this service, it has been decided to make it a general welfare service. It is presently staffed by about 10 multi-lingual officers and operates around the clock. I am told that about 50 000 people have used the service. Since that service has proven so successful, it has been extended to Sydney, Melbourne, Perth and Adelaide. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 

 Mr President, I seek leave to have the second reading speech incorporated in Hansard. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
I request that the speech be incorporated in Hansard. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time: 
This Bill seeks to establish a Telecommunications Commission to operate the national and international telecommunications services of Australia. I have explained the provisions of the Bill in my second reading speech on the Postal Services Bill. I commend the Bill to the Senate. 
Debate (on motion by  Senator Durack)  adjourned. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
This Bill seeks to cater for arrangements and requirements flowing from the abolition of the Postmaster-General's Department and the Overseas Telecommunications Commission consequential on the creation of the Postal Commission and the Telecommunications Commission. I have explained the provisions of the Bill during my second reading speech on the Postal Services Bill. I commend the Bill to the Senate. 
Debate (on motion by  Senator Durack)  adjourned. 
Perhaps I should indicate to honourable senators that an amendment has been circulated which sets out an approach suggested by  Mr Ruddock  in another place. Later  Mr Ruddock  approached the Minister for Transport  (Mr Charles Jones),  who decided to consider amending clause 15, which deals with the disclosure of interest by a member, to bring it more into line with the corresponding provision in the Children's Commission Bill. The existing working of sub-clause 15(1) follows that of the corresponding provisions of the Acts relating to the Commonwealth Bureau of Roads, the Australian National Railways Commission, the Australian Shipping Commission, and the Australian National Airways Commission. 
Because the matter raised by  Senator Jessop  is new to me and to my advisers, the advisers consider that it might not be practicable now to provide for such a penalty. Perhaps the remedy should be that there ought to be an action to remove any person so offending. I undertake to carry  Senator Jessop  's suggestion to the Minister for further examination and to let him know whether there is any amendment that might meet the kind of objection he has. I hope that he will accept that, because it will allow the establishment of the Authority to proceed. I seek leave to move together the 2 amendments I have circulated. 
The Minister for Transport has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
It was not possible to answer Question No. 90 until the results of cost investigation studies were known. 
The Minister for Transport has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
1 ) In its report the Coombs' Task Force suggested three possibilities with regard to Essendon Airport. They were: 
a ) decide to retain Essendon Airport indefinitely; 
defer a decision on retention or disposal for a specified period; or 
dispose of the airport as soon as arrangements can be made for current usage of the airport to be transferred elsewhere. 
The Government has adopted the course of deferring a decision until a full investigation is made of the major economic and social consequences of retaining or closing the airport. 
The future of Essendon airport is a more complex problem than it would appear to be at first sight. Essendon, with other airports and the air transport operators in the Melbourne region forms an integrated system and thus, any decision on Essendon affects a number of other aspects of air transport as well. 
Currently, Essendon airport is in active use by general aviation, and on a typical day, about 140 aircraft movements occur. During 1974 about 20 000 tonnes of general freight was forwarded through Essendon mainly to and from Tasmania. (For comparison the major airlines' Tasmanian services carried 12 SOO tonnes). 
I have not formed a firm opinion on the subject, but I understand that there are substantial economic, social and technical arguments for the retention of the airport and little if any advantage to be gained in closing it. 
Having regard to the answer to Question ( 1 ) above no comment is called for in respect of Question (2). 
My only comment is that anything that retards the re-establishment of Darwin and the provision of assistance to the community there is certainly bad. As everybody knows, the Australian Government has responded magnificently to the many requests for assistance in many forms. I shall take up the suggestion made by  Senator Keeffe  with the Minister for Transport and see whether I can obtain an early reply for him. 
-Mr Jones recently announced such a study. I am advised by the Minister that the study will be undertaken in 2 stages. The consultants will first carry out a survey of all private operators in Australia looking at such questions as when and how they should operate. After this broad study a sample number of operators will be taken from the total number in urban centres where the population exceeds 30 000 and close examination will be made in respect of the social and financial implications involved. The Government is very concerned about the problems of private operators and will do what it can to assist them. 
As  Senator Durack  knows, like himself I am regularly engaged in consultations with the unions whose members work in the Post Office. He knows that that takes a great deal of my time. In fact, one of my ministerial staff is engaged full time consulting with them. As a result of this we have been able to minimise many industrial disputes. I am still pursuing some matters which are related to the Saturday morning issue which was raised by the honourable senator. When I am in a position to give him some further information I will do so. 
The appointment has been made by the Minister for Labor and Immigration. I will ask him to respond more fully to the questions asked by  Senator Greenwood.  I understand that in this particular case the appointment has been made in the light of the experience of the person concerned. I understand that  Mrs Cohen  is highly qualified. She is a lawyer and is highly qualified in respect of activities in the industrial relations field. I understand also that the practice adopted by the Minister, a practice which has been followed by this 
Government and which was followed by the previous Government, has been to have regard to the experience of the person to be appointed and to the reaction to such appointment in the field where the appointee would require most experience. There has certainly been no departure from that practice. Some appointments in the past by Liberal governments were criticised, as everyone knows, by our people. I believe I should ask the Minister for Labor and Immigration to reply fully to the points made by  Senator Greenwood,  and I will do that straight away. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 

 Mr President, as my second reading speech embraces the 3 Bills of which I have given notice and is 29 pages long, I seek leave to have it incorporated in Hansard. 
in reply- I thank  Senator Jessop  for his comments, which indicate that the Opposition will support the Bill as did the Opposition in another place. The honourable senator has referred to several new matters, particularly of his own interest, in relation to the visual aspects of the issues we are discussing. I am advised by advisers to the Minister for Transport  (Mr Charles Jones)  that research into these questions is vital and that presently studies at the College of Optometry at the University of Melbourne are being funded. Also consideration has been given to the question of reflective plates. That matter has been examined in the context of the establishment of the Road Safety and Standards Authority. Generally the Authority, as the senator has said, is a drawing together of recent developments and trends in this field. 
The honourable senator rightly pointed to the more or less basic study entitled 'The Road Accident Situation in Australia ', which was an important review issued in September 1972 by  Mr Justice  Meares. Certainly that is a basic document. The establishment of the Authority is more or less an attempt to ensure that every study and every action which might be taken in association with the existing authorities is undertaken. There is provision in the Bill for regulatory powers and for penalties. However, I am advised that these penalties must obviously be related only to the subject matters raised in the Acts. No doubt penalties would be applied to people who did not attend to their responsibilities in relation to certification plates or other standard procedures under the Act. With regard to the last question raised by the honourable senator, it seems to me that we had better canvass that matter. It seems to me that it is unlikely we could include a penalty provision now, but I will discuss the matter further in Committee. No doubt the Minister would be willing to look at the question separately and, by the time we get in Committee, we might be able to discuss it more fully. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. 
In Committee 
The Bill. 
Clause 15. 
1 ) A member who is directly or indirectly interested in a contract made or proposed to be made by the Authority, otherwise than as a member of, and in common with the other members of, an incorporated company consisting of not less than 25 persons shall, as soon as possible after the relevant facts have come to his knowledge, disclose the nature of his interest at a meeting of the Authority. 
The Minister for Transport has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's quesion 
1 ) The Department of Transport has submitted to the Committee of Inquiry on Museums and National Collections, recommendations on the transport aspects of developing and co-ordinating historical collections and museums on a national scale. With regard to aviation material, areas to be covered should include design, manufacturing, communication, propulsion, navigation, medicine and meteorology in both the Defence Services and air transport. These would record achievements by Australians and their contribution to aviation and aero sciences. 
The Air Transport Group has some valuable records of an historical nature including photographs, maps, charts, equipment and a number of aircraft important in aviation history, for example Kingsford-Smith 's Southern Cross at Brisbane and  Sir Ross  and Keith Smith's Vickers Vimy at Adelaide. It also has collected detailed information on the availability of private collections throughout Australia. 
Remedial Reading Facilities in Canberra 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time.  I seek leave to have the second reading speech incorporated in Hansard. 
-A11 that  Senator Greenwood  is doing, of course, is to build up a man of straw to suit his own proposition. The trade union movement, as everybody knows, broadly supports the Australian Labor Party. In supporting the Labor Party it supports the programs of the Labor Party, including its industrial policy and including, I think as  Senator Wheeldon  has set out more than once, its program of setting up a Government insurance organisation. Those policies are well known to honourable senators on the other side of the chamber because they are able to buy a copy of the Labor Party handbook whereas we cannot get a copy of their handbook. The position is well known to everybody. 
Honourable senators opposite say that we have this relationship with the union movement. It is purely advisory. Of course we are not the only Party to have advisers.  Senator Greenwood  may remember his own advice during the passage of previous Arbitration Bills which he got from some factions of the political spectrum, including the Democratic Labor Party and other people which disturbed what were then declared to be good industrial relations policies on amalgamations. As to the Government's attitude to the metal trades application, I recommend that the honourable senator consider the answer given by  Senator Wriedt.  He indicated quite clearly that the Government, the Ministers concerned, including the Minister for Labor and Immigration,  Mr Cameron,  consider that it is a matter for the Commission to determine. As to whether there is any argument in the catch-up application by the metal trades union, that will be settled in the proper place. 
-In 1960 the Post Office set a target of a penetration of 66 per cent subscriber trunk dialling telephone calls to be achieved by July of this year. It was achieved in June of last year. The percentage of trunk calls which are dialled direct by subscribers has risen from less than 5 per cent prior to 1 964 to nearly 70 per cent today. It has been calculated that the general savings because of the new system amounted to $500m which in part has not only helped the Post Office but has also helped the subscribers. 

 - Mr Jones has supplied the following answer to  Senator Marriott's  question: 
The Australian Government has pledged to meet all costs of the Tasmanian Government which may be reasonably attributed to the collapse of the Tasman Bridge. The pledge extends to the cost of providing additional services such as ferries. To date the Tasmanian Government has not made any claims in respect of the acquisition and delivery to Hobart of the Sydney ferries 'Kosciusko' and 'Lady Ferguson'. Prior to the departure from Sydney they were inspected by Department of Transport officials to ascertain that the ferries were capable of making the voyage. This action was taken at the request of the owner in line with section 207 of the Navigation Act which relates to seaworthiness. No report has yet been made to the Minister. 
-The information supplied by  Mr Clyde  Cameron is that up to and including 1 May of this year the total number of projects approved in Australia was 5509, including 375 in South Australia. In addition 152 projects have been provisionally approved in Australia. Eight of these have been in South Australia. The total cost of the projects in Australia was $ 155,744,000. That included $9,595,000-odd for South Australia. The amount of the Australian Government's contribution through the RED scheme is $128,648,390 for Australia and $7,057,5 10 for South Australia. 
As the honourable senator has just mentioned in the latter part of his question, for the first time that I can remember the Australian Government decided in the aftermath of the cyclone in Darwin to made certain advances to cover the damage caused by the cyclone. After that a number of representations were made- I know that one was made by  Mr John  Fitzpatrick- in which it was said that in the circumstances of bushfires and similar disasters there ought to be action by the Post Office to remedy whatever defect in equipment might have occurred as a result of those disasters. The Post Office and I take the view that, while the idea is a good one, the funding of it should come from another government source. We have referred the requests we have received from the sources I have mentioned to my colleague,  Senator Wheeldon,  to see whether some funding might in fact apply in those circumstances so that it would not be left to the Post Office to remedy those defects and therefore have to pass on the extra expense incurred in such a process to the ordinary users of such facilities.  Senator Wheeldon  might be in a position to respond partly with the information that he has obtained about the requests that have been made to him. 
I will endeavour to get the answer to  Senator Townley's  question for next week's sitting. 
I have seen the statement and I have had inquiries made. I do not know whether Admiral  Sir Richard  Peek said that, but it was claimed that he said it. I can only confirm that a total of $2,035,000 had been spent on the DDL program. This was mainly spent on design investigation and management consultancy but at the time, of course, it was not necessary for the Government to continue with it. The Government decided to evaluate the program and the cost at the time was $355m at 1972 prices. The price at present would be nearer $500m. For that reason the Government decided that, because of risk and rises in prices, it should not go ahead with the DDL program. You will remember,  Mr President,  and honourable senators will remember, that last year the Minister for Defence,  Mr Barnard,  contracted to buy 2 patrol frigates from the United States of America at a price of about $ 1 87m. 

 - Mr Cameron has referred to his Department the question of taking some action in this respect. I am told that one of the problems is that the workers concerned are most probably covered by State awards. The action which might be taken by the Australian Government is still debatable, but he has taken up the matter with the State inspectorate with a view to instituting joint action in respect of the matter. I am told also that if  Senator Mulvihill  can supply further details to the Minister for Labor and Immigration it would support any possible action to be taken. 
I will pass on that information to the Minister for Labor and Immigration. 
-The answer to the first part of  Senator Durack  's question is yes. To answer the second part of the question, it is not possible at this time to detail the sorts of tariffs which might be involved. It would depend on 2 propositions. One is whether the Post Office continues to be administered as it is at present. If it is, there would be recommendations by myself and the Post Office as to what tariffs might apply to recover the position. In the event of commissions being established the procedure, as the honourable senator well knows, would be more indirect, but I think it would resemble the present situation. So nobody is able to give an estimate of what tariffs might apply. 
-It is true that in the forthcoming years it is likely that there will be increased tariffs not only in the Post Office but also in many other areas. That is the best I can say. If I am in a position to give any particular details, and I can give them to  Senator Durack  first, I will certainly do so. 
-Late last year the Post Office decided to experiment with an electric van which was manufactured in the United States of America- I think it was called Battronic- and at the same time to engage in trials of scooters produced by a local Victorian organisation. The trials of the van and the scooters are being conducted and have been worked out in association with the Amalgamated Postal Workers Union. While these vehicles have a very limited range, it is of course a great advantage to have a vehicle which is so powered. I will ask the DirectorGeneral to consider whether trials with the same sorts of vehicles might also be conducted in Adelaide. 
I think that the position of the Government in its propositions which were advanced to the joint conferences last year are pretty well known because they have been discussed in the Parliament. In those consultations, the results of which have now to some extent reached the Australian Conciliation and Arbitration Commission, the Government put before  Mr Justice  Moore a proposition that wage indexation should apply. What has been given to the Australian Government's advocate was published in the Press this morning. The Government and the Minister for Labor and Immigration have said and I think it was  Senator James  McClelland who said yesterday- this applies to every Minister- that we are wedded to the principle of wage indexation. That is the object which we are trying to achieve to avoid the problems which have been so marked in industry over the years. At this stage it would not be right for me to canvass what might be done by the Commission. It is now a matter for the Commission to decide what should be done in respect of the claims of the metal trades unions. 
The honourable senator talks about garbage but I think his question is properly described by the interjection by  Senator Devitt  who said: 'Rubbish'.  Senator Rae  would know the position because he would have heard the answer I gave last week to  Senator Laucke,  I think it was, in which I gave the charges which the Minister for Transport,  Mr Jones,  had announced in respect of Tullamarine. For example, the cost of running the cleaning service at Tullamarine is as much as the rental being charged at the present time. As  Senator Rae  well knows, during the period his Party was in government the question of what were to be proper charges to the airlines was put before an investigating committee. That committee continued its work and finally a recommendation was brought down by the Department to the Minister. The Minister has proposed to the 2 airlines that some recovery of expenses should be made. As I understand the position, it is still open to the airlines to agree with what the Minister has put forward. 
I  move: 
Omit sub-clause (1 ), insert the following sub-clause: 
1 ) An officer may appeal to a Disciplinary Appeal Board- (a) against his admonition by, or a direction or decision made or given with respect to him by, an officer or the Commission under section 60; or (b) against a decision made with respect to him by the Commission under subsection 63 ( 1 ). 
A right of appeal is specified against an admonition, and this is a drafting clarification. 
Amendment agreed to. 
I move: 
In sub-clause (14) (a), after 'direction', insert 'or decision'. 
It simply ensures consistency with other subclauses which refer to direction or decision. 
Amendment agreed to. 
Clause, as amended, agreed to. 
Clause 6 1 agreed to. 
Clause 62.  (4)Where- 
an officer has been suspended from duty under this section; 
b ) the amount of salary that would otherwise have been paid to the officer in respect of the period or a part of the period of the suspension was not paid to him; and 
I move: 
In sub-clause ( 1 ), leave out ' and '. 
This is a drafting clarification. 
Amendment agreed to. 
Clause, as amended agreed to. 
Clauses 86 to 95- by leave- taken together, and agreed to. 
Clause 96. 
1 ) A person shall not put, or cause to be put, into an office of the Commission or a receptacle or box for the reception of postal articles, any fire, match or light, or any filthy, offensive, or noxious material or matter. 
A person shall not commit any nuisance in or against any office of the Commission or any receptacle or box for the reception of mail. 
Penalty: $200. 
I move: 
In sub-clause (2 ), leave out ' mail ', insert ' postal articles '. 
This is drafting clarification which makes the sub-clause consistent with the definitions. 
Amendment agreed to. 
Clause, as amended, agreed to. 
Clauses 97 to 100- by leave- taken together, and agreed to. 
Clause 101. 
Before furnishing financial statements to the Minister, the Commission shall submit them to the Auditor-General, who shall report to the Minister- 
whether the statements are based on proper accounts and records; 
whether the statements are in agreement with the accounts and records and show fairly the financial operations and the state of the affairs of the Commission; 
whether the receipt, expenditure and investment of moneys, and the acquisition and disposal of assets, by the Commission during the year have been in accordance with this Act; and 
as to such other matters arising out of the statements as the Auditor-General considers should be reported to the Minister. 
I  move: 
In sub-clause ( 6 ) after ' action ' insert ' to be '. 
This is only a drafting provision. 
Amendment agreed to. 
Clause, as amended, agreed to. 
Clauses 65 and 66- by leave- taken together, and agreed to. 
Clause 67. 
) Where an officer is absent from duty without permission, and has been so absent for a continuous period of not less than 4 weeks, the Commission may send to him by prepaid registered post addressed to him at the address of the officer last known to the Commission a notice informing him that unless within a period of 2 weeks from and including the date on which the notice was sent- 
a ) he returns to duty; or 
he explains his absence and seeks the permission of the Commission for any further period of absence that may be necessary having regard to that explanation, he will be deemed to have resigned upon the expiration of that last mentioned period. 
I move: 
In sub-clause ( 1 ) leave out 'last-mentioned period', insert a period of 2 weeks'. 
This is a drafting clarification. 
Amendment agreed to. 
Clause, as amended agreed to. 
Clauses 68 to 84- by leave- taken together, and agreed to. 
Clause 85. 
1) An envelope, lettercard, aerogramme or other article on which the Commission has caused to be impressed or printed a representation of, or a design resembling, a postage stamp and indicating an amount of postage is a postal article referred to in this sub-section. 
I move: 
After sub-clause (13) insert the following sub-clause:- ( 13a) The admonition of an officer by the Commission or by an officer authorised for the purposes of sub-section (5) does not have any effect- 
if the officer appeals against the admonition- unless the appeal lapses or is withdrawn or a Disciplinary Appeal Board confirms the admonition; or 
in any other case- until the expiration of the period within which the officer may appeal against the admonition to a Disciplinary Appeal Board. '. 
The intention is to give officers the right to appeal against admonitions. 
Amendment agreed to. 
I move: 
At the end of clause 20 add the following sub-clause: 
A reference in this section to a train includes a reference to a bus or other vehicle operated in connection with the service referred to in sub-clause (3). 
It is a necessary alteration to include vehicles other than trains. 
Amendment agreed to. 
Clause, as amended, agreed to. 
Clauses 21 to 40- by leave- taken together, and agreed to. 
Clause 41. 
1 ) The Commission may appoint as officers such number of persons as it thinks necessary for the purposes of this Act. 
A person shall not be appointed as an officer unless- 
he is an Australian citizen; 
Paragraph (2) (a) does not prevent the appointment, with the approval of the Minister, as an officer of a person who is not an Australian citizen. 
I move: 
In sub-clause (9), leave out 'was guilty of the misconduct', insert 'has failed to fulfil his duty as an officer'. 
This amendment seeks to make the sub-clause consistent with sub-clause ( 1 ). It is only a routine proposition. 
Amendment agreed to. 
I indicate that the Government accepts the suggestion. 
Amendment agreed to. 
I move: 
In sub-clause (4) (a), leave out 'this section', insert section 61 '. 
It is only a drafting requirement. 
Amendment agreed to. 
Clause, as amended, agreed to. 
Clause 63 (Convictions by Courts). 
I move: 
At the end of sub-clause ( 1 ), add the words 'or of articles transmitted by the courier service'. 
The intention is to extend to the courier service protection from actions. 
I move: 
In paragraph (e) leave out 'under section 4 1 '. 
Amendment agreed to. 
Clause, as amended, agreed to. 
Title agreed to. 
Bill reported with amendments; report adopted. 
I move: 
In sub-clause  (2), after 'to  notify 'insert 'in writing'. 
-We think that the present prescription is all right, but we do not object to the suggested inclusion. We have also circulated an amendment in relation to subclause 2. 
-I recall that  Mr Jones  advised me to inform  Senator Marriott  about the inspection. He said that the ferries had been inspected prior to their departure from Sydney by Department of Transport officials to ascertain whether they were capable of making the voyage. This action was taken at the request of the owner in line with section 207 of the Navigation Act, and I think that that would have been very responsibly done. I will have to ask  Mr Jones  whether he is prepared to table the report and also to give  Senator Marriott  any other information which might be helpful to him. 
-The Australian Post Office has been planning for the expansion of the capacity of the east-west trunk system between Adelaide and Perth. In 1970 approximately 600 telephone circuits were installed on the system and since then 600 have been added. The Post Office has recently contracted with the communications division of the General Electric Company of Australia Ltd to expand this 2400 kilometre east-west system and so bring the total circuit capacity up to 1800. It is planned that this will meet the anticipated needs of the future. 
The honourable senator has asked a question with 2 important parts. In respect of the first part, I am not aware that the Minister for Defence has been saying, although I know that the Press has been saying, that there has been a selection of long range maritime patrol aircraft. I have not been advised that that decision has been made, but I will ask the Minister to advise me whether he has made a choice. In respect of the last part of the question, I think the best I can do is to make sure that the answer I give is correct and I will ask the Minister to supply it. 
The column makes the point that although local telephone calls are free in certain countries, including Canada, the service rental in Canada is the same as in Australia. 
That is not correct. It is correct only in relation to non-business services, but for business services the price in Canada is more than double the Australian price. What the writer of the column ignores is the extent of the local call area and over what distances trunk rates apply throughout Australia. Local calls normally extend for distances up to 20 miles and more in Australia, yet in Canada long distance rates apply on some calls between places only 8 miles apart. To illustrate another point, I might mention that the rates for STD calls in Canada are on the whole more expensive than those in Austalia. That applies in most countries. Various countries have different tariff settings and it is misleading, I suggest, to pick out what suits the writer of an article. 
in reply- Despite what  Senator Jessop  said, I understand that the Opposition is not going to oppose these Bills. The Opposition has put to me that a charter might be included to indicate that the 2 commissions, the Australian Postal Commission and the Australian Telecommunications Commission, have an obligation perhaps wider than what might be claimed to be their commercial activities and operations. I have told the Opposition that the Government accepts that proposition. There is only one part of the Opposition's amendment which we will oppose when it is floated. I have amendments which have been drafted by the draftsman and which are similar to those which the Opposition will move. Although one might have thought that  Senator Jessop  was opposing the legislation I understand that he, like other honourable senators, will vote for it. 
The management, staffs and unions involved in this sphere have had long experience, and examinations have been made since the Vernon Commission of Inquiry made its report. Honourable senators will know that since that time there have been continual consultations at all levels of the Post Office staff. There have been consultations with management and there have been consultations with groups of unions and the joint union group. These consultations included all the unions from the Overseas Telecommunications Commission. No objections were raised by the official union representatives either to the pattern now in the Bills or to the merger. I want to make that very clear in the first place. 
Generally we are not opposed to the general statement that the Australian Postal Commission and the Australian Telecommunications Commission be responsive to what might be called social and rural aims. We accept that proposition. I want to say quite clearly that we are taking our plan, our responsibilities and our program from what was a very thorough investigation by the Vernon Commission. That investigation was followed by advice from consultants to the Government and to the Post Office about the way to set up the new organisations. The financial arrangements proposed in the Bills result from those examinations. They were not short term examinations; they were very deep studies which were properly considered. 
The recommendations in the Bills, as most honourable senators will know, will allow the Government and the Minister to have a great deal of influence on what the Commissions might propose in the way of tariffs. For example, there will be control over basic traiffs and borrowings for capital. The Minister may require concessional rates to apply. The Minister will examine the forward estimates of earnings and expenditure, including capital expenditure. The Government could decide to subsidise the Commissions for forgoing revenue or on a special basis which could merit a special appropriation Bill. The Minister will be in a position to influence the Commissions because this the first time Commissions have been set up with a special ministerial representative. As honourable senators know, the Special Minister of State  (Mr Lionel Bowen)  has a representative on the Commissions, and that ministerial influence will  bc  carried into the daily workings of the Commissions. 
The Commissions not only will consider the most profitable aspects; they will consider all the necessary services which have to be maintained. If honourable senators read what is in the Bills they will see where any proposition advanced by any part of the Government or any part of the Opposition will be considered. When the Commissions come into force we still will have to consider recommendations or proposals put forward by them in the budgetary context. Therefore we will have a very active role with the Commissions, more so than is the case with some commissions overseas. 
Reference was made to the corporation in the United Kingdom. On a recent trip I looked at the United Kingdom Postal Corporation. Senior officials said that they would have liked to do what we have done and set up 2 commissions. It is true that the United Kingdom Corporation has lost money. It is vexed by the very great problems that that country has at this time. It is subject, of course, to the general financial plans of the British Government. For that reason it has to fit into a financial atmosphere and climate which presently inhibits what it might do. The reports of management and unions indicate to me that they did the right thing and the only improvement they might make is to set up 2 commissions. In Sweden there are 2 corporations and they pay their own way. In Germany the instrumentality is under the control of one authority, one Minister, but the German authorities are aiming to turn it into 2 commissions. That is the trend. The priority is to get the operations of the Post Office and the telecommunications activities into a more efficient position. Everybody knows now that the Post Office is too large and is becoming top heavy. This is the right time to separate the 2 activities. We know that not only from practical experience; we know also that the staff and management now want to get on with the job. I hope that the Senate not only will support these Bills in respect to the division of the 2 authorities but also will allow the Overseas Telecommunications Commission to be merged within the general administration. 
I think  Senator Durack  mentioned industrial problems. He asked whether the unions in the Post Office group or in the telecommunications group will be more militant and whether they have greater strength than they had before. Honourable senators will notice that this legislation provides for the first time that Commissions will have upon them a person nominated from all the unions which represent the staff. At present we have Interim Commissions. On the Interim Postal Commission we have a staff representative unanimously supported for appointment to that position, and on the Interim Telecommunications Commission we have another staff member. The union movement has an identity of involvement at the top level of management. We also have a basis for their operations. For the first time, as I mentioned earlier, during the consultations which preceded the devising of the legislation we had regular meetings with union groups. In addition, by regulation, there will be a consultative process, the first in any government enterprise or commission, which will be set up to ensure that in respect of all matters concerning the Commissions the union members who do the work, the people who carry out the most tedious jobs as well as the specialist jobs, will be consulted. We have the experience and we can say that that system already is working. As I have mentioned before, those groups have met regularly and they have seen and approved what has been done and the legislation which is now before the Senate. In addition, to dispel the other arguments, the unions which represent the staff in the OTC have gone along with us. That is the main position regarding these Bills. As far as industrial relations are concerned, the position now is better than it was. 
What of efficiency? Can we expect the new Commissions to do a better job than the Australian Post Office as constituted at present? I think they can.  Senator Durack  raised the question, perhaps rightly, of the dangers of further reduced services. Will the Saturday morning services be reinstituted? Those are the kinds of questions he raised. I have told honourable senators of the relationship with and participation by the staff not only in regard to daily operations but also in regard to management of the new Commissions. It seems to me that that involvement indicates a better working arrangement than there is at present. I think everybody has now learned of my activities, for example, to minimise industrial disturbances in the Post Office which were the subject of some discussion during the currency of the Vernon Commission. Those activities within the Post Office were not well applauded but in respect to other activities the Post Office got a pretty clean sheet. In respect of its industrial relations, however, the general view of the Commission was that there ought to be some improved method of settling these things. 
Regarding my own activities in this connection, I have been able to arrange regular consultations between management and unions where required, by having members of my own ministerial staff doing extra jobs to see that there would be necessary short-circuits where head-on clashes might eventuate. That sort of activity will not be carried out in that way when the new commissions are in operation, but that must be the type of approach that will pay off. With that new organisational arrangement between the staff and management it ought to be possible for the interim commissioners and for the  chairman  and managing director to become more involved in staff activity and for the staff to become more involved in the successful operations of the Commission. In that way, that will be part of the means by which efficiencies will be achieved. Apart from that, the managers will have the satisfaction of knowing that they have more responsibilities. 
The evidence that I obtained from looking at commissions overseas indicates that despite those problems in the United Kingdom corporation, as I have mentioned, all of the managers say that under the new system they are more able to exercise their responsibilities and initiatives. In fact, I think  Senator Durack  mentioned this as one of the advantages that might accrue, but he adopted the same sort of approach as Opposition members adopt repeatedly when they say that the Government is spending too much money. 
However, this legislation has been introduced in an attempt to get greater efficiency and to move towards the concept that  Senator McAuliffe  talked about, which is that there ought to be the principle of the user paying for the service. Surely no organisation should run away from that approach. 
The financial objectives are set out in the Bill and it will be a matter for the commissions and the Government to decide whether those objectives can be achieved, or whether this Government, or any government for that matter, might direct or request the commissions to take a different point of view about tariffs. Nobody is expecting, of course, that services in the outback will be reduced, although someone said he was afraid this would occur. It ought to be possible for the 2 commissions to become more efficient and in fact to reduce charges. That is why the reorganisation that has been recommended by the Vernon Commission has already been examined by Post Office managers, by the unions involved and by the consultants. 
That is one of the areas that has not been touched on very much, but the papers which it was hoped to distribute yesterday have been distributed today, and the evidence is there in relation to the proposed reorganisation. The scope of those changes will be that on the postal side there will be, I think, some 20 and perhaps 30 changes in geographical areas, and on the telecommunications side there will be an extra 7 or 8 new situations in the country. However, when one looks at staff figures, one sees that few people will be involved. It is necessary to have a new concept of management and to have managers going out into the regions. Experience of the United Kingdom corporation shows that that has been greatly successful because it allows the managers to operate the business more successfully. 
In relation to that matter, the commissioners and I have given an undertaking to any community group, senator or member of Parliament that no basic commitment will be made in respect of these matters until September. If anyone wants to make representations in respect of any geographical area, that can be done. I think  Senator Scott  mentioned professional engineers and asked whether their status or responsibilities might be affected because of the changeover. I and the commissioners have made it quite clear that we are ready to receive representations about that matter. The Post Office and the telecommunications administration have to get on with the job on the basis of what is now a very well tested plan. As  Senator McAuliffe  pointed out, he made submissions to the Commission. He has made a contribution not only in his speech this evening but also in the interest that he has shown in Post Office matters. We are ready to do what we should do. 
The examples that have been given about other countries where private operators run the telecommunications are examples that anyone can pick up. We are pointing to most of the countries where telecommunications and activities such as those of OTC are all in the one group. It would seem to me to be quite wrong if any government, whether this Government or any other government, having decided to form commissions, or corporations, as some people call them, would not merge into them as far as possible all related activities, because the present activities of OTC, if examined correctly, will be seen to be a duplication of what the Post Office is doing. If they are a duplication, it must be a wasteful exercise. I have said that in the countries most concerned and most relevant in constitution the operations are covered by the one corporation. The OTC, after all, will be a competent body within the framework of telecommunications, and it would be wrong and against the principles of anything that any government might do to leave it where it is. So, we are taking the strong view on this and saying that it ought to be included. 
I turn now to the Vernon Commission. When a majority report is made, people always tend to say that the  chairman  said certain things. The majority report of the Commission stated that OTC should be incorporated. It is true that the  chairman  did make certain observations which it could be said reflected what  Senator Durack  mentioned, that for the time being he came down on the side of doing certain things and, when the Australian Telecommunications Commission is fully established as a going concern, the relationships between that commission and OTC should be reviewed by the boards and managements of both commissions. But, as I have said, having decided to do what we are doing with the commissions, obviously it would be a mistake not to include OTC. 
As I have mentioned we have been guided in our discussions with staff by the unions' representatives, not by shop committees, a section of the work force which members of the Opposition are often complaining about anyway. Those unions have said in their agreements and consultations with their groups that they were in favour of the incorporation of OTC. Therefore, it is obvious that common planning, operating and financing are important. This ought to be one of the things that we do in conjunction with the 
OTC group, not in contest with it, because in the past, whether members opposite like it or not, negotiations between the Post Office and the OTC organisation have not always run smoothly. If honourable senators want evidence of that or want to read more about it, they can read it in the reports of the commission. 
-I am not talking about the British Steel Corporation. It is not nationalisation. You know yourself, a man of your experience, that we are not talking about nationalisation. We are talking about improving the operations of the Post Office, an Australian organisation which is too big anyway, by forming 2 commissions. Those 2 commissions will allow their managers to run their business more efficiently. They will have a direct responsibility to their staff and the staff will have a direct responsibility to them because, as everybody knows, for the first time they will be free from the control of the Public Service Board. They will be the only commissions in Australia free from such control. The proposition that such commissions should be free from that control goes back to the debates of many years ago. One of the Directors-General of the Post Office of many years ago,  Mr O  'Grady, planted that proposition well in the front of public discussion when he retired. He said that that is the sort of operation which should take place because it would allow managers of the Post Office to run their own business. 
Let me refer to some of the technical reasons for this legislation as it is related to the Overseas Telecommunications Commission. All overseas calls must be carried through the Post Office network to the subscribers' telephones, and complicated technical interconnection arrangements must be built into the Australian national network to enable successful high quality calls to be made. Without the provision of special transmission and switching gear in the national systems overseas calls would have to be restricted to subscribers living in close proximity to the international gateway. Soon, of course, we will be able to make subscriber trunk dialling calls overseas. This year Australian subscribers will be able to make STD calls to New Guinea. If they can make STD calls to New Guinea, why should they have to go through the OTC to make calls to other countries? Why is that necessary? Within 5 years we will have STD services to most countries of the world. Presently people in Germany can telephone by STD to Australia. 
We are putting forward the proposition that there is a joint responsibility there. Certainly the OTC has the expertise; but so has the Post Office. If we are going to link them together, let us link them together now. Let us not wait for some months or some years to go by before we do so. With separate managements there will remain the complicated and formal financial arrangements in order appropriately to share the costs of overseas calls between the widespread national network of the Post Office and the international circuits owned by the OTC. It will be noted that both organisations contested before the Vernon Commission, the sorts of negotiations that should take place and the method by which these things should be costed, but no satisfactory solution was reached. The merging of the 2 organisations would facilitate agreements on cost sharing and avoid continuing and protracted negotiations between 2 separate managements, each endeavouring to optimise its own financial position. They would be in the same outfit; they would have the common purpose of ensuring that the best service is given to all subscribers in Australia. 
So it would seem to me and to the Government that the issues are very clear. We are taking a step forward on the basis of the evaluations which arise from the Vernon Commission's report and from the consultants' advice on the way in which it should be done. It is intended, of course, that the Commission shall operate on a commercial basis, but in fact provision has been made - 

 -Senator Sir Magnus Cormack might know by now that clauses 1 6 and 17 of the Bill, I think, allow for adjustments to be made in what might be claimed to be the social context. We know that that situation will obtain for many years to come, but we believe that the systems which are now going to be put into effect and the experiences which all our commissioners and our managers received from the exercise which resulted from the Government's decision to adopt the report of the Vernon Commission will be very fruitful in regard to the future operations of the Commissions. In my opinion, they will work better. In my opinion, the staff will be more satisfied and the lessons which have been learned in the administration of the Post Office might well be carried into effect more quickly than they could be under the present organisation. I hope that the Senate will wholeheartedly support what the legislation proposes. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. 
In Committee 
Clauses 1 to 6- by leave- taken together, and agreed to. 
Clause 7. 
1 ) The Commission shall perform its functions in such a manner as will, in the opinion of the Commission, best meet the reasonable needs of the Australian people for postal services. 
It is the duty of the Commission, in performing its functions to comply with the provisions of any convention to the extent that it imposes obligations on Australia in relation to matters within the functions of the Commission. 
-I have indicated to  Senator Durack  that, generally, we are not opposed to the aims of his amendment. However, we have it redrafted to tidy it up, and we suggest the following wording: 
Leave out the clause, insert the following clauses:- 7. ( 1 ) The Commission shall perform its functions in such a manner as will best meet the social, industrial and commercial needs of the Australian people for postal services and shall, so far as it is, in its opinion, reasonably practicable to do so, make its postal services available throughout Australia for all people who reasonably require those services. 
In performing its functions in accordance with subsection ( 1 ), the Commission- 
shall comply with any directions given to it under section 7a; and 
shall have regard to- 
the desirability of improving and extending its postal services in the light of developments in the field of communications; 
the need to operate its services as efficiently and economically as practicable; and 
the special needs for postal services of Australian people who reside or carry on business outside the cities. 
Nothing in this section shall be taken- 
to prevent the Commission from interrupting, suspending or restricting, in the case of emergency, a service provided by it; or 
to impose on the Commission a duty that is enforceable by proceedings in a court. 
It is the duty of the Commission, in performing its functions, to comply with the provisions of any Convention to the extent that it imposes obligations on Australia in relation to matters within the functions of the Commission. 7a.(1) The Minister may, after consultation with the Commission, give to the Commission, in writing, such directions, with respect to the performance of its functions and the exercise of its powers, as appear to the Minister to be necessary in the public interest. 
Where the Minister gives a direction to the Commission under sub-section (1), the Minister shall cause a copy of the direction to be laid before each House of the Parliament within 1 S sitting days after the direction is so given. 
Sub-section (1) does not authorize the Minister to give a direction with respect to rates of postage of fees referred to in section 17.'. 
The Government is opposed to  Senator Durack  's amendment as he has moved it and I will move the amendment I have just read. If I could point out some of the main principles, I would explain that clause 7 ( 1 ) in my proposal reads: 
The Commission shall perform its functions in such a manner as will best meet the social, industrial and commercial needs of the Australian people . . . 
The only change to which I draw attention is in my proposed new clause 7 (2) (b) (iii). It provides that, in performing its functions in accordance with suggested sub-section (1), the Commission shall have regard to: 
the special needs for postal services of Australian people who reside or carry on business outside the cities. 

 Senator Durack 's amendment, in proposed new clause 7 (2) (d), provides that the Commission shall have regard: 
to the special needs of the non-metropolitan areas of Australia for postal services. 
The Government's proposed new clause 7(1) is generally a draft that we suggest meets what  Senator Durack  has proposed. There is a difference in our proposed new clause 7A ( 1 ).  Senator Durack  's amendment contains 5 subclauses and my suggestion contains 3 subclauses. We say that our new clause 7A ( 1 ) widens the provision to cover any direction. I would prefer that  Senator Durack  accepted our proposition; we think it is an improvement. 
I shall illustrate the reasons the Government decided to propose this amendment. Proposed new clause 7 A, moved by  Senator Durack,  of which he was good enough to give me notice, reads: 
If it appears to the Minister that there is a defect in the general plans or arrangement of the Commission for exercising any of its powers, he may, after consultation with it, give it directions of a general character for remedying the defect. 
If it appears to the Minister that the Commission is showing undue preference to, or is exercising undue discrimination against, any person or persons of any class or description in the charges or other terms or conditions applicable to services provided by it, he may, after consultation with the Commission, give it such directions as appear to him requisite to secure that it ceases so to do. 
The Commission shall comply with any direction given to it under any of the foregoing provisions of this section. 
We are mindful of what might be called the preamble to the Opposition's proposal which has been endorsed by my Party. It is acceptable in those terms. The saving quality, as I have mentioned, is that for the first time we have put a representative of the Minister's Department on the Commission as a Commissioner. The ministerial directions, related, of course, to the public interest, will all be tabled in the Parliament.  Senator Hall  referred to the contracts or the work which is carried out by the Department of Housing and Construction. I am not in a position to give the honourable senator an answer at this stage, but I will certainly follow up what he has said and if necessary give the new Commissions advice on the matter he has raised. 
Amendment agreed to. 
Clause, as amended, agreed to. 
New clause 7a agreed to. 
Clauses 8 to 19- by leave- taken together, and agreed to. 
Clause 20. 
1 ) The Commission may, by notice in writing addressed to the Australian National Railways Commission, the person having, under the law of a State, control of the government railways of the State or the owner or manager of any other railways in a State and served as prescribed by the regulations, require that trains under the control of that person be made available as specified in the notice for the carriage of mail on behalf of the Commission as provided in the notice and that the usual facilities for the receipt, transmission and delivery of mail so carried be provided on those trains. 
We cannot see great strength in these amendments because there have been debates in the Senate about insisting that the term 'British citizen' be applied. We have put it in the modern vernacular- an Australian citizen. It must be understood that this clause applies to all staff. We are prepared to accept the amendments. 
Amendments agreed to. 
Clause, as amended, agreed to. 
Clauses 42 to 59- by leave- taken together, and agreed to. 
Clause 60 
Where the officer who held an inquiry into a charge is satisfied that the officer charged was guilty of the misconduct, he may counsel the officer or cause a supervisor of the officer to counsel him, or, if he is of the opinion that other action is necessary- 
admonish the officer; 
direct that a sum not exceeding $40 be deducted from the salary of the officer; 
if the officer occupies a position to which a range of salary is applicable and is in receipt of a salary other than the minimum salary of that range- direct that his salary be reduced to a lower salary within that range for a period not exceeding 12 months; or 
recommend to the Commission in writing- 
that the Commission transfer the officer to another position, whether at the same or a different locality, being a position for which he is qualified and which has the same classification as the position held by the officer, and the salary, within the salary range of the position, that should be paid to the officer; 
that the Commission transfer the officer to another position, whether in the same or a different locality, being a position for which he is qualified and which has a lower classification than the position held by the officer, and the salary, within the salary range of the position, that should be paid to the officer; or 
that the Commission dismiss the officer from the Service. 
Where an officer authorised for the purposes of subsection (5) of the Commission gives a direction that the salary of an officer be reduced, the officer is entitled, at the expiration of the period specified by the first-mentioned officer or the Commission in that direction, to be paid salary at the rate at which salary would have been payable to him if the reduction had not taken place. 
14) A direction or decision under this section by the Commission or by an officer authorised for the purposes of subsection ( 5 ) does not take effect- 
a ) if the officer appeals against the direction- unless the appeal lapses or is withdrawn or a Disciplinary Appeal Board confirms, either with or without a variation, the direction or decision; or 
in any other case- until the expiration of the period within which the officer may appeal against the direction or decision to a Disciplinary Appeal Board. 
I know of at least 2 cases of this kind. I remember one case in which a person was placed on a bond in connection with a theft and I remember another case in which a person was placed on a bond in connection with what could be claimed to be a sexual offence on a member of the public. Such proceedings are public proceedings. If a person breaks a bond, he will be penalised. This matter, as  Senator Durack  said, has been considered by the union groups. It seems to me that the clause is proper and that in such circumstances the Commission may counsel the officer or may decide to transfer the officer to another position at the same or a different locality. That particularly applies to a case involving, for example, a sexual offence. I can only say that, as in all such matters, it is the way in which they are carried out that is important. But it would be just if a person were placed on a bond that the employer ought to be able to say: 'We will put him at some other location away from the public'. That is the reason for the proscription. Unless there are some developments from too harsh an application of the proscription, it would seem to me that it is proper. 
Clause agreed to. 
Clause 64. 
1 ) An officer may appeal to a Disciplinary Appeal Board against a direction or decision made or given with respect to him by an officer or by the Commission under section 60 or against a decision made with respect to him by the Commission under sub-section 63 (1 ). 
Where an officer appeals under sub-section ( 1 ) against a direction or decision on the ground that the action taken in accordance with that direction or decision is excessively severe, evidence may be given on the hearing of an appeal- 
if the officer was, under section 61, suspended without salary prior to the giving of that direction or the making of that decision- of any loss of earnings arising from that suspension; 
if the officer is to be transferred to another positionof the expenses that will be incurred by the officer in connexion with that transfer; and 
of matters relating to the previous employment history and general character of the appellant. 
I move: 
In sub-clause (2) (b), leave out 'operations', insert 'transactions'. 
This again is a standard drafting clarification. 
Amendment agreed to. 
Clause, as amended, agreed to. 
Clause 102 agreed to. 
Clause 103. 
1 ) Proceedings do not lie against the Commission, an officer or employee of the Commission, a person acting for or on behalf of the Commission under a contract with the Commission or an employee of such a person in respect of any loss or damage suffered by a person by reason of any default, delay, error, omission or loss in the receipt, transmission or delivery of postal articles or of money by post. 
Presently under sections 158 and 159 of the Post and Telegraph Act there are general exemptions which are similar to what is proposed under this clause. But the courier service will not be a courier service just outside the Austraian Postal Commission. Many- or perhaps most- of the articles will be carried by the courier service and also by post. Notice has to be taken of what is provided in the Acts at present. If any government were to decide to waive the exemptions that presently exist we would have to set up a new system of tariffs, for example, to cover people who send very valuable commodities through the post. I know of one or two cases where opals which have been sent through the post have been lost and the cost of recovery of the opals has been less than what the opals have cost. There would have to be a form of insurance. 
The general section in this clause provides protection from legal action- as I have said consistent with what is in the Act at present- for the Commission and for all persons employed by or contracted to the Commission in respect of loss or damage attributed to the postal system or the money transfer system. Where money transmitted by post is paid to the person applying for payment the Commission is not liable to any person unless the officer or the employee making the payment is guilty of fraud or wilful misbehaviour in connection with the payment. The regulation making powers have not been drafted yet. I, together with the Special Minister of State  (Mr Lionel Bowen),  will consider whether there are any options in this matter. 
I will explain the position again. This afternoon the Opposition insisted upon amendments to the Bill which accepted in principle an obligation on the Commission to take into account various activities which are, in fact, subsidisations. I accept that any commission, acting as the Post Office does now, and the Minister, should have regard to these things in the same way as they should have regard to the financial objectives.  Senator Wright  now comes along and says that the postal authority, whether it be a postal commission or a post office, in future has to be liable in respect of any claims. An example which was pointed out to me is that of a person who sent a letter containing shares. A great number of vexatious activities might be involved and it would impose on the authority an obligation to make new and higher tariffs if this type of liability is to be accepted. I mention the case of persons sending valuable goods knowing that they might be lost and that they would not be compensated for the goods lost. If we were to provide for an unlimited action for damages there is no doubt that it would result in increased tariffs. It appears to me that all I can competently do is to have the observations made by honourable senators considered properly and I will do it. 

It is all right to come along at this stage and say: 'This is a situation we ought to review'. The most reasonable view that I can advance is that as the Act is undisturbed, although it has been before Parliament before, we are really reinstating a provision which it contains. In relation to the courier service which will start early in the new financial year, there will be a mixed carriage of articles. Some will go by post and some by courier service. I think I have answered the points raised but I will discuss them with my colleague,  Mr Lionel  Bowen, and have the matters analysed as best I can. 
The general answer is the one I have given. The Postal Commission will be in the same position as the Post Office is now. It will have a wide obligation to carry out the terms of the Act and in sections 158 and 159 of the Post and Telegraph Act, which are similar to provisions incorporated in this Bill to set up this Commission, there is a general protection given to the Post Office. As I pointed out, the Post Office has a wide obligation not to operate on a commercial basis but to provide a service to the public. 
-Senator Wright has insisted on these aspects. Digressing to speak to the point just raised, clauses 17 and 18 of the Postal Services Bill provide for a financial arrangement in cases where the Commission thinks that some thing ought to be done and the 
Minister says that it should not be done. There is a provision for Treasury to refund moneys so lost. Parliamentary Counsel has looked at this question and at the Act and has drafted a clause which appears to me to carry on what is in the existing Post Office legislation. If we want to change that provision, now is not the time to do it and if I appeared to be too quick in responding to  Senator Wright  it was not because I was not taking into account what he and  Senator Durack  are putting forward. As  Senator Wright  would agree, this is an extreme matter of principle that would have to be considered by any government and the relevant Ministers. I will draw his suggestions to their attention and will discuss them. The only other comment I can make is that the regulations have not yet been drawn but will be drawn. 
I am sure that honourable senators will concede that they are trying to place me in a difficult position. I do not think it is possible for me to do what  Senator Wright  has suggested. The Parliamentary Counsel and the officers of my Department have recommended the inclusion of this clause. The unions involved and management have seen this Bill. It maintains the status quo of the Post Office. If we included a clause in the Bill which allowed a person who had sent unregistered mail to claim damages, we would have the usual complaints about delays in mail arriving and claims would arise because of such delays. We could have the situation, for example, of a sharebroker who writes to a client and recommends that- he sells shares. If the mail was delayed and that advice was not available to the client, action could be taken against the Post Office. I do not think it is reasonable, on the basis on which we have drafted this legislation, for us to take a new tack and have recourse to a number of new issues about which honourable senators from both sides of the chamber have been talking. It is not possible for me to delete this clause and reintroduce it later because that would interfere with the operations of the Post Office in its new form. However, it is possible for me to see to what extent the problems that I see might be overcome by, perhaps, an extra form of tariff to cover some new obligations. That is the bald reply to honourable senators opposite. I understand the points which have been raised by  Senator Wright  and  Senator Durack  but I can see the complications which will arise for the new Commission. Similar clauses to this have been included in other legislation covering organisations much more complex than the Post Office. I ask honourable senators to leave the matter with me and I will discuss it along the lines I have mentioned and perhaps in the manner in which  Senator Durack  has proposed. I am not clear to what extent any regulatory provision which would come to the Senate could affect the position. I undertake to discuss the matter and I hope the Senate will accept that. 
I should like to  reply briefly to the comments of  Senator Durack.  I will raise the matter with the Special Minister of State  (Mr Lionel Bowen).  I will see whether it is possible for such prescriptions to be drafted and introduced in another place. I have already asked the officers of my Department to examine the situation in relation to the existing courier services. The courier service proposed in this Bill will utilise the postal services and another 3 forms of transportation. I will certainly convey to the Special Minister of State tomorrow the comments that have been made this evening. 
Amendment agreed to. 
Clause, as amended, agreed to. 
Clauses 104 to 107- by leave- taken together, and agreed to. 
Clause 108. 
A payment made to the judgment debtor in pursuance of this section shall, as between the Commission and the judgment debtor, be deemed to be a payment by the Commission to the judgment debtor. 
I move: 
In sub-clause (6) leave out 'debtor', insert 'creditor'. 
Amendment agreed to. 
Clause, as amended, agreed to. 
Clause 109 agreed to. 
Clause 1 10. 
In this section- 
a reference to entry by the Commission onto premises in connexion with the performance of its functions includes a reference to the entry onto premises- 
of an officer or employee in the course of performing his duties; and 
of a person engaged on behalf of the Commission in the conveyance of mail or postal articles for purposes connected with the conveyance of mails or postal articles; 
a reference to the use of premises by the Commission in connexion with the performance of its functions includes a reference for the use of premises by a person acting on behalf of the Commission in connexion with the performance of its functions; and 
a reference to the owner or occupier of premises, being a part of a road, is a reference to the person entitled to be paid a toll, fee or charge for entry onto that part of the road. 
I move: 
In sub-clause (3) (b) leave out 'for', insert 'to'. 
Amendment agreed to. 
Clause, as amended, agreed to. 
Clauses 1 1 1 to 1 14- by leave- taken together, and agreed to. 
Clause 115. 
The Governor-General may make regulations, not inconsistent with this Act, prescribing all matters by which this Act are required or permitted to be prescribed by regulations, or which are necessary or convenient to be prescribed by the regulations for carrying out or giving effect to this Act and for making provision for and in relation to- 
the preservation of specified existing and accruing rights by a person appointed to the Office of Managing Director, Chief General Manager or full-time Chairman of a Promotions Appeal Board or by a person appointed or deemed to have been appointed as an officer under section 4 1 who was, immediately before he was so appointed, an officer of the Australian Public Service or a person to whom the Officers' Rights Declaration Act 1928-1973 applied, including provisions modifying and adapting the Public Service Act 1 922- 1 974 for the purpose of enabling such a person to apply for promotion to an office in the Australian Public Service or appeal against a promotion to an office in that Service; 
The attitude of the Government, as I have already indicated, is that we are going to oppose what has been proposed by the Opposition, that is, to exclude from this Bill references to the Overseas Telecommunications Commission. So we intend to divide on the first proposed amendment which I think is to clause 3. I suggest that will be the test, if  Senator Durack  is agreeable. I do not care whether the other amendments are dealt with together or taken separately, but as he pointed out they are all consequential amendments to the Bill which if they are carried will exclude from the Bill references to the OTC. I simply say that the Government will divide the Committee either in respect of the amendment to be moved to clause 3 or the other amendments which may be dealt with in globo, whichever suits the Temporary  Chairman. 
Clause 3. 
1 ) In this Act, unless the contrary intention appears- approved bank' means a bank approved by the Treasurer for the purposes of the provision in which the expression occurs; prescribed external Territory' means an external Territory other than Papua New Guinea; 
In this Act, unless the contrary intention appears- 
a reference to a place outside Australia includes a reference to a ship at sea and to an aircraft that is operating outside Australia; 
a reference to a place outside a prescribed external Territory includes a reference to a ship at sea and to an aircraft that is operating outside that external Territory; 
For the reasons I gave in my reply to honourable senators at the end of the second reading debate, the Government is not prepared to accept this amendment. We believe that the Overseas Telecommunications Commission should be necessarily a part of the new Australian Telecommunications Commission and therefore we will divide on the amendment. 

 - Senator Durack has somewhat expanded his argument. As I said earlier, I want to make it clear, as briefly as possible, that I think this proposal is quite wrong. The Government decided to set up the new commissions and the Opposition agreed to them. That decision arose from a very exhaustive and searching inquiry by the Vernon Commission of Inquiry, which has been supplemented by other activities on the part of consultants, together with consultation with the staffs. They all agreed that the Overseas Telecommunications Commission should come into the general organisation but as a separate section. Everybody knows that the Government appointed  Mr Gibbs  as the  Chairman.  He is an outstanding Australian industrialist with great business and executive abilities. He argues, although he is  Chairman  of the OTC, that it should be incorporated in the Australian Telecommunications Commission. So also do three of his fellow commissioners. Out of the 5 members of the OTC board there are four who consider that it should be so incorporated, and in addition the Government believes so. I pointed out that in countries with administration similar to ours, such as the United Kingdom, Sweden and Germany, these activities are under the one administration. They should be so in Australia. I do not think it is good enough to say that it should be left to another day. Therefore we will divide on the proposition. 
I want to say about 10 words. There is no competition between the Overseas Telecommunications Commission and the Post Office. We are talking about a division of functions. There are 2 separate functions, but they should be performed by the one administration. There is a majority of people on the board of OTC who want OTC to come under the general net. It is true that OTC has a very specialised group conducting its activities. It is true also that it is very good in marketing. Somebody in the organisation is very good at propaganda. The real essence of the subject has not yet been recognised although it has been discussed here tonight. I am sorry to see that  Senator Hall  will not take a plunge and see that these 2 bodies are engaged together in the one operation. They are efficient in their own area, and that efficiency would be a good addition to a group within the Postal Commission, where it ought to be. 
I am rather surprised at the way in which  Senator Durack  talked about  Mr Gibbs.  Before  Mr Gibbs  came on the scene, I met the Board of the Overseas Telecommunications Commission and told  Sir Arthur  Petfield, who unfortunately is now deceased, that I intended to nominate him as a member of the new Commission, and he was pleased to know about that. Why should not  Mr Gibbs  be the  chairman  of this group? I have explained its relationship to the telecommunications area. In future, when international subscriber trunk dialling comes, we will have a new responsibility to encourage people to get outside the gateway. In addition, why should we not appoint  Mr Lawler?  A few hours ago  Senator Durack  was putting up a great plea about having the Minister's influence on the Commissions noted. Now he intends to move another amendment that will give the Minister another influence on the Telecommunications Commission. So, we have put a representative on those Interim Commissions, the Secretary of the Department of the Special Minister of State,  Mr Lawler,  in one case, and  Mr Payne  in the other. It allows them to work more closely with the Government. The other member of the Board who has not been mentioned is  Mr Turnbull.  He has been there for many years, and he is in favour of the proposition which the Government is putting. 
I come now to the aspect of union activity. Generally when there is shop floor activity the Opposition becomes highly critical, but in the case of OTC all sorts of assistance and wide encouragement have been given by the management to give everybody who had a grievance against the change to publicise it and to make his views well known. The answer in respect of those organisations lies with the people in the trade union group. They are the people one has to talk to. As I have said, all the people working in that group, with the exception of the professional engineers, I think it was, who have made a more recent overture resisting the change, have supported the proposition. 
Question put: 
That the words proposed to be left out  (Senator Durack's amendment)  be left out. 
The Minister for Labor and Immigration has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
Under the Regional Employment Development Scheme projects to the value of $9 1.8m had been approved at the end of February 1975. Of this, $73.4m will be met by the Australian Government. 
During February 1975 expenditure under the National Employment and Training System and the Structural Adjustment Assistance Income Maintenance Scheme and in respect of Unemployment Benefit was $2.215m, $6. 133m and $34. 1 m respectively. 
Sunbury Rock Festival  (Question No. SOO) 
As the honourable senator will realise, I cannot give the figures offhand, but I will get them for him as soon as possible. 
I move: 
In paragraph ( b), leave out 'under section 4 1 '. 
I move the amendment to bring this clause into line with what was done in relation to the Postal Services Bill. 
Amendment agreed to. 
Clause, as amended, agreed to. 
Title. 
A Bill for an Act relating to the Provision of Telecommunications Services within Australia, between Australia and Places outside Australia and between certain External Territories and Places outside those Territories. 
I move: 
In sub-clause (2), leave out 'operations', insert 'transactions'. 
The amendment is a standard drafting clarification. 
Amendment agreed to. 
Clause, as amended, agreed to. 
Clauses 100 to 103- by leave- taken together, and agreed to. 
Clause 104. 
A payment made to the judgment debtor in pursuance of this section shall, as between the Commission and the judgment debtor, be deemed to be a payment by the Commission to the judgment debtor. 
I move: 
In sub-clause (9), leave out 'the alleged misconduct of an officer is satisfied that the officer was guilty of the misconduct', insert 'a charge is satisfied that the officer charged has failed to fulfil his duty as an officer'. 
The amendment makes this clause consistent with the Postal Services Bill which has been carried. 
Amendment agreed to. 
I  move: 
In sub-clause (3), after 'sub-section (2)' insert 'or of section 18'. 
The intention of the amendment is simply to ensure that the maintenance of telecommunications services as provided for in clause 1 8 is not delayed. This clause provides power to construct telecommunications installations. Clause 18 refers to the maintenance of such installations. 
Amendment agreed to. 
I propose to move: 
In sub-clause (10), after 'to notify' insert, 'in writing,'. 
This makes sub-clause (10) consistent with subclause (5). 
I move: 
In sub-clause (8), leave out 'sub-section ( 1 )', insert 'subsection (2)'. 
This, too, is simply a drafting clarification. 
Amendment agreed to. 
I  move: 
In sub-clause (7), leave out 'sub-section (1)', insert 'this section'. 
This is simply a drafting clarification. 
Amendment agreed to. 
I take the same view as I took before. I failed to mention that clause 17 (3) states: 
No action or claim for compensation shall lie against the Commission, its officers, employees, servants or agents by reason of the reasonable exercise of the powers contained in this section. 
Amendment agreed to. 
I move: 
In sub-clause ( 5 ), after 'The ', insert 'relevant '. 
It is a drafting clarification. 
Amendment agreed to. 
Clause, as amended, agreed to. 
Clause 29 agreed to. 
Clause 30 (Preservation of special pension rights). 
I suggest that the sub-clauses be debated separately first, because in respect of sub-clauses (2) and (3) the Government has an amendment which has been circulated and which I think covers the position to which  Senator Durack  has referred. 
I move: 
In sub-clause (3) (b), leave out 'for '.insert 'to'. 
It is a correction. 
I seek leave to move 2 amendments. 
I move: 
In sub-clause (2) (c), omit 'accounts', insert 'amounts'. 
Amendment agreed to. 
The first course has been held. It was planned by the Department of Transport together with the shipping industry and the shipping unions. It was part of the Government's policy in marine education to ensure a higher competence of serving marine staff. According to all reports the courses ought to be continued. The Minister has decided to continue them, but in addition it is now being considered whether such courses might be extended to include persons serving on smaller ships. 
I am aware of the position regarding the services between Perth and Norseman. The Post Office already is planning to meet the need. There will be an additional 600 telephony circuit capacity established. It will be added to the trans-continental system over a distance of 650 kilometres between Northam and Norseman. It is expected that that will be completed next year. 
It was the Minister for Defence who decided that there ought to be an inquiry into the CMF, now known as the Army Reserve. That inquiry was an intense one and was very well conducted. Its recommendations generally were adopted by the Government. They included references to pay and other matters. Since that report was received the Minister has ordered an inquiry into the pay of this class of soldier. As a result, only recently- I think it was last week- I introduced here the report of that committee. That committee was the one that looked into the pay of serving soldiers. As a result, as everybody knows, there have been very extensive pay increases totalling, offhand, $80m or $90m. Almost immediately we applied the new pay conditions to the Army Reserve. The new pay conditions are the result of an investigation which would match the sort of proceedings involved in arbitration. That result has been well received. The only complaint I have heard is that now, because the standards of the Reserve have been lifted, some adjustments might have to be made in anomalies affecting the Regular Army. I will ask the Minister for Defence whether he can add to the reply I have given. 
Since that statementwhich is a very old statement, as I think the honourable senator will agree- exhaustive inquiries have been made by the Minister and he has replied in detail in the other place. The general position, as I understand it, is that inquiries were made through United States sources, Pentagon records and so on. At that time there was no confirmation of intervention by United States forces in the experiments. I can only say that I understand that the Minister has made exhaustive inquiries and that he has given as much detail as possible of the supposed exercises. I understand that the details are in Hansard. If the honourable senator wishes, I will obtain a collection of those replies and any other answers which might apply to his question and let him have them as soon as I can. 
I cannot answer that general question. I am informed that originally there were discussions with the Department of Labor and Immigration to afford that particular industry and others in New Guinea the benefits of the experience in Australia. In addition, as the honourable senator well knows, the Australian Council of Trade Unions sent delegations there. Before that other delegations were sent by the previous Government. I think I should ask the Minister for Labor and Immigration to supply in detail some reaction to  Senator Mulvihills  question about the Bougainville dispute, and I will do so. 
Yes, the Minister for Transport has supplied the following answer: The Department has increased the charges from 8.6c to 62.5c per cubic foot for garbage disposal and incineration. The previous charge was a nominal one related to earlier local council charges, and the new charge is the true assessment of the cost of providing the service in accordance with the Government's policy of recovering airport costs. However, much of the high cost quoted is related to incineration of quarantinable garbage as laid down by the Department of Health. The Department of Transport with the Department of Health is actively pursuing the question of the necessity for incineration of specific categories of garbage and whether such categories could be disposed of at the airport by alternative means at a reduced cost. 
I do not think there is much difference really in the propositions. We think our proposal is wide enough but before accepting  Senator Durack  's proposal the Government would seek to amend it. It will be noticed that the second last line of the amendment reads: 'the land and of the purpose for which he intends'. That should refer to the Commission, not a person. The word 'he' should be replaced with the word 'it'. If  Senator Durack  insists on moving his amendment I do not mind. If he amends that word I will accept his amendment. 
I move: 
After sub-clause ( 10) insert the following sub-clause: 
Sub-section ( 10) does not apply to the exercise, by the Commission, of any of its powers under this section on a road or bridge.'. 
This is an amendment simply to ensure that maintenance of telecommunications plant on public property is not delayed. 
Amendment agreed to. 
Clause, as amended, agreed to. 
Clause 17. 
1 ) The Commission may, when, in the opinion of the Commission, any tree, undergrowth or vegetation growing on land owned or occupied by Australia or by a State or on any road obstructs, or is likely to obstruct, the operation of any telecommunications installation, after giving notice in writing to the authority having the care and management of the land or road concerned of its intention to do so, cut down or lop the tree or clear the undergrowth or vegetation. 
The Commission may, when, in the opinion of the Commission, any tree, undergrowth or vegetation growing on private property obstructs, or is likely to obstruct, the operation of any telecommunications installation, by notice in writing served upon the owner and occupier of that property, request him to cut down or lop the tree, or to clear and remove undergrowth or vegetation in the manner, and within the period, specified in the notice, and, upon default, the Commission may enter the property concerned and cut down or lop the tree, or clear and remove the undergrowth or vegetation, in the manner specified in the notice. 
No action or claim for compensation shall lie against the Commission, its officers, employees, servants or agents by reason of the reasonable exercise of the powers contained in this section. 
I think this is largely a theoretical argument. It is not a vital question. The provision in this Bill is the same as in the present Act and in a number of other public utility Acts such as, for example, those relating to the electricity supply organisations. The Post Office does not know of any case where there has been concern in the past or where there has been any contest. There has been no legal contest that I know of. I think this does not matter very much. I think it is more effective for the Commission to have this clause as it is but it is not vital and therefore I do not resist the amendment. 
Amendment agreed to. 
The Government is not prepared to accept this amendment. We already have modified the situation somewhat by the previous amendments to clause 17. After all, people have recourse to the law if they think the Commission is being unreasonable. The wording is the same as that which exists in the present Act, as I have pointed out, and is common to all public utilities, including the electricity supply organisations. In this case I think the Commission ought to be allowed strong power. If the person concerned considers that the Commission is unreasonable that person has recourse to the ordinary application of the law. Therefore I am not prepared to accept the amendment. We will vote against it. 
Question put: 
That the words proposed to be omitted  (Senator Durack's  amendment) be omitted. 
I move: 
In sub-clause ( 2 ), after ' to notify ' insert ' , in writing, '. 
The amendment is self-evident; it provides that the notification be given in writing. 
Amendment agreed to. 
Clause, as amended, agreed to. 
Clauses 19 to 38- by leave- taken together, and agreed to. 
Clause 39. 
A person shall not be appointed as an officer unless- 
a ) he is an Australian citizen; 
the Commission is satisfied, after he has undergone a medical examination required by the Commission, as to his health and physical fitness; 
he possesses such educational qualifications, or meets such other requirements (if any), as are determined by the Commission; and 
the Commission is satisfied that he is a fit and proper person to be an officer. 
Paragraph (2) (a) does not prevent the appointment, with the approval of the Minister, as an officer of a person who is not an Australian citizen. 
We have no objection to the amendments, as I mentioned in the discussion on the other Bill. The Parliamentary Counsel thought it would be more consistent with what has been put forward in the Parliament, it being usual for the Opposition to argue a rather conservative line on these issues. We do not object to the amendments. 
Amendments agreed to. 
Clause, as amended, agreed to. 
Clauses 40 to 42- by leave- taken together, and agreed to. 
Clause 43. 
Where, immediately before the commencing date- 
an award of the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission; 
a determination made by the Public Service Arbitrator; 
a determination of the Public Service Board in force under the Public Service Act 1 922- 1 974; 
a determination of the Overseas Telecommunications Commission (Australia) in force under the Overseas Telecommunications Commission Act 1946-1973; or 
an agreement to which section 3 1 of the Conciliation and Arbitration Act 1904-1974 applied, applied to or in relation to the persons, whether officers or employees, who performed the duties of offices included in a class of offices in the Postmaster-General 's Department or in the Service of the Overseas Telecommunications Commission (Australia), the Commission shall, in making its first determination of the terms and conditions of employment of the persons, whether officers or employees, performing the duties of positions included in the corresponding class of positions in the Australian Telecommunications Commission Service, determine terms and conditions no less favourable to those last-mentioned persons than the terms and conditions that were applicable to those first-mentioned persons immediately before the commencing date by virtue of that award, determination or agreement. 
As 1 indicated on the Postal Services Bill, the Government does not agree with the decision to eliminate the Overseas Telecommunications Commission from the coverage of the Bills. We strongly resist that, for the reasons I have given elsewhere. As a matter of principle, we divided in the case of the first test, and I indicated that we would oppose it on the voices but not divide the Committee, because there are numerous consequential amendments. 
Amendments agreed to. 
Clause, as amended, agreed to. 
Clauses 44 to 50- by leave- taken together, and agreed to. 
Clause 51. 
1 ) The promotion of an officer to a vacant position- 
is provisional and without increased salary pending confirmation of the promotion; 
shall be made known to officers in a manner prescribed by the regulations; and 
is subject to appeal as provided by this section. 
I move: 
In sub-clause ( 1 ) (b), leave out 'regulations', insert 'Bylaws'. 
The amendment is a drafting correction. 
Amendment agreed to. 
Clause, as amended, agreed to. 
Clauses 52 to 57- by leave- taken together, and agreed to. 
Clause 58. 
Where the officer who held an inquiry into the alleged misconduct of an officer is satisfied that the officer was guilty of the misconduct, he may counsel the officer or cause a supervisor of the officer to counsel him, or, if he is of the opinion that other action is necessary- 
admonish the officer; 
direct that a sum not exceeding $40 be deducted from the salary of the officer; 
if the officer occupies a position to which a range of salary is applicable and is in receipt of a salary other than the minimum salary of that range- direct that his salary be reduced to a lower salary within that range for a period not exceeding 12 months; or 
recommend to the Commission, in writing- 
that the Commission transfer the officer to another position, whether at the same or a different locality, being a position for which he is qualified and which has the same classification as the position held by the officer, and the salary, within the salary range of the position, that should be paid to the officer; 
that the Commission transfer the officer to another position, whether at the same or a different locality, being a position for which he is qualified and which has a lower classification than the position held by the officer, and the salary, within the salary range of the position, that should be paid to the officer; or (iii) that the Commission dismiss the officer from the Service. 
Where the Commission or an officer authorized for the purposes of sub-section (5) reduces the salary of an officer, the officer is entitled, at the expiration of the period specified by the Commission or by the first-mentioned officer, to be paid salary at the rate at which salary would have been payable to him if the reduction had not taken place. 
I move: 
After sub-clause (13) insert the following sub-clause: ( 13a) The admonition of an officer by the Commission or by an officer authorized for the purposes of sub-section (S) does not have any effect- 
if the officer appeals against his admonition- unless the appeal lapses or is withdrawn or a Disciplinary Appeal Board confirms the admonition; or 
in any other case- until the expiration of the period within which the officer may appeal against the admonition to a Disciplinary Appeal Board. '. 
The amendment is similar to that carried in relation to the Postal Services Bill. 
Amendment agreed to. 
Clause, as amended, agreed to. 
Clause 59 agreed to. 
Clause 60.  (4)Where- 
an officer has been suspended from duty under this section; 
the amount of salary that would otherwise have been paid to the officer in respect of the period or a part of the period of the suspension was not paid to him; and 
the Commission removes the suspension, the officer shall, subject to sub-section (S), be paid that amount of salary. 
I move: 
In sub-clause (4) (a), leave out 'this section', insert 'section 59'. 
The amendment is a drafting clarification. 
Amendment agreed to. 
Clause, as amended, agreed to. 
Clause 61 agreed to. 
Clause 62. 
1 ) An officer may appeal to a Disciplinary Appeal Board against a direction or decision made or given with respect to him by an officer or by the Commission under section 58 or against a decision made with respect to him by the Commission under sub-section 61(1). 
Where an officer appeals under sub-section ( 1 ) against a direction or decision on the ground that the action taken in accordance with that direction or decision is, excessively severe, evidence may be given on the hearing of the appeal- 
if the officer was, under section 59, suspended without salary prior to the giving of that direction or the making of that decision- of any loss of earnings arising from that suspension; 
I move: 
Leave out sub-clause ( 1 ), insert the following sub-clause: 
An officer may appeal to a Disciplinary Appeal Board- 
against his admonition by, or a direction or decision made or given in respect to him by, an officer or the Commission under section 58; or 
against a decision made with respect to him by the Commission under sub-section 61(1).'. 
The amendment refers to a prescription which has been carried in the Postal Services Bill. 
Amendment agreed to. 
Amendment (by  Senator Bishop)  agreed to: 
In sub-clause (6), after 'action', insert 'to be'. 
Clause, as amended, agreed to. 
Clauses 63 and 64- by leave- taken together, and agreed to. 
Clause 65. 
1 ) Where an officer is absent from duty without permission, and has been so absent for a continuous period of not less than 4 weeks, the Commission may send to him, by prepaid registered post addressed to him at the address of the officer last known to the Commission, a notice informing him that unless, within a period of 2 weeks from and including the date on which the notice was sent- 
he returns to duty; or 
he explains his absence and seeks the permission of the Commission for any further period of absence that may be necessary having regard to that explanation, he will be deemed to have resigned upon the expiration of that last-mentioned period. 
I move: 
In sub-clause (1) (b), leave out 'last-mentioned period', insert 'period of 2 weeks'. 
The amendment is simply a drafting clarification. 
Amendment agreed to. 
Clause, as amended, agreed to. 
Clauses 66 and 67- by leave- taken together, and agreed to. 
Clause 68. 
In the application of Division 1 of Part III of the Conciliation and Arbitration Act 1904-1974 in accordance with sub-section ( 1 ) of this section- 
references to industrial disputes shall be read as references to industrial questions in respect of the Service; 
references to the parties to an industrial dispute shall be read, in relation to the powers of the Commission under paragraph 67 ( 1 ) (b) of this Act, as references to employees to whose employment the industrial disputes or industrial matters relate, the Australian Postal Commission and organisations of which any such employees are members; and 
references to arbitration shall be read as including references to the hearing and determination of industrial matters in respect of the Service. 
Amendment (by  Senator Bishop)  agreed to: 
Leave out 'Postal ', insert 'Telecommunications '. 
Clause, as amended, agreed to. 
Clauses 69 and 70- by leave- taken together, and agreed to. 
Clause 71. 
1 ) The Treasurer shall determine- 
the amount that should, in his opinion, be taken to be the value of the rights, property and assets vested in the Commission in accordance with section 33 of the Transitional Provisions Act having regard to the values of the assets of the Overseas Telecommunications Commission (Australia) by reference to which the amounts shown in the Balance Sheet of that Commission, as at the date immediately preceding the commencing date, as the values of the assets of the last-mentioned Commission were ascertained. 
The Treasurer shall determine- 
the amount that should, in his opinion, be taken to be the sum of the amounts of the liabilities that became the responsibility of the Commission in accordance with section 33 of the Transitional Provisions Act having regard to the amounts of the liabilities of the Overseas Telecommunications Commission (Australia) by reference to which the amounts shown in the Balance Sheet of that last-mentioned Commission as at the date immediately preceding the commencing date as 'deferred liabilities', and 'current liabilities' were ascertained. 
I would have thought that the matter was evident, because tramways are insignificant if we compare the length of tramway line with the length of railway track in Australia. Consequently, I do not think that there is any need to have, in relation to tramways or omnibus services, a tight application of the Act such as there was previously. That is the simple answer. If we were to say that the small lengths of tramway lines and the bus services should be restricted, that would be petty. That is the main reason for the Government's opposition to the amendment, and I think the proposition is evident. 
Question put: 
That the words proposed to be left out  (Senator Durack's amendment)  be left out. 
I move: 
In sub-clause 2 leave out paragraph (b), insert the following paragraph: 
by an authority of a State responsible for operating tramway or omnibus services in the State, being installations required for the transmission, by Une, of communications the transmission of which is necessary for the operation of the tramway or omnibus services for which the authority is responsible; 
This amendment results from representations that have been made by some State Ministers. The Government proposal covers the position to which  Senator Durack  has referred. 
I thank  Senator Durack  for repeating what I said to him privately. We were rather concerned that there might be a situation where exemptions would apply. He says that they would be related only to present activities. I suggest to  Senator Durack  that he consider adding to his amendment certain words which will make it clear that there is  no intention to do other than what he stated. I have not been able to circulate copies of the words to which I refer, but I think the Committee will agree that they are necessary. I suggest that at the end of his amendment he add these words:  insofar as this applies to telecommunications installations and systems owned and operated by the Overseas Telecommunications Commission for communications between Australia and overseas and otherwise not inconsistent with the Overseas Telecommunications Act. 
I think that makes it perfectly clear that there is no general opening of doors to allow new activities. Therefore, I suggest that  Senator Durack  might accept those words. If he does not, I will move them as an amendment to his amendment. 
I move: 
In sub-clause  (6),  leave out 'debtor', insert 'creditor'. 
It is a correction. 
Amendment agreed to. 
Clause, as amended, agreed to. 
Clauses 105 and 106- by leave- taken together, and agreed to. 
Clause 107. 
In this section- 
a reference to entry by the Commission onto premises in connexion with the performance of its functions includes a reference to the entry onto premises- 
of an officer or employee in the course of performing his duties; and 
of a person engaged on behalf of the Commission in the delivery of telecommunications messages or for purposes connected with the delivery of telecommunications messages; 
b) a reference to the use of premises by the Commission in connexion with the performance of its functions includes a reference for the use of premises by a person acting on behalf of the Commission in connexion with the performance of its functions; and 
a reference to the owner or occupier of premises, being a part of a road, is a reference to the person entitled to be paid a toll, fee or charge for entry onto that part of the road. 
I think everybody knows that the preparation of these Bills has been a massive job. For example, it has been necessary to reorganise the whole of the Post Office into 2 commissions. The legislation which has been brought down as a result has been the subject of consideration by managers, by unions and by other groups in the community. Of course corrections have to be made. If  Senator Steele  Hall had listened this afternoon he would have heard an honourable senator have second thoughts about a word. An honourable senator had a second choice about the word which he would use in place of another word. I emphasise the magnitude of the task. Very important Acts which had been on the statute book for many years had to be revised. The Parliamentary Counsel has been considering the Bills consistently, particularly most recently. He has suggested these minor corrections. He has suggested that we amend the Bills now rather than introduce other Bills later. This is a simple operation. I refer again to the size of these Bills. He has said: 'I suggest that you use this word instead of that word'. We are tidying up the legislation instead of leaving it in a position in which it might be necessary to introduce other Bills at some future time or in which it might be arguable that certain clauses have different meanings from what was intended. I think it is proper to do it now. I hope the Committee will accept that view in regard to the very extensive legislative effort that has been made by everybody concerned. 
For the reasons given previously, we will not divide the Committee but will oppose the amendment on the voices. 
Clause negatived. 
Clause 1 1 1 agreed to. 
Clause 112. 
1 ) the Commission may make by-laws, not inconsistent with this Act and the regulations, prescribing all matters which are required or permitted to be prescribed by the Bylaws, and making provision for, or with respect to- 
the receipt, transmission and delivery of inland and overseas telegrams; 
I move: 
In sub-clause ( 1 ), omit 'Section ', insert 'Sections 4 and '. 
This amendment is intended to ensure that the amendments to the Act shall be effected on a common date to be fixed by proclamation. 
Amendment agreed to. 
Clause, as amended, agreed to. 
Clauses 3 and 4- by leave- taken together, and agreed to. 
Clause 5. 
The Commission is, by force of this section, entitled to the possession of all postal articles to which this section applies. 
I move: 
In sub-clause (2), omit 'The Commission', insert 'The Australian Postal Commission'. 
This is a drafting clarification. 
Amendment agreed to. 
Clause, as amended, agreed to. 
Clauses 6 to 8- by leave- taken together, and agreed to. 
Clause 9. 
The Australian Telecommunications Commission is, by virtue of this section, entitled to possession of all overseas messages, within the meaning of the Overseas Telecommunications Act 1946-1973, received by the Overseas Telecommunications Commission (Australia) before the commencing day and not transmitted, or delivered to the addressee, as the case requires, before that day. 
The Telecommunications Act 1975 applies, subject to sub-section (6), to an overseas message referred to in subsection (4) as if it had been received by the Australian Telecommunications Commission on the commencing day for transmission or delivery, as the case may be. 
The charge for the transmission of an overseas message referred to in sub-section (4) is the charge that was payable on the day on which it was received by the Overseas Telecommunications Commission (Australia) or by another body or person on its behalf. 
I move: 
After sub-clause (3), insert the following sub-clause:- (3a) Sub-section (3) does not apply to a person who, immediately before the commencing day, was an officer of the Overseas Telecommunications Commission (Australia) and, immediately before he became an officer to whom the Officers' Rights Declaration Act 1928, or that Act as subsequently amended, applied, was an officer of a Department other than the Postmaster-General's Department. '. 
This amendment relates to our intention to include the Overseas Telecommunications Commission in the new telecommunications organisation. 
I move: 
After clause 39 insert the following clause:- 39a. (1) In this section, unless the contrary intention appears- "Arbitrator" means the person holding, or performing the duties of, the office of Public Service Arbitrator under the Public Service Arbitration Act 1 920- 1 973; "claim " means a claim made under the Public Service Arbitration Act 1920-1973, or an application made under that Act to vary a determination of the Arbitrator, being a claim or application- 
that was submitted to the Arbitrator before the commencing day; 
that relates, either in whole or in part, to the Postmaster-General's Department or the Overseas Telecommunications Commission (Australia); and 
that is declared by the regulations to be a claim or application, as the case may be, to which this section applies; "Deputy Arbitrator" means a person holding an office of Deputy Public Service Arbitrator under the Public Service Arbitration Act 1920-1973; "relevant Commission", in relation to a claim, means a Commission declared under sub-section (2) to be a relevant Commission in relation to that claim. 
For the purposes of this section, the regulations may declare that the Australian Postal Commission or the Australian Telecommunications Commission, or that each of those Commissions, is a relevant Commission in relation to a claim. 
Notwithstanding that a claim relates, either in whole or in part, to the Postmaster-General's Department or the 
Overseas Telecommunications Commission (Australia) or to both- 
where the hearing of the claim was completed, but a determination was not made in respect  of  the claim, before the commencing day, a determination may be made in respect of the claim; 
where the hearing of the claim was commenced, but was not completed, before the commencing day, the hearing may be completed, and a determination may be made in respect of the claim; 
where a determination was made in respect of the claim, and an appeal against that determination was instituted but not determined, before the commencing day, a determination may be made, or the appeal may be heard and a determination may be made, as the case requires, in respect of the appeal; or 
where- 
a determination in respect of the claim was made before the commencing day but the time for instituting an appeal against that determination had not expired before that day; or 
a determination in respect of the claim is made on or after the commencing day, an appeal may be instituted against that determination and the appeal may then be heard and a determination made in respect of the appeal, under the Public Service Arbitration Act 1920-1973 on or after the commencing day, and that determination may purport to relate to the Postmaster-General 's Department or the Overseas Telecommunications Commission (Australia), or to both, as the case requires. 
Where the hearing of the whole or a part of a claim referred to in paragraph (3) (b) was deferred before the commencing day, being a claim or a pan of a claim that related to the Postmaster-General's Department or the Overseas Telecommunications Commission (Australia), or to both, sub-section (3) does not authorize the making of a determination in respect of that claim or that part of that claim, as the case may be. 
Subject to sub-section (6), where a determination referred to in sub-section (3) that is made after the commencing day in respect of a claim purports to determine terms and conditions of employment applicable to persons performing the duties of- 
offices included in a class of offices, or designations of persons included in a class of designations of persons, in the Postmaster-General's Department; or 
positions included in a class of positions in the Service of the Overseas Telecommunications Commission (Australia), a relevant Commission in relation to the claim shall vary the terms and conditions of employment applicable to the officers and employees in its Service in such a manner as is necessary to ensure that the terms and conditions of employment, in respect of matters to which the determination relates, of those officers and employees who are performing the duties of positions included in a class of positions in its Service that correspond with a class of offices, a class of designations of persons or a class of positions referred to in paragraph (a) or (b) are no less favourable than those firstmentioned terms and conditions of employment. 
Sub-section (5) does not apply to a determination made by the Arbitrator or a Deputy Arbitrator- 
until the expiration of the period allowed for the institution of an appeal against the determination; and 
if an appeal is instituted, or appeals are instituted, against the determination- unless the appeal, or each of the appeals, is withdrawn or held not to lie or the determination is confirmed, either with or without a variation. 
For the purposes of making a determination referred to in sub-section (3), the Arbitrator, the Deputy Arbitrator or the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission, as the case requires, shall assume that- 
the persons who, immediately before the commencing day, were employed in the Postmaster-General's Department were continuing, on and after that day, to be members of the Australian Public Service, to be employed in that Department and to be performing the duties that they were performing immediately before that day; 
the offices established in, and the designations of persons employed in, the Postmaster-General 's Department immediately before the commencing day continued in existence without change of duties, on and after that day, as offices in, and as designations of persons employed in, that Department; 
the persons who, immediately before the commencing day, were employed by the Overseas Telecommunications Commission (Australia) were continuing, on and after that day, to be employed by that Commission and to be performing the duties that they were performing immediately before that day; and 
the positions established in the Service of the Overseas Telecommunications Commission (Australia) immediately before the commencing day continued in existence without change of duties, on and after that day, as positions in the Service of that Commission. 
The Conciliation and Arbitration Commission, the Arbitrator and a Deputy Arbitrator have, respectively, in respect of a hearing of a claim or appeal referred to in subsection (3) and in respect of the making of a determination referred to in that sub-section, all the powers conferred on it or him by the Public Service Arbitration Act 1920-1973, including the powers conferred by sections 15 and 15a, but an application does not lie to the Arbitrator to vary a determination so referred to in so far as the determination purports to relate to the Postmaster-General's Department or the Overseas Telecommunications Commission (Australia). 
A relevant Commission in relation to a claim has, by virtue of this sub-section, the like rights, and may exercise the like powers, in relation to the claim, or a determination made in respect of the claim, to which sub-section (3) applies as the rights and powers that are conferred by the Public Service Arbitration Act 1920-1973 on the Public Service Board in relation to the claim or determination. 
10) Nothing in this section shall be taken to affect the application of section 22 of the Public Service Arbitration Act 1920-1973 in relation to a determination, but a determination of a kind referred to in sub-section (3) shall not, for the purposes of that section, be deemed to be not in accord with the Postal Services Act 1975 or the Telecommunications Act 1975. 
Nothing in this section shall be taken to affect the application of the Public Service Arbitration Act 1920-1973 in relation to a claim in so far as the claim is not related to the Postmaster-General's Department or the Overseas Telecommunications Commission (Australia).'. 
This an embracing provision to preserve the current arbitration proceedings. In this proposed new clause are provisions which relate to the Overseas Telecommunications Commission. I have indicated to  Senator Durack  that the way to deal with references to that Commission in the proposed new clause would be for him to move amendments to the amendment I have just moved to extract those references. 
I move: 
After clause 4 1 insert the following clause: 41a. The Governor-General may make regulations, not inconsistent with this Act, prescribing all matters which by this Act are required or permitted to be prescribed by the regulations. '. 
Proposed new clause agreed to. 
Schedule 1. 
PART III-OVERSEAS TELECOMMUNICATIONS ACTS 
Overseas Telecommunications Act 1946 
Overseas Telecommunications Act 1952 
Overseas Telecommunications Act 1958 
Overseas Telecommunications Act 1 963 
Overseas Telecommunications Act 1968 
Overseas Telecommunications Act (No. 2) 1968 
Overseas Telecommunications Act 1 97 1 
As to whether those things are factual, the honourable senator heard the answer given yesterday by  Senator Douglas  McClelland. I can only say that  Senator Douglas  McClelland and myself have discussed the question. We intend to make a joint submission to Cabinet in respect of the control of certain stations, but I think I can say that both of us agree that the control should be vested in a committee. That is as much as I should say until the submission has been made to the Government.  Senator Young  is seeking to interject. I suggest that he wait until I answer the question and then if he wishes he can pursue the matter with  Senator Douglas  McClelland. To put the matters raised by  Senator Greenwood  on a factual basis, all I am prepared to say at this stage is that the Minister and I intend to make a submission on this and both of us agree that any such stations should be in the control of a committee. 
I would just indicate that the Government opposes the proposition but, in order to save time, we will not divide the Senate on the issue. We simply want our opposition to be recorded. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
For the reasons which I stated when replying to the second reading debate, it seems to the Government that the opportunity has been available to the Opposition to prepare itself to debate the Bill forthwith. I remind honourable senators that the Bill was introduced in the other place on 9 April 1 975 and it was introduced in this chamber a month ago. The issues that might be involved in debating the Inter-State Commission Bill are well known; they are well founded in the Constitution. The requirement to set up the Inter-State Commission has been demonstrated by many decisions, including the decision of a committee which I referred to and on which  Senator Wright  sat. It recognised the need then for the establishment of the Inter-State Commission. Since that time, as a result of many of the Senate's own activities, the requirement for the setting up of the Inter-State Commission has been established. The Opposition accepts the fact that it has taken the Government 2 2 1/2 years to bring forward a Bill which it felt might be acceptable to the Parliament. Whether the Parliament accepts the Bill is another question. The question at the moment is whether it will refuse to deal with the Bill in a manner which is, I think, speedy and reasonable. 
We do not think it is reasonable that the matter should be delayed for 3 months. Accordingly we will oppose the proposition and divide the Committee on it. 
Question put: 
That the motion  (Senator Withers's)  be agreed to. 
-I think it is well known now that the Australian Government decided to take more than its quota of apprentices into its departments. That action has been taken. In addition it consulted all the States to endeavour to get them to do the same thing, and I understand that the States generally have agreed. They have been co-operative. There is provision also under the National Employment and Training Scheme to ensure that any apprentices who might be subject to redundancy should keep their jobs. I refer  Senator Brown  to a statement by the New South Wales Minister for Labour and Industry, a colleague of  Mr Rafferty.  He said that it is remarkable that the intake, which he describes as the highest February total on record, should have occurred during a period of high unemployment. The honourable senator might recall also that we have recently increased the subsidies available to employers so that they would take the maximum number of apprentices. 
The answer is of course that under the Broadcasting and Television Act there is power to grant licences for commercial stations. Under the Wireless Telegraphy Act, which is at present controlled by me, I have power to issue a licence which would include all systems of transmitting and receiving telegraphic and telephonic messages where there is no continuous connection, and so on. As to the general question, both I and the Minister for the Media have already answered what is proposed to be done in relation to the matter which has been raised concerning  Mr Grassby  's interest in the 2 new ethnic stations. We have said that we intend to make a submission to the Cabinet. I have said, and  Senator Douglas  McClelland agrees with me, that the new stations ought to be controlled by committees. Until the Government has considered the submission and has made an announcement I do not think it would be proper for me to give any more information. 
-On Tuesday, 20 May,  Senator Rae  directed a question to me as Minister representing the Minister for Defence relating to the announcement which the Minister had made about consideration being given to a logistic supply ship and whether this was in any way different from what had been announced in 1 970 by  Mr Malcolm  Fraser when he was Minister for Defence.  I  refer the honourable senator to the statement which the present Minister made in another place on 23 April, as follows: 
In the maritime transport area Australia has not possessed for very many years a service operated vessel with an overthebeach capability to provide for the ocean transportation of heavy military cargoes and any necessary force to undeveloped landing areas. I expect to make a decision soon on the construction of such a ship. 
I  understand from the Minister that the proposed ship is very different from the one which  Mr Fraser  referred to on 10 March 1970, but about which the Government at that time did absolutely nothing except to set up a committee which had not reported to  Mr Fraser, Mr Gorton,  or  Mr Fairbairn,  who followed in quick succession as Ministers for Defence. The announcement by the Minister about the construction of the ship is an example of the Government's action to take positive decisions in relation to defence procurement. 

 Senator Rae further asked the difference in equipment between the Nimrod and the Orion, which are being considered for replacement of our Neptune long range maritime patrol aircraft.  I  wish to inform the honourable senator that, despite what he has read in the Press, the Minister has not accepted either proposal as yet. The Minister announced in November last that he would be making a choice between these 2 competitors, and service personnel have been involved since that time in evaluation of the 2 aircraft. As  I  assured the Senate on Tuesday, no decision has been made. An announcement will be made by the Minister in the near future. 
in reply- The Government considers that the real issue in this debate is whether the Senate shall proceed with legislation which is known to be a requirement of the Constitution, not a promise of the Government. The issue is whether the Opposition in the Senate will frustrate, once again, the Government's intention to bring about something which is a requirement of the Constitution. In answer to repeated arguments made by honourable senators opposite which have been reinforced by  Senator Durack,  who spoke about the promise of the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam),  and was supported by  Senator Greenwood  I want to say clearly that the establishment by the Government of an Inter-State Commission is an obligation. It is a subject that is well-known and well recognised. The availability of such a Commission is well established. 
As  Senator Durack  has said, this legislation was not conceived in a hurry. It has taken the Government 2 1/2 years to bring down the legislation. It is in a form which can be comprehended and understood and argued. Opposition senators yesterday argued many of the clauses, which shows clearly that they understood what is contained in the Bill, although they argued that the Bill was too powerful. It has been argued that the provisions are horrendous, too strong, take away the rights of the States, and take away from the motivation of authorities to support co-operation between the States and the Federal Government. 
I want to repeat what is contained in the Constitution so that all honourable senators will remember it. Section 101 of the Constitution states: 
There shall be an Inter-State Commission, with such powers of adjudication and administration as the Parliament deems necessary for the execution and maintenance, within the Commonwealth, of the provisions of this Constitution relating to trade and commerce, and of all laws made thereunder. 
Section 102 of the Constitution states: 
The Parliament may by any law with respect to trade or commerce forbid, as to railways, any preference or discrimination by any State, or by any authority constituted under a State, if such preference or discrimination is undue and unreasonable, or unjust to any State; due regard being had to the financial responsibilities incurred by any State in connexion with the construction and maintenance of its railways. But no preference or discrimination shall, within the meaning of this section, be taken to be undue and unreasonable, or unjust to any State, unless so adjudged by the Inter-State Commission. 
Section 103 of the Constitution refers to how the Commission shall be constituted. We have heard from speakers on the other side who have said that they do not now contest the view that there ought to be an interstate commission, but they would prefer to see some weak administrative organisation or tribunal emasculated as to powers although they understand clearly that the Government wants to have a commission with powers which in the first instance can be applied in the area of transport but not hiding the fact that in relation to some other areas those powers may be availed of when the Government's experience and the Commission's experiences are better established. The Commission itself is subject to parliamentary control. If the Commission does something which is not acceptable to any member of the Parliament he can take action in the Parliament to do something about it or if somebody chooses to take action against a decision of the Commission the matter may go to the High Court. 
In addition I suppose the strongest point is that decisions of the Commission will always be subject to public scrutiny. Honourable senators have read the Bill and they will have heard what the Minister for Transport  (Mr Charles Jones)  has said. He wants the problems of transport to be well tested, whether they relate to freight rates to and from Tasmania, freight rates in Queensland or in relation to carriers transporting goods between Sydney and Queensland, the problems of transport co-ordination within the States, the problems of bridge heights, road levels or traffic regulations. Everybody well knows these issues. Honourable senators know them well because this Senate itself, through many committees, has often highlighted them.  Senator Durack  mentioned as an aside the complexity of the problems involved in developing an Australian transport system. Everybody will agree that the Australian transport system has not been developed along rational lines. Many speakers on the other side have talked about these problems including  Senator Wright  who last night talked about them in relation to the situation in Tasmania.  Senator Guilfoyle  said that in relation to Tasmania such a commission could investigate the problems which exist there. I remind the Senate that the setting up of this Commission is not a promise. The Parliament is obliged to give effect to the proposal in the Constitution to set up this Commission. It has not been given effect to despite the fact that on many occasions the evidence presented to Senate committees has indicated that there should be such a commission. 
The honourable senator is listening to me. My colleagues not only support what I am putting to the Senate but they will shortly come into this place and vote against what the Opposition has decided to do in relation to this legislation. Whatever action the Commission may take, it will be wide open to public scrutiny and to action by the Government and by the Parliament. I refer to clause 40 of the Bill which reads: 
1 ) The Commission shall, within 60 days after each year ending on 30 June, furnish to the Minister, for presentation to the Parliament, a report with respect to the operations of the Commission in that year. 
The Commission shall include in the report with respect to its operations in a year particulars of any matters into which the Commission was directed by the Minister during that year to hold an investigation. 
I think that we all now accept that there is a need for such a Federal body. There is an obligation on the Government to establish such a Federal body. Those matters which ought to be considered are well known. The Minister referred to some of them when he talked about the differences in railway gauges, the varying State road regulations, transport weight limits and so on. I remember quite well, as  Senator Sir Magnus  Cormack and my colleagues who sat on the Senate Select Committee on the Container Method of Handling Cargoes would also recall, the many problems involved in transport with the advent of containers into the general transport system. At that time the idea of resurrecting the Inter-State Commission was a matter of some concern and discussion. The position in Australia is that the States and maybe other Federal governments in concert with them have not made the rapid advance to a national, coordinated policy that we would want. I think I have mentioned that in the other place  Mr Wentworth,  who has been a great champion for the railways over the years, has more than once drawn to the attention of the Parliament the need for such a co-ordinated policy. This Government has moved in this direction. It has amalgamated departments. It has charged a Minister with a wide group of responsibilities in the transport field but we know that this is not enough and something more should be done. 
It is not a question of our wanting what is in this Bill. The issue today is that the Senate ought to proceed with discussing this Bill. If it wants to reject some of the clauses in the Bill it should proceed to do so. This Bill was introduced a month ago in the Senate. It was debated in the other place. The Hansard records are available for consideration by honourable senators in relation to what they may wish to put from their own point of view. As we know, 14 amendments were moved by the Opposition in the other place. Perhaps they will be copied in this Senate. 
A very clever device.  Senator, you  had your opportunity last night when the proceedings of the Senate were being broadcast. This is something I want to talk about. In the Senate Wednesday, which is broadcast day, is always showday. Recently on every broadcasting day the whole time has been taken up by Opposition senators simply canvassing political issues and the Opposition has not been developing arguments which might well be put forward in the Committee stage, as honourable senators well know. But they say in defence: You did that when you were in Opposition'. 
That is not the point. The point is that the Opposition has frustrated the work of the Government, as honourable senators opposite well know. Let me give the Senate some details on this frustration. I will refer to Bills which have been rejected, laid aside or deferred.  (Quorum formed)  I was referring to the suggestion that there has been a failure to consider this Bill properly and it might be considered to constitute a reason to apply section 57 of the Constitution. I said that the Opposition has had a month to consider what it might do in the Committee stage of this Bill. The Opposition speeches in the second reading debate yesterday indicate quite clearly that they have read and put forward arguments on the clauses in the Bill. Those arguments were supposed to be developed in the Committee stage. I then said that that was symptomatic of what the Opposition had been doing because every Wednesday, when the proceedings were being broadcast, it was showday. I want to refer to the number of Bills laid aside or deferred by the Opposition since we have been the Government.  A  total of 37 Bills - 
-That does not matter. Let me repeat what  Senator Withers  is on record as having said. Have honourable senators seen the statement in the Melbourne 'Sun' of 17 May, headed 'Withers warns of a tougher Senate', which states: 
The Opposition Leader in the Senate,  Senator Withers,  yesterday foreshadowed tougher opposition to Government legislation.  Senator Withers  made it clear the Opposition would block 3 Electoral Redistribution Bills to be considered next week. And he left no doubt Opposition senators would block the proposed Inter-State Commission although initially they would only defer the Bill. 
Over the next few months you will be hearing a lot about alleged Senate obstruction,'  Senator Withers  said. 'The Government wants to force its legislation through Parliament without reasoned debate and consideration. ' 
That is the full statement of the Leader of the Opposition, and it gives him the benefit of the argument and the excuse that he used. We all know that. Is it not obvious that on Wednesdays, when these proceedings are broadcast, the Opposition puts on a show? If the Government had any sense we would re-arrange some of the business. 
It has been claimed in recent months that the Opposition has been more co-operative with the Government. On broadcast days it is very hard to see what that co-operation entails. 
Why do you not be quiet and be a regular senator? Why do you not stop interjecting? 
The ACTING  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Davidson)-  Order! The Minister is replying to the debate. 
-I want to refer to the - 
-Last night  Senator Wright  took some pride in saying that he and the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitiam)  were the only 2 remaining members of the Constitutional Review Committee. He should have read that Committee's recommendations on the reconstruction of the Inter-State Commission. At paragraph 866 of its report it stated: 
Something more should be said about the Inter-State Commission. Section 101 of the Constitution requires the appointment of the Commission. 
The Committee said it was required. It was not a promise, as somebody said earlier. The Commission continued: 
The section reads- 101. There shall be an Inter-State Commission, with such powers of adjudication and administration as the Parliament deems necessary for the execution and maintenance, within the Commonwealth, of the provisions of this Constitution relating to trade and commerce, and of all laws made thereunder. 
The Committee continued and referred to the time when the Commission was in operation. It then made this recommendation in paragraph 868: 
The Committee believes that the Commission should be reconstituted in accordance with the Constitution. The Commission would be capable of performing many useful functions in relation to the provisions of the Constitution relating to interstate trade and commerce. It could, for example, engage in expert fact-finding as an aid to the judicial process or inquire into the economic effects of legislation on interstate trade and commerce. 

 Senator Wright comes along to the chamber. 
-Of course. The Committee recommended this but no action was taken.  Senator Wright  lent his name to that Committee's report yet he comes along and complains that the Government, after spending  2Vi  years in designing this legislation, has brought down something with which he does not agree and therefore he will not proceed with it. He says that there has to be a delay of 3 months.  Senator Wright  can claim to be an expert in this field, he spends a lot of time considering these things and arguing them in the Senate, and yet he says that he cannot proceed with this and wants 3 months delay. Is it any wonder the Government complains about the actions of the Senate Opposition? 
I want to refer to a matter which I think  Senator Keeffe  raised last night. Let me remind honourable senators about the Senate Select Committee on Off-Shore Petroleum Resources. The members of that Committee were Senators Young, Cant, Gair, Hannan, Keeffe, Laucke, O'Byrne and Webster. What did that Committee say about this subject? In paragraph 8.94 of its report the Committee said: 
The Committee considers that if a need for a network of interstate pipelines is established, the Government should give consideration to the re-establishment of the Inter-State c ommission empowered to regulate the interstate transportation of oil and gas. 
But the Opposition will not proceed. It knows all these things. It has heard them and it has read them. Opposition members have taken part in these things. I refer to the Senate Select Committee on Water Pollution. On that Committee there was the present Acting  Deputy President, Senator Davidson,  and Senators Byrne, Mulvihill, Prowse, Rae and Ridley. That Committee stated: 
Although there can be a measure of arbitration within the national body, conflict between Commonwealth, State and individual interests will require resolution. It is necessary, therefore, that an independent body within the Federal concept be created or utilised for this purpose. In this regard, the Committee has noted the nature of the Inter-State Commission provided for in the Constitution, and believes that consideration might well be given to its re-formation with, if constitutionally possible, effective arbitral power, and in a form suitable for the resolution of these potential conflicts. 
I suppose I could read not only the most recent statements but statements made 77 years ago when many members of Parliament had a firm belief in setting up the Inter-State Commission. I could refer even to  Mr Wentworth,  the honourable member for Mackellar, who saw the position. I could refer to people like  Mr Drummond,  the honourable member for New England in 1966. I could refer to a former PostmasterGeneral,  Senator McLachlan,  and what he said in 1938 and also refer to Barton's statement. Everybody knows these things. 
I was a member of the Senate Select Committee on the Container Method of Handling 
Cargoes and we considered this question. Anybody who knows the complexities of modern transport and organisation today- who should know better than a Tasmanian- well knows that there has to be a body such as the Inter-State Commission. 

 - Senator Wright complains that our proposals are too drastic but the power in his motion is almost overwhelming. May I refer to a question, as an example, which  Senator Sir Magnus  Cormack posed during the hearings of the Senate Select Committee on the Container Method of Handling Cargoes. This appears at page 960 of the transcript.  Senator Sir Magnus  Cormack said: 
I feel that I cannot let the Committee go to the report stage without an expression of opinion as to whether the Interstate Commerce Commission and the relevant sections of the Act have any relevance to this problem? 
Professor Derham replied: 
I think it could, particularly if one takes American experience into account, and, after looking at it, takes the view that some of their Commissions, like the Federal Communications Commission and their Interstate Commerce Commission have done valuable work and as we develop more activities which are interstate and foreign affecting what transport and commerce goes on inside the country, particularly if we legislate, there will no doubt be problems and questions which can come up at a high level and which, if you like, you could call the consequences of administrative control. 
I am referring to the Senate Select Committee on the Container Method of Handling Cargoes. If the honourable senator likes to read the transcript he will see that Professor Derham also argued that it would have to be a strong body, not just one to make investigations. In answer to a question I asked he observed that it would have to be a very strong body. 
The unusual thing about this debate is that although  Senator Withers  wants to defer it for 3 months, nobody has asked the Minister for Transport or the Department of Transport for advice from its advisers. Although the Minister said that he was quite happy to make available any advice or advisers to honourable members in the other place, nobody in that place or in this place has decided to ask any questions of the advisers in order to check their own views about the position. To answer the sorts of questions which the Opposition has raised: Obviously there clearly is a present lack of co-ordination within the various modes of transport, which we all know about; there is consequent frustration on the part of users, and there are complexities relating to the different forms of transport which require attention. As I mentioned in regard to the Tasmanian inquiry, there were clear allegations which ought to be considered by the Commission. We know that the founding fathers decided and recommended that this should be so, and what the Government is doing is putting forward a policy which would be effective. It has been said that if we do this we shall disturb the present State organisations which are advisory bodies, and that there are changed circumstances today as between the time when the Constitutional Review Committee was established or the time when the Constitution was set down. Of course there have been changes. There are more complex decisions to be made, there are more discriminations to be considered, and it is a reason, as I have said, for the Commission to be put into operation. 

 Senator Guilfoyle referred to, I think, 3 present Acts which she considered might be interfered with by such a commission. In the first place she talked about the Airlines and Navigation Act. That Act is designed purely to establish the maximum safety in respect of airline activities. The Minister for Transport has already said: 
I have already referred to our intention to establish a transport accident investigation authority and accordingly it is of course inappropriate to allocate a transport accident investigation function to the Inter-State Commission. 
That is one activity which would not be included. In respect of the other two issues which  Senator Guilfoyle  has raised- I refer to the Airlines Agreement and the related agreement- the Minister has made it clear that they would come within the ambit of the Commission. I point out to senators opposite that if they do not like that they are in a position to amend the Bill if they want to do so. If they do not agree and if they say it should apply only to road transport, they are in a position to move to that effect. I would not consider that the Government would accept it, because we must have a policy related to not only one form of transport but to all forms of transport. We are saying that the use of the Commission in the transport field is precisely in accordance with the announced policy of the Government. 
The Commission cannot operate under other powers without further legislation or regulations, all of which are in the power of the Parliament to check. Surely there must be some opportunity for the Senate to proceed with these things immediately. Many aspects of the Bill were raised. Generally, they were matters which might well have been argued in the Committee stage. Both  Senator Greenwood  and  Senator Durack  referred to clause 10 and said that they were very concerned at the extent of the powers contained in it. Clause 10 provides: 
It is unlawful, in respect of or so as to affect overseas transport or inter-State transport, or in or in connexion with the provision of any service by way of or in relation to overseas transport or inter-State transport, to- 
give to any particular person, State, locality or class or kind of transport any preference or advantage; or 
subject any particular person, State, locality or class or kind of transport to any discrimination or disadvantage, that the Commission has adjudged to be undue and unreasonable. 
That clause must be read in conjunction with clause 9, which states the principle, and I think honourable senators will agree that it is a principle that is consistent with the Constitution. It provides: 
1 ) A State, or an authority of a State, shall not, as to any railway, in respect of or so as to affect trade or commerce among the States, give any preference or make any discrimination that the Commission has adjudged undue and unreasonable, or unjust to any State. 
In deciding whether the doing of any act or thing constitutes for the purposes of sub-section ( 1 ) a preference or discrimination that is undue and unreasonable, or unjust to any State, the Commission shall have due regard to the financial responsibilities incurred by any State in connection with the construction and maintenance of its railways. 
All it does is extend; it provides a related and necessary clause to the basic principle of clause 9.  Senator Wright  is seeking to interject. I suggest that if he does not like that he should allow the Bill to move into Committee and give the Committee the benefit of his arguments. I refer now to clause 13, which has been mentioned by one or other of the speakers. This allows the transfer of powers conferred on other bodies insofar as those powers are made under the provisions of the Constitution relating to trade and commerce. Much argument has developed on this, including an argument from, I think,  Senator Greenwood,  who talked about the use which might be made of powers in, for example, the Conciliation and Arbitration Act. He referred to the position of the Conciliation and Arbitration Act. He should know that the general powers of the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission rely upon the very special constitutional basis provided for in section 51 (xxxv) of the Constitution, and he will also know that this is not a provision of the Constitution relating to trade and commerce.  Senator Wright  is again seeking to interject. He will have his chance to speak. 
The honourable senator will have every chance to argue the constitutional views. I am putting forward an answer, and he will give me the privilege of stating in reply what I think are answers. If he wants to argue the matter in Committee, he can do so. I know it is hurting him. I know that he does not like to be reminded of his previous activities supporting an Inter-State Commission, and now he is not anxious to have one. He wants to emasculate the Bill. When the matter is debated in Committee there is no doubt in my mind that he and other senators opposite will make sure that there are no strong provisions except anti-union provisions. That is my view, and I think it will be found that I am right. 
The ACTING  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Davidson)-  Order! The Minister's time has expired. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. 
In Committee 
Clause 1. 
I do not think the situation has changed from that referred to by  Senator Drury  and which has been commented upon by  Mr Barnard  only today. We have stated that the activities of the Woomera rocket range would be run down and the instrumentation and facilities held in readiness for a revival. Negotiations have been proceeding with officials of the British Government. Those negotiations will depend upon the arrangements for the completion of some British trials which will run beyond the period of the present agreement and the level of maintenance necessary to ensure that, in the event of a requirement by either country, the range would be reactivated. It is intended, however, that minor trials within the available capacity will be conducted while the range is under care and maintenance. Included among these trials will be some types of military training operations. 
I am not sure whether other licences have been issued by myself or other Postmasters-General but I will research that matter. However, when  Senator Douglas  McClelland, the Prime Minister's officers and I discussed the benefits that might accrue from such a committee, my Director-General said the suggestion was consistent with the practice in the past. Maybe I could tell  Senator Durack  the names of the people who have been invited to serve on the committee. It might be the right time to do so now. 
-Regarding the others, I will have to seek the information for the honourable senator; but it might be a good time to indicate, following the discussions of the Ministers whom I have mentioned and the Prime Minister's officers, those who have been invited to attend and who have accepted.  Senator Mulvihill  has accepted and  Senator Davidson  has accepted.  Mr G.  A. Bayutti, who is  President  of the Apia Club, Sydney, has accepted the invitation to act as  Chairman,  and he will be issued with a licence.  Mr Walter  Lippman, who is the  Chairman  of the Ethnic Communities Council of Victoria, has accepted. Professor Renwick, Director of the Hunter Valley Research Station, has accepted.  Mr N.  Brennan, Secretary of the Good Neighbour Council of Victoria, has accepted.  Mr T.  Fairbairn, Secretary of the Good Neighbour 
Council of New South Wales, has accepted.  Mr J.  Gogos, Editor of the New World Newspaper, Melbourne, has accepted.  Mrs R.  Huber, Lecturer in Humanities at the New South Wales Institute of Technology, has accepted.  Mr Kosovic,  editor of the Yugoslav newspaper Novo Dobra', New South Wales, has accepted. He is presently sick. Those people would form the Committee.  Senator Douglas  McClelland and I will be making a statement sometime today, I hope, which relates to the formation of the Committee and its responsibilities. 
-Towards the end of my reply on 20 May to the honourable senator I said: 
I might mention that the rates Tor STD calls in Canada are on the whole more expensive than those in Australia. That applies in most countries. Various countries have different tariff settings and it is misleading, I suggest, to pick out what suits the writer of an article. 
I have since had my Department check the position and, for the honourable senator's information, I am advised that it does not cost the United States domestic telephone subscriber $43 rental a year with unlimited free local calls. My Department had informed me that it costs him from about 20 per cent to well over 100 per cent more than that, depending on where he lives. It does not cost the United States business subscriber $54 a year with 960 free local calls a year. In New York, for example, it costs him nearly double that, with 600 free local calls and, by the way, many local calls are scarcely farther than around the corner in New York. The reporter also neglected to add that federal and State taxes may be additional in that country. 
It does cost the New Zealand domestic telephone subscriber about $61 a year in rental, but the reporter omitted to say that the business subscriber pays more than double that amountapproximately $130. It does not cost $1.80 in Australia for a 3-minute STD call over a distance of 220 miles during the day and $ 1.20 at night; it costs $1.38 and 90c respectively. The 3-minute minimum charge is presently applying in North America, but the basis is different in Australia. In Australia- I am told that the same thing applies in North America- we are considering moving to the one minute minimum. In this country users of STD pay only for what they say, whether that takes 20 seconds or 20 minutes. The final answer must be that in some areas of telecommunications charges subscribers in certain overseas countries are better off than their Australian counterparts, but in other areas it works in the Australian subscribers' favour. 
The Ministers responsible for the administration of the RED scheme met on 2 1 May and considered the application by the Hindmarsh Council. The project provides for improvements to be made in respect of a number of sporting facilities, including the installation of an automatic watering system in the Jervois Avenue Reserve. The project also covers renovations to council properties and will provide employment for females. The Ministers approved the amount of $134,000 out of the total estimated cost of the project of about $ 1 50,000. 
I cannot do any more than re-state what the Minister for Labor and Immigration,  Mr Clyde  Cameron, said in answer to the questions. In reply to the question which  Senator Greenwood  asked about the alleged default by supporters of the National Civic Council,  Mr Cameron  said: 
It is well known that ballots for office in trade unions have been the subject of activity by various groups seeking to gain control of the unions. It is not proposed to go back into past events on these matters. The significance of the Minister's statement was to indicate that in future any evidence of interference in officially conducted ballots would be thoroughly investigated with a view to action before the Commonwealth Industrial Court. 
I do not know what claims were made about intervention by the National Civic Council or the years in which it was complained that it was active. All I can do is advise the Minister about the comments made by  Senator Greenwood.  The second question was Question No. 20 and in it  Senator Greenwood  asked: 
Did the Minister, on or about 4 July 1974, state that previous Governments had never attempted to enforce the provisions of the Conciliation and Arbitration Act so as to ensure that trade union ballots were conducted properly; ... 
I will read what  Mr Cameron  said in answer to that question. He said: 
Yes. In commenting after a decision by the Australian Industrial Court in a case involving interference with a Union ballot the Minister made it clear that the Government would not tolerate a situation where  offically  conducted ballots were interfered with in the future. Any person who commits a breach of the Act in respect of union ballots will be prosecuted. It is a fact that in 196S a person was fined £25 on a charge of attempting to obtain a ballot paper to which he was not entitled. However, it is not proposed to embark on a search through the history of union elections since section 1 7 1 was inserted into the Conciliation and Arbitration Act in 1949 to attempt to ascertain those cases in which action could have been taken but in which nothing was done. 
All I can say is that the Minister's answer indicates to me that  Senator Greenwood  was asking for an examination of cases in retrospect and which might have to be researched. The Minister said that we were not going to research them but that in future we would take certain action. If  Senator Greenwood  disputes that, all I can do is indicate to the Minister the comments he made and ask him for a reply to what  Senator Greenwood  said tonight. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
The Minister for Labor and Immigration has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: (1), (2) and (3) Yes. In commenting after a decision by the Australian Industrial Court in a case involving interference with a Union ballot the Minister made it clear that the Government would not tolerate a situation where officially conducted ballots were interfered with in the future. Any person who commits a breach of the Act in respect of union ballots will be prosecuted. It is a fact that in 1965 a person was fined £25 on a charge of attempting to obtain a ballot paper to which he was not entitled. However, it is not proposed to embark on a search through the history of union elections since Section 1 7 1 was inserted into the Conciliation and Arbitration Act in 1949 to attempt to ascertain those cases in which action could have been taken but in which nothing was done. 
In the case before the Australian Industrial Court the defendant was charged with, and found guilty of possessing without lawful authority or excuse ballot papers in a union election. In fixing penalties the Court took into account a number of factors including the fact that these were 'the first cases of this kind to come before the Court'. 
The Minister for Labor and Immigration has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: ( 1 ), (2), (3) and (4) It is well known that ballots for office in trade unions have been the subject of activity by various groups seeking to gain control of the unions. It is not proposed to go back into past events on these matters. The significance of the Minister's statement was to indicate that in future any evidence of interference in officially conducted ballots would be thoroughly investigated with a view to action before the Commonwealth Industrial Court. 
I can only undertake to refer to the Minister for Transport the request made by  Senator Sim  and as soon as I can I will let the honourable senator know the Minister's attitude. 
I think the test must obviously be whether the Minister appoints an appropriate representative, which I think he would obviously do. But in the event that  Senator Mulvihill  or somebody else thought that the Minister was appointing a member of a State Council who did not represent the teachers, there  is available the method of checking that I mentioned earlier. The Councils can decide, the Trades and Labor Council representative can query the appointment, it can be brought to the attention of the Minister by a member or it can be raised when the matter is reported to Parliament. 
Amendment agreed to. 
Clause, as amended, agreed to. 
Clauses 20 to 26- by leave- taken together, and agreed to. 
Clause 27. 
1 ) A member of a council other than the Secretary or a Director may resign his office by writing under his hand delivered to the Minister, but the resignation does not have effect until it is accepted by the Minister. 
A deputy member of a council may resign his office by writing under his hand delivered to the Minister, but the resignation does not have effect until it is accepted by the Minister. 
I understand what  Senator Wright  said. I am sorry that I did not mention the matter earlier. There will be no prohibition against a non-unionist who wants to undertake a course, but it must be obvious that if attention is to be paid to his training, and if the Government is to spend the money on his training his objective must be to assume an office in the trade union movement. So, logically, one would expect him to set out on a course designed for the trade union movement with the object that he would at some time join a union. 
The situation is as  Senator Wright  points out. The reason for it is that the people who have been nominated come from State Labor Councils, the Council of Commonwealth Public Service Associations or the Australian Council for Salaried and Professional Officers. Generally speaking they have a regular interchange of delegates. It may well be and probably will be that although the provision is included every 2 years or so the organisation will change its member and he will not resign until the Minister accepts his resignation. That is the reason for not having a fixed term. A fixed term might have been possible but the experience has been that unions usually have annual elections and often change their nominees more frequently than every 3 years. It was thought by the Government and its advisers that it was not necessary in this circumstance to include a fixed period because there will certainly be a turnover in the membership. 
Amendment agreed to. 
Clause, as amended, agreed to. 
Clause 18. 
At a meeting of the Australian Council, the  Chairman,  or the  Deputy Chairman,  of the Australian Council and 6 other members of the Australian Council constitute a quorum. 
I move: 
Leave out sub-clause (2), insert the following sub-clauses: "(2) Subject to this Act, a member referred to in paragraph 1 4 ( 1 ) (g), (h) or (i) holds office for 3 years. "(3) A member or a deputy member of the Australian Council other than such a member or deputy member in relation to whom sub-section ( 1) or (2) applies holds office until he resigns his office or his appointment is terminated in accordance with section 28. ". 
This amendment deals with the tenure of office of members of the Australian Council. It is necessary to provide for the tenure of office of the 3 members of the Australian Council comprehended by  Mr Street's  amendment. It provides for those 3 members to be appointed for 3 years.  Mr Street's  amendment makes necessary a further consequential amendment to add a new sub-clause (3) to provide for other members of the Australian Council holding office until their resignation is effected. 
I move: 
In sub-clause (3 ), leave out ' 6 ', insert ' 8 '. 
The change here is simply a change in the number required to form a quorum. Because the members have been added to by the representations I have mentioned it has been necessary to increase a quorum from 6 to 8. 
Amendment agreed to. 
Clause, as amended, agreed to. 
Clause 19. 
The Council established by sub-section 9 (2) for a State shall consist of the following part-time members: - 
an officer of the Department appointed by the Minister; 
the Director of the Trade Union Training Centre for the State; 
3 members appointed by the Minister on the nomination of the relevant trade union organisation referred to in sub-section ( 5 ); 
I move: 
In sub-clause ( 1 ) (0&gt; leave out 'other'. 
This is a technical amendment which seeks to remove from sub-clause ( 1 ) (f) the word 'other'. The word 'other' was included when paragraph (f) was the last paragraph of this sub-clause. Paragraphs (g), (h) and (i) have been added to sub-clause (1) following the acceptance of an amendment moved in the other place by the honourable member for Corangamite  (Mr Street).  Therefore the word 'other' in paragraph 
needs to be removed. Sub-clause (4) of clause 14 reads: 
The Australian Council shall be deemed to have been constituted upon the appointment of the members referred to in paragraphs ( 1 ) (c), (d), (e) and (f). 
That part of the clause will now read: '( 1 ) (c), (d), (e), (f). (g), (h) and (i)' after I move the next amendment which is necessary because of the amendment moved by  Mr Street.  I move: 
In sub-clause (4), leave out "and (f)", insert ", (f), (g), (h) and (i)" 
Amendments agreed to. 
Clause, as amended, agreed to. 
Clauses 15 and 16- by leave- taken together, and agreed to. 
Clause 17. 
Subject to sub-section ( 1 ), a member (other than the Secretary or Director of the College) or deputy member of the Australian Council holds office until he resigns his office or his appointment is terminated in accordance with section 28. 
Paragraph (a) (i) of the definition of 'trade union training' reads: 
capable of advancing and developing an understanding of the functions and objectives of trade unions in Australian society; 
That would relate to a training course which would provide historical information about trade unions and what they are doing today. It would take into account the activities of unions in the field of arbitration. It would deal with the question of safety in industry. It would cover the role of the shop steward at the ground floor level. So paragraph (a) (i) would be related more to the basic part of a union official's duties. Paragraph (a) (ii) of the definition reads: 
capable of advancing and developing knowledge and skills in fields connected with the powers and functions of trade unions or the powers, functions and duties of officers or officials of trade unions; 
I think that this relates to the wider organisational activities of a union delegate who wants to go on to a mangement committee; a member of a union who wants to become a union official; or a member who wants to become a special officer of the union- an advocate in the court, who is called an industrial relations officer or assistant secretary. That is the person who argues a case on the basis of some sort of scientific approach before the courts or before the employers. The other point raised by  Senator Wright  relates to paragraph (b) of the definition which reads: 
educational, technical and practical training for members of trade unions in any other fields approved by the Australian Council. 
I think it is expected that a trade union official has also to be knowledgeable about a number of matters including public administration and questions concerning inflation and the economy. He would expect to be trained and to be brought up to date by a person well qualified to talk about the economy and perhaps public administration. This is getting into a wider field which perhaps is somewhat outside of what a person is doing in his normal union job but it is an area which it is essential to understand in presenting a case before a court. Union representatives do this sort of thing today. In the old days unions used to send before the national wage hearing people like Bill Evans, who was for many years the Federal Secretary of the Federated Enginedrivers and Firemen's Union, and Terry Winter who on their own account were not economists but who had to develop the skills of an economist to present cases at national wage hearings. They had to be equipped to do the job. They developed their skills by going to universities, adult education courses and so on like many of us did. I think I have answered the points raised by  Senator Wright.  If he has some other questions I would be pleased to answer them. 
I move: 
In sub-clause (l)(c), leave out 'sub-section (5)', insert sub-section (6)'. 
This amendment corrects a printing error in subclause 19.( 1) (c) ofthe Bill 
The Minister for Transport has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
There are no current representations from airlines for increased runway length at Hobart and there are no plans to extend the runway. A longer runway on a new alignment appears possible but at very great cost and with increased noise nuisance. The present runway could be extended to the south-east but again at substantial cost and with possible environmental impact. 
I think I have given figures in the past on behalf of the Minister for Labor and Immigration and yesterday I answered questions about areas which had recently been granted approval under the scheme which has been very beneficial in reducing unemployment on a regional basis. At the end of April the number of unemployed persons employed in the area schemes was 18 877, plus 1500 general administrative people. It is anticipated that about 55 000 people will be employed finally when all the schemes now approved get under way. 
In this debate every senator has pledged support for the Bill, which is a Bill about trade union education, to set up a college and to set up administration- an Australian and a State council- and it dennes what trade union education is. It is a pity that this debate has taken 6 hours today, and it will have taken more than half the day before we finish- on a question with which everybody says he agrees. Yet the Opposition speakers, including  Senator Steele  Hall, have spent most of their time way off the course of the legislation.  Senator Greenwood  has just demonstrated this. More than half his speech was spent on attacking a left-wing union. He may attack a left-wing union on the basis of another Bill during an arbitration debate, but surely it cannot be logical or fair to spend all that time, as other Opposition senators have done, in attacking the union movement, when what we are putting up is a reform, like the other reforms we propose, which will help produce a more stable union movement. 
May I remind  Senator Greenwood  that only today he again attempted to frustrate what the Government is trying to do in establishing new conditions for the labour movement and for better industrial relations. I refer, of course, to the Conciliation and Arbitration Bill 1974. On 3 occasions at least the implementation of the principles in that Bill was held up by the Opposition. I refer to the principles of easier amalgamations to make sure that we will not have the frustrating problems caused by having too many unions and of getting agreement quickly between the employees and the employers. Those were the patterns of reform announced by the Labor Party and brought into the Parliament in the form of legislation. Of course they have been frustrated. How can anybody suggest that the Opposition is trying to bring about a better situation industrially? The Opposition is holding up everything that might reform the present position. 

 -As Senator Poyser reminds me, members of the Opposition adopt this attitude whenever the proceedings of the Senate are being broadcast. As I said last Thursday, broadcast day in the Senate, which is each Wednesday, is always show time, with the Opposition frustrating the work of the Government, putting forward a lot of political propaganda and saying that it is being reasonable but finally using the time to resist what the Government is doing. 

 Senator Hall is a good example.  His  industrial relations policy must have been written in the days of the Industrial Revolution.  Senator Greenwood  says that his Party believes in joint councils and in worker participation.  Senator Hall  spent all his time complaining because the unions want a share in management and saying that the concept of having joint councils and worker participation, which the Labor Party is aiming to implement, is all wrong. I refer honourable senators to the most advanced countries, and in particular to one country which has a wonderful record in industrial relations, namely, West Germany. There is a law there which insists there shall be a 30 per cent membership from the trade unions on management boards. There are very rigid joint controls. On the factory floor workers and managers are bound into an organisation. In Sweden the Labour Governmentanother example of a government with a very good industrial relations policy- has the same principles. 
Is the Opposition for the proposition or against it? Members of the Opposition say that they are for it, but we notice that every time somebody from the Government side wants to introduce something to this effect the Opposition resists it. That is the clear position. We can talk about France and Belgium. The history of the United Kingdom and other countries shows that in the First and Second World Wars joint councils were established. The Imperial Chemical Industries company has had joint councils for as long as I can remember. These things are well known and they are the pattern of the Labor programs. They mean improved industrial relations. They mean a better work performance. There has been a lot of talk about wage inflation and the effects of inflation. Everybody knows now, of course, that the Labor Government in Australia is no different from any other government which practises democracy, as we do. Every government is plagued by inflation. We are trying to provide remedies such as indexation, amalgamation of unions, worker participation and joint activities. We want to have trade union training. Yet Opposition senators pick out a small fragment of the union movement and say: 'There is the cause of all our troubles ' 

 Senator Greenwood talks about Karl Marx.  Senator Greenwood  was the  deputy  leader of a delegation which went to China. The Special Minister of State,  Mr Lionel  Bowen, told me that  Senator Greenwood  was a very constructive member of the delegation. Of course, he saw large pictures of Karl Marx. I do not know what he did when he was confronted with them. When honourable senators opposite talk like this, they have their tongues in their cheeks. From their own training they know all about marxism, social democracy and the principles of the Labor Party. They talk as if they have just discovered that these evils are in the world. They do not know that Willy Brandt, the great ex-Chancellor of West Germany, was a Marxist. The ruling Labour Party of the country that is now the idol of the capitalist world, the best country commercially in the world and the country which has the best labour record in the world is a Marxist party. This surprises them, so they say. 
It is a pity that a debate which started so well deteriorated.  Senator Scott  led for the Opposition and made what I consider to be a very constructive speech. He made a number of points which I think were good ones. He said that he was concerned that this training should not be in isolation and should not be separate from the general movement of education in the community or from the educational seminars which are conducted and which bring management and workers together. That is a fair enough point. In addition, of course, he said that the training should be conducted in the framework of the existing educational institutions. As the Minister for Labor and Immigration  (Mr Clyde Cameron)  said in his second reading speech, the activities outside trade union training- of trade union leaders and delegates meeting employers and management specialists on industrial relations discussions- will go on just the same. In fact it will be improved. A more educated and more lucid group of people in the work force, who are able to share in any sort of discussion, will result from this new organisation. 
I have never found any reason for lack of confidence on the part of trade union representatives or delegates. Secretaries and shop delegates are people who know the industry and more times than not, as I think  Senator Mulvihill  said, they know the business better than the boss. There is no reason why they should be shy about advancing their cause. Surely nobody wants to see a tame cat union movement with people whom one cannot respect, whom one cannot trust, who are not honest and with whom one cannot make deals. The country is moving the way it ought to move; that is, towards collective agreements, with the managers and the union officials respecting each other, being able to make a deal and knowing that they can be sure that the arrangement or agreement they have made will be properly protected and carried into effect. 
In my own experience in the Labor movement -as most people know, I have been in it since I was 2 1 years old and I was a shop steward first and later a union secretary and a trades hall secretary- I have found that the experienced trade union advocate who is always prepared to give an honest deal is the man who makes the best progress. In addition, the manager who keeps his word also makes the best progress. That is not isolated to any one group or to any one part of the political spectrum. I found in my own experience that in many cases employers in my State often were more favourable to making agreements with left wing leaders whose word they could accept than to making agreements with some of the people in the middle of the political spectrum. It is a question of experience. 
We propose to establish a Trade Union Training College. We will allow the people who will run the College to decide who shall go to the College. I think it was  Senator Wright  who said that he considered that there ought to be some sort of arrangement whereby a man who was not a union official ought to be able to go to the College. All I can say in answer to that is that it will be for the council, either a State council or the Australian Council, to decide who will be admitted. Any borderline case will be brought to the attention of the Minister and the Minister will make a direction. If the Minister makes a direction on this matter it will have to be reported to Parliament because, as honourable senators know, the Bill contains a provision for an annual report and a provision that any directions which the Minister gives have to be reported to the Parliament. I shall refer quickly to the aspects which  Senator Scott  raised. The Minister, in his second reading speech, said: 
The training provided will be aimed primarily at promoting trade union competence. Such training will go towards bridging the gap between the unionists' and  managments  level of industrial relations knowledge and technique. This will undoubtedly diminish the tensions and frustrations between the 2 parties and contribute to the more efficient avoidance and resolution of industrial conflict. 
Concerning the question of isolation which  Senator Scott  raised, the Minister said: 
Certainly both unionists and management representatives do attend courses and seminars in industrial relations and associated areas jointly. This is excellent and is to be encouraged. I least of all would support any idea of training activities for unionists being carried out in isolation from the rest of the community. 
So it is clear that what we propose is a system which will bring into the workforce and into active association with managers, with industry and others a more accomplished set of union officials. We should remember that in Australia the membership of unions is at one of the highest levels in the world, with about 53 per cent of the workforce. In addition the Government has accepted an Opposition proposition to put on the Australian Council- and there will be an amendment following- a representative from each side of the Parliament, which means that Parliament will have some involvement in the activities of the Australian Council in respect of trade union education. 
Many minor points have been raised. 1 think generally the speakers tended to roam all over the areas of industrial relations that were not pertinent to the Bill.  Senator Wright  referred to one or two propositions, such as the International Labour Organisation declarations. We all know that ILO conventions, declarations and recommendations are applicable to Australia, and my Government responded very quickly to the recommendations. We have ratified more recommendations and conventions since we have been in office than any other government has done, and we will abide by whatever the ILO recommends because we take part in it. The ILO is a tripartite organisation in which are involved governments, employers and the union movement, and we will support its conventions. The honourable senator also mentioned the Donovan report, which was one of the reports that recommended the amalgamation of unions and that also did not recommend the use of any penal clauses. I would say that  Senator Wright's  contribution was mostly philosophical. What he did say was not new. What we are faced with in Australia is catching up with the trend in Western Europe, about which I spoke earlier. 
We will not be choosing union officials from any one single union. The Trades and Labor Council, the central national body will be asked to nominate union representatives. The Government has now agreed to allow and will move to have 2 members of the Parliament on the Council. 

 Senator Young made some odd references, again attacking, like many of the Opposition speakers, pommies and radical people in the labour movement. The labour movement covers a wide spectrum of people and if you are in any business you must deal with all kinds of people in industrial relations. The best employers in the country, those who have the best policies in industrial relations and the best record in industry, are those who deal with whomever represents the union movement and those whose word they can take. They do not select them on political grounds. The senator asked why we used such a glossy folder. The reason is that 3000 were printed. The venture is a new venture and ought to be understood and recognised by all sections of the economy, such as the manufacturers' association, the employer organisations generally, the trade unions and many other bodies. The brochure that has been circulated in the Parliament is to be used publicly for telling the employer organisations and other interested bodies such as the trade unions and the Department of Labor an d Immigration. That is why the glossy brochure was printed. I have not got the cost of it but, when I get it, I will give it to him. Although the Senate roamed a lot and we would have liked to see the Bill passed earlier, I am glad that the Senate will approve of it. I have noticed what has been said in the other place and by  Senator Scott  about the acceptance by the Opposition of the project and that they will be looking to see what it does and how it will perform. 
Finally,  Mr Acting Deputy President,  I will refer to the functions as set out in the Bill. In clause 5, the functions of the Authority are: 
To undertake and carry out the planning and development of programs of trade union training in Australia; 
To provide trade union training at the College and the Trade Union Training Centres. 
Regarding suitable persons, clause 10 (2) (c) states:  to arrange for suitable persons to undertake, at the College or elsewhere, research, or to make investigations and inquiries, for the purposes of determining what trade union training is required in Australia and the best methods of carrying out trade union training in Australia. 
I think it is a great reform. Its performance will be tested and the Parliament has the advantage of being able to watch its functioning because it will have the annual report and will have 2 of its own members on the top Australian Council to decide how the organisation is running. There has been some question as to whether what we are doing is inconsistent with our own industrial objectives. The Conciliation and Arbitration Act, in which the section dealing with objects has not been amended for many years, reads as follows: 2.  The chief objects of this Act are- 
to promote good will in industry; and provide means for, 
to encourage, conciliation with a view to amicable agreement, thereby preventing and settling industrial disputes; 
to provide means for preventing and settling industrial disputes not resolved by amicable agreement, including threatened, impending and probable industrial disputes, with the maximum of expedition and the minimum of legal form and technicality; 
to provide for the observance and enforcement of agreements and awards made for the prevention or settlement of industrial disputes; 
to encourage the organisation of representative bodies of employers and employees and their registration under this act; and 
to encourage the democratic control of organisations so registered and the fullest participation by members of such an organisation in the affairs of the organisation. 
As everyone knows, since the Government has been in power we have introduced amendments to the Conciliation and Arbitration Act which have provided for that democratic control. Speaking generally I believe that the Labor Government's record in these matters is very good. I hope that not only in respect of this Bill, the support of which I welcome, but also with respect to the amendments we are proposing to the Conciliation and Arbitration Act the Opposition senators will look again at what we have put up with a view to bringing about a new clinic between workers and employers. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. 
In Committee 
Clauses 1 to 13- by leave- taken together. 
There is no such intention at all. As far as I am aware none of the courses which have been arranged by the Interim Council is so designed. As  Senator Hall  well knows, the Workers Educational Association has for many years been conducting courses related to trade unions. In earlier days I participated in preparing some papers on the subject of trade unions for some people. I would think that in this case the only use of any notation about political affiliations would be simply to identify perhaps for historical purposes where a union movement has been allied to particular parties. There is certainly no intention in any way to become involved in any political canvassing. What the unions do about their political affiliations is in the spectrum of politics. We all know that the Labor Party, as  Senator Hall  has put it, is historically largely based on the union movement in most of the countries that we have been talking about tonight. What  Senator Hall  has suggested certainly will not be a function of this Council. We have agreed, as honourable senators know, that the syllabuses to be established will be open to scrutiny by the Parliament. As I have said before, honourable senators will have before them the annual reports and there will also be the involvement of 2 members of the Parliament in the affairs of the Council. 
Clauses agreed to. 
Clause 14. 
1 ) The Australian Council shall consist of the following part-time members: (a) the Secretary or, if the Minister appoints another officer of the Department to be a member in place of the Secretary, the officer so appointed; 
f) 6 other members, namely, one member appointed by the Minister on the nomination of each of the following Councils: 
The Labor Council of New South Wales; 
Victorian Trades Hall Council; (iti) The Trades and Labor Council of Queensland; 
The United Trades and Labor Council of South Australia: 
Trades and  Labor Council of Western Australia; and 
vi) Tasmanian Trades and Labor Council; 
The Australian Council shall be deemed to have been constituted upon the appointment of the members referred to in paragraphs ( 1 ) (c), (d), (e) and (f). 
I move: 
Leave out sub-clause ( 1 ), insert the following sub-clauses: 
1 ) A member of the Australian Council appointed by the Prime Minister or the Leader of the Opposition may resign his office by writing under his hand delivered to the person by whom he was appointed, but the resignation does not have effect until it is accepted by that person. ( 1a) A member of the Australian Council appointed on the nomination of the Minister for Education may resign his office by writing under his hand delivered to that Minister, but the resignation does not have effect until it is accepted by that Minister. (1b) A member of a council other than the Secretary, a Director or a member to whom sub-section ( 1 ) or (2 ) applies may resign his office by writing under his hand delivered to the Minister, but the resignation does not have effect until it is accepted by the Minister. '. 
The amendment deals with the resignation of Council members. It is necessary to cover the resignation of the members appointed by the Prime Minister and the Leader of the Opposition, as honourable senators will see. 
Amendment agreed to. 
Clause, as amended, agreed to. 
Clause 28.  (3)lf- 
a member or deputy member of a council to whom this section applies becomes bankrupt, applies to take the benefit of any law for the relief of bankrupt or insolvent debtors, compounds with his creditors or makes an assignment of his remuneration for their benefit; 
the organisation upon whose nomination a member or  deputy  member of a council to whom this section applies was appointed notifies the Minister in writing that it has withdrawn the nomination of the member or the  deputy  member; or 
a member or deputy member of a council to whom this section applies fails to comply with his obligations under section 29, the Minister shall terminate the appointment of the member or deputy member, as the case may be. 
I move: 
In sub-clause (3), after paragraph (a) insert the following new paragraph: "(aa) a member of the Australian Council referred to in paragraph 14 ( 1 ) (g) or (h) ceases to be a member of a House of the Parliament; ". 
After sub-clause ( 3 ) insert the following new sub-clause: "(3a) For the purposes of paragraph (3) (aa), a member of either House of the Parliament shall be deemed not to have ceased to be a member of that House while he continues to be entitled to the Parliamentary allowance that became payable to him as such a member. ". 
Amendment No. 7- the first amendmentprovides for the members of Parliament who are members of the Australian Council to be removed from office by the Minister for Labor and Immigration should they cease to become members of Parliament. Amendment No. 8- the second circulated amendment is designed to cover the situation that can arise when a member of Parliament who is a member of the Australian Council is re-elected at an election. It ensures that such a person will still be classed as a member of Parliament while he continues to be entitled to the parliamentary allowances that are payable to him as a member of Parliament. 
At this stage I cannot undertake to do other than to report to the Government and the Minister for Labor and Immigration  (Mr Clyde Cameron)  what  Senator Wright  has stated and ask them to consider the matter. The point  Senator Wright  raised was not picked up in the other place. The provision is designed to provide for what I think is a generally accepted situation. A member of Parliament who stands for re-election will receive his parliamentary allowance until he is defeated at the election. The intention is simply to preserve that continuity. When the Parliament is prorogued he will not lose his allowance as from that date but will continue to receive it until he is defeated at an election. 
I move: 
After clause 5 1 , insert the following new clause: -  5 1 a. ( 1 ) A council may, either generally or otherwise as provided by a resolution of the council, delegate to a member of the council or to an officer of the Authority any of its powers under this Act, other than this power of delegation. 
A power so delegated by a council, when exercised by the delegate, shall, for the purposes of this Act, be deemed to have been exercised by the council. 
a delegation by a council under this section does not prevent the exercise of a power by the council. '. 
It simply means that if the power of delegation was not there a council would have to act all the time as a full council. As a result of an objection raised by  Mr Street  to the Minister, which the Minister has accepted, we have left in the words an officer' but have taken out the words 'or employee'. 
Proposed new clause agreed to. 
Remainder of Bill- by leave- taken as a whole, and agreed to. 
Bill, as amended, agreed to. 
Bill reported with amendments; report adopted. 
The Minister for Transport has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
1 ) Miss Morosi applied for a position as a Qantas Ground Hostess in Manila. On 4 May 1959 she was appointed. 
No. 
See (2). So that the honourable senator may have the proper perspective on the information which he seeks, I would point out that, at the time of Miss Morosi 's appointment in Manila in 1959, the then Minister for Civil Aviation, the late  Senator the Hon.  S. Paltridge, apparently saw no need for any investigation of Miss Morosi 's suitability for the position she applied for. Consequently no such investigation was undertaken. 
The Minister of Transport has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
I ) Yes. Such travel warrants relate to sectors over which Qantas does not operate. The names of passengers and the relevant sectors travelled are as follows: 
The answer to the honourable senator's question is as follows: 
A continuous monthly record of the total number of letters posted at Post Offices is not kept. However, about SO per cent of all letters posted in Australia are initially received at the six Capital City Mail Exchanges and details of these postings are as follows: 
10 1. 485 million 
92.262 million 
80.462 million 
74.933 million 
The answer to the honourable senator's question is as follows: 
The feasibility of updating the Centurion tanks has been examined but no action is contemplated because of cost and technical considerations. The need for a second buy of Leopard battle tanks is now being examined by the Department of Defence. 
The answer to the honourable senator's question is as follows: 
1 ) It is proposed to establish a non-official post office in the Westpoint Towers shopping complex at Blacktown. 
The existing post office in Flushcomb Road will continue to be the official post office at Blacktown. 
I am unable to advise precisely when the proposed nonofficial post office would commence business as negotiations for the lease of suitable premises in the Westpoint complex are still proceeding. 
The answer to the honourable senator's question is as follows: 
1) In December 1974 a request was received for a RAN ship to visit King Island for the Pastoral, Horticultural and Agricultural Show to be held 10-12 March 1975. HMAS Ardent' which was to be operating in the area at the time was programmed for the visit. HMAS 'Ardent' suffered a major defect early in March and to meet the commitment the program of HMA Ships 'Banks' and 'Bass' was changed to undertake the visit. Both ships, which were reserve manned, were programmed together to allow 'in company' time which is a valuable form of training and of mutual benefit to the crews of both vessels. 
The Minister for Defence did not attend the Pastoral, Horticultural and Agricultural Show. The original naval exercise was changed as a result of the necessity to reprogram the ships. 
The answer to the honourable senator's question is as follows: 
1 ) The hours flown by the various types of VIP aircraft for all tasks, including continuation training, contingency operations and VIP tasks, were as follows: 
The Minister for Transport has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
8800 feet- the sea level equivalent being 6737 feet under standard atmosphere conditions. 
6500 feet. 
No scheduled data is available as the standards do not envisage brake failure in the circumstances of aircraft equipped with multiple independent braking systems. It is assessed that, in the hypothetical emergency circumstances, and using reverse thrust only, both aircraft types could be stopped within the confines of the airport but with probable consequential damage to engines. 
Yes- the scheduled performance data relating permissible landing weight to available runway length does not take account of reverse thrust. 
On 4 March 1975  Senator Drake-Brockman  asked me as Minister representing the Minister for Defence a question without notice relating to a request by the Royal Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals for trained officers of the Society to be sent with the initial task force to areas devastated by natural disasters. 
I have now received advice from the Minister for Defence on the matter: 
The Society's request is supported so far as can be done effectively at the national level. Most disasters occur in the States and each State has its own counter-disaster organisation. In these cases, control of disaster relief operations will be in the hands of the appropriate State Organisation with the Natural Disasters Organisation providing co-ordination and assistance only as requested by the State. The Director General of the Natural Disasters Organisation has, however, been asked to bring the Society's request to the notice of the Directors of each of the State Emergency Service Organisations with a view to them also providing support. 
The Minister has replied along these lines to a letter sent to him by the New South Wales State Secretary of the RSPCA: 
It is possible that the Society's request arose out of the rejection of an offer by the RSPCA to send such a team to Darwin on Boxing Day last year. However it should be noted that on 27 December 1974 clearance was given for an RSPCA Inspector to visit Darwin. 
On 6 March 1975  Senator Sheil  asked me as Minister representing the Minister for Defence, a question without notice relating to Defence Service Stores provided in time of natural disasters. 
The Minister for Defence has supplied the following information in reply to the honourable senator's question: 
The replenishment of Service stores used in times of natural disasters is accomplished through the normal procurement procedures of the Armed Forces based on the resulting level of stores holdings. 
Normally the cost of replenishing stores provided by all three Services in times of natural disasters is met from the Defence Vote, which is supplemented as necessary for these purposes. 
In the current financial year Appropriation Act (No. 3) 1974-75 provided additional funds to the Defence Vote to cover expenditure in 1 974-75 by the Services as a result of Cyclone Tracy. 
-The chances are that  Senator Drake-Brockman  is using some of the figures with which he was familiar when he was Minister for Air. I am told that the method of costing for the various types of VIP aircraft, having been established in 1968 by the Treasury, has not been changed. As far as I am aware, unless there is - 
I am trying to answer a question about VIP aircraft. Honourable senators opposite should not be grumbling about this because, as everyone knows, the previous Government established the criteria for the use of VIP aircraft. We have used them but if honourable senators opposite look at the answers given previously to  Senator DrakeBrockman,  they will see that the use is not much greater now than it was during the currency of the previous Government.  Senator DrakeBrockman  has asked whether the figures are correct. I am told that the method of costing has not been changed. It was set down in 1968 by the Treasury. I will check whether there has been a misprint. The question on notice by  Senator Drake-Brockman,  question No. 510, which was not read to the Senate, was: 
What is the present per-hour cost of flying each type of aircraft in the VIP fleet. 
The answer which was given to  Senator DrakeBrockman  yesterday states: 
The present per-hour cost of flying each type of aircraft in the VIP fleet is as follows: 
BAC 1-11 $675.88. 
According to  Senator Drake-Brockman  's figures, that is an increase of 3.82 per cent. The present per-hour cost of flying the Mystere is shown as $379.57. According to  Senator DrakeBrockman  's figures that represents not an increase, but a slight decrease. The present per; hour cost of flying the HS748 is shown as $178.35. According to  Senator DrakeBrockman  's figures, that is an increase of about 7 per cent. I will get the figures -  (Senator Wright interjecting)  - 

 -Would Senator Wright mind being quiet while I am trying to answer a question? 
-Senator Mulvihill, as we know, has raised this question consistently. I have told him what I can from  Mr Cameron's  point of view.  Mr Cameron  is endeavouring to do something about it. I will undertake to ask him whether he can inform  Senator Mulvihill  soon on what is being done about the issue. 
-I do not think this is a reasonable question. The honourable senator asks me what another Minister thinks. I do not know what he thinks. This matter was raised in a previous question. Labour problems, even though they may be partly covered by State situations, are obviously the concern of the Australian Government. The honourable senator knows that frequently we raise the question of unemployment and employment in the States. I think this is a matter about which the honourable senator is correct in asking me. Why should we be bringing people to the country when we have qualified people here already? I am not the Minister responsible, in which case I should not attempt to answer the question. That is the prerogative of the Minister concerned. I certainly will get the information sought by  Senator 
Mulvihill and draw  Mr Cameron's  attention to  Senator Guilfoyle  's observations. 
-Mr Barnard yesterday announced that he had signed an agreement. There is a requirement for offset work with every purchase of overseas equipment. The Lockheed company has tendered proposals for Australian industry participation. That was an important part of the evaluation of the 2 aircraft. In addition the Labor Government has secured agreement from the United States Government that if industry were unable to provide up to 25 per cent of the value of contract of work to Australian industry, the Department of Defence would use its offices to raise Australian industry participation to this level. 
The answer to the honourable senator's question is as follows: 
RAAF communications were lost at 0137 local Darwin time on 25 December 1974. RAN transmissions ceased at 0222 on 25 December. The cyclone was then at its height and continued for five more hours. At 0900 an Army Radio circuit was established to Townsville and messages relayed to southern cities. The RAAF established voice radio contact with Richmond by means of air transportable equipment at 0910 on 26 December. At 1448 on 26 December the Post Office provided line telegraph circuits from RAAF Darwin and Post Office telex service was restored to the RAN at 1530 on 26 December. 
Throughout the whole period an order wire (technical control link) on the Post Office's microwave radio trunk route to Darwin remained in service and was used to relay emergency messages. Channels on the Post Office microwave system providing telephone, telegraph and telex services were brought back into service progressively in the afternoon of 26 December. 
Military radio communication with Darwin was initially re-established by the Army Signal Squadron based at Larrakeyah Barracks working to a Signal unit at Townsville on a training circuit devised for such contingencies. Field equipments were used. HMAS 'Assail' and HMAS 'Advance' also regained contact with HMAS 'Harman' (Canberra) between 1 145 and 1232 on 25 December 1974. 
As mentioned in ( 1 ) communication via the Post Office's microwave radio link was never entirely lost. 
Military communications were available from 0900 25 December 1974. This was 6 hours 38 minutes after normal military communications had failed. 
In general the defence forces demonstrated an adequate capability to establish communications under adverse conditions. There were and still are inadequacies in a few areas of military response. These were mostly known before Cyclone Tracy and remedial action was already in progress. Other aspects such as building design, construction techniques for antennae, emergency drills and procedures and communications equipment quantities and locations, are under study. The whole question of survival capability of Defence communications installations in Northern Australia is currently being studied. 
The answer to the honourable senator's question is as follows: 
Yes. 
(a) No. 
The Bell Helicopter Company submission addressed the non-military advantages inherent in the use of light observation helicopters as a supplement to existing law enforcement capability in the civil role. 
Question 3 does not follow as a corollary of the preceding questions and cannot be answered in that context. 
The armed services provide the capabilities referred to. 
The honourable senator seeks a lot of information, some of which I do not have at my disposal presently, but I will get it. Last week I answered a question asked, from memory, by  Senator Donald  Cameron and I gave him the total figures and also the total expenditure to date. But I will get an up to date statement and also details of the Tasmanian figures for the honourable senator. 
The Minister for Labor and Immigration has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
1) to (3) I reject completely any inference in the honourable senator's question that I, as Minister for Labor and Immigration, should exercise surveillance over the proceedings of meetings of the ACOA or any other trade union- or for that matter any employer organisation. It is the policy of the Government to encourage the fullest participation of workers and employers in the affairs of their organisations. This is, for example, demonstrated by its ratification in 1973 of ILO Freedom of Association and Protection of the Right to Organise Convention 1948 (No. 87) and ILO Right to Organise and Collective Bargaining Convention 1 949 (No. 98 ). 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
I seek leave to have my second reading speech incorporated in Hansard. 
The answer to the honourable senator's question is as follows: 
The Government takes the view that the existence or balance of any account raised by the Australian Post Office in connection with the provision of postal or telecommunications services is a matter of commercial confidence and that details of an account should not be published by the Post Office except to the extent that publication is made necessary by the institution of legal proceedings to recover an overdue account. 
-The Leader of the Opposition asks me a question on a matter about which I know nothing at all. I can only presume that it has something to do with the Superannuation Bill which is to come before the Senate. I suggest that the honourable senator might either put the question on notice or give me details of the information he seeks and I will investigate the matter. As the honourable senator knows, there have been some occasions- and these concerned members of the honourable senator's own Party- when I have refused to give certain details about the origin of telegrams. But I should like to have details of the information that the honourable senator seeks. I am not aware of the incidents that he is talking about. 
Several questions have been asked about this matter. I think there was one question by  Senator Jessop  and later one by  Senator McLaren  about the proposal by the South Australian Minister for Transport to put electric buses on South Australian roads. I have seen the reports. I have been authorised by the Minister to say that the Department of Transport is now actively considering ways in which electric vehicle development in Australia may be fostered. In relation to the research at Flinders University, the Minister for Transport knows about the project. He has told me that there has been no formal approach to the Department of Transport for funds and he has asked me to state that the Department did make preliminary inquiries in 1974 about electric cars which might be purchased for evaluation purposes. At this stage no such cars have been purchased but the proposal was considered as a means of obtaining vehicles which might be evaluated for departmental use under typical urban conditions. 
The major reason for the proposal was that there was a lack of knowledge in Australia at least about the operational characteristics of electric cars and the proposal to import them was designed to correct the situation. As to purchasing cars from overseas, it was seen as a means of obtaining short term operating experience with the vehicles at a reasonable cost. However, difficulty was experienced in procuring suitable vehicles and the Department of Transport is now actively considering ways in which electric vehicle development in Australia may be fostered. 
Before question time the honourable senator indicated the case in point to me and I was able to get some information about it. I might say that  Senator Donald  Cameron from South Australia recently drew my attention to a case which resembles the one that  Senator Mulvihill  has raised. It concerns the same sporting profession. We are concerned about these cases. As regards the case raised by  Senator Mulvihill,  the 2 persons in question were national karate champions in 1971 and 1973 respectively. Both arrived in Australia on 6 September 1974 and were granted temporary residence for 12 months to work for the school. They had both been in Australia previously as visitors when they entered into a contract with the school to work as karate instructors. Their employment was considered by the industrial relations section of the Department of Immigration which had no objection to their taking up employment with the school provided they were paid the New South Wales basic wage which was then approximately $68 per week. 
-Mr Clyde Cameron says that that is the arrangement in regard to which he gave permission to the 2 people concerned and the employer. I have taken up the matter with the Minister for Labor and Immigration and he is presently investigating it urgently. I hope to be able to give the honourable senators some more information during the week. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
I present the Railways (Tasmania) Bill 1975, which is to approve the Agreement for the transfer of the Tasmanian Government Railways to the Australian Government. The Agreement is based on the 'Principles to Govern the Transfer of the Tasmanian Government Railway System to the Australian Government' which were tabled in the Australian Parliament on 23 April 1975 and in the Tasmanian Parliament on 1 May 1975. I have already outlined in my speech on the Railways (South Australia) Bill the reasons behind the Government's rail transfer program, and the Agreement contained in the present Bill is basically along similar lines to the South Australian Agreement. I am having circulated to honourable senators explanatory notes to assist them in consideration of this Bill. 
The Agreement which is embodied in the schedule to the Bill provides for an interim period commencing on 1 July when the Australian Government accepts financial responsibility for the Tasmanian Railways and has the assets of the railways vested in it. The interim period will terminate with the transfer of the railway staff to the Australian National Railways Commission. During this period the Tasmanian Transport Commission will administer the railway on behalf of the Australian National Railways, but subject to the direction and control of the ANR. The Agreement also provides for the Australian National Railways to operate ancillary services in Tasmania and extend its railways where necessary. Provision is also made for the continuation of the concessions presently available on the railways if the State so requests, provided the State meets the same proportion of their cost as it provided before the transfer. In the case of a dispute arising between the Australian and Tasmanian governments on payments for concessions and cessation of services on the railway, provision has been made for settlement by arbitration. 
However, there are a number of provisions in the Bill which are directly related to Tasmania's circumstances. Because of the importance of sea trade to Tasmania and the Government's declared intention to see greater co-ordination between the ANR and the Australian National Line provision has been made for Tasmanian nominees to join both the Australian Shipping Commission and the Australian National Railways Commission. Both these appointments will be subject to the approval of the Minister for Transport and are provided for in clause 9 of the Agreement. At present the Tasmanian Transport Commission operates the Precision Tool Annexe at Launceston. Although its buildings are situated on railway land the Annexe is not part of the railway's operations. Consequently, it has been decided that the Annexe will remain with the Tasmanian Government. Clause 1 9 provides for this and for the eventual removal of the Annexe from railway land, possibly within 10 years. 
Obviously the financial aspects of the transfer Agreement with Tasmania differ from those agreed to with South Australia, as the Tasmanian railways are much smaller. The number of railways employees to be transferred to ANR employment is correspondingly fewer. South Australia as distinct from Tasmania is a 'claimant State' and the debt structures of the 2 railways differ considerably. The financial aspects of the Tasmanian Agreement are dealt with in clauses 14, 15, 16 and 17. Clause 14 provides for a payment to Tasmania of $5m in consideration for land, minerals and other assets when both the Australian and Tasmanian parliaments ratify the necessary legislation to approve the Agreement. Clause 15 provides for the taking over by the Australian Government of a specified portion of the railways debt. Clause 16 refers to the interim period during which any losses on the railways will be borne by the Australian Commission and any profits will be paid to the Australian Commission. Clause 17 is intended to ensure continuity of superannuation to any transferred employees. I commend the Bill to honourable senators. 
Debate (on motion by  Senator Chaney)  adjourned. 
It seems to me to be somewhat of a tragedy that tonight on the motion for the first reading of a Bill which seeks to increase stevedoring charges we have embarked on a debate on international affairs without any warning from the Opposition. 
-That is right. The proceedings are not being broadcast and, as my colleagues have said, the details of the debate will not be printed in the Press. This matter is not a question of great moment except in the eye of the people who raised it.  Senator Greenwood  started somewhat logically by saying that the Minister for Labor and Immigration,  Mr Clyde  Cameron, had not answered some questions about 2 persons whom he had been talking about for some months. I accept that. But then he went off on a tirade covering Allende, South Vietnam and the world. I think that most of the points he has put up have been properly answered. All I want to say about the first point he raised is that my colleague, the Minister for Labor and Immigration, has said that he is reluctant to give in the Parliament answers to  Senator Greenwood's  questions because the 2 persons referred to have been the subject of inquiry by officers of the Australian Security Intelligence Organisation who were appointed by  Senator Greenwood  in his capacity as Attorney-General but that he, the Minister, is prepared to show the files to  Senator Greenwood  and then if the honourable senator wants the matters answered in the Parliament he would be quite willing to do that. That part of the argument is all right. 

 Senator Greenwood then made an attack on a parliamentary government. Then our old colleague,  Senator Sir Magnus  Cormack, a former  President  of this Senate, a man who is somewhat out of date, entered the debate in defence of an attack by the military junta upon an elected parliament, and this seems to me to be quite improper in this debate. If  Senator Greenwood  or the Opposition wants to discuss those issues surely they should ask the Senate to set aside the time for that. I do not wish to add anything to this debate. People who believe in the parliamentary system, whether they be Liberals, members of the Democratic Labor Party, members pf the National Country Party or members of the Labor Party- social democrats- argue, as we have always done, that changes can be made through the parliamentary system. As has been argued by my colleagues, the Socialist International is a group of people who have pledged themselves to reform, to establish a system of social democracy by parliamentary action. If that is the case, we are entitled to have our voice heard in any country and in this Parliament. It seems to me to be extraordinary when people in this Parliament say that they believe in parliamentary democracy and then start to defend the takeover of a parliamentary system by a military junta. 
-Senator, you said that tonight and you heard what  Senator Sir Magnus  Cormack said. If you want to expand on this question surely there must be a time when you can engage in this controversy. You can have time when the proceedings are broadcast if you want to but you should let the Government know. I knew nothing about the questions you were going to raise, and as far as I am aware  Senator James  McClelland knew nothing about them either. 
-Exactly. Whether  Senator Willesee  knew something about the other matters I do not know, but I put to the Senate that if  Senator Greenwood  wants to canvass questions of this sort he should give us notice so that we will be in a position to examine them and to provide answers. In a debate on a Bill covering the mundane question of increasing stevedoring charges, surely we should not have to continue with this expidition which started at 5.30 tonight. It is now almost 9 o'clock. The debate is worthless, because as one of my colleagues has said, nobody is reporting it and we are not on the air. I hope that the Senate will return to discussing the subject of the Bill before the Senate. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a first time. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
The Bill proposes increases in the statutory maximum rate of charge that may be prescribed in respect of three classes of waterside workers as denned in the Stevedoring Industry Charge Assessment Act. The actual rates are fixed by regulation within the limits of the maximum rates established in the Act and are based on the hours worked by a waterside worker. The Act provides that different rates are payable in respect of the three separate classes of waterside workers. Class A waterside workers are registered regular waterside workers employed at weekly hire at permanent or continuous ports. Class B waterside workers are employed at continuous non-permanent ports. Class C waterside workers are irregular waterside workers who, because of age or some special reason, are not obliged to attend regularly or make themselves available for employment. 
Moneys collected by means of the stevedoring industry charge are paid to the Australian Stevedoring Industry Authority to enable it to discharge its responsibilities under the various Stevedoring Industry Acts. It should be appreciated that the charge comprises only one element in the total cost of employing a waterside worker, which also includes such factors as award rates of pay, private levies and other private employer costs. The present maximum rates provided for by the Act are $1.50, $1.75 and $1.20 per man hour for A, B and C classes of waterside workers respectively. The respective actual charges of $ 1 .40, $ 1 .75 and $ 1 . 1 5, currently levied, are at or near the statutory maximum permitted under the stevedoring industry charge, and cannot be increased sufficiently to meet any significant future increases in industry costs. 
It is anticipated that movements in wages combined with a low level of stevedoring activity will adversely affect the financial position of the Australian Stevedoring Industry Authority during the latter part of 1975 and that it will be unable to meet its financial commitments from the revenue currently derived from the charge. The Bill proposes that the Stevedoring Industry Charge Act 1947-1973 be amended to provide for the maximum rates of charge of $2.50, $3.50 and $2.50 for Classes A, B and C waterside workers respectively. The proposed amendment will not in itself vary the current rate of charge. The actual rate of charge is fixed by regulation after consideration of detailed recommendations by the Stevedoring Industry Authority and in consultation with other Ministers. I commend the Bill to the Senate. 
Debate (on motion by  Senator Greenwood)  adjourned. 
I move: 
That the second reading of the Conciliation and Arbitration Bill 1 974 be restored to the notice paper and made an order of the day for the next day of sitting. 
Without taking up a lot of time, because we have canvassed this issue on 3 occasions previously, 1 want to say that it is the opinion of the Government that this Bill ought to be considered by the Senate. As honourable senators will know, the subject matter of the Bill, which is amalgamations by organisations under the Conciliation and Arbitration Act, was first raised by the Government in a Bill in May 1973. That Bill included matters other than amalgamations and the motion for the second reading was negatived by the Senate on 2 June 1973. Another Bill was introduced towards the end of 1973. That Bill sought to make many amendments to the Act including amendments relating to amalgamations, agreements, the question of Moore v. Doyle, torts and an attitude to penal clauses. That Bill was amended. Because the question of amalgamations was not solved in accordance with the policy we had put forward during the election campaign we introduced into the Senate in August 1974 another Bill to provide for amalgamations. The motion for the second reading of that Bill was negatived during September. After 3 months an identical Bill was introduced in the House of Representatives and was passed by that House but the motion for the second reading was negatived by the Senate on 4 March of this year. 
The issues are fairly basic. We have referred to them often in this chamber and elsewhere. We have pointed out that in Australia there are nearly 400 unions and that almost half of that number- 226- have fewer than 5000 members. For instance, in my own area of responsibility, the Post Office, there are 27 unions. The Vernon Commission made suggestions regarding the multiplicity of unions and the advantages that there might be to management and to the unions if there were fewer unions. The Government tried to provide what might be called an easy method of amalgamation of unions. I should mention that in West Germany, which as most people know has a good record of industrial relations with the least number of disputes of any country, there are only 16 unions. In Sweden there are 52 unions; in the Netherlands there are 53 unions; in Belgium there are 360 unions; in Norway there are 40 unions; and in Australia there are nearly 400 unions. The Government considers that this is an important Bill. It believes that the Senate ought to face up to discussing the Bill. It also considers that what has been done by the Opposition is purely a frustration of the Government's intention, which is well recognised. 
in reply- It seems to me that most of the issues involved with the Conciliation and Arbitration Bill have been debated more than once. Most of us are familiar with them. It is not true, as  Senator Greenwood  has said, that the Parliament will not give this Bill a second reading. The fact is that the other place has approved of the Bill on more than one occasion but that the Senate has decided that it should not consider at all the arguments which are incorporated in the Bill. I do not agree with the things which  Senator Hall  might try to do with the Bill but, as he properly puts it the fact is that the Senate ought to debate those matters. Surely it must be clear to everybody that there are too many unions in Australia. There are too many unions of employees; there are too many unions of employers. As a matter of fact, we have been grateful to the employers who in recent years have amalgamated their unions. In my own State the 3 organisations which formerly were representative of the employers have now amalgamated. There is only one employer organisation, and to me that is a good thing. 
It would seem to me that the same principle applies in the general context of industry. We have got nearly 300 unions. Everybody can understand how difficult it must be not only for the courts but also for employers to talk to more than one union in an enterprise. I have told honourable senators previously of my own experiences in which I have found that one employer can talk to one union and, despite the political ideology of the union, when they trust each other they can short-circuit many disputes. In the case of the Post Office I can do no better than read what was contained in the Vernon Commission report. It was not a Labor commission. In referring to the Post Office unions, the Vernon Commission report stated: 
It can readily be understood that a large number of staff organisations exercising their legitimate interests in the welfare and employment conditions of their members would pose difficulties of communication and co-ordination for both management and the staff organisations. It would seem sensible that action be taken at some stage to rationalise staff organisations representation but this seems a matter principally for organisations and their members to decide. 
We are trying to change the law so that it is easier for unions to amalgamate. Let me refer very quickly to a matter which concerns my own portfolio and the Post Office. Fortunately the unions involved have joined together to consider what the proposals should be in regard to the new commissions and they have acted as a sort of amalgamated body. As everybody knows, members of the previous Government agreed with the principle of amalgamation. It is on record that  Mr Lynch  suggested in the last amendment which was proposed to this Act by his Government that its provisions should be reformed in order to make amalgamation easier. In the last stages he rather declined to put that prescription into effect. On record is the statement of  Mr Macphee  in the other place whom I accept as an authority with great experience in the industrial movement. He has pointed out a matter in contradistinction to what  Senator Greenwood  said. He said that if an organisation gets a vote of 30 per cent of its members it is doing very well, yet  Senator Greenwood  insists that the figure should be 50 per cent. The matters raised by  Senator Greenwood  obviously should be debated in this place. It is no good the honourable senator saying, when legislation is brought in, that he will stop the debate and then reply in an ad hoc way while talking to this sort of notice of motion. This is no way to proceed with legislation like this. We think our argument is sound. We are prepared to test it in the Senate, and that is the reason why the motion was moved. 
Question put: 
That the motion  (Senator Bishop's)  be agreed to. 
The Minister for Labor and Immigration has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
The precise information sought by the honourable senator is not available without a considerable amount of research. However, I am able to provide the following information about the ages of persons approved under the National Employment and Training System in the period 1.10.74 to 31.3.75: 
There have been some problems which I have mentioned before. In the first place work had to be commenced on radio equipment for the vans. That work is not completed yet, but it is in progress. Also there have been some industrial issues which have occasioned talks between the unions involved and the Department. I refer to the issuing of licences, the garaging of the cars and other related matters. The talks have proceeded satisfactorily. It is now anticipated that the service will operate early in October and in the 3 cities I have mentioned before. We do not expect any hitch at all in the discussions which I have mentioned with the unions. 
At present, of course, the service applies mainly between capital cities in the various States, but it has been decided that some trials should be carried out to ascertain to what extent the service might be useful and efficient within the States. I am told that it has been decided that the trials will start some time this month and will continue for 6 months. It is expected that such a service can apply favourably within the States. 

 - Senator Durack raised this question with me last night and it is related to the discussion we had concerning the various railway systems which have similar internal communications systems which are not to be interfered with. I should like to advise that it has always been the view of the Post Office that control and supervisory circuits used by the electricity supply authorities have been subject to sections 80 and 8 1 of the Post and Telegraph Act, which is now superseded. The authorities have not always accepted this view. However, in practice satisfactory working arrangements have been developed between the Department and the authorities and licences have been issued in various circumstances under the sections that I have mentioned. The Postal and Telecommunications Commissions (Transitional Provisions) Bill which has been introduced includes a definition of telecommunications services which clarifies the situation. In practice no change of working arrangements will result. Clause 10 of that Bill preserves in force an authority under section 81 of the old Post and Telegraph Act immediately before the commencing date. The effect of this is to preserve the right of those authorities to maintain the existing control of the services which have been built in their networks. 

 - Mr Charles Jones has provided me with a reply to the honourable senator's question. It states that the activities in which the Royal Flying Doctor Service aircraft are engaged fall within the aerial work category for the purposes of the Air Navigation Charges Act. However, some years ago it was decided to levy charges on the RFDS aircraft at the private rate. For example, this means that under the present scale of charges the Royal Flying Doctor Service Beechcraft 70 aircraft is assessed at an annual charge of $968 instead of $1,937, a reduction of 50 per cent. In view of the Government's transport policy that the cost of providing transport services should be recovered from the users and other beneficiaries, it would not be appropriate for the Department of Transport to grant a complete exemption from air navigation charges for this aircraft. The further assistance that the honourable senator is seeking on behalf of the Royal Flying Doctor Service is, I believe, a matter for my colleague, the Minister for Health, to consider. I shall pass the honourable senator's inquiry on to the Minister for his comments. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
This Bill provides for the repeal of the Overseas Telecommunications Act 1946-1975 and for the amendment of the Telecommunications Act 1 975 to provide for the incorporation of the functions of the Overseas Telecommunications Commission (Australia) in the Australian Telecommunications Commission. 
Following the majority recommendation of the Vernon Commission of Inquiry into the Australian Post Office, the Government decided to merge the national and international telecommunications services in one commission, the Australian Telecommunications Commission. Provision for this was made in the initial Telecommunications Bill and the Postal and Telecommunications Commissions (Transitional Provisions) Bill. However, Opposition amendment to these Bills had the effect of preserving this illogical division of control over the common functions of national and international telecommunications services. 
The Government is convinced that a comprehensive national approach to telecommunications services is essential. In the United Kingdom, New Zealand, West Germany, Sweden and France, the internal and external telecommunications services are under the control of single government authorities. Honourable senators are aware of the rapid changes in telecommunications technology and the high and growing demand for telecommunications services of all types. Increasingly, services are being operated on a world-wide subscribertosubscriber basis and there is no logical reason for separate control of the international services. Costs in the principal area of telecommunications operated by OTC, that is, the provision of international links, are reducing as more sophisticated satellites and cables are developed. The overseas telecommunications organisation of every country throughout the world is making a profit. 
On the other hand, it is equally true that the cost of providing domestic services is increasing in every country in the world. The fact that OTC has earned good profits does not necessarily indicate that it is more efficient than the Australian Post Office. OTC's profits are also a reflection of factors other than operating efficiency- a traffic growth of 34 per cent per annum, its lucrative section of the market, and the fact that the Post Office and the person who makes national calls support its operations. In talking about efficiency the advocates of leaving OTC as it is have not looked at the relative operating costs, per unit of output of the two organisations. From published information they would find that the APO does more with its resources that the OTC. 
It has been said that the OTC should remain separate as it is in competition with the APO. This is not so. Their services are complementary. Both serve the one set of customers. The telephone subscriber makes local, trunk and overseas calls from the one telephone and should not need more than one authority to provide the service. To make an overseas call the subscriber rings Post Office telephonists who answer inquiries and connect the calls. On the other hand, OTC operators switch messages into the internal telegraph network. It is logical to merge the 2 organisations as this will permit better coordination of total operations, simplified billing arrangements and improved service to customers. 
It is expected that international subscriber dialling will commence to Papua and New Guinea this year and will progressively extend to other countries over the next few years. The introduction of this service from Australia to overseas countries depends basically for its technical feasibility on equipment in the national network. This applies also to the planned provision of itemised accounting for international calls and later for national STD calls. Advancing telecommunications technology is rapidly eliminating boundaries between national and international networks. Already many countries are exploiting satellites and modern submarine cables in the national networks and the advanced computer controlled switching systems are being used for automatically switching and charging both international and national calls. Common planning, design and technical development of the national and international systems will become increasingly important for both economic and technical reasons as technology develops further, especially for such services as data, facsimile and, ultimately, television telephony. 
The merging of the 2 organisations would avoid continuing and protracted negotiations between 2 separate managements on technological planning and cost sharing. These negotiations and the diverse aims of the 2 separate managements required the Postmaster-General of the previous Government,  Sir Alan  Hulme, to have an APO /OTC policy liaison committee formed in 1969. Nevertheless, negotiations have tended to be time-consuming and difficult. Reference to a number of difficulties of this type is to be found in the Vernon Report. Many of these issues are highly technical and are best resolved at chief executive level. They should not be a matter for commissions whose role is to determine the overall policy. In moving to merge the services into one Commission, the Government has no intention of submerging the Overseas Telecommunications Commission organisation in the large national organisation. On the contrary, the Interim Australian Telecommunications Commission proposed the retention of an international unit reporting directly to the Managing Director, who will be the chief executive officer of the Commission and a member of the Commission itself. This will preserve its administrative identity. It will be largely autonomous in its internal operations and there should be no loss in its negotiating capability in the international forums. Separate status as a statutory authority is not necessary for the international service to achieve its objectives. 
The Government has decided that it is in the national interest for OTC to be merged with the Australian Telecommunications Commission and, if this Bill is defeated in this House, it will be brought forward again at a later time. In view of the Government's determination I would stress to the Opposition that it is not in the interests of the overseas service or of the staff of OTC for the Bill not to be passed. The service and the staff will be placed in a situation of great uncertainty as to their future and the staff will miss out on the wider career opportunities which will be available to them on establishment of the Australian Telecommunications Commission. There are only about 2 100 staff in the OTC against about 85 000 in the national telecommunications service. There are common designations in both services and for most staff there would be much better career opportunities in the larger organisation. For all the reasons that I have stated, merging is in the national interest, and I commend the Bill to the Senate. 
Debate (on motion by  Senator Durack)  adjourned. 
-The Budget allocated money for this important project. The proposal was for a 3-stage building project over 7 years. It was estimated to cost nearly $50m. The contracts for the first stage of the project have been placed. It is expected that the first stage should be ready for occupancy in about the middle of 1976. The first stage will provide modern laboratory facilities for the physical science branch and for part of the advanced techniques branch of the laboratory, together with the administrative group. 
There is one factor, of course, about which  Senator Greenwood  probably has thought but has not mentioned. That is the one to which  Senator Hall  referred. 
The fact is that, after all, this Bill could have been dealt with before the other place rises for the parliamentary recess. I understand it will be rising soon. If the Committee accepts the amendment the Bill has to go back to the other place. In my opinion the Government will not accept the amendment. It will adopt the same attitude that I am adopting. We would have a situation in which the Authority is not only embarrassed but also cannot operate. I ask the Committee not to agree to the amendment. 
The answer to the honourable senator's question is as follows: 
and (2) The guidelines are incorporated in Rules for the Use of VIP Aircraft and VIP Party Travel as tabled in the 
Senate by the Minister for Repatriation and Minister Assisting the Minister for Defence on 6 March 1973. (Hansard pages 154-155 refer.) 
VIP Aircraft (Question No. 548) 
I am amazed that  Senator Greenwood  should ask this question today after his actions last week and this week in relation to a motion of mine which sought to restore to the notice paper and to have debated in the Senate the Conciliation and Arbitration Bill which contains the Government's policy- 3 times advanced- relating to easier amalgamations. If we look at the last mentioned and most critical attack made by the honourable senator about the violent disruptions presently going on in Victoria we find that the disruptions relate to the question of demarcation between 2 unions. If we had been able to settle this vexed question 2 years ago by taking action which was designed to allow easier amalgamations- it was once promoted by a Liberal Party Minister and later by the Labor Government- we would have one union covering the workers who are involved in the present dispute in Victoria. There would not be this violence which is currently taking place. We are against violence. 
Of course, the facts are that we were prevented from implementing this solution by  Senator Greenwood  and others in his Party. The same thing applies to the other questions which the honourable senator has raised. If we look at the problems and disputes to which he has referred we see that all relate to inflation. The Government's proposal is to have indexation accepted. The Opposition has done nothing to support the Government in its actions to have indexation accepted. What I am saying in a complete answer to the honourable senator is that the position is quite clear. If we had been able to proceed with our industrial reforms concerning amalgamations, agreements, and also the question of having closer relationships between labour and employers, we would not have the troubles which we have today and which have been largely caused by the Opposition. 
I am advised by the Minister for Labor and Immigration that the figures shown in the Press are reasonably accurate and that he intends to issue the statistics in a few days. Yes, the unemployment figure has fallen. The number of registered unemployed has fallen by 17 500, which is an improvement, of course, on the last figure which showed a fall of a little more than 5000. Also, the new figure indicates a stabilisation in the seasonally adjusted figures. I think honourable senators will remember that in. recent months the Minister has said that he expected unemployment trends to stabilise and the position to be corrected some time during the second half of the year. As  Senator James  McClelland mentioned yesterday, we consider this trend is a reaction to the planned measures which have been taken by the Government. I refer particularly to the schemes which have been developed- for instance the Regional Employment Development scheme- and which have operated in all States. All States have benefited directly under those schemes. This is the first time under any government in Australia that local authorities can apply directly to the Federal Government for aid. Those schemes seem to us to be working; that has been the forecast of  Mr Clyde  Cameron. 
The question relating to  Dr Cairns  has nothing to do with me. When I answered the question in relation to the unemployment figures I told  Senator Cameron,  I think it was, that the Minister had advised me that the indications are that the fall in the number of registered jobless would amount to 1 7 500 which is a vast improvement on last month's figure, which represented a fall of about 5000. The figures will also indicate that the seasonally adjusted figure has stabilised.  Mr Clyde  Cameron intends to issue the figures in a few days. As usual, the Press has a leak of the figures. Earlier this year in a debate in this chamber I repeated what the Minister for Labor and Immigration,  Mr Clyde  Cameron, the then Treasurer, and more recently I think  Mr Hayden  had said, that the economic position would tend to improve during the second half of the year. It seems to be evident that the economic position is improving. Also, a large part of the recovery in the employment situation is due to the sponsored schemes which are new in Australia. I refer particularly to the Regional Employment Development scheme, which I think is now accepted by everyone as being a great economic move forward. I know that councils, corporations and authorities in my own State are welcoming this new initiative by the Government, which has been introduced in Australia for the first time. If one goes around most of the States one will see little placards to the effect: 'This is a RED project sponsored jointly by the Australian Government and the State Government' if that be the case or  by the Australian Government '. 
-I told the honourable senator that the figures will be released in a few days time. Then he can see for himself the trends I have spoken about. If I can get the figures to the honourable senator before they are released I will do so. 
I thank honourable senators for their contributions to this debate. Perhaps I should start where  Senator Steele  Hall left off by supporting his statement that in another place and in this place the Opposition is using the amendment to force the Government to bring back what could be called a 'positive scheme' before the end of June next year. As  Senator Greenwood  interjected earlier, under the temporary provisions legislation the Minister is forced to bring back by that time a proposition concerning the scheme. Honourable senators will agree that most of the argument is not about whether the proposed levy is necessary but about the scheme as a whole. 
Let me very quickly and briefly remind honourable senators what it is all about- most can remember- because I have been taking part in debates concerning this scheme ever since it came into effect. The scheme took many years to come into operation. It resulted from national agreements and protracted negotiations which started in 1963 and continued until 1967. One of the most important issues raised at that time is the matter about which  Senator Wright  is now complaining- the mobility of labour. In the old days there was always a fight between the Liberal Minister concerned and the Waterside Workers Federation and the Australian Council of Trade Unions about shifting the waterside workers from one port to another. 
One of the most important gains from this scheme is the ability to be able to transfer waterside workers from one point where there was too much idle time to another point where activity was required for important reasons. Is it to be expected that this gain, this very important achievement of mobility of labour which previous governments wanted and we want also, should now be denied because to shift waterside workers from one port to another involves too great a cost? The waterside workers are receiving travelling allowances. They do not receive first class fares, but they are required to go to certain ports. They do not decide to go to certain ports; the authorities decide to send them. 
All the other arguments which were raised, and on which I shall comment briefly, related to the system. It is true that although I applauded the meetings which took place between the employers, the Government and the unions, the tripartite agreements have not achieved all that everybody wants, but this system is better, in my opinion, than the old system. It is true that in Australia for the first time the waterfront was able to follow the European pattern of guaranteed wages. That is the real theme of this debate. 

 Senator Greenwood has talked about the Foster report which was handed to the Minister for Labor and Immigration  (Mr Clyde Cameron)  last year. The report talks about a number of matters which do not necessarily have to be implemented. The Minister has stated quite clearly in the other place that he would welcome advice from the Opposition from now until the end of June next year, when he must report on the temporary provisions legislation as to what sort of authority might be set up and made permanent to correct the mistakes of the present authority. Last year the Minister said: 
While recommending an extension of the temporary legislation for a further 2 years it would be my intention to indicate to the Parliament the Government's proposals for the industry well before the expiry of that period. Extending the life of the Act will not of course preclude the introduction of permanent legislation at an earlier date if this proves feasible. Indeed an earlier date for permanent legislation is desirable. 
That has been said not only by  Mr Clyde  Cameron but also on at least 2 occasions by the previous Liberal Minister for Labour and National Service. Previous Liberal governments were in the same position as we are in of not having formed an initial agreement which provided a guarantee of incidental advantages such as mobility of labour and so on, and they were not in a position to move in new directions. 

 Mr Foster's report contains some of the information that he has received from looking at all the sides to this question and from talking to the employers, the shippers and other people. In addition, the Minister for Labor and Immigration has invited opinions and propositions from the Opposition as to what it thinks should be done to set up a new authority which no doubt must be done. We want to continue for the time being a situation that was agreed to not by a Labor government but by a Liberal government. If the amendments are carried the scheme that we have today will be stopped dead in its tracks and we would return to chaos. Even if we were to agree to amendment No. 4, 1 would like to draw the attention of honourable senators to the fact that the House of Representatives will be rising soon and the Government has said that it cannot - 
The honourable senator is jumping in too early. In addition the Government does not think that it is practicable at this stage to place an imposition upon the Government and it is saying, as  Senator Greenwood  said by way of interjection, that by the end of June next year it must bring in a recommendation under another Act. So the obligation is there. If the obligation is there why impede the passage of this necessary legislation at this stage by accepting any of the amendments? I reiterate what  Senator Steele  Hall said: All Parties want what is presently proposed by the Government. We could give an opinion as to why they want it. We have discussed this matter from year to year. As  Senator Mulvihill  has said, it is a peculiar industry with lots of unusual characteristics. If the owners want this scheme, in my opinion that supports what the Government is trying to do. 
We admit that the amount of idle time is very high at present due mainly to a fall in imports. However regulations have been drafted to introduce new early retirement provisions for older and unfit men. This should have the effect of reducing the numbers of surplus men at the ports. Whilst it is true that there is idle time and that the quotas have been increased, the quotas have never been increased to the extent required by the employers. The employers have always said to the Authority: 'We want more men'. They have said that they want more men than they have finally been able to get. In some cases this has been said not only by the employers but also by the State governments. I am told that the New South Wales Minister for Labour is highly critical of the quota at Sydney. As I have stated, quotas are about to be reviewed. Some corrections will be made. Generally, the employers almost always want more people than the Authority is prepared to give them. 
We spoke about idle time earlier and it is referred to in the Australian Stevedoring Industry Authority's annual report for 1973-74 which I have in front of me. There is always a great advance not only in technology and containerisation but also in the cargoes which are handled. If honourable senators examine the annual report for 1973-74 they will see the figures for cargo handled. On page 1 7 of the report it is stated: 
As shown in the table below, cargo handled by waterside workers at Australian pom during the year totalled 49 295 896 tonnes, an increase of 15.3 per cent on the 42 750 147 tonnes handled in the previous year. 
Pargraph 4 on page 1 8 states: 
Non bulk cargo handled at both conventional berths and terminals taking all trades into account, increased by 4 568 472 tonnes (17.4 per cent) from 26 251066 to 30 819 538. 
It goes on to mention the increases in imports. It is true, of course, as  Senator Wright  pointed out, that there has been a downturn in shipping activity and because of that idle time has increased. 
We are hoping that that situation will not obtain for too long. If it does obtain, corrections are in the system; the system is there to correct those sorts of problems. As I have said, where there have been quotas they have not always been agreed to. There has been pruning by the Authority and it has not always given the employers the quotas they wanted. 

 Senator Wright referred to page 27 of the report and the fact that there is additional labour in many places. It is true, of course, that there have been cases in which more labour has been available than is required. That, in my opinion, is a matter for correction and the new system will correct it. We have got to have a new system. Whilst the Foster report has not been strengthened by a report from the Minister, the Minister has said that he has considered what should be done about the observations made by  Mr Foster.  He said that what he wants is the Opposition's views. I believe the Opposition will give him those views. In addition, I think that what the Opposition is trying to do, as everybody would agree, is to bring to a head that consideration of the scheme which it set up. We did not set up the review but we went along with it. I think that in view of the current stage of the parliamentary session it would be unrealistic to amend the Bill in any way for the reasons I have given. It would create difficulties and, in addition, the requirement is contained in the Bill anyway. I hope that the Senate will be good enough to leave the Bill as is proposed by the Government so that we can proceed with the matter as quickly as we can. 
I should like to refer to one or two points raised by  Senator Wright.  He spoke about the cost of handling a case of apples. He failed to say, of course, that that cost is not simply the cost of labour. It encompasses also a stevedoring cost. This is a composite cost, not simply a cost of paying the waterside workers. This is the cost of the system. I referred, in the absence of  Senator Wright,  to the advantage flowing from mobility of labour and the fact that no first class fares had to be paid. A worker employed by the Department of Civil Aviation or the Post Office, for instance, cannot be expected to pay his own fares if he is transferred. Honourable senators are paid a travelling allowance when they are travelling. It would seem to me that the system is not as good as the Government at the time forecast it might have been. At least it forms a basis on which this Government or any other government for that matter ought to be able to introduce a more satisfactory scheme of permanent employment. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. 
In Committee 
I wish to add to what  Senator Hall  has said. The fact of the matter is that the Australian Stevedoring Industry Authority does not set the charge. The Authority recommends what the charge should be under a system which, as has now been agreed, was set up by a Liberal-Country Party Government after many years of disputation between the employers and the unions. The setting up of the system was considered to be a good thing. That charge takes into account a multiplicity of costs and charges. It takes into account not only labour costs and stevedoring costs but also harbour charges, shipping charges and so on. If the guaranteed system is to remain effective it is necessary to levy a certain amount. It has been the custom since the establishment of the system to do what has been proposed today, that is, to set what is in fact a ceiling level and to state by regulation what the charges should be. If that is not done the Authority and the whole system might pack up. For example, if wage indexation is established throughout the country it may be necessary to adjust the waterside workers agreement to cope with the new situation concerning wages, long service leave levels and so on. The amount of idle time might also increase. So, unless we want to throw away the whole system, we must have some position to which to move. That is the whole sense in doing what is being done. I think that what  Senator Hall  has said is right. The intention of the amendment is really to force the Government to bring down a conclusive and final determination on the issue by the end of June next year. In our opinion that has been provided for already in another Act. 
Question put: 
That the requests  (Senator Greenwood's)  be agreed to. 
The position is not as  Senator Greenwood  puts it.  His  Government was in the same sort of position on 2 occasions, in 1969 and 1971, as that in which we find ourselves at the present time. At that time I think that he or  Senator Wright  was Acting Minister for Labour.  His  Government said to the Parliament: 'Yes, we are looking at a permanent scheme to take over from the national agreement but we are not in a position yet to propose it'. Unfortunately, we are in almost a similar position, except that in the meantime  Mr Foster  has been around to meet all of the people interested. In addition, the Minister for Labor and Immigration  (Mr Clyde Cameron)  has invited the Opposition to make a contribution as to what it thinks should be done in the way of a new authority. So the Bill proposes only to keep in operation for the time being the authority which was set up by the Liberal Government. By the end of June next year under the provisions of another Act- the 
Stevedoring (Temporary Provisions) Act- the Minister has got to make a proposal, anyway. So that position is covered. 
I indicate that it would be wrong at this stage to accept the amendment because all the parties want what the Government is proposing. Honourable senators already have heard that not only the Authority, the Government and the union but also the employers want what is proposed in the Bill.  Mr Clyde  Cameron has said that the Government will go ahead and attempt to devise a system within 12 months. If this amendment were carried and the Government accepted it and it was not possible to have the new authority set up by the Parliament, the whole scheme would fold up. It would be a mistake to accept the amendment. It would mean chaos. I think it is unnecessary. I think that the Opposition's purpose in applying pressure has been achieved in the debate. The Opposition has done what it intended to do. I hope that the Committee will support the Bill. 
I will be brief; I think the issues are clear. It took well over 10 years to get the agreement settled. As a matter of fact I was on the Executive of the Australian Council of Trade Unions when Albert Monk, the shipowners, the Government and Harry Bland were trying to get a system established. Negotiations started in 1963 and agreement was reached in 1967. As I have said, from 1967 until the Labor Government came to office the scheme was not introduced. At that time  Senator Wright  might have been responsible for bringing that type of legislation into this place. But his Party was not able to bring in a scheme because the matters which are involved are very complex. So far neither the employers nor ourselves- or anybody else- have said what should be substituted for the present scheme. It will take a long time. If the prohibition is put into the Bill by the Opposition's amendment and the House of Representatives cannot deal with it, the simple facts are that the scheme which the Opposition set up and which we support and continue could easily collapse and there would be a state of chaos. A study will be made. We would like the Opposition to think about the position and tell us in what way the new authority ought to be constituted. 
Question put: 
That the request  (Senator Greenwood's)  be agreed to. 
The answer to the honourable senator's question is as follows: 
Yes. 
0746. 
0745. 
0747. 

 Mr Barnard; Mrs Barnard; Mr E. Dwyer;  Major General  Whitelaw; plus 2 members of the Minister's staff. 
Darwin. 
$3,717.34. 
Yes, but Transport Department regulations do not permit three aircraft on the runway at the same time. The aircraft were, however, on the taxiway in the order stated. 
The Minister would have been unable to meet his commitments by using commercial aircraft. 
No. 
Not applicable. 
Not applicable. 
For the information of the Senate I table the details of VIP travel in 
Royal Australian Air Force aircraft for the period from 1 August 1974 to 24 March 1975. 
Sitting suspended from  12.56  to  2.15  p.m. 
I have not seen the brochure to which  Senator Grimes  referred but I will look into the matter and, if necessary, talk to the Minister for Defence  (Mr Morrison)  about it. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Senate adjourned 12.24 a.m. (Thursday) 
-Senator Douglas McClelland and I recently received representations from a number of interested parties, including people from Tasmania and a representative from Western Australia, in relation to this matter. As the honourable senator knows many of my own colleagues, including the Leader of the Government in the Senate,  Senator Wriedt,  have written to me. The Post Office has conducted a wide-ranging study of costs and charges. I will be announcing them later today. Some of the reductions in the charges are of the order of 30 per cent to 40 per cent. As the honourable senator comes from Tasmania he will be interested to know that, for example, an ad hoc 10 minute relay from Melbourne to Hobart will now cost $150 compared with $256 previously, and that a regular 60 minute relay, Monday to Friday, will cost $ 10,465 per quarter compared with $ 12,090 as at present. 
I think everybody now recognises that the new pay arrangements which were set up by the last Minister for Defence,  Mr Barnard,  were exceedingly satisfactory. For the first time there is an independent committee of reference for all defence pay matters. This has meant a new pay scale which has been related more closely to conditions that apply to the civilian work force. In addition we have recently accepted the report in relation to the reserve forces. That has basically meant a great new change for members of the Services. 
The honourable senator heard yesterday the numbers of retirements from the Services. There has been an 80 per cent reduction in the number of people retiring from the Services at a time when we have the best ever 
Defence Forces Retirement Benefits scheme. When the honourable senator's Party was in government it rejected the Jess report. We accepted the Jess report. In addition we have provided, for the first time, a new eligibility for serving servicemen for defence homes and for repatriation benefits. Everybody knows  Senator Wheeldon  's great advances in repatriation pensionsthe best ever in Australia. Nobody can say that we have not done marvellously well with repatriation benefits. We have also prepared legislation, which should have been dealt with by the Parliament, to create a defence force ombudsman. For the first time we have provided a reengagement bonus for servicemen. We have provided new conditions such as long service leave, 4 weeks annual leave, maternity allowances and, for the first time ever, annual leave bonuses. So our record in providing new conditions for the Services is remarkable. I suggest that instead of interjecting the Opposition might look closely at the gains which have been made by servicemen, and might remind servicemen, or those among them who might complain, of what the Labor Government has done. 
-Lieutenant-Colonel K. J. Newman resigned from the Army on 10 May 1975 upon his pre-selection as the Liberal Party candidate for the Federal seat of Bass. On 3 June 1975 he withdrew his resignation and applied for a transfer to the Army Reserve in accordance with the provisions of the Defence (Parliamentary Candidates) Act 1969. He was transferred - 

 - Mr President, I am just giving the facts of the case. He was transferred to the Army Reserve on 10 June 1975. Under the provisions of the Act he is enabled to return to the Army in the event of his being defeated at the election. 
I can be guided only by the Press reports in relation to this matter. It is very clear to me from those reports and what is the history - 
-The Lieutenant-Colonel resigned; there is no doubt about that. He resigned from the Army. 
The honourable senator has said this before. He made application to resign in protest. 
-There you are; the honourable senator admits it. He made application to resign in protest against the way in which he alleged that  Mr Barnard  was running the defence Services. 
Opposition senators- Hear, hear! 
There you are; honourable senators opposite agree that it is true. So why has the question been asked? By way of their interjections honourable senators opposite have admitted that he resigned. Then he decided that perhaps he should use the options that he had. He had heard or knew about - 
There you are;  Senator Marriott  has already answered the question. He resigned because he thought that in some way that would give a filip to his candidature. Then he no doubt thought how better would it be to defeat the new Labor candidate than to argue about defence, so he decided to take up new options. He has the right, of course, to return to the Army. He has made sure that he has preserved that right by making an application under the appropriate Act. 
-The Minister for Transport,  Mr Jones,  has declared the South Australian section of the Stuart Highway a national highway and has accepted full financial responsibility for its construction and maintenance. In 1973 the Commonwealth Bureau of Roads decided that that section of the highway should be one of the locations in relation to which there ought to be detailed study. Presently the Australian Government is co-operating with the South Australian Government in determining what is the most desirable route between Port Augusta and the Northern Territory and also the aspect of whether- there might be a more direct use of the track through Woomera. That study is presently being conducted in association with the South Australian Department and the Bureau of Roads and it is expected that the report will be available towards the end of the year. When the report is received decisions will be made about the bituminising and re-routing of the road. 
in reply- I shall start by referring to the remarks of the last  speaker, Senator Scott.  He placed a lot of reliance upon what  Sir James  Vernon said. Everybody accepts that the Vernon Commission of Inquiry into the Australian Post Office made a great contribution. Its contribution has never been doubted in any respect. It made all sorts of investigations which are recorded. It gave the Post Office a clean sheet except in the area of industrial relations. The majority decision of that Commission was this: Commissioners Callinan and Kennedy recommended that the Overseas Telecommunications Act should be repealed and the present overseas telecommunications organisation should become a division of the Australian Telecommunications Commission and be responsible to the Managing Director. The Commissioners saw no justification for a separate corporation for overseas telecommunications and recommended a merger of the Overseas Telecommunications Commission with the ATC. They observed that so long as there were 2 separate authorities involved in the nation's telecommunications systems problems as to division of functions would arise, but if a merger takes place no division of functions would be necessary. 
Other speakers from the Opposition have quoted what they consider to be  Sir James  Vernon's hesitations about a merger at this time. Everybody knows of course that there have been difficulties in the negotiations- they are recorded in the Commission's report- between the Post Office and the OTC.  Senator Scott  talks about the ATC as a juvenile organisation. Everybody knows that the ATC is, in fact, the Australian Post Office, and that is where the ability, the techniques and experience resides. That experience will be divided into 2 new commissions. The 2 new commissions have been charged not only with the responsibility of perfoming efficiently but at the request of the Opposition and with the Government's acceptance, the commissions also take on a certain obligation in the public interest. We agreed to accept a prescription, which was finally worked out in agreement with  Senator Durack,  that clause 7A ( I ) should state: 
The Minister may, after consultation with the Commission, give to the Commission, in writing, such directions, with respect to the performance of its functions and the exercise of its powers, as appear to the Minister to be necessary in the public interest. 
Separately it designates some of those things which might be done. But there is no such obligation in relation to the Overseas Telecommunications Act. In fact, if it wanted to, the Overseas Telecommunications Commission could tell the Government to go and hang its hat somewhere. 
So it was not unusual-  Senator Durack  said that it was extremely unusual- that when the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  received the report of the Vernon Commission in April 1974, almost immediately he said: 'We will see that the recommendation in relation to the OTC is accepted.' The Government's committees and Cabinet decided to apply the recommendations. It is no mystery because it ought to be selfevident after examination of the Australian Post Office- which everybody agrees is too big anyway and which has 2 functions which the Opposition has agreed should be separated- that the small incidental service which concerns itself with the international sphere should become a part of it and should not be submerged. In the organisational chart which was prepared assuming that the Opposition would accept the recommendation, the position of the General Manager (Overseas) is a very senior position. He is on the highest level of the administration, as he should be. But he should not be in a position where he can act separately and where the OTC can act separately from the Australian Telecommunications Commission. 
So we have a recommendation from specialists who looked into the question. The majority said that it should be merged with the Australian Telecommunications Commission. We have now seen a great campaign by the so-called users of 
OTC, no doubt generated within the OTC itself, which has cost the Australian taxpayer millions of dollars. My colleague in the other place estimated that nearly $lm has been spent in a campaign to frustrate what should be a most logical step. I hope that the Opposition will still consider its position on this matter. In my opinion, its acts of frustration have been arranged largely on information sent to Opposition members by people who are not concerned with the national interest. The logical thing to do, the rational thing to do, the right thing to do for Australia is to merge the OTC with the ATC on a basis of sharing, not on a basis of competition. The staff were logged for all sorts of activities. I have no doubt that the time spent by certain staff members trying to generate activity against the merger has cost the Australian taxpayer a lot of money. 
Let me refer to the main unions with members in the OTC. It is well established that they took part in what was known as the joint union group. They went along, resisting the idea at first and later accepting it. They went along with the recommendations of that group which made all the provisions necessary for the transfer. From the time the Vernon Commission report was accepted by the Government and later transferred to the basis of staff organisations, all the staff organisations have worked with management. The staff groups, the union groups and the management groups worked together to thrash out a new form of administration, which will give the staff a new identity. For the first time ever in the Australian community we have, as a part of the organisation, a trade union or staff representative as a member of the Commission. We have an acknowledged system of consultations with the staff which is the best ever. In anticipation of this and in anticipation of the Opposition accepting the recommendations of the Government and of the Vernon Commission, I recommended to the Prime Minister that a union delegation should go overseas to look at the best practices and techniques of telecommunications and post offices. I recommended that a unionist from the Professional Radio Employees Institute be a part of that delegation. 
Sitting suspended from 6 to 8 p.m. 
Before the suspension of the sitting for dinner, I stated that, with the approval of the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam),  I intend to notify a number of trade union people, including a unionist from the Overseas Telecommunications Commission, to go overseas to look at postal and telecommunications organisations and to bring that experience back to the 2 new Commissions. I feel that what is required in this new situation is a new co-operative effort from the work force in the postal and telecommunications areas and the management, which might bring them into a new arrangement which would, of course, profit the Australian community. If the Opposition continues to oppose the merger of OTC with the Australian Telecommunications Commission it will mean that the union side of the OTC will not have that international experience. I appeal, at this late stage, to the Opposition to reconsider what it is doing. 
This matter has been argued for a long time. We have said that nationally what the Government is proposing is correct and I do not only say that as a Labor Government Minister. I would hope that in any change of government a Minister occupying my position might support the same point of view, because we cannot have a fragment of an organisation taking an independent role and, in addition, having obligations that are different from those contained in the 2 new Acts, by agreement between the Government and the Opposition. We have placed on the new Postal Commission and the Telecommunications Commission an obligation to do things in the public interest. No such obligation is contained in the Overseas Telecommunications Act at the present time. 
What I say is this: The position of the G overnment proposing that the OTC should come within the Australian Telecommunications Commission is based on the principle, firstly, that it would avoid conflict of functions and responsibilities, evidence of which is contained in the Vernon Commission report which is available to all honourable senators for them to read; secondly, that there is growing convergence of technologies in national and international communications and there is a need for avoidance of duplication of equipment and resources, which exists presently; thirdly, the OTC is a small organisation of 2000 people and if it does not come within the Australian Telecommunications Commission its staff would be in a vacuum and would not have the opportunities of getting into the larger framework of career opportunities, where there is an organisation of 80 000 people; fourthly, there would be better career prospects for the staff; and, fifthly, overseas practice supports what we are proposing. The cases mentioned by  Senator Durack  instance only the position where, as in some countries, there are both private and public organisations. In our country we have no such private organisations. 
To wind up, I say this: It may be that the new Commissions will face a situation not unlike the British corporation which, in its infancy, faced some economic problems, which did not demonstrate the advantages of having a corporation and maybe our own 2 Corporations will enter an economic climate which might not be favourable to their commencement. But I know that an organisation which combines representation of both the work force and the management is the best thing for our country, and I suggest that the Senate Opposition might reconsider the arguments it has put up which, I think, are based on purely small considerations. The arguments are put forward mainly because some people who have a job at the present time think they will lose it. We can guarantee that the people in the OTC will be properly catered for. I suggest,  Mr Deputy President,  that at this stage the Senate might take a vote on the matter. 
Question put: 
That the BUI be now read a second time. 
-The South Australian work is funded from moneys approved under the National Roads Act 1974, under which work on national roads in South Australia has been funded, over a 3-year period, to the extent of about $ 15.5m. I understand the work has progressed as far as Bookabie, and although progress is not as good as the South Australian Government expected it is now anticipated that the work will be completed some time in 1 976. 
-I will try to contact  Dr Cairns  today in relation to  Senator Gietzelt  's very important question in order to see what action might be taken as quickly as possible and I will let the honourable senator know the result. 
-On 27 May 1975,  Senator Durack  asked me the following question, without notice: 
I ask the Postmaster-General whether any licences have been granted by him under the Wireless Telegraphy Act for non-commercial broadcasting to any Government sponsored groups or authorities other than the one that he has in question at the moment. If so, how many such licences have been granted and to whom have they been granted? Have any conditions been laid down as a term of the licence? If such conditions have been laid down will he make details of them available to the Senate? 
The following is the answer to the honourable senator's question: 
Apart from the licences which have been prepared for issue to the  Chairman,  Ethnic Radio Experimental Committee, to establish experimental broadcasting stations in Sydney and Melbourne for the conduct of experiments in ethnic broadcasting there are no Government sponsored groups or authorities licensed under the provisions of the Wireless Telegraphy Act to operate broadcasting stations in Australia. 
Firstly I would like to thank honourable senators who took part in this debate for their very co-operative attitude. It is clear to me and, I think, to everybody that this legislation represents a great advance. It parallels the work done in this area by other countries. Australia has been behind in this activity. The discussions that have occurred in the other place and here tonight indicate that almost everybody is in favour of the legislation. As honourable senators know, the former Minister for Environment  (Dr Cass)  in the other place was helpfulthe Opposition was helpful also- when a number of the clauses were considered in accepting a number of amendments to satisfy the Opposition. Apart from one or two luke warm comments in the debate it is obvious that everybody here welcomes this great new move by the Government. Apart from the comments about the co-operation with Queensland, it is clear that everybody agrees that the Government is taking a new initiative and it is clear that that initiative was possible because many people contributed to the development of the scheme which is before the Senate. 
I want to mention particularly my colleague,  Senator Georges.  As everybody knows, he has played quite a role in this scheme. But he was good enough to mention those on the other side who also made a contribution to it.  Senator Durack  raised a number of queries. The first and most important one is why the scheme does not embrace the whole of the Reef. The purpose of the Great Barrier Reef Marine Park Authority will be to examine the entire Barrier Reef area and then to determine which sections of the region should be proclaimed as part of the park. The Bill makes provision for the way in which it shall be zoned. It states the criteria upon which that zoning will be made. So it may be that the whole of the Reef will not be zoned. Some areas could be undisturbed if by the process of examination the Authority so determines. For example, as everybody knows, the Authority initially will determine by examination the priority for zoning and then it must advertise the fact that certain areas will be zoned in a certain way. Representations may be made from the public as a result of that publicity. After decisions have been reached about the zoning and the general purposes of the area the matter will be considered by the consultative committee. 
Let me illustrate the way in which the Government has tried to respond to the Queensland Government's point of view. In the first instance it was proposed that the Australian Government would share the authority with the Queensland Government. The Queensland Government then came back and said that it would prefer to have one nominee on the Authority. State representation was, I think, in the first instance based on one-fifth but has now been expanded so that Queensland now has about a one-third representation. That consultative committee will consist of members of all of the most important and representational groups- the specialists. The committee having decided on the zoning that zoning will then be subject to the Minister's examination and the matter must then be placed before the Parliament. Parliament has to see what is done in respect of zoning. It will not be a quick process but a process which will take time. It is subject to a lot of pushes and pulls. There are certainly a number of safeguards against any arbitrary action. There will be some areas, of course- perhaps shipping lanes, recreational areas and fishing areas- which may not be disturbed. But the guidelines have to be developed over a number of months and the sooner the Authority sets about getting experience the better it will be. 
Another related question was why have these 2 authorities- that is, the Wildlife Service and the Marine Park Service. In relation to the Wildlife Service I think the answer must be that in some cases where there are national parks or where an area is finally decided to be a national park the expertise in that category of activities would be best vested in the Wildlife Service. Otherwise we could have 2 authorities operating in the one area. The Wildlife Service would be more concerned with the activities as set out in the Bill. As I think everybody now realises, there will be some areas- those not included in special zones- which will need a different type of management; that is, the fishing, tourist and shipping areas, where different sorts of management will be required to operate them properly. 
In addition, it must be said that it is possibleand it will be done in many cases- that the Authority will hand over to a State Government department or a local authority the operation and control of certain special areas. So there is a general program for the whole Barrier Reef region of step by step zoning and control and of sharing that control with appropriate bodies. There is also a consultative process which, it seems to me, is not only very necessary but is very democratic and an essential way to proceed. 
I know there are a lot of complexities and I think the Government is aware of them;  Senator Durack  referred to many of them. I think those complexities will probably become more amenable to scrutiny, discussion and change when the Authority sets to work. I hope the comment of  Senator Durack  and, more latterly, the comment of  Senator Bonner  that honourable senators opposite will go over the Act again when they come to power will not inhibit the activities of the Authority because all of us should be aware of the need to get going with the Authority, get it established and let it go unhampered by any act of obstruction in the future. I take it that when the honourable senators mentioned that, they had no intention of throwing spanners in the works. Most honourable senators have accepted the measure with great pleasure and I thank them for their co-operation. 
It is left to me to reply to the matters raised by  Senator Mulvihill.  He raised the question, firstly, of the lighthouses. There will not be any phasing out of lighthouse control or taking it over from the Transport Department because, if there is any special Australian Government service or any property owned by the Australian Government for lighthouse purposes there is no reason why that should not continue. There is no such intention. In relation to dolphins my advice is that dolphins are currently protected under the laws of most, if not all, of the States. However, this protection would extend only to the limit of State jurisdiction- generally a 3-mile limit. To ensure that dolphins in Australian waters are protected the Department of Agriculture is currently considering action under the Whaling Act which would have the effect of protecting them against any form of exploitation. The recently passed National Parks and Wildlife Conservation Act extends also to marine mammals such as dolphins. Additional protection under that Act could be given when the regulations have been established. With those comments I thank the Senate for its contribution to this very important piece of legislation. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time, and passed through its remaining stages without amendment or debate. 
I do not wish to continue the debate tonight for too long, but surely  Senator Steele  Hall, after twisting the sword in the backs of his ex-colleagues here, should be in South Australia as the Leader of that little group which is now proposing to join with the Liberal and Country parties. If that is not double crossing and then again coming back to the old fold, I do not know what it is. The honourable senator's action in talking about Labor policies in South Australia indicates his lack of knowledge of what is happening overseas. It is not very many weeks since I pointed out to him that the notions about worker participation and the new ideas about industrial relations in South Australia that he was putting up indicate only that he is not aware of what is happening in Europe. As  Senator Steele  Hall has been told more than once, and as he ought to know by now, Western Germany, for example, which is held to be a great example of parliamentary democracy, a most advanced democracy with good leadership, has such a law in existence at the present dme, and the effects on industry are certainly much more stringent. The policies decided by the German Government and accepted by both the German employers' federation and the unions indicate a greater participation in industry than the proposals made by the Labor Government in South Australia. 
There is no question that in South Australia the State has been led very well by the Labor Government, as  Senator Steele  Hall well knows.  Mr Dunstan  has been such a good leader in South Australia that he chased  Senator Steele 
Hall into the Federal arena because he could not compete with him.  Mr Dunstan  is faced with a situation where  Senator Steele  Hall's colleagues at last may be combining with the Liberal and Country parties, and they think that they will succeed in defeating the Labor Government. I do not think they will because all the things that have been done in South Australia have been proved to be the best from an industrial point of view, in any of the States, and they will help to entrench the South Australian Labor Government. I suggest that before  Senator Steele  Hall gets up again and talks about worker participation and the requirement that there ought to be worker representatives on boards and that they should take some responsibility for management on the shop floor, he ought to look at the European experience. 
The Minister for Transport has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
and (2) Low cost excursion fares for air travel from Australia to the Middle East were temporarily suspended by the airlines in December 1974, but were re-established in January 1975, to five countries in the Middle East, including Israel, and continue to be available on all airlines. 
The Minister for Transport has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
1 ) and (2) No. The Department of Transport has no evidence that the International Air Transport Association and the Australian Council of Trade Unions' Leisure Club, in association with the Australian Council of Trade Unions' New World Travel Agency, have acted contrary to the Australian Air Navigation Regulations or the Department's instructions to travel agents as to the advertising, offering or selling of international air travel. 
The Minister for Transport has provided the following reply to the honourable senator's question: 
and (2) The Department of Transport received a number of applications from organisations wishing to operate regular air services from Sydney and other centres to Lord Howe Island. One of the applicants, Advance Aviation, has been authorised to provide commuter air services from Sydney direct to Lord Howe using an Aero Commander 690A aircraft. The service commenced on 1 June. 
Advance Aviation was authorised by the Australian Department of Transport following advice from the N.S.W. State Transport authorities that it had selected that operator to provide this intrastate service. Advance Aviation meets the operational requirements for the route. 
The Australian Depanment of Transport did not carry out a feasibility study. I understand, however, that the N.S.W. State Transport authorities carried out a study prior to selecting Advance Aviation as the operator to provide the service. 
Non-smoking Seats on Aircraft (Question No. 529) 
The Minister for Transport has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: ( 1 ), (2), (3) and (4) I have been personally interested in the development of non-smoking areas in Australian domestic aircraft. In February 1972, Ansett Airlines and TAA agreed to set aside groups of seats in both first class and economy class compartments for non-smokers, who might ask to bc seated in these areas when seats were being allocated prior to the departure of the flight. At that time 18 seats were set aside for non-smokers in DC-9 aircraft and 20 seats in Boeing 727-100 aircraft. 
Since the introduction of non-smoking seats, which, I might add, were not widely availed of initially, both Ansett and TAA have carried out continuous market surveys to ensure that the provision of non-smoking seats has kept pace with social trends. In this regard non-smokers are now provided with 27 seats on DC-9 aircraft, 30 seats on B.72 7-100 aircraft and 36 seats on Boeing 727-200 aircraft, the number of seats being proportionate between first class and economy class compartments. 
I am sure that you will also be interested to learn that Qantas Airways has recently doubled its seat allocation for nonsmokers and will now provide up to 108 non-smoking seats on Boeing 747 aircraft and 40 non-smoking seats on Boeing 707 aircraft. Although some other international airlines do provide slightly more non-smoking seats, it is pleasing to see Qantas adapting to passenger requirements. lt must be recognised, however, that a significant number of air travellers do wish to smoke and would undoubtedly object strenuously to measures preventing them from doing so. The airlines are, of course, sensitive to this as. indeed, they are to the position of the non-smoker. The arrangements which they have introduced for the segregation of smokers and non-smokers is essentially a compromise. Nevertheless, it is an encouraging development in line with social trends and one which 1 am personally keen to see pursued further. 
As the level of community reaction against smoking increases, as hopefully it will, the arrangements made by the airlines for the accommodation of smokers on their aircraft will unquestionably reflect this changed community attitude. We might look forward, perhaps, to the assignment of smokers to seats in smoking areas, segregated from the majority of non-smokers. For the present, however, the airlines are endeavouring to ensure that their passengers, both smokers and non-smokers alike, are subject to the minimum of inconvenience. 
The Minister for Transport has supplied the following reply to the honourable senator's question: 
Since 1972 T.D.I. (Transportation Displays International Pty Ltd ) had held concession rights for advertising in Sydney International Terminal. Lansing and Bagnall Fork Lift display was arranged by T.D.I, as part of that contract. The Government receives a percentage of fee paid to T.D.I, by Lansing and Bagnall. 
-To excuse him. 

 Mr A. 
 R. G. Prowse, announced by the Usher of the Black Rod, attended at the Bar of the Senate. 


 The oath having been administered by the Clerk, 

 Mr Prowse; My name is Albert Richard Graham Prowse and my occupation is public servant. 

 Mr Prowse; Yes. 
The Minister for Transport has supplied the following reply to the honourable senator's question: (1), (2) and (3)- 
The answer to the honourable senator's question is as follows: 
There is no evidence or implication in Defence records that any servicemen died as a result of mustard gas tests conducted in Australia during World War II. 
The answer to the honourable senator's question is as follows: 
1 ) The articles for the King Island Council were not received at Currie Post Office until 1 4 May 1 975 because of a transport delay. These articles were then delivered on the same day, apart from one which could not be sorted before the addressee's private box was cleared. 
No. Because of the paucity of suitable, regular shipping services, non-standard postal articles and parcels addressed to King Island are forwarded via Melbourne, from where air freighter services to King Island are uti lised to convey these categories of mail twice weekly. How ever, the frequency of the air freighter services was restricted at times during May because of airport runway repairs at Currie. 
Under normal conditions, the present arrangements for the conveyance of non-standard postal articles and parcels to and from King Island provide a reasonable grade of service. There is also ample provision for faster delivery of these articles via frequent airmail despatches to and from King Island if postage has been prepaid at airmail rates. Standard letters of course are in any case despatched by air. 
-The answer to  Senator Keeffe  's question is as follows: Yesterday the Minister for Environment announced the purchase of 1000 hectares of land at Elanda Plains adjacent to the proposed Cooloola National Park in Queensland. Some years ago the Queensland Government promised this park to the people of Queensland, but it has yet to honour this promise. Now the Queensland Government proposes a small park of a size which is not acceptable. Accordingly we cannot assume that the Queensland Government will carry out its promises. Under the National Parks and Wildlife Conservation Act which passed through this chamber recently the Australian Government is empowered to purchase such lands and to run parks as truly national parks. Recently the Australian Government bought some land at Towra Point, New South Wales. This piece of Australian heritage is one of the key resting areas for migratory birds in eastern Australia. In both cases these parcels of land were threatened by development. It is a case of the intentions of the Australian Government being carried out. 

 - Senator Durack 's general question must be answered in this way: He knows that the Parliament passed the legislation which required the Post Office to be separated into 2 commissions. Those 2 commissions were to operate on a business basis- on a proper financial and management basis- and, after consideration of their operations, internal funding and so on, to propose a scale of tariffs to the Minister, who would then convey them to the Cabinet. The commissioners met me with their advisers and recommended a set of tariffs. In respect of one set of tariffs proposed- those relating to registered publications- I recommended a subsidy, but otherwise the recommendations were based on the principles propounded by the Vernon Commission. That is the way in which the commissions are required to operate and will operate in the future. 
As the honourable senator knows, all the commissioners are experienced. The commissions embrace many practical businessmen. The chairmen of the commissions are experts in their fields. There was no reason why the Minister or the Government should not have accepted the tariffs proposed. If we had decided to leave the tariffs as they are at present, we would have had to subsidise the 2 commissions to a total amount of $348m. I suggest that no government would be prepared to do that. I recommended to the Cabinet, and the Cabinet accepted the recommendations, that the commissions should be reimbursed for the various pensioner subsidies that applied. That amounted to about $ 1 6.5m. 
In respect of the economic effects, I think most people know that the method of operation recommended by the Vernon Commission is the way the commissions are expected to operate. It is true that the general increases will be passed on down the line, as are most other increases which are necessary. The new approach breaks the tradition of paying the giant subsidies that were made to the old Australian Post Office which, as everybody knows and accepts, was too large and had inbuilt a number of general inefficiencies. Now the commissions are required, not only for the purposes of the Acts but also by the direction of the Government, to become more efficient. We hope that as a result of their efficiencies and the collaborative machinery which is now installed in the Acts they will be able to propose in the future tariffs which certainly will not be higher but which in many cases, according to the economic factors involved, will for comparative purposes be lower. 
I have some short comparisons in relation to the Australian Telecommunications Commission charges and some other charges. For example, telecommunications charges will increase by 28 per cent but that the price of steel has increased by 37 per cent, health services by 35 per cent, general charges relating to motoring by 38 per cent, and newspapers by 30 per cent. 
I am about to mention the figure in relation to average weekly earnings. I am trying to give as much information as possible. As  Senator Durack  knows, I am circulating today some explanatory notes about the 2 businesses and tomorrow reports on the business and service outlook of the 2 commissions will be tabled. If one looks at the charges as compared with average weekly wages, one finds that they are not extraordinarily high. I should like to know whether any government would continue to subsidise these undertakings to the extent that Australian governments have done in the past. The new obligation imposed on the commissions was that they should be run as business enterprises and should manage their own affairs in accordance with the principles set out in the legislation. 
I think honourable senators know that because of the proposed British use of the range it was agreed to place the range on a care and maintenance basis. However, at the recent direction of the Minister,  Mr Morrison,  investigations are being conducted into the use of the range by the Armed Services. Included in these investigations are the possibility of its use by the Royal Australian Air Force for instrumented trials involving the Fill aircraft and by the Australian Army for armoured exercises involving the Leopard tank. At present the effect of the activities of the equipment on the environment is under expert investigation. A preliminary armoured corps exercise by South Australian units will take place shortly in order to assess whether it is practicable to plan on future operations of this nature. I can assure the honourable senator that the Minister for Defence is anxious to see these activities taking place and the use of Woomera to the greatest possible extent. 
-Recently the Minister for Transport,  Mr Jones,  requested a report from the Australian National Railways and also commissioned an inspection by the union and departmental officers. I think that inspection is currently proceeding. I know also that  Mr Jones  inspected some of the accommodation at Port Augusta recently. He certainly is sympathetic to what the union has been putting to him. As far as I am aware the report has not reached the Minister. I understand that there is to be a report from the Railways and also one from the union. When the Minister receives the reports he will determine to what extent the accommodation needs to  be  improved. 
All I can say is that as a result of the 7 proving flights a great deal of technical data has been supplied to the Minister for Transport and the other Ministers concerned.It is understood that the environmental impact statement- that is, the firm one- will be available in October, and when that is available comments from all who are interested will be invited. After consideration of those comments a decision will be made. 
There has been an assessment by the Government in relation to the purchases of the long range maritime patrol aircraft and the 53 tanks that a substantial amount of offset work ought to be done in Australia. The same assessment will be made in relation to negotiations for the purchase of the 2 frigates. Where we can we are insisting upon a policy of strong participation. In addition I understand that recently the Minister for Defence,  Mr Morrison,  has made reciprocal arrangements with the United Kingdom Government in relation to possible purchases. This follows the arrangements made in 1973 with the United States of America. In response to possible Australian defence purchases in the United States, the United States Government decided to set up an arrangement whereby the United States Defence Department and industry, in circumstances in which the United States Government could not meet orders for offset components, would allow Australian industry to bid for the work. Technical information in relation to these general orders has been sent to all competent Australian suppliers so that they will be aware of the position. 
One of the submissions which were made to me and to the Government by the Australian Postal Commission related to what we considered to be drastic increases in the postage rates of registered publications which, as the honourable senator knows, are distributed to a large extent by charitable organisations. As a result of the submission in regard to those publications and of the submission in regard to newspaper circulation which applied to charitable organisations in particular and to other organisations, I recommended to the Government that a $ 1 m subsidy should be provided. As a result of the provision of a Sim subsidy, for example, the typical charges will rise from 3c to 6c for a small charitable organisation's monthly newsletter, from 4.5c to 7c for a country newspaper, and from 11c to 14c for a medium weight magazine. Had this subsidy not been applied a small charitable organisation would have paid 12c to send a newsletter, a country newspaper would have cost 12c to be posted and a medium weight magazine would have cost as much as 20c to be posted. 
As regards the other question, the honourable senator will remember that last year it was suggested that consideration should be given to providing a reduction in postage rates for Christmas cards. This matter is being considered at present. The present position is that in the considerations which have been given to this matter it has been submitted that to reduce postage rates on Christmas cards would mean that we would have to load up something else. All I can undertake to do is to keep the honourable senator's suggestion in mind and put it to the Australian Postal Commission. I rather think that the suggestion has already been canvassed in a way that I have partly mentioned. I said yesterday I think that if the performances of the Postal Commission and the Telecommunications Commission are as good as we would hope them to be, what has been suggested by the honourable senator might well be achieved in the future. 
It is regretted that these rumours are causing some anxiety amongst servicemen, but they are unfounded. Commutation has been a feature of the defence forces retirement benefits scheme since 1948. At no stage has the Government considered any proposal to abolish the provision. At present an examination of the commutation provisions and other areas of the benefit scheme is being undertaken at the direction of the Defence (Conditions of Service) Committee, which includes as members the chiefs of the personnel sections of the Services. Should any recommendations concerning the overall conditions of the DFRB scheme be made, the Minister for Defence and the Government would consider them. As far as I am aware, none of the things which are now being rumoured are contemplated. 
As the honourable senator warned  Mr Jones  that he would be asking this question I have been able to obtain some information about it. The approximate tonnages westbound are as follows: Associated Steamships, 400 000 tonnes per annum, and Australian National Railways, 600 000 tonnes per annum. The traffic is heavily weighted in favour of the west bound service. The capacity of the TransAustralian Railway is more than adequate to cope with the total tonnages if the shipping service is withdrawn. The general condition of the Trans-Australian Railway is very good but there is a program of further upgrading to include continuous welding of rails and installation of more concrete sleepers. It is not considered that the cutting of the line by floodwaters, which happened recently, will be repeated. Generally speaking, the answer is that the condition of the permanent way is quite satisfactory. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 

 Mr President, I seek leave to have my second reading speech incorporated in  Hansard. 
The Minister for Transport has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
As you know, my Department is responsible only for the standards and issue of licences, and prescribes some working conditions for pilots. Apart from services offered by various industry organisations to their members, employment is arranged on a personal basis, pilots themselves contacting prospective employers. 
Nevertheless, my Department keeps a close watch on prevailing conditions in the industry and receives regular reports from major general aviation organisations. The situation at present appears to be relatively favourable. For charter and flying training activities, unemployment appears to be fairly minimal, and largely related to seasonal conditions. There is high unemployment amongst aerial agricultural pilots and I will advise you separately on conditions in that sector, in response to other questions you have raised. Industry sources estimate that between one and two hundred pilots can be classed as unemployed. 
However, the determination of the numbers out of work is complicated by the difficulties in establishing the number of active' pilots. There are many people who, while holding appropriate licences, do not regard themselves as full time professional pilots, and do not seek employment as such. This is true for many fields, but is especially so for pilots where qualifications are sought for both recreational and professional activities. 
At this stage all I can say is that discussions about the matter are continuing. I will endeavour to get some final information from the Australian Postal Commission about it. As soon as I can I will give that to  Senator Rae  and to the Senate. 
-As I think the honourable senator knows, it was proposed that when the law was passed and the Australian Postal Commission and the Australian Telecommunications Commission were set up they would come under the responsibility of the Special Minister of State. During discussions on the legislation it was recommended by others and by myself that an officer of the Department of the Special Minister of State should be appointed to each of the commissions. The structure of these commissions was assessed in accordance with the recommendations of the Vernon Commission with the thought in mind that in some respects the services of the two commissions would have to be duplicated and that they would take over obligations which they did not have formerly. For example, the Australian Public Service Board was responsible for determining and controlling the conditions of service of the 122 000 workers employed by the old Post Office and the related arbitral functions etc. As the honourable senator knows, under the new legislation the employees of the commissions come under the control of the Conciliation and Arbitration Act. 
The method of appointment and classification of staff to the commissions was determined after conversations with, I think, the  Deputy Chairman  of the Public Service Board and as the 2 chairmen, Messrs Gibbs and Kennedy, have said after investigations were undertaken by special consultants. I think the report of these consultants would be available to  Senator Durack  if he would like to see it. The special consultants had in mind that there should be a new more commercially oriented structure for the commissions and they recommended accordingly to the commissions. Investigations were made by the commissions. As honourable senators know there was a trade union representative on the Telecommunications Commission and on the Postal Commission. The Telecommunications Commission and the Postal Commission adopted the recommended structure, and recently replied to the public criticism of the appointments which they made. So I think the real test is whether the consultants' advice and the consideration which was given to the related Public Service structure were appropriate. 
The matter has been put to me since I again assumed responsibility as the PostmasterGeneral. I am presently looking at the position and I will be discussing the matter with the Minister for Labor and Immigration. I want to put it as clearly as I can that what we all would like to see is for the 2 commissions to get off to a fair start and for them not to be too restricted in proving that they can operate efficiently. In respect of their new arbitral functions, 1 think we have to see how the new structure compares with the old structure which was controlled by the Australian Public Service Board. When I have had time to consider what  Senator Durack  has raised I shall endeavour to give him any additional information he requires. I am quite prepared to discuss the matter with him or to convene a discussion with the officers of the commissions if he would like me to do so. 
I have raised this matter with the commissions on my own initiative and acting on general directions which have come from the Public Service. I have been assured by the 2 chairmen that the matter has been discussed by both commissions on at least 2 occasions and those commissions have affirmed their support for Government policies. That information has been conveyed to the appropriate Ministers. 
The Minister for Environment has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
1 ) The Minister for Environment wrote to the responsible State Ministers on 18 September 1974 inviting applications for financial assistance under the States Grants (Nature Conservation) Act for the acquisition of lands for nature conservation purposes. Proposals for assistance were received as follows: New South Wales, 24 December 1974; Victoria, 28 November 1974; Queensland, 21 January 1975; Western Australia, 13 December 1974; South Australia, 15 January 1975; Tasmania, 17 October 1974and 13 January 1975. 
2 ) It would be inappropriate for details of areas for which funds have been sought to be disclosed until agreements required under the Act have been concluded between the Australian and State Government Ministers and acquisition of land has been finalised. Premature announcement of proposed acquisitions could prejudice negotiations and lead to escalation of land prices. 
The reply to the honourable senator's question is as follows: 
The Minister for Environment has not directed the preparation of environmental impact statements under the provisions of the Environment Protection (Impact of Proposals) Act 1974 for any of the four projects identified above for the following reasons: 
Projects (a) and (b), on the information supplied at the time, were not considered to have significant environmental consequences. 
Project (c) was not eligible for Australian Government funding under the National Roads Act provisions. 
Project (d) was classified as a rural arterial road under the roads legislation, and in 1974-75 all such roads were processed by the State environmental authority due to the delays in the passing of the roads legislation and the late receival of the State's road program. 
In the interests of clarifying the provisions of the Environment Protection (Impact of Proposals) Act 1 would like to point out that the publication of an order required in Section 7 ( 1 ) of that Act refers to an order made under Section 6 of the Act. Section 6 is concerned with Administrative Procedures which will provide general rules for the application of the environmental impact statement technique. These Administrative Procedures are expected to be approved by the Governor-General this month. The Act does not require the making or publication of orders relating to the preparation of environmental impact statements for specific proposals. 
I have been advised that the Department of Transport has proposed regulations for the conduct of hang gliding. An air navigation order dealing with the subject has been prepared and will be promulgated shortly. It is not the intention to inhibit this sport which is becoming very popular in most of the States. However, it did become necessary to take steps to regularise the legal aspects of the operation and also to exercise an appropriate measure of control over this activity, in view of air space usage. 
-The Minister for Defence,  Mr Morrison,  after receiving information from his advisers and considering the report from Professor Millar, recommended to the Government -and the recommendation was accepted- that the cadet force should be disbanded for a number of reasons. The most important reasons for the recommendation were, firstly, that it costs $ 10m a year to keep the service going and, secondly, that about 500 members of the Services are tied up in all sorts of related activities. On the advice of that group, it was decided that the members of the Services and the money could be better used in the other defence services generally. It was decided that the $ 10m should be used in the general revenue for defence and that the 500 members of the Services could be better used in other areas. If I can obtain any further information from the Minister I shall do so and advise the honourable senator tomorrow. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
The purpose of this Bill is to establish the office of Defence Force Ombudsman and to define his powers and functions. Honourable senators will recall that it was announced in the policy speech of 1972 that the Labor Government would create an office of military ombudsman. As may be expected, the provisions contained in the Defence Force Ombudsman Bill follow very closely those in the Ombudsman Bill which establishes the office of the Australian Ombudsman. However there are some significant differences between the two Bills and I wish to confine my remarks largely to explaining these differences. 
The function of the Defence Force Ombudsman will be to investigate complaints made by members of the defence force, former members of the defence force or their dependants with regard to any action in relation to a matter of administration which arises from the fact that a person is serving or has served in the defence force. The Defence Force Ombudsman is also given power to investigate any of these actions even though a specific complaint has not been made to him. The jurisdiction of the Defence Force Ombudsman covers not only actions which may be taken by the defence force or the Department of Defence but those which may be taken by other departments and authorities. Thus the jurisdiction of the Defence Force Ombudsman will encompass a very wide range of matters affecting a serving member, an exmember, or their dependants. 
Because there are adequate review and appeal provisions already in existence, the Defence Force Ombudsman will not be authorised to investigate matters arising out of disciplinary action taken against a member of the defence force. While it is the intention that complaints arising out of a person's service in the defence force will come within the jurisdiction of the Defence Force Ombudsman, some matters will no doubt arise which are common to all Government employees. Provision has therefore been included in the Bill for the Defence Force Ombudsman to refer matters to the Australian Ombudsman for investigation if the Defence Force Ombudsman considers that they could be more effectively investigated by that office and if the Australian Ombudsman agrees. 
Honourable senators will appreciate that the relationship between those in command and those under command in a disciplined force such as the defence force is a very important and particular relationship. Because of this, provision has been made in the Bill requiring a serving member of the defence force to attempt to have his complaint dealt with by the Services authorities before submitting the matter to the Defence. Force Ombudsman. The Defence Force 
Ombudsman is, however, given a discretion to deal with a matter which has not been so submitted to the Service authority if he considers that there are special circumstances justifying the member from refraining from so submitting his complaint. A further protection for the serviceman is a provision permitting a matter to be referred to the Defence Force Ombudsman if the member of the defence force has not received an answer to his complaint within 28 days of submitting it to the Service authorities or if the member is not satisfied with the decision given. 
Provision has been made in the Bill for the Defence Force Ombudsman to report to both the principal officer of the Defence Force and the principal officer of the department or authority concerned in the matter that he intends to investigate. This provision will ensure that the defence force is aware of matters affecting its members. The powers of the Defence Force Ombudsman in connection with his investigation of a matter are similar to those contained in the Ombudsman Bill. That is, he will be able to require persons to give information regarding the matter under investigation, and he will be able to make the same type of reports to the authorities concerned, to the Prime Ministers and to Parliament as the Australian Ombudsman. In addition the machinery provisions relating to the appointment of the Defence Force Ombudsman and his staff are the same as those of the Australian Ombudsman. Honourable senators will recall that in November 1973 the Prime Minister announced that it was proposed that  Mr D.  O. Hay, the former Secretary to the Department of External Territories, would be appointed as Defence Force Ombudsman when the necessary legislation had been passed. I commend the Bill to the Senate. 
Debate (on motion by  Senator Withers)  adjourned. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
I seek leave to have the second reading speech incorporated in Hansard. 
The ACTING DEPUTY PRESIDENT-Is leave granted? There being no objection, leave is granted. (The document read as follows)- 
I present the Railways Agreement (South Australia) Bill 1975, which is to approve the Agreement for the transfer of the non-metropolitan South Australian Railways to the Australian Government. Honourable senators will, I am sure, recall that I introduced into the Senate similar legislation relating to this transfer, and the transfer of the entire Tasmanian Government railways during our last session, and that this legislation was passed by both the House of Representatives and the Senate. The Tasmanian Agreement was approved by the State Parliament, and as a consequence the former Tasmanian Government railways became the Tasmanian region of the Australian National Railways Commission on 1 July 1975. In the case of South Australia the State Legislative Council rejected the transfer legislation and a State election ensued. The Dunstan Government was returned and the South Australian legislation approving the Agreement has now been passed. It now only remains for this Parliament to approve the Agreement again, for the legislative requirements of the transfer to be met. It is necessary for the Australian Parliament to again approve the Agreement because section 2(2) of the earlier Railways (South Australia) Act provided that that Act would not come into operation unless South Australian legislation approving the Agreement came into force on or before 1 July 1 975. The first of July was an appropriate date because it coincided with the commencement of the financial year and also was the date proclaimed for the Australian National Railways Commission to come into existence. The Act was not passed by the South Australian Parliament by this date so the earlier Australian Act could not come into operation. 
Honourable senators will notice that the present Agreement is in fact the one the Parliament previously approved. The reason for this is that the Australian and State governments are concerned that the people of South Australia should not be penalised financially by the initial rejection of the South Australian legislation. This Bill therefore approves the existing Agreement with effect from 1 July 1975 as did the State legislation approving the Agreement. Honourable senators will be aware that it is very unusual for an Agreement to be approved retrospectively. During my years in Parliament I do not recall this being done, but in the present circumstances I am convinced that it is warranted. The main argument against retrospectivity is that the rights of third parties could be adversely affected. However, in the present situation, during the interim period provided for in the Agreement, the State authorities will be deemed to have continued, and will continue, to administer, maintain and operate the non-metropolitan South Australian Railways under State laws but subject to direction by the Australian National Railways Commission until the declared date which is expected to be in about 12 months. As a consequence third party rights will be protected. The State will, however, benefit from the retrospectivity in the following ways: There will be retrospective confirmation of the payment referred to in clause 1 6 of the Bill so that the amounts in question can be taken into account by the State in respect of the financial year ended 30 June 1975; the State will be freed and discharged from 1 July 1975 from debt repayments and interest in relation to the debts set out in the sixth schedule referred to in clause 19 of the Agreement; under clause 20 of the Agreement the State will be freed from 1 July 1975 from losses incurred on the operation of the non-metropolitan railways, With the passing of this Bill, a date can be set for the non-metropolitan South Australian railways to become part of the Australian National Railways Commission, the first mainland railway system to do so, and a further major step will have been taken towards the creation of a national railway system. 
I have spoken about the need and benefits for a national railway system in the past on a number of occasions, twice in the previous session of Parliament; the first on the introduction of the Australian National Railways Bill 1975 and the second on the introduction of the previous Railways (South Australia) Bill. I don't propose to discuss these benefits in any detail again except to remind honourable senators that a national railway system would have the means of overcoming the disadvantages inherent in the operations of State railway systems. Railway problems can be tackled in accordance with national priorities. Long overdue improvements and economies can be made- our first task will be to prepare a program of improvements for the South Australian region of ANR- a program that will be carefully evaluated by the Bureau of Transport Economics to ensure that maximum benefits are obtained from the finances that will be provided. 
It is fitting that the first mainland State railway to be transferred to the Australian Government should be in South Australia because the South Australian non-metropolitan railway system is the system most readily able to be integrated with the present system operated by the Australian National Railways Commission and will enable the benefits of the Australian Government's transfer policy to become apparent quickly. As South Australia has common borders with all mainland States and rail connections with all mainland States except Queensland, it will form the central core of a national railway system that we can build on in the future. 
I come now to the actual provisions of the Bill. I have circulated explanatory notes on the various clauses of the Bill for the benefit of honourable senators, and I have reproduced the notes on the Agreement that were circulated when the Agreement was previously approved. As the Agreement has been available to senators for some months and its provisions are well known, I will confine myself to a brief description of some aspects of the legislation. On the whole the legislation is very similar to the previous legislation. Clause 3 repeals the previous Railways (South Australia) Act 1975. Clause 5 is the clause which approves the Agreement. Clause 6 and 7 are the clauses where retrospectivity is imparted concerning the vesting of land and other property in the Australian National Railways Commission. Clause 16 confirms that the $10m required to be paid to South Australia has in fact been paid, under Appropriation Act No. 6 1 975. 
In conclusion, I would like to say that this Bill is one of the most important pieces of transport legislation introduced by any Australian Government. Because of it the mainland railways will be able to take the first step into a new era of rail transportation- where the emphasis will be on meeting the nation's needs in fair competition with other transport modes. I venture to predict that before too long the other States will realise the benefits to be gained from a wholly national rail system, and will follow the lead given by South Australia. I commend the Bill to honourable senators. 
Debate (on motion by  Senator Cotton)  adjourned. 
The answer to the honourable senator's question is as follows: 
The introduction of direct flights to Australia by Yugoslavia's National Airline on 3rd April has not resulted in any increase in the frequency of the airmail service, which is still live times weekly in both directions. However it has permitted improvements in service. On the two days when the direct flights to Australia are used, people in Yugoslavia are able to post mail for Australia 9 hours later than previously. In the reverse direction the two direct flights each week enable Australian mail to be received in Yugoslavia approximately 12 hours earlier than before. 
I will discuss the matter with the Postal Commission and let  Senator Baume  know as soon as I can. 
I will discuss the matter today with  Mr Jones  to see whether he can give an answer to  Senator Rae.  I will see whether I can give an answer tomorrow. 
I presume that the honourable senator is not referring to occasions when there is some emergency due to - 
Yes. Some cases have been pointed out to me by  Senator Poyser  and others, particularly relating to the shorter routes where the frequency of flights is high, where airlines follow the practice of adjusting flights at rather short notice so that their seat load factors may be maintained in order to ensure the economic viability of the service. I have the impression that the airlines may have been doing too much of this, which in turn has led to the situation where passengers are being inconvenienced to an unreasonable extent. For instance, I know that the airlines adjust their Tasmanian services at short notice. I will refer the matter to  Mr Jones  to see whether he can propose to the airlines that they should adopt a more balanced attitude to this question so that passengers might be sure that the scheduled services will operate. 
-Senator Webster and  Mr Peter  Morris discussed this matter with me yesterday. This situation has resulted from an industrial dispute. The decision to cancel the examination for the novice amateur operator's certificate of proficiency, which was scheduled to be held in all States on 24 June, was caused by a ban imposed by the Professional Radio Employees Institute of Australasia. Since that time there has been an extension of the ban. The industrial action was taken by that union as a protest against the delay in finalising an organisational review of the regulatory and licensing sections of the Postmaster-General's Department in all States that occurred when the Australian Post Office was in operation. The 833 candidates have been advised that the examination has been deferred. There have been discussions between the head of my Department, the union and the Australian Public Service Board. Some progress has been made in identifying the issues in dispute. Those discussions will continue tomorrow. I hope that the matter will be resolved by next week. Some of the classification issues seem to me to be matters which can be settled very reasonably and quickly. I hope that once the issues between the parties have been settled we will be able to take immediate action to have the applicants examined very quickly. I should think that that could be done within a month or two. 
-Last Thursday  Senator Young  directed a question to my colleague  Senator Douglas  McClelland because recently he and I had announced new charges for television relays. The charges had been readjusted. In fact in many cases, particularly in respect of Tasmania and Western Australia, the charges could be reduced because of the new adjustment. In answer to  Senator Young's  questions, yes, the present concession on the basic news relay is to be discontinued as from 1 September. Under the concessional arrangements as they now stand the landline relay charges may be provided to enable country broadcasting stations to take a split of news broadcasts by metropolitan stations 3 times daily for a fixed annual charge of $104. As from 1 September, however, these relays would be charged at the prescribed itinerate rates or treated as regular part-time services, whichever results in a lesser charge to the broadcasting stations concerned. As to part-time broadcasting program lines, the existing concession for the regular part-time use will be discontinued from 1 September. At present broadcasting stations are required to pay 1 VS per cent of the full-time annual rental for each hour. From the date mentioned the stations would be required to pay  2lA  per cent of the full-time annual rate. 
It should be noted that the total value of news and general relay concessions for all the stations in Australia amounts to only $ 100,000. The Australian Telecommunications Commission took the view that it is not for it to subsidise the operations of the stations. The position is, as the honourable senator probably knows, that the first proposition that such subsidies should be cut out arose in the Coombs report. I take it that there is nothing in the Opposition's policy that such subsidies would be continued. The Commission is prepared, if necessary, to send out monthly bills but it takes the view, in line with the general obligations of the Commission, that it should be able to recover, within reason, the cost of the services. 
I agreed yesterday to meet representatives of Government senators and members from Tasmania led by Ron Davies in company with  Mr Bowen  to consider again the proposition that the paper mills might be given a further order. As honourable senators know, in April last we persuaded the Australian Post Office to take an order of 3,000 tonnes which at that time it did not require and had to store. Government members from Tasmania have been most active in trying to urge upon me some representations to the Australian Telecommunications Commission. I have asked  Mr Curtis,  who attended the discussions yesterday with the representatives of the company, to consider what might be done to take a further order and also to put it to the Commission that such a request might be properly considered. Honourable senators will remember that in addition to the 3000 tonnes that I have mentioned the Federal Government provided a grant through the State Government of $650,000 to the mills in the past year. The Commission will try to do what it has been asked to do. It has consistent supplies which it wishes to keep but I have asked representatives of the Commission to review the representations which were put to me yesterday. When I have an answer I will give it to the honourable senator. 
Some Press comments conveyed that opinion. The true position is that officer resignations have been declining since March 1974. Resignations for the 6 months period ended June 1975 fell by 12 per cent compared with figures for the previous 6 months. Overall resignations in 1974-75 fell by 1 1 per cent, compared with resignations in the previous financial year. It should be remembered that under the highly favourable defence forces retirement benefits scheme introduced by this Government two-thirds of the officers who left the Services in the past year were eligible for pensions. Under the previous Government, officers were obliged to serve until they reached the prescribed age for retirement; otherwise their service could not attract the benefits. I might add that the strength of the defence forces has been increasing steadily. I suggest that this is a reflection of the improvements made by this Government in respect of conditions and standards of service. 
The honourable senator has referred to the estimate which the Australian Postal Commission made, which was at that time 12 per cent. I am not clear whether at that time it expected the general efforts of government departments and of our own services also to save money. I would have thought that it would take some account of that, but I shall certainly ask the Commission to what extent the new economy moves by government departments anyway might reflect their readjustment. 
I might take the opportunity now to reply to a question which  Senator Rae  asked me in relation to what might be done concerning mail which is posted and delivered in the same postcode area. Last Thursday  Senator Rae  asked me what consideration had been given to a reduced rate of postage for letters which are posted and delivered in the same area. I am advised that the staff of the Commission are undertaking a study of the economic and operational feasibility of applying a reduced rate to standard letters which are delivered within the same postal area as that in which they are posted. The matter has been raised with me not only by some retail associations but also by some of the postal unions. Preliminary indications are that the Commission would be very substantially disadvantaged by the introduction of such arrangements, but further studies have been made of the matter which is listed for detailed discussions this week and for consultations with State managers later in the week. I hope to have some indication next week as to what the position might be. 
The most current estimate of the losses which might arise from a reduction of lc, 18c to 17c, from, say, 1 September to the end of June would be about $7m. The matter all turns around what the community might expect the Government to do having set up the Vernon Commission. I have seen nothing from the Opposition to indicate that it would subsidise any more than we have done the services of both the Australian Postal Commission and the Australian Telecommunications Commission. I indicate to  Senator Durack  that I shall undertake to have an examination made of the new economic trends that are proposed by customers and by State government departments. I think probably in the long range one will find that when people look for alternatives, those alternatives are a bit impractical anyway. There can be some savings of course. The Australian Postal Commission is attempting to face some of the competition. I was advised this morning that those negotiations about which  Senator Durack  knows regarding the setting up of courier services have been finalised and we expect those services to be operating in the 3 States soon. I have also urged the Commission to ensure that the activities take place in my State and in other States. 
For the reasons I have indicated and which were put, I think, fairly completely and concisely, we oppose the motion. We see no need for it. 
Question put: 
That the motion  (Senator Withers')  be agreed to. 
I think I answered part of  Senator Durack  's question last week. I indicated then that the whole question of those vacancies and appointments was to be the subject of a discussion between myself, the Minister for Labor and Immigration,  Mr Cooley  and some other important people including the chairmen of the commissions.  Senator James  McClelland and I are trying to arrange that discussion for next week. The whole question will then be examined and much of the information that  Senator Durack  seeks will be revealed. I suggest that he might put the question on notice now or I will supply the information after the discussion has taken place. 
Following the information which was given to the Royal Australian Air Force concerning the engine failure of the F1 1 1 aircraft of the United States Air Force on 14 August, American authorities commenced inspections of the second and third stage rotating air seal in those aircraft engines which had accumulated, I think, 300 hours or more. The aircraft were put in for a major overhaul. As a precautionary measure the RAAF is carrying out the same inspection of engines in that bracket. This inspection program is a continuing process which will be completed as quickly as possible. As engines are inspected and found to be serviceable they will be returned to operational use. The RAAF's flying program can proceed without interruption using the engines which either do not require inspection or which pass inspection. I might add that the engines so far examined have not been found to be faulty. 
-The effects of the tariffs required for the new commissions was discussed in the Cabinet against the background of the 
Government's welfare policies and programs and how they should be achieved. As honourable senators already know from answers given by  Senator Wheeldon,  he would be most interested in the amount of resources which would be applied in reducing the tariffs and the amount which would be available for welfare. The Parliament has passed the legislation. There is no question that the Parliament agreed with the movement towards the setting up of the new commissions. The Parliament had over 12 months to examine the legislation and to propose any alteration to it. So the proposition that the 2 commissions should pay their way was accepted. As had been agreed upon in the past the benefits to pensioners, servicemen and other privileged groups was given to the commissions in the form of subsidy. I think everybody knew that the new commissions would be faced in the first years with the obligation to establish high tariffs. In turn the Government, having given $ 16.5m in subsidy, also made fairly beneficial arrangements in relation to the writing-off of the superannuation liability of both Commissions, which gave them a good start. If the present tariffs had been maintained it would have cost the Australian Government $450m to maintain the new commissions. 
A number of representations have been made to me arising from conferences which are at present taking place between the non-official postmasters organisation and the Australian Postal Commission. Those conferences have nothing to do with the fears that have been expressed that there could be some new and more energetic policy of considering these locations. The honourable senator will remember that for many years now, in fact during the period of office of the last Government too, there was a review of the economics of these post offices and some were closed, but adequate alternative arrangements were made when they were closed. During that review there was proper consideration of the points of view of the organisation and of the communities concerned. At present the argument centres around whether the title of the people running the non-official post offices might be changed. Some members of the Postal Commission apparently think that the non-official postmasters should have some other title. I understand that the non-official postmasters object to that. In addition there is a proposition for examination of the designation of some other related occupations. So the discussions are going on. I hope the matter will be resolved and I hope that the non-official postmasters will accept whatever is proposed or perhaps somewhat modify their attitude. 
-I thank the Senate. The strength of the Army Reserve is now almost 20 000. The Citizen Military Forces component of the Reserve is being re-organised and revitalised as a result of the Government's decision to accept in principle the recommendations of the Millar Committee, which are aimed at improving the standard of training and conditions of service in the Army Reserve. The CMF component of the Army Reserve will increase by 1000 this financial year. This more efficient use of Defence personnel is paralleled by strict economies in civilian manpower, which will see a reduction of 230 employees in the coming year. These steps have succeeded in reducing the proportion of the Defence Vote allocated to manpower from 61 per cent in the 1973-74 financial year to 56 per cent in this Budget. This increased efficiency has contributed towards the Government's dramatic increase in the proportion of expenditure devoted to equipment in this Budget. There are other matters to which I have given particular attention. I have given particular attention to increased training exercises. By careful management of resources it has been possible to provide this year for increased levels of Service activities- in steaming time for the Navy, and in mileage for Army tanks and fighting  vehicles. These increases will in turn increase scope for training exercises and other activities and contribute to the maintenance of high level of Service skills. 
Our primary responsibility must always be the security of our own territory and linked with this the surveillance and patrol of surrounding maritime areas. The effort devoted by the RAAF to aerial surveillance of the Australian coast was more than doubled from the beginning of last year. It has since been supplemented by extensive naval patrols off Queensland and north-west Australia. We need to build up the self-reliance of our forces so that they have a better capability for independent action. Logistics has been a neglected area, primarily because of our past dependence in combat situations on the logistic support of others. We must build up our own capabilities. 
Expenditure on capital equipment in this year's defence outlay covering continuing payments on equipment approved last year and in earlier years, as well as initial payments on proposals approved this year, will be $182m. This represents approximately an 80 per cent increase on the spending on equipment last year, which was $ 102m. The first major decision in this area is to build a modern transport ship. The Royal Navy has an excellent and well-proven class, the  Sir Bedivere  landing ship logistic. We plan to build an improved version in an Australian dockyard. This amphibious ship will have a displacement of 6000 tonnes, and will provide a long range sea lift capability of some 2000 tonnes. It will be capable of discharging men and equipment, including tanks and other heavy items, across the beach or by cargo helicopter carried on board. It will be able to operate in undeveloped areas, such as the more remote parts of the Australian coast and offshore islands. There has not hitherto been a capability of this kind in the Australian defence force- or in the civil fleet. This versatile ship could also be used for civilian emergency tasks such as rescue work and the evacuation of refugees. 
There are several other new decisions in the maritime area. We have 4 Oberon submarines and two more are being built in the United Kingdomunfortunately with delays beyond our control. The capability of our 6 submarines will be greatly enhanced by new fire control systems which are to be ordered this year from the American firm Singer Librascope. In antisubmarine warfare, Australian defence science and industry are developing a new active sonar, called Mulloka, especially for operation in Australian waters. Subject to successful sea trials of a prototype, this new sonar will be produced and fitted in the Navy's 6 River class destroyer escorts. 
In addition to these improvements, the destroyer escorts will be equipped with new electronic warfare equipment. For effective training with this new equipment, aircraft must be fitted with electronic systems that can simulate a threat, and be flown against the ships. The Minister for Defence will be announcing shortly the letting of a contract for electronic systems to be fitted into two HS-748 aircraft which were acquired for this among other purposes. Still in the maritime area but looking more to the future, there are 3 further proposals which are being actively developed. The efficient surveillance of our coastline requires the deployment of patrol boats. 
As announced previously, we intend to introduce a new class to supplement, and eventually replace, the existing fleet of 12 Attack class patrol boats. We circulated, some months ago, the characteristics sought for the replacement class with a widespread invitation to ship builders in Australia and overseas to register interest in design and construction. We are looking for improvements over the Attack class in range, speed and sea-keeping qualities. The responses to our invitation to register interest are now being examined closely and the Minister for Defence expects shortly to let tenders for project definition studies that will enable us to decide on the precise type and characteristics of the new patrol boats which we should construct. 
Studies are also in progress to assess the later requirement for a higher capability patrol craft, possibly missile fitted, that will complement the destroyer force in the 1980s. The previous Government had decided to proceed with the construction of an underway replenishment ship, but with some imprecision on design characteristics. The estimated costs had risen sharply by August 1973. The Government decided to postpone construction of this ship as there was no need to commission a new ship until at least 1980 when HMAS  Supply  is due to be paid off. We decided that a less sophisticated and less costly ship would be more suitable to Australia's needs. Tenders have been called for the submission of a design for a new ship and the Minister for Defence expects to make a decision on the particular design next year. 
Finally in the maritime area, I am pleased to report that earlier this month the Minister for Defence inspected the guided missile frigate project in the United States and discussed its progress with the United States Secretary of Defense and his officials. We now await a United States Department of Defense decisionexpected shortly- which will provide us with the necessary information on which to determine our position. To provide our forces with a more independent capability there is a need to rectify some deficiencies in operational equipment in areas where Australia has fallen behind. For many years, Army has had to make do with an air defence capability based on the Bofors gun. The Minister for Defence has decided that this capability, which dates back to World War II, will be updated by the introduction of the Rapier surface-to-air guided weapon system. The choice of an air defence missile system for the Army has been a lengthy and arduous process but the Minister for Defence is now satisfied that the selection of Rapier is right in the Australian context. Rapier is operational, is highly mobile and can be readily transported in Hercules and Caribou aircraft, and by the medium-lift Chinook helicopter. Trials have indicated that it is a highly effective system. 
The Army's Centurion tanks are outdated. They were ordered by the Chifley Labor Government in the 1940s. The Government took a decision last year to acquire 53 German Leopard tanks. Examination has led to a decision to acquire an additional 34 Leopard tanks. These 87 modern high performance tanks will provide the Army with a significant capability to maintain and develop skills needed in armoured warfare. Army mobility will be further enhanced by the purchase of new trucks to replace the present Landrover vehicles, which are due to be phased out beginning next year. The initial order will involve more than 2000 trucks, which will be procured in Australia at a cost of some $14m- a valuable contract for Australian industry. 
Turning now to air transport, I am pleased to announce a significant addition to the heavy airlift capability of the Air Force. The RAAF presently has 2 squadrons of Hercules transports. The older of these, the C 1 30A aircraft, are due to be phased out in 1978, and will be replaced by a squadron of medium range transport aircraft. Together with the existing C130E squadron, this will give the Air Force an effective strategic and tactical airlift capability, both for the necessary support of the Services and in national tasks of a civil nature. The Minister for Defence will be announcing the type and numbers of the new aircraft later this year. The further priority need for the RAAF at this time is to modernise its radars. The RAN air station at Nowra has a similar need. It is proposed to acquire 1 1 new radars to replace existing low-performance equipments that are reaching the end of their economic lives. 
The Minister for Defence is ensuring that the scope for participation of Australian industry in the projects under consideration is being fully explored, so that industry can make a positive contribution to employment. In particular, it is planned that the heavy-lift ship will be built in an Australian dockyard and that industry will make a large contribution to the manufacture of the light trucks. The Australian electronics industry will be involved to some extent in the radar projects. There will be local involvement in production work for the medium-range transport aircraft, the medium tank and the air defence weapon, but in these projects more emphasis will be placed on offsets. I have dealt with areas of manpower and equipment. Details of the third important component of the defence vote, namely defence facilities, are given in a document which I shall ask the permission of the Senate to have incorporated in  Hansard. 

 Mr President, in the last, dying years of the Liberal-Country Party Government the essential needs of the defence forces of this country were ignored or neglected, largely as a result of false perceptions of Australia's national interest. The Labor Government, on the advice of its senior military and civilian defence planners, has the task of shaping the Defence Force to sharpen its capability to provide a strong and valid defence of Australia, and to demonstrate beyond all doubt Australia's intention to defend herself and her vital interests. This year's defence budget demonstrates clearly our determination to carry out this task. 
Yes, I seek leave to have that document incorporated in  Hansard. 
Defence Facilities 
The Government is cognisant of the need to develop defence infrastructure at this time, particularly since so much defence activity continues to take place from sub-standard accommodation including temporary structures built during the Second World War. 
The Government is also mindful of the need to develop further the improved conditions of service initiated by my predecessor and particularly to maintain a vigorous program of providing houses for Service people. A total of $40m has been allocated for expenditure in 1975-76 on Service housing under arrangements with the State governments. The new program planned for commencement in 1975-76 under those arrangements constitutes 533 dwellings and it is expected that over 1000 additional dwellings will become available this financial year. 
A sum of $77.6m is planned for expenditure on capital works including major projects such as the Naval Dockyard at Williamstown, a Royal Australian Corps of Transport Centre at Puckapunyal, the Land Welfare Centre at Canungra, developments to the RAAF Base at Amberley, new storage facilities at RAAF No. 2 Stores Depot at Regents Park, the West Australian Naval Support Facility at Cockburn Sound and the Australian Joint Warfare Establishment at Williamtown, New South Wales. ft is planned also to set up an integrated Naval Supply Centre at the Zetland property acquired last year from the Leyland Corporation. This will be a very large and efficient  storeholding.  Also planned for construction is a new transmitting station near Darwin, and a new Office and Utilities Building within Victoria Barracks, Melbourne. This building will accommodate people now working at Albert Park and thus assist in the plan to vacate that portion of Albert Park occupied by defence activities and to return the park to the people of Melbourne. 
In all defence facilities programs very close attention is now paid to environment considerations to ensure as far as possible that solutions found are acceptable to all parties with genuine concern. 
Yes. I move: 
That the Senate take note of the paper. 
Debate (on motion by  Senator Withers)  adjourned. 
in reply- I think it must be obvious to all honourable senators that this legislation is now well understood. I can do no more than compliment everybody, including those on the other side as well as the Government supporters, who have talked about the provisions of the Bill, although it is true, as  Senator Bunton  and  Senator Steele  Hall have said, that much of the debate ranged around the two different political opinions on the way the defence forces are being run. Because of the time I do not intend to debate that matter except to say in a very definite way that the Labor Party did much to improve the general standard of conditions in the Services. As everybody well knows, we regarded the matter as a priority. The evidence is there for everybody to see. We established new pay procedures and after we had done that we set about making important purchases to make the new Defence Force viable, up to date and sophisticated. 
I can see no reason at all to refer this matter to a committee. As a matter of fact, as my colleagues have pointed out, the matter went before the Senate Standing Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence. While no determinations have arisen from the reports by  Sir Arthur  Tange and others there have been opportunities to discuss them. Opposition senators have asked whether anybody knew about the policy. As everybody knows, the Labor Party included its policy in its platform when it went to the electors. On being elected as the Minister for Defence,  Mr 
Barnard announced on 19 December 1972 the Government's intention concerning the reorganisation of the defence groups. What he said is on the record in the Parliament for everybody to read. He said: 
There is ultimately to be a single Department . . . 
I will not read it all because of time, but he continued: 
The reorganisation will not change the separate identity of the Navy, Army and Air Force ... in the interests of efficiency within each Service, a substantial degree of delegation of financial and other authority for administration . . . will continue . . . there will be more effective central . . . control . . . 
Surely those aspects are well understood by honourable senators because they were raised during the currency of Liberal-Country Party governments in former years. What were the advantages of the legislation to be?  Mr Barnard  said: 
The changes will improve both ministerial supervision and the presentation in Parliament of the functions and cost. The military power of command is clearly defined for the first time. The single Department of Defence will enable improvements in administration . . . Service officers at all levels will be associated much more closely with the process of formulating policy advice. 
Nobody has contradicted that. I suggest that everybody, including  Senator Sir Magnus  Cormack, has said that they agree with that sort of thing. With some reservations I think that even  Senator Carrick  gave his support to that notion. 
In May 1973  Mr Barnard  in the House of Representatives and I in this place made some comments about the reorganisation. As reported on page 2092 of the Senate  Hansard  of 30 May 1973 1 said: 
The Government's policy on reorganisation of the Defence group of Departments is to merge into the Department of Defence the 3 Service departments. We also propose to reassess the place in the defence structure of the procurement and production activities . . . 
It is appropriate for me, while referring in the Parliament to the question of defence reorganisation to advise the Senate that I now intend to table with the agreement of the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Snedden),  for the information of members, the two reports of the Advisory Committee of officials led by  Sir Leslie  Morshead which were completed in 1957. 
Those papers were available for honourable senators to read. In his letter to the Prime Minister on 9 December 1957  Sir Leslie  said: 
You will see that all the Committee's recommendations centre around the amalgamation of the Departments of Supply and Defence Production on one hand and the 3 Service Departments and the Department of Defence on the other. 
I shall not quote everything that I intended to quote because I would like the Senate to vote on this legislation. 
The Morshead report canvassed many academic or philosophical arguments which were put by other people. 
For example, on 4 December 1973 in the House of Representatives  Mr Barnard  presented the Tange report and said that we were to follow that report. As honourable senators will notice, the Tange report was not supported only by  Sir Arthur  Tange or by some of the Chiefs of Staff. It was supported by all, as  Senator Bunton  has pointed out. The record is there. In his report  Sir Arthur  Tange said: 
I consulted the members of the Chiefs of Staff Committee collectively (Admiral  Sir Victor  Smith, Vice Admiral  Sir Richard  Peek, Lieutenant-General  Sir Mervyn  Brogan and Air Marshal C. F. Read) and we unanimously agreed to recommend the creation of a single senior military officer with power of command over the Chiefs of Staff of the single Services. 
One finds references such as that in all sorts of documents. More importantly,  Dr Forbes,  who was then the shadow Minister for Defence said in the debate that he supported the principles of reorganisation. He said: 
The Opposition fully supports the integration of defence group departments, and I place that on record. We regard integration of the defence group of departments as a logical extension of the process that started when the Morshead Committee report was brought down. 
That is the general position, as everybody knows. What excuse is there for the Opposition to say: You must refine the legislation in some respect'? 
As I have said, some of the matters which have been debated are academic. Perhaps I should refer to one or two of them. Perhaps the most striking or important argument that has been put is that of adding to the legislation the definition of command. The definition of command is contained in the Joint Service Glossary of Terms which has been with the defence forces since Federation. So there is no question that somebody is leaving something out. I think I should read a legal opinion that has been provided so that all honourable senators will understand the position. It reads: 
Section 51 (vi) of the Constitution provides that 'the Parliament shall have power to make laws for the peace, order and good government of the Commonwealth with respect to the naval and military defence of the Commonwealth and of the several States, and the control of the forces to execute and maintain the laws of the Commonwealth'. 
Section 68 of the Constitution provides that 'the command in chief of the naval and military forces of the Commonwealth is vested in the Governor-General as the Queen's representative'. 
The proposed new section 9 contained in clause 7 of the Defence Force Re-organization Bill provides for the Governor-General to appoint an officer of an arm of the Defence Force to be Chief of Defence Force Staff and vests command of the Defence Force in the Chief of Defence 
Force Staff. This command is expressed to be subject to the control and administration of the Defence Force vested in the Minister and also to the command in chief vested in the Governor-General (sub-section 9 (5)). 
It has been stated by Starke J. in Attorney-General (Vic) v Commonwealth (1935) 52 CLR at p.567 that the command vested in the Governor-General by section 68 of the Constitution is titular. The following passage appears in The Annotated Constitution of the Australian Commonwealth ' by Quick and Garran. 
Section 281 'The Command-in-Chief'. The commandinchief of the naval and military forces of the Commonwealth is, in accordance with constitutional usage, vested in the Governor-General as the Queen's Representative. This is one of the oldest and most honoured prerogatives of the Crown, but it is now exercised in a constitutional manner. The Governor-General could not wield more authority in the naval and military business of the country than he could in the routine work of any other local department. Of what use would be the command without the grant of the supplies necessary for its execution? All matters, therefore, relating to the disposition and management of the federal forces will be regulated by the Governor-General with the advice of his Ministry having the confidence of Parliament. (Todd's Pari. Gov. in Col. 2nd ed. p.377). 
Section 68 of the Constitution has never been regarded as a bar to Parliament, in pursuance of its power under section 51 (VI) of the Constitution, making laws investing officers and other authorities with practical command over the Defence Force, any part thereof or the members of any part of that Force or regulating the manner in which those powers are to be exercised- so long at any rate, as no attempt is made to derogate from the formal supreme command vested in the Governor-General by section 68 of the Constitution. The Bill in the proposed sub-section 9(5) specifically preserves the command in chief vested in the GovernorGeneral. 
A lot of the argument in this debate was based on the fact that  Dr Millar  had said certain things. I do not want to denigrate  Dr Millar.  I have read a lot of his contributions. Let me put the counter argument- of whom do we take notice? Do we take notice of the Chiefs of Staff, those people honourable senators opposite are always defending against the Labor Party? The Chiefs of Staff have supported what the Government has done. The Opposition's shadow Minister for Defence,  Dr Forbes,  . stated that he supported what the Government has done. Everybody knows that the Opposition generally supports this measure, so why does the Opposition want to hold up the legislation at this stage? 

 Senator Carrick talked about the figures in the Budget. He knows full well that the Labor Party has met its target as to Service manpower. I am talking about numbers now. The old theory about everybody trying to get out of the Services has been exploded. There is no truth in it. The figures are up on the target we proposed.  Senator Carrick  quoted something which we had said was a reason for the reorganisation, namely, the difference between the civilian complement and the Service complement which will now disappear under the new legislation. There may be a need later to make modifications to the law. All of the evidence has been made available to honourable senators and their contributions today indicate that they understand what this is all about. 
The payment of salaries of defence personnel as outlined in Appropriation Bill (No. 1) was also mentioned by  Senator Carrick.  As he well knows, the cost of the wage increases were calculated at current rates, and nothing more. I compliment all honourable senators who have participated in this debate and in particular, of course, those who are going to support the Government. I think the contributions by honourable senators have been very good. I cannot see, in the face of the value and the standard of the contributions which honourable senators have made, that there is any reason to refer the Bill to a committee. I want to say on behalf of the Government that if the Senate refers this Bill to a committee the Minister shall announce that the Government will regard such a reference as failure to pass the Bill under section 57 of the Constitution. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. 
I do not have those figures available. The last information I saw about Essendon showed that it was very well used by light aircraft, by business jets and by freighters. I will attempt to get the information for  Senator Sim  during the week. 
Since that statement appeared in the Press I have asked the Australian Postal Commission to make inquiries. It has been advised that the Samoan authorities have no knowledge of any such mailing and that the date stamp which was illustrated was not the official Western Samoan postmark. Presently the Postal Commission is monitoring all the mail from Samoa and there is no evidence to indicate that any such system is in operation. The illustration also showed the incorrect postage if it was a Samoan stamp. 
-The Minister for Environment has told me about the United States report which was issued in June. He states that there is increasing world-wide concern over the release of chlorinated fluorocarbons, especially from aerosol sprays. The reason for this concern is the theory first advanced 12 months ago that fluorocarbons may substantially deplete the stratospheric ozone levels and thus allow increased amounts of harmful ultra-violet radiation. The Minister states that the Department of Environment is maintaining a close watch on the results of overseas studies as the theory, in his opinion, is not yet proven. The most recent authoritative report by the United States federal task force on the inadvertent modification of the stratosphere has suggested that action to prohibit the release of fluorocarbons should be deferred until the results of a further study by the National Academy of Science has become available. I shall ask the Minister whether he can add any further information in reply to  Senator Keeffe  's question. 
I have some further information in answer to a question raised by  Senator Baume  on 27 August concerning airmail services to and from Lord Howe Island. I am aware of the concern by the elected committee of Lord Howe Island concerning the irregularity of mail services. Following the cessation of the flying boat service to the Island a wide variety of arrangements has been necessary to continue the mail service. As well as the North Coast charter airline operating twice weekly out of Port Macquarie a Sydney based airline operates nights to Lord Howe Island to a timetable that varies in frequency according to the demand for its services. Officers of the Postal Commission have now completed a study of available transport facilities. Arrangements will be introduced as soon as possible for either airline to carry standard letters and other mail paid for at airmail rates on whichever flight provides the best service. 
The suggestion made by  Senator Steele  Hall in fact had been considered during the reorganisation proposals. Honourable senators may have noted that in paragraphs 325 and 326 of his report  Sir Arthur  Tange referred to a recommendation that he had made to the Chiefs of Staff about the setting up of a possible defence council. A summary which was prepared following certain discussions states: 
In both Great Britain and Canada defence councils formally exist but are not used to any significant extent. In New Zealand the Defence Council as such appears to exercise in fact only limited authority. The question of a defence council in Australia was considered in the development of the new organisational proposals. 
This was indicated in the paragraphs in the report to which I have referred. Since the debate on this question took place in this chamber  Mr Morrison  has considered what has been proposed. In view of the suggestion, if necessary the Government will advance a proposition which does not need an amendment of the legislation currently before the chamber. For many years section 28 of the Defence Act has contained the following provision: 
The Governor-General may constitute a Council of Defence, which shall have such powers and functions as are prescribed. 
This provision has not been altered in the current amending legislation. However, Council of Defence Regulations do exist. They provide for a very high level membership, with the Prime Minister as  Chairman,  and including other senior Ministers as well as the Chiefs of Staff. The Council has not met for many years, if indeed it has met at all. It seems basically to be a form of War Cabinet for consideration of major defence issues. It is proposed to repeal these regulations. A council of defence under the existing section 28 ( 1) of the Defence Act could be set up with functions and membership more closely related to the defence council which is currently being advocated by a number of people who have contributed to the debate on the organisational proposals. I have an outline of the possible membership and functions of such a council of defence. 
This draft has been discussed informally with the Attorney-General's Department, which is generally in agreement with the suggested provisions. It should be understood, however, that in view of the Attorney-General's Department it would not be valid to provide for the membership by regulation as section 28 (1) of the Defence Act contemplates that the GovernorGeneral would make such appointments by an executive act and not by exercising his power to make regulations. The proposal is, therefore, that the functions and frequency of meeting would be provided by regulation and that the members would be appointed by an OrderinCouncil. Section 28(1) of the Defence Act provides: 
The Governor-General may constitute a Council of Defence, which shall have such powers and functions as are prescribed. 
The Government proposes to repeal the existing Council of Defence Regulations and to reconstitute the Council of Defence with the following membership: The Minister; the Minister appointed to assist the Minister for Defence; the Secretary to the Department of Defence; the Chief of Defence Force Staff; the Chief of Naval Staff; the Chief of the General Staff; and the Chief of the Air Staff. The Regulations will provide that the function of the Council will be to enable the Minister, in consultation with the other members of the Council, to consider matters relating to the control and administration of the Defence Force and the respective arms of the Defence Force. The Regulations will provide that the Minister may from time to time convene meetings of the Council but shall convene at least 4 meetings of the Council in any one year.  Mr Morrison  has indicated that he is prepared so to act. 
-I will take up the matter with the Minister for Transport and let the honourable senator know his reaction to the question. 
The answer to the honourable senator's question is as follows: (1), (2) and (3) A thorough search of the Mildura District Telephone Office records nas failed to reveal any trace of an application for telephone service having been received from  Mrs Sheila  Smith. However, if an application were to be lodged, service could be provided within three weeks. (4), (5) and (6) Namatjira Avenue is approximately 11/2 miles from Dareton and while I understand that medical attention is available at Dareton between 9.30 a.m. and midday four days a week, the 100 or so people living in the area are relatively isolated. Until early last year, a multi-coin public telephone leased by the Social Welfare Department was available to the residents. However, both the cabinet and instrument were subjected to constant vandalism and it became impracticable to continue the Service. The Australian Telecommunications Commission is currently negotiating with the Department of Aboriginal Affairs to reprovide this telephone and would be prepared to install it in one of the homes in the area, provided the occupant agrees to make the facility available to any bona fide caller and to oversight its use. 
The honourable senator gave warning yesterday of his intention to ask this question, but unfortunately I have not yet been able to get the required information from the Minister for Transport. I understand that the Minister for Transport has asked TAA to supply him with the information, which is not yet available. I will try to get it for the honourable senator tomorrow. 
I do not have any more information than I had previously. As a matter of fact I accompanied  Senator Drury  on an inspection there recently. The position is that it would certainly seem that the major units now at Woodside are likely to be located there until the early 1980s. The ultimate plan is to shift them, provided accommodation is available, to Holsworthy and Singleton at some time in the 1980s. I would think that, generally speaking, the answer is that they are clearly going to be there until that time and that the planning is so to provide the Woodside facility. 
I do not know of any such proposals. The only matter which arose from the legislation concerning the transfer to the Australian National Railways of the South Australian railway facility, as the honourable senator will remember, was the question which I think had to be considered, of the likelihood of the relocation from Melbourne to Adelaide of the headquarters of the Australian National Railways. I have not heard any rumours in relation to the capacity of the workshops. I think it is most unlikely that at present the capacity of any South Australian railway workshop- I presume the honourable senator is referring to the Islington facility- will in any way be downgraded because of the new arrangements. I would think rather that Islington would in fact achieve a higher percentage of activity resulting from the new arrangements. I know personally that the Port Augusta workshops are in fact fairly restricted. Attempts have been made to reach agreement on upgrading them, but agreement has not been reached yet. There has been some improvement there. So I think that overall there is no possibility that any such downgrading might occur in respect of the capacity of the Adelaide facility. However, I shall direct the honourable senator's question to  Mr Jones  and see whether he can add anything to what I have said. 
-The Minister for Defence,  Mr Morrison,  currently receives regularly reports on the physical security of all units. The honourable senator probably will remember that last year, as a result of a number of incidents that might have been related to events in other countries,  Mr Barnard  gave instructions that all the Services were to tighten up their security. At present all the Services are constantly reviewing their procedures to ensure that the physical security of weapons, ammunition and explosives remains at a high standard. In the two most recent cases- one in South Australia and one in New South Wales- the offenders were apprehended. All the rifles and pistols stolen in South Australia have been recovered, but that is not the position in the current case. I might say that the various international security hazards have brought home to all the people in the Services the need for regular reports to be made. Units are now required regularly to give a report on their physical security and to have constant stocktakes. So, everything possible is being done to tighten up what, I think, in the past has been the result of something that has been happening in the community generally. The defence forces are really taking whatever security measures they can take to make sure that those things will not happen again. 

 - Senator Young who has just finished his speech did the same as other Opposition speakers have done. He spoke about the need to cut back expenditure and then he wanted a number of subsidies. He talked about postal and telecommunication charges and the recommendation which the Government accepted from the 2 commissions in charge of postal and telecommunication services. Honourable senators will note that he said the Government 'should have been more generous', which means of course that the ordinary taxpayers have to subsidise a service which in these days has been accepted by all the authorities as needing to be based on commercial and business principles. This Parliament, whether the honourable senator likes it or not, accepted the Vernon Commission's recommendations which affirmed that principle. In addition, this Senate in fact endorsed the legislation. Opposition supporters knew what the legislation proposed. Those tariff recommendations which came to me in the first instance from the 2 Commissions were somewhat buried under negotiations with me. The formal arrangements were carried out but in discussions I recommended alterations which provided for subsidies. Does  Senator Young  know that in the case of the country newspapers, and by that I mean registered publications, including newspapers and charitable organisations, even with the $ 1 m subsidy the Postal Commission will still lose $1 lm in that area. Has any Opposition senator, has  Senator Withers  or  Mr Fraser  said how they would fill the gap? If the tariffs had been left as they were the Government would have been required to find $348m. Does anybody say seriously that this Government or any Government should find that amount of money? Where would the money be taken from to ensure that tariffs were kept as low as they were before. 
The cost of a stamp is now 1 8c. That is high. It is 4c or 6c higher than the cost of the daily newspaper that one buys every day and throws away. A letter can be transferred from one part of the country to another, and that price was recommended by the Postal Commission. The Government has made a subsidy over the 2 areas of $ 16.5m. A subsidy of the magnitude suggested by the Opposition would have been the equivalent of any of the following programs: The loans for the reserve price scheme for wool; half the recurrent and capital expenditure proposed by the Schools Commission for the coming year; an increase in the standard pension rate of $5.35 a week in a full year and in the married rate by $4.45 in a full year; abolishing the means test on people aged between 65 years and 69 years at a cost of $240m in a full year. The full Budget for the Department of Urban and Regional Development is $3 69m, and yet the Opposition says that the Government should have left the tariffs as they were. An amount of $3 50m would buy 4 patrol frigates; the Government currently is buying two. 
Let me come to the crunch on this matter. Opposition senators are always getting up and saying that the Government should cut expenditure. Every day in this place and in the other place somebody gets up and talks about the need for a subsidy.  Senator Young  says that the Government has got to be more generous. What would the Opposition cut back? What would it do? The Opposition has not said what it would do. No offer has been made in this Parliament in any of the Budget debates indicating what the Opposition would do. Would it provide $14m to reduce by 2c the cost of a postage stamp? Of course it would not. Would it recover the money by reintroducing television and broadcast listener's licences? 
-There you are. The Government did not do it. The Opposition might do it but it has not said that it will. Would the Opposition put a poll tax on the people? Mr Fraser has found all the remedies but he has not made any offers. Opposition senators will get up tomorrow and ask: 'What about the postal and telecommunication charges?', but nobody will make a firm offer from the Opposition side on where the money is going to come from to reduce the charges. In fact, the Opposition accepts the principle of those increased charges. The Opposition spokesman in this place, the shadow Minister, has affirmed the principle, which is a safe principle. As I said before, it is unfortunate that the 2 Commissions have had to start off in a period of general world wide depression and inflation and they are suffering. 
-Of course they are suffering. 
-And what did the Opposition do when it was in government? This Government has reduced the load on the ordinary taxpayer by $67m by abolishing television and broadcast listeners' licences. Perhaps the Opposition will do what  Senator Sir Magnus  Cormack is now suggesting. When it comes back it will put the licence fees back on. Is that what the Opposition proposes to do? 
Maybe you can. Yes, probably you will. The honourable senator referred to it; I did not. 
The  DEPUTY  PRESID*ENT  (Senator Webster)-  Order! The honourable senator will not interrupt the Minister. 
The position is as clear as day. Opposition speakers get up in these sorts of debates and say that the Government has got to impose wage restraints; it has got to cut back government expenditure. Yet all that Opposition speakers have been asking about tonight and over the last few days and all that they will ask about tomorrow is this: What about the programs which the Government has cut back? What is it going to do about them? Before this debate concludes I should like to know what the Opposition is going to offer to reduce expenditure. It has got no policy.  Senator Withers  in this place and  Mr Fraser  in the other place have presented the Opposition's policy. Nobody will change that. They have criticised Medibank. Is the Opposition going to change that too? 
I would remind honourable senators opposite of what the Government has done. It has given a subsidy of $ 16.5m to the 2 Commissions. That amount was as much as the Government and the Cabinet thought was necessary in view of the principle which had been accepted for the establishment of the 2 Commissions. That is a principle which in the long run will save the ordinary taxpayer the load that he has carried in the past. That involves an argument that has always been used as a political argument in this place. We all know that on occasions in this place when in Opposition we have attacked proposed charges, and the Government has used the device in relation to postal charges of saying that the important and extraordinary charges have got to be maintained. In this case the Government, after proper examination, for the first time has given these 2 enterprises the responsibility- a responsibility which the Opposition endorsed- for running their own business, and they are doing it in a good way and they have got to be left to do it. They have to be left to run their own business undertakings. We have to give them a go in a period which is very difficult.  Senator Young  said that the Government has to be more generous, but it has done something else, as he knows. It has made 2 important decisions which will benefit the Commissions. For example, the superannuation liability of both undertakings has been written off, saving the Telecommunications Commission an estimated $500m over the next 30 years and the Postal Commission $70m in that time. 
I put it to honourable senators that the Government has given the 2 Commissions as much of a start as it can in these dmes. If the dmes had been better perhaps the Government might have provided increased subsidies, but in this year of restraint everybody is talking about the need to get back to a time of stability during a period of world wide difficulty. Opposition speakers talk about unemployment as though Australia were the only country in the world which is suffering from it. Let me quote the unemployment figures throughout the world, including that very prosperous country, the Labour-governed Federal Republic of Germany, whose unemployment rate is currently 5.2 per cent. The figures released by the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development for the quarter ended in February 1975 show that in Canada unemployment is 8.6 per cent; in Australia it is 4.7 per cent. We do not want that and the Government is trying to create economic conditions which will stop it. In the United States the unemployment figure is 9.1 per cent; in Australia it is 4.7 per cent. In West Germany, which has the best rate of economic growth of any country in the world, the unemployment figure is 5.2 per cent. In Belgium the figure is 5.9 per cent and in Denmark 12 per cent. These are characteristic influences and Opposition senators know that the Australian Government and the Treasurer  (Mr Hayden)  are trying to provide conditions which will meet the situation. 
What does the Opposition propose? It proposes no solutions to the matters I have mentioned. It has made no offer of reductions in expenditure because it cannot justify the sort of cuts that are now being put forward by the Leader of the Liberal Party. I might best express my point by quoting what was stated in the  Age  of 29 August. The article read: 
Some of the areas in which  Mr Fraser  indicated he could get significant savings are patently absurd. 
Abolition of the Media Department, the Prices Justification Tribunal, the Australian Legal Aid Office and the Australian Police may be legitimate policy objectives, but they are irrelevant to the level of Government spending. The public servants involved would have to be absorbed into other departments and some functions, such as law enforcement, would still have to be maintained. 
The proposal to cut the Treasurer's advance by $75m is scraping the bottom of the barrel; this is a contingency sum . . . 
Debate interrupted. 
The Minister for Defence has provided the following answer to the question: 
Yes. The additional amount of $8.36 lm sought for Division 623 Army Buildings, Works, Fittings and Furniture in Appropriation Bill No. 3 1974-75 included provision for an increase from $2.700m to $4.430m in estimated expenditure on this work in 1974-75 due to better progress by contractors than anticipated. The work at Canungra on which this additional amount of $ 1.730m was sought involves construction of permanent accommodation and facilities and extensions of some existing buildings. The proposal was reported upon favourably by the Parliamentary Standing Committee on Public Works in its Twenty-second Report of 1972 dated l4September 1972. This Report contains details of the works involved. The total estimated cost of the works at Canungra is $9.490m made up to $4.682m for Stage 1 and $4.808m for Stage 2. With $5.5m spent as at 31 May 1975 the projected expenditure at Canungra is $4.0m approximately. 
The expenditure on this work has been- $827.60 ( 1972-73), $752,107.42 (1973-74), $4,762,335.35 (1974-75 to 3 1 . 5.75), a total of $5,5 1 5,270.37. 
The Government has not proposed any scaling down of any kind at Canungra. Since the establishment of the Jungle Training Centre during World War II Canungra has evolved into much more than a training centre for jungle warfare. The Centre has responsibility for qualifying courses for tactics, battle efficiency, unit administration, and administrative and technical officers. In addition, all courses for Australian Intelligence Corps personnel are conducted at the Centre by the School of Military Intelligence. Because of the wide training roles of the. Centre, the name was changed recently to the Land Warfare Centre. The following movements will affect the activities at Canungra: 
25 staff positions from the Centre have been allocated to 1st Recruit Training Battalion to cater for the predicted need to train additional recruits in 1975-77. 
proposals currently receiving consideration within my Department could effectively increase the activity of the Land Warfare Centre by catering for Junior Staff and Tactics Courses in 1976. Warrant and noncommissioned officer courses could also be allocated to the Centre. 
concurrent with this reallocation of manpower the School of Military Intelligence has been moved to Canungra. This relocation effectively increases the manpower allocation of the Centre by 1 8 positions. 
As indicated in my reply to Question 3, a variety of training activities primarily relating to tactics, battle efficiency and administration, are carried out at the Land Warfare Centre. These activities cover the broad spectrum of professional learning associated with continental defence in a variety of settings. There are marked variations in terrain, climate and vegetation on the Australian continent, and it therefore follows that the study of its defence should embrace operations under all of these conditions, without bias to any particular one. 
Discussions have taken place between the Minister for the Media and the relevant departments on this question. The Senate will recall that recently  Senator Young  asked me and also  Senator Douglas  McClelland questions on the issue of licences for the first 2 experimental radio stations which were for a restricted period. These licences were issued under the Wireless Telegraphy Act. 
Yes, they were very successful. There were two notable senators on the Committee, Senators Mulvihill and Davidson, who made some contributions to the discussions. In respect of the current discussions about the new approvals, it has been proposed that I should issue the licences under the Wireless and Telegraphy Act, and regard has already been had to the issue raised by  Senator Young.  Perhaps I should refer to the definitions in the new Broadcasting and Television Act. Section 4 states: licence' means a licence Tor a commercial broadcasting station or Tor a commercial television station; 
That is the licence which the Minister for the Media may issue. Section 8 1 states: 
The Minister may, subject to this Act, grant to a person a licence for a commercial broadcasting station or for a commercial television station upon such conditions, and in accordance with such form, as the Minister determines. 
In respect of the Act which I personally administer, section 2 (c) states: 
The Minister administering the  Wireless Telegraphy Act  1905-1967 is not to grant a licence under that Act for any purpose for which a licence may be granted under the Broadcasting  and Television Act  1942-71- see section 130. 
In relation to the question raised by  Senator Young,  I will have the matter examined by the respective departments and further advise him. 
As this is a Government proposal, I think I can say what I said before. The honourable senator has made his submission and I will consider it in association with the Ministers concerned. 
Tests have already been carried out by the Department of Transport and by the Postmaster-General's Department on a number of these devices in the cheaper price range. They have been found to be very prone to accidental activation resulting in false alarms. In fact a group carrying out tests reported that a significant number of false alarms have already been received; but as an aid to small boat owners specifications have now been issued through the industry and interested departments with a view to producing a more efficient and acceptable unit which will retail at about $80. 
I do not think I need respond further to that side of the question which  Senator Young  raised but rather repeat what I told him following his question on 21 August when he raised the matter of the new charges which would operate for the part time program lines and the other concessions which then applied. He suggested that some stations might go bankrupt. The reply from the Australian Telecommunications Commission is that it should be noted that the total value of news only and general relay concessions for all stations participating in Australia is only a little more than $ 100,000. It put forward the view that in the first place it is not the Telecommunications Commission's responsibility to pick up the gap and that in fact previously this concession had been a subsidy. Under the new arrangements and new proposals settled under the tariff arrangements the Commission would have had to meet any difference between the cost of operation and the charges which had been applied for many years. Its point of view was that whilst some stations might go bankrupt, as explained by  Senator 
Young, it was not a matter solely related to the concessions. 
What  Senator Young  has said today reaffirms the sort of evidence which I mentioned when I replied to him in relation to charges. What  Senator Young  really wants is a continuing subsidy. The history of the Coombs report, as the honourable senator pointed out, was as I stated. The former Postmaster-General,  Mr Lionel  Bowen, had some discussions concerning the question of tariffs in the Budget. He gave an undertaking that the proposed charges should not apply. So what has been recovered by the Australian Telecommunications Commission, as far as I am aware, are those rates which were then struck. As  Senator Young  knows- I think he acknowledged this in his speech- since that time a Budget has been introduced. This was a new situation. We now have the constitution of the Committee with new procedures. I am certainly interested in what I saw in the newspapers in relation to  Dr Cass.  The article stated: 
He said he was prepared to seek government subsidies for country commercial radio stations which faced closure because of recent rises in charges for landlines. 
Of course, what  Senator Douglas  McClelland has just reported will be conveyed to the Commission. 
-Senator Devitt will recall that at the time he raised the question the then Australian Post Office rejected the suggestion because of the cost. It argued against loss. Since that time I have had the matter considered. I will be glad to convey to the Australian Postal Commission the proposal of the honourable senator to see to what extent support might be given to it. In saying that I do not contemplate that the Government is in a position to subsidise any such service. I will ask the Commission whether it will consider the matter in the light of its commitments to see what might be done over that period. 
I know that  Mr Morrison  is considering the matter, but I am not sure whether he has come to a determination on it. Following the consideration of the Army cadet corps, the Minister also considered the expenditure incurred on the Royal Australian Navy and Royal Australian Air Force cadet corps, which is much less than the expenditure on the Army cadet corps. In answering the honourable senator's question, perhaps I should point to some of the reasons why  Mr Morrison  decided as he did. In the report on the matter, of which  Senator Laucke  will be aware, it is stated that out of a total of 1940 secondary schools in Australia, including schools which cater for boys as well as co-educational schools, only 312 schools or 16 per cent had school cadet corps. 
The Senate might recall that in the public arena certain retired senior officers have voiced the opinion that while in some cases the cadet corps were suitable for youth training, they did not think that the money should come from the defence vote. I think that is the main reason for the decision. However, I will ask the Minister for an indication of whether he has decided the question. 
 Senator James  McClelland and I last week met the chairmen and managing directors of both commissions.  Senator McClelland  was accompanied by his own officers. The matter was not finalised but I think  Senator McClelland  would agree that there was an amount of agreement as to what might obtain in relation to procedures in the future about classifications and appointments. When the matter is determined I will give  Senator Durack  some further information. As to the last part of his question, I have mentioned before to  Senator Durack  that more than once these properly constituted Commissions have said that they agree entirely with the Government's wage indexation policies and with the guidelines which have been pronounced by  Senator James  McClelland and the former Minister for Labor and Immigration. 
I have seen a report of the matter to which the honourable senator refers. It is a long-standing practice that Service personnel be carried to such carnivals on a space available basis using normal scheduled flights. Occasionally space is not available. Where large numbers are involved and the sporting function is properly sponsored, the Royal Australian Air Force may task an aircraft specifically for the purpose. Such flights are included in the total number of approved flying hours for the financial year and therefore do not add to overall defence costs. I can confirm that of the 2 flights in question one was specifically tasked and the other was a scheduled flight. Both journeys were to have been made on scheduled flights but a more urgent requirement for freight for Papua New Guinea resulted in a changed arrangement to transport the South Australian and Victorian players. The return journey was on routine flights meeting the Service requirements that I have mentioned. 
-I remember the debate. I think  Senator Cotton  was the Minister and there was a far-ranging debate following the report. It was one of the occasions on which  Senator Sim  and I were on the same side; that does not happen very frequently. However, the point which the honourable senator has made is in regard to the investigating body. I will ask the Minister for Transport whether he will consider that matter. 
There has been longstanding agitation by members of the Australian Postal and Telecommunications Union in Sydney resulting from the decision by the Public Transport Commission of New South Wales to take the travelling post office vehicles off the system because of costs. Discussions were held between the Australian Postal Commission officials and the Public Transport Commission of New South Wales and the New South Wales Minister for Transport met a deputation from the Union. During the discussions with  Mr Fife  one of the APTU officials said that he intended to approach the Australian Government with a request for a subsidy, which would be quite a large amount. That submission has been made to the Prime Minister and to the Treasurer and it has been pointed out by both that in no circumstances would the Australian Government be able to supply a subsidy in the circumstances but that the Australian Postal Commission, if it wanted to, could consider what it might do. I have been advised by the Commission that it is not able to support the system financially but it is prepared to set up an alternative system. 
Last week I met the union delegation here in Canberra and informed it that attempts would be made to ask  Mr Shirley,  the Chief Commissioner of the Public Transport Commission of New South Wales, to defer the date for cancelling the service. Today the delegation is meeting  Mr Shirley  to put that request. I met the Trades and Labor Council delegation and I propose to meet it again on Thursday. We will tell it what arrangements are possible at the time of that deferment. All I can say is that we have been through the whole scale of negotiations on this matter. As honourable senators know, the New South Wales railways expect a deficit of, I think, $250m this year. The Australian Postal Commission does not have the resources required to keep this service going. There certainly are guarantees by the Postal Commission and me that proper arrangements will be made in respect of pay, etc., for any staff which might be changed. In the long run no staff will lose anything as a result of the changeover. 
-May I reply first to an interjection made by  Senator Jessop  to the effect that these firms have to do something. The fact is that if that sort of practice developed the Australian taxpayer simply would have to pay more. So the Postal Commission is making energetic efforts to stop such a practice under the by-laws. The Commission is protected by postal by-law 222, and by postal services regulation 45 which is a very common and general by-law used by most Western post offices to protect the system. The Postal Commission is monitoring the mail that is going backwards and forwards. The real position is that in 1971 the New Zealand Labor Government put a price freeze on a number of items, including postage rates. 
The Australian Postal Commission has to take whatever steps it can to make sure that it pays its way in the future, in accordance with its responsibilities under the legislation approved by the Parliament. Its success will depend largely on the efforts it can make to become more efficient. I hope that the Commission can become more efficient and that everybody, including ourselves and the trade unions, will give the Postal Commission and the Telecommunications Commission a chance to work as efficiently as possible. If they can do that there is no doubt that the price of their service will be less than would otherwise be paid by the Australian taxpayer. 
One of the recommendations of the Vernon Committee was that there should be decentralised administrative centres for the Postal Commission and the Telecommunications Commission. Honourable senators will recall that some time ago I sent out notifications pointing out what might be considered. 1 pointed out also the localities to which staff might be transferred. The position generally is, for example, that if a local headquarters of the Postal Commission were to be moved there would be an increase at the new location in the number of personnel employed by the Telecommunications Commission and vice versa. The  Chairman  and the Managing Director of the Postal Commission and I have said that we will not determine these matters until everyone who wants to make representations to us has had an opportunity to do so. We hope to have some consolidation of our views about the end of September. That is the situation at the moment. There is certainly no intention on the part of the Commissions to perpetuate any hardship. The Commissions want to have an efficient operation in the same way as commissions which have been set up in other countries have. 
-On 2 September,  Senator Sim  asked me questions concerning the general position of Essendon Airport. The Minister for Transport has supplied the following answers to the honourable senator's questions: The approximate cost of operating and maintaining Essendon Airport for 1974-75 was $1,225,000. During the same period, the revenue gained directly by the Department of Transport at Essendon was approximately $563,000. The revenue in the form of air navigation charges and fuel tax also is derived from operators based at Essendon; but, of course, it is not feasible to apportion that revenue to any particular airport. During 1974-75 the number of aircraft movements at Essendon was 45 849. The Government's policy of achieving full recovery of air transport facility costs is being implemented gradually. The contribution of Essendon Airport towards that goal, that is to say, its justification, is in the final stages of evaluation. The problem is complex because Essendon, with other airports, and air transport operators, form an integrated system, so that any decision on Essendon affects other aspects of air transport as well. Investigations have so far shown that Essendon Airport would perform an increasingly valuable role in the air transport system in the future. The Government will shortly be considering the retention or disposal of Essendon Airport and, in coming to a decision, will take account of not only its cost recovery policy but also the policy that all proposals for investment in air transport should be subject to economic evaluation. 
When the Budget debate was adjourned last Wednesday night, I had been referring to comments made by  Senator Young  in respect of the problems of newspapers and the cost of postage.  Senator Young  had claimed that the Government should have been more generous, and I pointed out that in fact that claim was a request for subsidies. I said that the Government, in settling the submissions from the Australian Postal Commission and the Australian Telecommunications Commission had set aside $ 16.5m for benefits to pensioners and others, and that, consistent with the charters of the 2 Commissions, which had been approved by the Parliament and supported in this place by  Senator Young,  the Commissions had set out to recover as far as possible the cost of their operations. I also said that if the tariffs of the Commissions were left as they were last year, a subsidy of $348m would be needed which, as all honourable senators know, would be not only impossible but also inconsistent with the times. The Treasurer  (Mr Hayden)  has made it clear that the Government has set out on a policy of cutting back the increase in Budget outlays but at the same time has insisted on applying those welfare programs which had been promised, and in that general area it had kept its promise in relation to pension increases. 
So we have an argument from the Opposition on the one hand that there ought to be greater subsidies and greater expenditures, and on the other hand that the Government should have set itself on a policy of restraint. During that debate I asked whether the Opposition proposed to reduce any of the tariff structures or wanted to reinstitute broadcast listeners and television viewers licenses. The Senate will remember that last year the Government decided to abolish those charges, and during this year's Budget discussions refused to reinstate them. The abolition of those charges cost the Government some $67m in revenue last year. When I said that the Government would not recover the money needed by introducing listeners and viewers licences,  Senator Sir Magnus  Cormack interjected: Why not?' I do not think that anybody would find the reintroduction of the charges palatable and so we have a situation where tariffs generally have gone up, but that is inescapable. 

 Senator Young complained about the cost of postage for registered publications, and I pointed out to him that in fact there was a subsidy. After receiving submissions from the Postal Commission, the Government finally agreed to provide a subsidy of Sim in the area of registered publications, but even allowing for that subsidy the result will still be an estimated loss to the Commission of $ 1 1 m. Although the Government went ahead with the subsidy proposals which had been put to me, typical charges still have risen from 3c to 6c for a small charitable organisation's monthly newsletter; from 4.5c to 7c for a country newspaper, and from 11c to 14c for a medium weight magazine. As I have mentioned, even with the subsidy the Commission will lose $llm. Had the subsidy not been promoted by me and granted by the Government, the position would have been that a small charitable organisation's monthly newsletter would have cost 12c; a country newspaper, 12c; and a medium weight magazine, 20c. Other subsidies amounting to $1.6m which have been made by the Government, as honourable senators will know, are for mail to and from members of the defence forces who are overseas in specified areas, for free postage of electoral office mail, for concessions on mail posted from the Darwin area, and for the free redirection of pensioners' mail for the first month, which will cost the Government over $100,000. A subsidy of $13.25m also has been provided for the Telecommunications Commission to cover pensioner concessions. 
In respect of other matters which have been raised during the Budget debate, I should like to remind honourable senators that my colleague, 

 Senator Douglas McClelland, spoke about the matter of subsidies for media services in country areas on the same night as I advised the Senate that the Minister for the Media  (Dr Cass)  was prepared to accept proposals from the industry.  Dr Cass  has said that he has invited the industry to make submissions to him. He has also indicated that at this stage his attitude would be that any financial support which he might recommend ought to take the form of a direct subsidy for the organisations concerned so that the amount of taxpayers' funds committed, if they were so committed, would be capable of scrutiny and not disguised as a concession or as reduced charges. 
On the question of the subsidies to which I have referred, no government could have faced an outlay of $348m because it would have had to cut back on a large part of its welfare policies. 1 have enumerated some of the areas which would have been affected had a subsidy of that magnitude been granted. The Postal Commission is required to assess postal charges so that it can meet its financial objectives, that is, in broad terms, to break even. If the postal services were to operate at a loss it would mean that the taxpayer would have to carry that loss. It is important to note that 70 per cent of the costs of the Postal Commission are attributed to wages, and in 1974-75 there was a marked increase in these costs of over $70m. In relation to telecommunication services, there are 2 principal causes for the need to adjust a variety of charges. These are the need to fund 53 per cent of capital expenditure from internal sources in 1975-76 and the need to meet rises in wages and prices of materials and equipment. This means, of course, that the Commission's objective is being achieved in that the users of the service are required to contribute more to network development expenditure than before and the general taxpayer contributes proportionately less. 
The financial charter of both Commissions is in accord with the recommendations of the Vernon Commission of Inquiry, as I have already mentioned. I should make the point that the financial problems of the Commissions, especially on the postal side, are not unique to Australia. Every comparable country is faced with the same problems, and many of these countries are adopting the same policies as those of this Government. As I said in answering a question earlier this afternoon, we would like to see all the parties concerned giving the greatest co-operation to the commissions, which have a great task and a very heavy burden to face up to. For example, in the United Kingdom a rate of 14c Australian is proposed. That figure becomes 31c Australian when it is adjusted to reflect the relationship between United Kingdom average weekly earnings of $66.05 and Australian average weekly earnings of $143.60. 1 mention also that New Zealand has had the advantage of price control having been applied since 197 1. 
Most of us accept that the commissions not only have a responsibility to carry out the new concept, which was approved by the Parliament and by all the parties in this place, but also an obligation, in the eyes of the Government, to perform those functions more efficiently. It is unfortunate that the new commissions had to be formed at a time of general world inflation which makes their impact on the community harder. But I think the subsidies I have mentioned indicate that the Government has done as much as it can to provide subsidies for those purposes. I also mention, as other speakers on this side have mentioned, that the Government set out to restrict outlays in the Budget. In doing so, as many of my colleagues have pointed out, it has drastically cut back a number of things which it might consider to be socially necessary, but in the broad field of social and welfare commitment it has more than honoured its objectives by way of its education proposals and so on. The Opposition is trying to go one better, but is not providing any real solutions to the inflationary crisis. 
In the latter part of my comments I want to refer to a most accurate description of  Mr Fraser's  proposals. I refer to a report in the Melbourne  Age  of 29 August which in part stated: 
Some of the areas in which  Mr Fraser  indicated he could get significant savings are patently absurd. 
The article referred to the abolition of the Department of the Media, the Prices Justification Tribunal, the Australian Legal Aid Office and so on. It referred to the proposal to cut the Advance to the Treasurer by $75 m as 'scraping the bottom of the barrel'. The article said:   . . this is a contingency sum for unforeseen events such as the Darwin cyclone and is not part of the Budget outlays until the money is spent and approved by Parliament.  Mr Fraser  could save $200m by the sale of the natural gas pipeline from Gidgealpa to Sydney, and this may be a legitimate political objective. But it would seem a dangerous policy to finance tax cuts through the sale of capital assets. Perhaps the cut could be even bigger if  Mr Fraser  sold TAA? 
The article continued: 
But even if  Mr Fraser  could get $ 1 ,000m in tax cuts it may not have the desired effect of an acceleration in private sector growth. 
The Australian Government has honoured to the full its commitment to preserve its general welfare policies. It is faced with a general recession which is certainly world-wide and it has taken active steps to stop inflation in the country in a way that seems to be necessary in the Budget context. That has been followed by what might be the more extravagant intentions to cut expenditure which have been criticised by a number of Australian newspapers. 
I mentioned earlier the efforts we have made in all areas to meet promises. Perhaps I should conclude by mentioning what we have done in the defence area. Not only have we met the outstanding obligations of providing a system of wage adjustment as a permanent feature of the Services payments, which obligations were never met by the Opposition when it was in government, but also we have introduced commensurate conditions to those which apply in the Public Service and industry- the same amount of annual leave and other entitlements. We reinsti tuted the re-engagement bonus, we extended the eligibility for war service homes to serving members of the Services and we introduced many other improvements which were long overdue. We in this Parliament can all remember that many of us used to complain about the great delays which resulted from awarding increases to servicemen by regulation. On many occasions we had an unfortunate situation occasioned by the principles of the Senate Standing Committee on Regulations and Ordinances- I am not complaining about its criteria- because those increases had to run the test of the retrospectivity principles of the criteria of that Committee. Great delays were experienced. We have cut all that out. In these years of Government we have caught up on equipment purchases. I suggest that the Budget which the Labor Government proposes is as good as any government could propose in these very difficult economic circumstances. 
The Minister for Transport has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
27.4 percent. 
24.3 per cent. 
2 1.5 per cent. 
The above statistics do not include passengers carried on the Australia-Papua New Guinea services. 
The Minister for Transport has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
26.3 percent. 
23.3 percent. 
22.5 percent. 
The above statistics do not include passengers carried on the Australia-Papua New Guinea services. 
The Minister for Transport has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
1 ) and (2) The Government's policy relating to the price of aviation fuel supplied in Australia to international airlines was advised to Qantas Airways Ltd by written and oral advice following Cabinet's decisions on the matter in April 1975. 
The procedures necessary to give full effect to the Government 's policy, are in the course of being settled. 
-Whilst my colleague the Minister for Manufacturing Industry is primarily responsible for the project, including manufacture and sales of the aircraft, the Department of Defence has been and will continue to be the sponsor of the project because the aircraft meets a military need and, at the same time, keeps in being essential aircraft industry competence, skills and technology. The Nomad project includes the production of 11 aircraft for the Army. The first military version is scheduled for delivery later this month. Following trials and evaluation by the Royal Australian Air Force and the Army, a second aircraft will be delivered to the Services about July next year. The remainder of the Army aircraft are scheduled for delivery at the rate of two a month from August to December 1976. 
I can answer only in respect of those provisions of the Telecommunications Act and of the general by-laws which refer to approved connector recorders, and this answer relates also to questions which have been put by the honourable senator to my colleague,  Senator James  McClelland, who drew my attention to this matter yesterday. I have seen the Press comments about it. Included in the Acts and by-laws of the Commission are provisions in similar terms to those which existed in the previous legislation, including authorisation to lease approved connector recorders to any subscribers. By-law 19 and by-law 216 particularly refer to these devices. The policy that this Government is applying in respect of the matter originated as far back as 1964, when the legislation was introduced by the then Government. It provided that an approved recording device could be leased to any subscriber but that there had to be a distinctive recording tone or a beep. 
Honourable senators may have seen in their telephone directories instructions relating to the use of a telephone. Under the heading 'Learn to recognise these tones ' it is stated: 
Recording tone: a short 'beep' tone heard on your telephone line about every IS seconds means that the person with whom you are speaking is recording the conversation. If you do not want a record made of what you are saying, ask the person with whom you are talking to disconnect the recording machine. When he disconnects, the signal will no longer be heard. 
In respect of the latter part of the honourable senator's question, any department is dealt with on the same basis as an ordinary subscriber. 1 am informed that applications have been made by the Western Australian Police Force and approval has been given to install these devices. The only authority which can approve their installation is now the Australian Telecommunications Commission, which was formerly the Australian Post Office. At the present time the police department has a number of these devices installed and I understand that one of them is connected to the telephone of the inspector concerned. 
That question is one that I cannot answer. It may be one that should be directed to  Senator James  McClelland,  who  represents the Attorney-General. Under the Australian Telecommunications Commission Act and by-laws, which are the same as those which applied under the old Act and regulations relating to the Postal Department, there is power to grant approval for the use of various connector recorders. There are other powers which may be administered by the Attorney-General under another Act, and I think that the question the honourable senator asks me covers an area into which I cannot intrude. It might be better for him to discuss the matter with the appropriate Minister. 

 - Senator Durack 's question seems to me to be a proposal to encourage people to avoid the laws of the land which this Parliament has approved, but I will answer the question. 
-Yes, I know, but the honourable senator has raised a question which has been ventilated in the Press in recent days about groups of people who are out to subvert and to avoid the postal tariff proposals which have been put up by the Commission and authorised by the Government. Somebody said yesterday- I think it was  Senator Jessop-  that they are entitled to beat the system. If people try to beat the system obviously all that you do- 
-Ah! That is what  Senator Jessop  is saying. Yesterday almost every  speaker  from the Opposition side said that the Government ought to be cutting public expenditure. Yet, with very few exceptions, they also argue that we ought to be providing more subsidies. 
-Senator Wright interjects and says that it is clear. 
Of course it is clear. I think it was necessary to say those things first. It is quite improper for people to state publicly how to beat the system. We do not want that situation. I suggest that upon reflection nobody would want a situation where that position might obtain. Postal by-law 222 picks up article 14 of the final protocol of the Universal Postal Union Convention which deals with the arrangements between member countries. It applies this as part of the domestic law. There may be differences between the wording of by-law 222 to which  Senator Durack  referred and article 14 but the effects are the same. Over the years the Australian Post Office always has reserved the right to return mail to another country. The situation is not new under the Commission and is consistent, as far as we are concerned, with article 14. I know there may be some argument about what is a large or small lodgement. I will ask the Commission to take notice of  Senator Durack  's question. 

 -If Senator Wright would like to have a go it is OK. I think I am justified in answering the question this way. I certainly shall direct  Senator Durack  's question about a definition to the Commission to see to what extent this matter can be more tightly defined. I suggest that what is happening in the public arena is that in the face of the tariffs people are trying to find a system to avoid them. If they do that then obviously, in the long run, any government would be up for a greater subsidy to keep the system going. 
I hope that my comments this morning will get wide publicity. I will try to get the Commission to define it. Maybe wide publicity might be given to the Opposition's viewpoint about the extent to which it would subsidise the operations of the 2 commissions. I have probed this matter and I have run it in this place. Nobody has yet said: 'Yes, we will put in $100m'. All that  Senator Sir Magnus  Cormack said the other night was that he might consider re-imposing the television and broadcast listeners' licences to get some of the money to reduce the tariffs; $67m. We have not done it. 
-Only last week-it may have been the week before last- a deputation led by  Mr Ron  Davies and including representation from the management of Associated Pulp and Paper Mills Ltd met  Mr Lionel  Bowen, the Minister for Manufacturing Industry, and myself and we again discussed what orders might be placed with the paper mills for paper required for the production of telephone directories. The honourable senator probably knows the background of this matter. As far as I am aware, the Australian mills have not had the particular machinery capacity required to supply the orders which have been placed by the Australian Post Office in the past. Consequently, the Australian Post Office was required to depend on supplies from overseas to ensure publication of the directories. So, in the first place, negotiations took place for international supplies of paper which were necessary to back up the system in Australia. I think this is the third time that we have discussed this matter. I have recommended to the Telecommunications Commission that it should place another order with Associated Pulp and Paper Mills Ltd. 
I think that if honourable senators were to talk to the management of that company they would find that these people are quite happy with the arrangement and appreciate the general capacity issue that was behind our placing orders outside Australia. This was indicated at our discussions with them. I should be interested to know whether the enterprise is so equipped that in the future it will be able to handle the total requirements of the Telecommunications Commission. I am sure that  Mr Lionel  Bowen would be interested to know that also. According to the information I gained during our discussions, at this stage the company is not in a position, because of the reasons mentioned by  Senator Rae,  to meet these requirements. I suggest that, in the circumstances, the Telecommunications Commission has acted favourably towards the company. The order could well have been stood over for the time being for financial reasons. Associated Pulp and Paper Mills Ltd has been advised and I thought the honourable senator knew about this. 
-The MITERS scheme is, of course, the Minor Traffic Engineering and Road Safety Improvements scheme, funds for which have been provided to most of the States. In 1974-75 a total of $1.5m was allocated to South Australia out of a total of $8m which was distributed through the various States. This financial year another $ 1.5m has been allocated to South Australia. However, additional funds might be forthcoming as a result of the extra $64m provided for roads in this year's Budget. Discussions on the division of the amount as between categories are still proceeding. 
-On 3 September,  Senator 
Marriott asked me, in my capacity as Minister representing the Minister for Transport, 3 questions concerning the carriage by Trans-Australia Airlines of passengers free of charge. In respect to the first 2 questions I inform the honourable senator that this information is considered by TAA to be commercially confidential because of its possible value to competitors. However, I can advise him that most free of charge travel is on a space available' basis. Also, in the minority of cases, where firm bookings are required these are directed to those services which are not at peak times so that paying passengers will not be turned away. 
I might add that free of charge travel on TAA is strictly controlled and is authorised only by senior TAA executives after a careful evaluation of each particular case. Examples of the free of charge travel that may be authorised are: 
Staff of travel agents on familiarisation tours for promotional reasons involving TAA. 
Gift tickets to charities. 
Consultants and other persons travelling on matters which are directly associated with TAA activities. 
The third question asked on what basis is free travel available to TAA employees and their families. I am able to inform the Senate that after 10, 20 and 25 years of service TAA employees are entitled to 2 free travel tickets for return flights of 800 kilometres, or to the nearest capital city from which they are based, and there are also related family concessions. I am also advised that employees of Ansett Airlines of Australia are entitled to comparable free travel benefits. 
Yes, I certainly will. 
It is pleasing to report that for the first time in many years the rate of recruitment into the Army Reserve is at a higher level than the wastage. As honourable senators will know, in 1972 the Government found that the Citizen Military Forces were badly run down and a committee headed by  Dr Millar  was commissioned to investigate the situation. As a result of the recommendations of that committee, the name was changed to the Army Reserve, pay rates were increased, the tax free aspects were retained and a major initiative was commenced to improve the effective strength of that force. In a number of parts of Australia presently recruiting drives are planned. There is a general confidence that as a result of those drives there will be an increasing number of volunteers to join the Reserve. 
I have mentioned before in the Senate in reply to questions on air navigation charges that an examination of the question of the recovery of the costs of aviation services was commenced not by this Government but by previous governments. Our Government, as was indicated in the Budget Papers in 1973-74, proposed to increase the rate of recovery of the costs of providing and operating airport and airway facilities to 80 per cent over a period of 5 years. It was then estimated that a recovery rate of 70 per cent should be reached in 1975-76. Despite increases in the charges very little progress has been made towards this objective and currently about 55 per cent of costs is being recovered. I indicated recently to  Senator Sim  the gap between the recovery rate and the running costs at Essendon Airport. In reply to the particular point to which  Senator Laucke  has referred, all I can say is that I am aware that the report has been given to the Minister. I know that he is considering it. I am not in a position at this stage to indicate what consideration has been given to it or to reply to  Senator Laucke  's final question about the disbursement of costs. I will endeavour to obtain an answer for him from the Minister during the recess. 
-The Australian Postal Commission is to establish courier services in Sydney, Melbourne and Canberra. Recently I reported that the difficulties concerning the industrial arrangements in this connection have been settled. It is proposed at the same time to establish terminal services in each of the States. Presently the Postal Commission has a program for 3 courier vans to provide those terminal services in Adelaide. A full radio-controlled courier service is planned for all States in the future. 
-About 10 000 letters are sent to me each year and I certainly do not read every letter. 1 have not received the communication which has been referred to but I will look for it and will give an answer later. 

 -When Senator Devitt asked me a similar question previously I told him that the matter was under consideration. As a result of discussions between myself and the Australian Postal Commission I approved the reduction in postage rates to 15c for Christmas cards. The envelopes must be endorsed with the words 'card only'. The special rate will apply only to articles posted in November and December this year and will be limited to articles posted for delivery in Australia. In the circumstances there will be no obligation on the Australian Government to subsidise the new proposal; it is an attempt by the Commission to pick up business. At the same time some amendments were made to the by-laws concerning the postage rates for Australian newspapers. The amendments are designed to lessen the charges. I note that the  Chairman  of the Commission,  Mr Kennedy,  has under consideration some other matters. 
-I think I indicated at the time when the previous question was asked that such advice was being sought. It is not yet available. Both I and  Dr Cass,  the Minister for the Media, have studied  Senator Young's  contribution, and a request for an opinion has been made. When we have that opinion I shall give it to the honourable senator. 
Honourable senators may recall that, when  Mr Barnard  stated that he would consider to what extent such a servicemen's association might be formed, he made it clear that any request for the formation of such an association would have to come from the grass roots level and that it would have to be studied. He indicated that he had examined to what extent such organisations were in existence in other countries, including West Germany, and he made some observations about them. There has been no response in the way that I have mentioned and no widespread interest amongst servicemen in the formation of such an organisation. Because the matter has been floated and because some people have been indicating that they represent servicemen, it has been considered that a study of this matter should be made. Consequently,  Mr Morrison  has ordered that a survey be conducted in respect of this matter and also in respect of other Service personnel matters. It is anticipated that the survey will take three or four months to complete. 
-On 9 September 1975  Senator Laucke  asked whether the decision of the Government to disband the Army Cadet Corps would also apply to the Air Training Corps and the Naval Reserve Cadets. As the basic aims of the naval and air cadets are similar to those of the Army Cadet Corps,  Mr Morrison  asked the Defence Force Development Committeethe most authoritative source of advice available to the Minister on defence capability matters- to review the value to the defence of Australia of retaining the Naval Reserve Cadets and the Air Training Corps. Honourable senators will recall that the Government's decision to disband the Army Cadet Corps resulted from a recommendation from the Army. 
Like Army cadets, Navy and Air cadet organisations were established as military activities and their only justification for continued funding by the Department of Defence would be their military value. The Committee advised  Mr Morrison  that 'abolition of the Naval Reserve Cadets and the Air Training Corps would similarly'- that is, to the Army Cadet Corpshave no adverse effect on defence capability'. The Committee also advised that the cadet organisations are not essential to enable the Services' present and foreseeable recruiting levels to be achieved. The Navy and Air Force cadets are therefore little different from the Army Cadet Corps. The Government has decided that defence support of the Naval Reserve Cadets and the Air Training Corps will also be withdrawn as they do not contribute to Australia 's defence preparedness and indeed are diverting resources from higher priority activities. 
In the case of the Air Training Corps these steps would save $1.3m per annum and release 1 1  1  Air Force personnel for other higher priority duties. Similarly, in the case of the Naval Reserve Cadets there would be savings of $0.23m per annum plus about $0.23m for capital equipment expenditure over the next 3 years and 4 naval personnel would be released for other duties. The decision will affect some 5800 Air Force cadets and about 2100 Navy cadets. Following a decision by the previous LiberalCountry Party Government, the responsibility for some of the Naval Reserve Cadet units was transferred from the Navy League to the Navy in January 1973. Accordingly,  Mr Morrison  proposes to discuss with the Navy League whether it wishes once again to assume responsibility for the management of Naval Cadets. 
The Minister for Transport has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
1 ) The Board of Qantas Airways Ltd has considered from dme to time in the normal conduct of its business the financial implications of an increased price for aviation fuel supplied to the company in Australia: This matter has been discussed with the Minister for Transport as part of the normal and regular exchange between him and the company on matters that are relevant to his decisions on fare levels and related problems. 
No. 
The Minister for Transport has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
the names of the current shop and restaurant concessionaires are- 
Olims Travellers Services Ltd- Restaurant, bars and three shops selling travellers goods, jewellery and books; 
James Richardson Pty Ltd- Duty Free; (iti) R. Murray- Chemist; 
Alaok Pty Ltd- Australiana Gifts. 
the terms of the concessions are considerably detailed and vary according to the type of concession and were set out in the relevant public tender schedules. Copies of these schedules can be made available to the honourable senator if required; 
the fees paid by each for 1974-75 were: 
Olims Travellers Services Ltd-$77,000; 
J. R. Richardson Pty Ltd-$807,600; 
R. Murray- $5,500; 
Alaok Pty Ltd-$ 139,700. 
The Minister for Transport has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
1 ) Qantas services to Canada and the United States of America provide 1 7 per cent of its total operating revenue. 
It is understood that Pan American World Airways Inc. derives about 6 per cent of its total revenue from services terminating in Australia, New Zealand and Tahiti. 
The answer to the honourable senator's question is as follows: 
1 ) Qantas, Pan American, CP Air and UTA currently operate direct services between Australia and North America. 
Qantas and CP Air each operate two flights per week between Sydney and Vancouver. Qantas operates seven flights, per week to San Francisco, Pan American nine per week to Los Angeles and UTA operates two flights per week to Los Angeles. Air New Zealand operates services between Australia and Auckland which connect directly with its Auckland/Los Angeles services. No airline currently operates direct services between Australia and Mexico. . 
Monthly revenue passenger load factors since July 1 974 for each airline operating direct services are as follows: 
The answer to the honourable senator's question is as follows: 
1 ) The enabling Act, the Australian Coastal Shipping Commission Act, came into operation on 1 October 1956. 
At the time of the inception of the Line a number of existing ships were transferred to the Commission and a number of ships under construction were purchased by the Commission. 
However the first ship ordered by the Australian National Line was the 'Princess of Tasmania' and it was launched on 13.12.1958. 
The names of subsequent Australian National Line ships and the dates of their respective launchings are as follows: 
The Minister for Environment has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
1 ) One journalist who is an officer of the Department of Media is on loan to the Department. 
The position he fills is a Grade A3 level. His salary is $17,676 p.a. 
The answer to the honourable senator's question is as follows: 
The responsibility for dealing with subscribers' complaints about alleged overcharging for telephone services now rests with the Australian Telecommunications Commission. No guidelines, as such, in relation to the treatment of overcharge complaints by telephone subscribers have been issued by the present Government or, so far as I have been able to ascertain, by any previous Government. 
The Commission is continuing to apply the investigatory practices and policies which were developed and applied by the former Postmaster-General's Department. Departmental instructions relating to these practices and policies were last issued in July 1973 and their application is governed by the particular circumstances and findings of the investigations carried out in each case. 
Where, after a check of all computations of charges included in the disputed account and discussions with the subscriber, higher than normal metered call charges cannot be accounted for and the subscriber maintains that an overcharge has occurred, a special investigation is carried out. Normally, the investigation covers the following: 
Testing of the meter itself and other equipment associated with the particular subscriber's service. 
Examination of the fault history of the service and exchange fault records for any possible cause of irregular metering. 
A check of the recorded meter readings and comparison with previous calling rates. 
Interviewing of the subscriber to seek additional information which might support alleged overcharging or provide possible explanations for higher usage. 
In addition, when deemed necessary, special equipment which prints on paper tape details of calls made is associated with the service- usually for at least 2 weeks- to further check the accuracy of call registration. 
The instructions to the Commission's staff authorised to finalise overcharge complaints with subscribers are designed to protect subscribers' interests and at the same time ensure that the Commission receives payment for services provided. They cover the following points: 
An adjustment of charges to be made where there has been some failure on the part of the Commission to provide approved facilities or arrangements required by a subscriber to safeguard the use of his service, or where the facilities fail to operate correctly or are interfered with without the knowledge ofthe subscriber. 
Adjustments in respect of rental overcharges to be fully retrospective. 
Allowance of a credit or refund where expense has been incurred because of inadequate or incorrect information supplied by the Commission's officers about facilities. 
The delay in finalising complaints should be kept to an absolute minimum and the administrative and technical components of the investigations should be carried out with all possible speed. 
The need for careful analysis of periodical meter readings within the accounting period and discussion with the subscriber where any unusual variations are detected. Where there has been a sudden increase in call registrations during the period in question the reason for which cannot be determined beyond reasonable doubt a mutually satisfactory adjustment is to be negotiated with the subscriber. 
The need for investigating officers to avoid the adoption of an inflexible attitude in their treatment of cases. 
The referral to Commission Headquarters for decision of any cases not clearly covered by the foregoing. (2), (3) and (4) See answer to ( I ). 
The Minister for Transport has provided the following answers to the honourable senator's questions: 
Advice to my Department on the negative aspects of dispersants and oil on the marine environment is provided by a Committee of Advice. This committee consists, of among others, representatives of the Australian Government Departments of Environment, Agriculture (Fisheries), Science, Minerals and Energy, Transport, and CSIRO, and also of the oil industry. 
My Department agrees with  Dr A.  W. Larkum on the effects of the indiscriminate and wanton use of dispersants in dealing with oil spills. 
Under the National Plan dispersants will only be used when their effect on the marine environment will be less than that of the oil if it were allowed to come ashore. 
The answer to the honourable senator's question is as follows: 
1 ) The following shipyards are capable of building vessels in excess of 10 000 deadweight tons (dwt): 
Whyalla Shipbuilding and Engineering Works, Whyalla, S.A. 
State Dockyard, Newcastle, N.S.W. 
Evans Deakin Industries Ltd, Brisbane, Qld. 
Vickers Cockatoo Dockyard Pty Ltd, Sydney, N.S.W. 
The capacity of the major Australian shipyards at any particular time is dependent upon the type and size of ships under construction. The following table gives an indication of each yard 's current overall capacity: 
The Minister for Transport has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
The Minister for Transport has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
7 percent 
7 percent 
6 percent. 
The Minister for Transport has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
Approximately 45 per cent in the financial year 1974-75. 
Approximately 37 per cent in the financial year 1974-75. 
The Minister for Transport has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
Guests invited by Qantas to travel on its inaugural flights to Belgrade on 28 May and 11 June 1975 comprised representatives from the travel industry, news media and other community and commercial organizations. 
International Airlines: IATA Membership (Question No. 716) 
I think I referred to the debate in the South Australian Parliament where the same sort of question was raised and in relation to which the premier referred to a legal opinion from the Crown-Solicitor and said that the wharves that had been referred to were in fact the property of the Marine and Harbors Department in South Australia and it accepted liability for the maintenance of those wharves. 
Bill agreed to. 
Bill reported without amendment; report adopted. 
The answers to the honourable senator's questions are as follows: 
to (5), (8) and (9) The international airlines have been made aware that the Government's policy is to secure world prices for mineral exports including petroleum products: following Cabinet's decision on the subject in April 1975, matters concerned with the implementation of this policy in relation to the supply of aviation fuel in Australia to international airlines are being settled. 
and (7) It can be expected that Qantas and other international airlines concerned will seek to increase air fares for international air services between Australia and overseas countries as a means of meeting the increased costs of aviation fuel supplied in Australia. This procedure was followed by all international airlines following rises in the price of aviation fuel in other countries. 
The answer to the honourable senator's question is as follows: 
Subscriber trunk dialling (STD) was first introduced in March 1959. Extension of the facility in the early years was slow and it was not until the late 1960's that STD was made available to a significant proportion of subscribers. Today, over 90 per cent of subscribers have access to the facility and during the year to 30 June 1975, 75 per cent of all trunk calls (over 250 million) were dialled direct by subscribers. 
and (3) The only available statistics are those given below in respect of metered call charge complaints for each State capital city for each financial year since 1969-70. In about 80 per cent of cases the adjustments were made to correct a human error, either in reading the meter or in the computation and billing processes. The remainder were adjusted because of proven or possible technical faults. 
The Minister for the Capital Territory has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
Since 1 July 1973, the Department of the Capital Territory has engaged the following consultants. 
The answer to the honourable senator's question is as follows: 
I have no information in respect of the question asked by  Senator Withers.  If I had been given notice prior to question time I would have been able to give some details to the honourable senator. I will get the information as soon as possible and let the honourable senator know. 
I think I can say that when this concession was approved by me it was never intended that any arbitrary action inconsistent with the regulations of the Postal Commission would be taken to open mail. The regulations are there not only to protect the tariffs but also to prevent the passage of prohibited articles, goods, powders and drugs, etc. I think that when  Mr Kennedy  made the announcement he pointed rather to the need for people to observe the conditions because it is an important concession, as I think everybody now agrees, and the people associated with the Christmas card industry and other agencies have welcomed it. I think the statement was a warning. There cannot be any method adopted other than that provided in the by-laws. I am told that the Commission may- it has not yet decided- make a random survey of such mail coming in to make sure, for example, that it does not contravene the provisions under which the concession was made. In addition, of course, under the provisions of the by-laws it is necessary always for the postal authorities to make sure that any mail, including Christmas mail, does not contravene the by-laws. I think that it might be necessary, in case there is any confusion about the matter, for me to suggest to  Mr Kennedy  that he should issue a statement, or for me to issue a statement, at a suitable time before the Christmas festivity period to indicate the need to observe the concession and also to what extent the by-laws may be used to avoid the suggestion that I think is inherent in  Senator Durack  's question. I will discuss the matter with the  Chairman  of the Commission in order to clear up the position. 
-The Department of Defence proposes to acquire an additional 2400 hectares of land at Bindoon in Western Australia adjacent to the existent Bindoon training area, lt will enable the site to be established as a permanent training area reasonably accessible from Perth for the present and foreseeable infantry weapons and tank manoeuvre training of Army units in the Perth area. Acquisition is necessary because the existing area is too small for company group training and also too small to allow an effective land management plan to be implemented to ensure our long term environmental protection. I understand that an environmental impact statement is being released and the Department will certainly consider any public comments on the matter. 
The unfortunate delay has been due to 2 things. One was the very heavy volume of last minute requests from customers for new and amended information in their directory listings, and the other was the production problems which have been encountered by the printers. It is expected that the directories will bc available from the printers on 14 October and that distribution will commence on 1 5 October. 
-In the first 2 years of the program the Australian Government provided grants totalling $138m to the States under the urban public transport improvement scheme. This commitment was to enable the States to carry out improvements estimated to cost about $207m. The South Australian program for 2 years amounted to $23m, of which our commitment was $ 1 5m. These grants were provided for projects including the extension of an existing railway line to Christie Downs, the purchase of some 70 new buses, the acquisition of ailing private bus companies and an extension of the services. It also enabled a number of minor improvements to be carried out, including the erection of bus shelters. For the whole of Australia $98m was allocated for works to be undertaken in 1973-74 and 1974-75. Recently, since the Budget, the Minister has met all the State Ministers because they have had problems in allocating works based on the program. He has agreed that if the States have particular problems in regard to the use of the funds the Government would be prepared to consider changes to the approved projects. 
in reply- I think it is fair for me to say now that what irks the Opposition speakers is that the Agreement is between 2 Australian Labor Party governments. That is what they are growling about. This is the second time that the Senate and the other place have debated the Bill. Honourable senators opposite are not opposed to the Agreement. They say that they will support it. 

 - Senator Jessop spent half an hour nitpicking an agreement which he will support. I put it to him that if this country ever needed a new agreement on railways it is now. He ought to know that even during the time of his Government certain attempts were made to implement railways standardisation and coordination policies. Committees of the Liberal Party and committees of the Labor Party 20 years ago tried to bring about a national railway system, lt is only now that efforts are being brought to fruition to bring about such a system. Three Labor governments- the State governments in Tasmania and in South Australia and the Australian Government- have decided to enter into an agreement which brings into fruition at last the start of a national railway system. In those circumstances I would have expected support from people on the other side who took part in debate when legislation came before the Senate dealing . for example, with railway standardisation agreements. I took part in those debates and shared the satisfaction of the day when the States agreed with the Federal Government about procedures which brought about a co-ordination or standardisation which was long overdue. Who can forget the contributions made not only by Labor speakers in the Senate and in the other place but also contributions by Liberal members such as  Mr Wentworth?  So we have moved towards that sort of achievement. Let us applaud what has been done. 
I remind the Senate that as far back as 1 968, as  Senator McLaren  pointed out,  Mr Bolte,  the Premier of Victoria, and the Premier of New South Wales proposed to the then Federal Liberal Government the handing over to the Federal Government of their State railways.  Mr Whitlam,  in his pre-election speech, said: 
We will accept the offers of the New South Wales and Victorian Premiers for a transfer of their State railway systems and accept such an offer from any other State. In no other federal system in the world are railways conducted by State governments or within State compartments. 
I think anybody with any sort of national pride would say that the move towards the objective to which we are now moving- a national railway system- is long overdue. I am pleased to say that it has been achieved despite great difficulty. I suppose some argument was to be expected about what happened in South Australia. Whatever honourable senators opposite say, nobody can refute the proposition that in this Parliament all the parties were in favour of the Agreement between the South Australian Labor Government and the Federal Labor Government to bring about a new arrangement in respect of railways in South Australia. What happened in that State was the the Legislative Council frustrated the Government. The net result, whether  Senator Jessop  agrees or not, was that the majority of 
South Australians returned the Labor Government and supported what the Premier,  Mr Dunstan,  wanted. There can be no question about it. These little side issues about which he talked are, as I said to him previously, nitpicking. That is all they are. 

 Senator Jessop raised some questions which ought to be answered, but before I answer them let me refer to that stirring speech by  Senator Davidson  about railways deficits. Let me remind him of the position in the Liberal-governed States. I start with the year he nominated. 
-That is right. He said that the deficit in South Australia in 1970 was $ 1 6. 1 m. He said that the deficit now is estimated to be $32m. In 1970 in New South Wales the deficit was $26.5m. As he knows, the deficit is now estimated at nearly $200m. Yet the Premier of that State does not want to hand over the railways to the Australian Government. In Victoria in 1970 the deficit was $29.8m. The estimated deficit for 1975-76 is $134m. In Queensland the deficit in 1970 was $2 1.5 m. It is now estimated to be $74m. In Western Australia in 1 970 the deficit was $ 10.7m. The estimate now is $20m. Those who have watched railways develop and who look properly and accurately at railway finances know of the great need for a national railway system. I put to the Senate that the support for the Agreement tonight indicates that the proposal is a very sensible Agreement which the Opposition will support. 
Perhaps I should reply to the queries about the incidental services. Honourable senators will remember that in the last debate Opposition senators, including  Senator Jessop  and others, and members in the other place were worried about the associated road services. I drew to the attention of honourable senators the fact that when the reservation was raised in the other place by  Mr Nixon. Mr Jones  said that he was quite prepared to settle for a prescription. Such a prescription was put in the Australian National Railways Act. Clause 15 of the Bill, which was passed in this place, proposed a new section 3 1 A. It read: 
The Commission may provide to Australia and authorities of Australia, for reward, land transport and engineering services and such other services as can conveniently be provided by the use of the resources of the Commission. 
Section 3 IB ( 1 ) states 
Without limiting the powers of the Commission to transport passengers and goods on the railways, the Commission may (as incidental or supplementary to, or in association with, the transport of passengers or goods on the railways) transport passengers and goods for reward by land, otherwise than on the railways, between . . . 
The places are nominated. That was the agreed upon prescription. It was inserted. It was thought to be satisfactory. We put it in the Act. In the present circumstances there is no departure from any operation which was proposed or which is proposed under the new Agreement. So I am saying that under the provisions of the Agreement the Australian National Railways is given power to operate services that are incidental or supplementary to or are operated in association with the railways. That enables the National Railways to continue to run those road services and passenger services which are already operated by the State Railways and, if necessary, to expand those services where necessary to improve the overall rail services. It does not give the Australian Government power to regulate road haulage in the States. That will remain the province of the relevant State authority. 

 Senator Jessop raised 2 related issues. He referred to the question of liability for fires caused by rail services. They are not as frequent now, with a minimum use of steam trains or with none. We will take over all liability in respect of any State law. So the position currently is that any obligation under State law will be continued by the Australian National Railways. Another matter about which the honourable senator talked was an obligation in relation to the silo people. Any obligations which they presently have in respect of local corporations or councils will similarly be accepted. So there will be no change in operations. We all agree that in setting up a new national railway system we need great back-up services such as the Islington works, about which  Senator Laucke  asked me. Those works will be merged into the new national complex and there will be no redundancy. As I said to  Senator Laucke  some weeks ago, there will be more activity at Islington. That is accepted. I am reinforced in my opinion because  Mr Charles  Jones supports what I have put forward which is that there ought to be growth within the Islington works, without any diminution in respect of Port Pirie or Port Augusta, about which  Senator Laucke  is concerned, so that we can see what is essential. 
Somebody may say: 'If you did that, why does the State Government want to maintain its own metropolitan services?' It wishes to do so for its own reasons. In discussions with the Federal Government, the State Government decided that in keeping with the concept which it has it wants to keep the railways, the roads and related services within its control in the metropolitan area. For those reasons it has handed over to the Australian National Railways and to the Australian Government control of all the other services. It may be that in future years governments will decide that the Australian National Railways ought to control the lot. Whenever anybody talks about State governments or the Federal Government being obliged to set up new and improved commitments to transportation I am always reminded, as everybody knows, of what great burdens they are on State government and Federal government finances. Yet the State governments today attempt to undertake those new obligations. I know that in my State the State government is attempting to provide new services. It has accepted the great obligation and the challenge to set up new and modern services within the city. So the justification for the takeover is, after all, a concept which has been agreed by the State Government. 
Of course there will be some administrative difficulties, as there are in any other operation. There were difficulties when standardisation became more effective throughout Australia. The administration must take over control of staff, safe working arrangements, train operation arrangements, new trade and proficiency standards. But the administration is presently matching that and the 2 authorities presume that within 12 months they will be able to solve the problems. There are currently no reservations about the future on the part of staff organisations or unions. So we are confident about the future. 
When I gave an answer about an undertaking by the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  that consideration will be given to transferring the headquarters of the Australian National Railways to Adelaide, -I was referring to the commercial headquarters of the Australian National Railways in Melbourne. That matter will be properly considered. I have referred to the general question of liability which the Government has accepted. I suppose that honourable senators could ask: 'Is any agreement sacrosanct?' All I can say is that I take the same view about this agreement with a Labor State as I took with regard to railway standardisation agreements. Honourable senators will remember that agreements about new lines in the past were made between governments and we expected that they would be honoured. I expect this agreement to be honoured. The reference to the Northern Territory Acceptance Act does not have relevance because in that case no date of operation was nominated and it caused some legal arguments. 

 Senator Jessop raised the question of debt, which is one of the things about which he is worried, and he referred to the Schedule which nominates a series of loans which the Australian Government will now take over. They are in the schedule to indicate the number of different loans which were raised at the time, the date of maturity and the sort of obligations which we have. Given the normal fluctuations of the money market, interest rates tend to vary from year to year. This is why the debt shown in the sixth Schedule is to be taken over by the Australian Government to equate those debts which are attributable to the non-metropolitan railways. At the same time there is a package of debts which do not mature together. So it is clear that they have been identified as debts which relate only to non-metropolitan services, and in any agreement such debts ought to be identified. 
I have mentioned the sort of problems which will come up in respect of administration. People can argue that the administrative difficulties would be great. In all such changes that are made there may be an unnecessary waste sometimes in administration because one has to duplicate services. But here we hope that we are setting up, as in other amalgamations or consolidations, a more efficient organisation. I say in answer to  Senator Davidson  that I have never said that any South Australian government had been in any way inefficient in respect of railway matters, because I know from personal experienceas honourable senators know, I worked on the railways as a young bloke- that the South Australian railways were fortunate in having a reorganisation occasioned by the American Webb. We were fortunate to be able to set up a very efficient, stable and firm railway system which other States did not have. There is no question of criticism in respect of any South Australian Administration that it failed to discharge its duties. The South Australian Government is facing up to new obligations and financial strictures with which it cannot cope. After all, it should pass those services to the Federal Government. I think I have mentioned already the situation concerning South Australian Cooperative Bulk Handling Ltd. 
I think  Senator Jessop  mentioned in one of his references to debates in the State Parliament that there was a question of legal opinion in respect of whether a wharf at Wallaroo belongs to the Australian National Railways. It does not. It is clear that if any building, such as a silo, is built on railway property and there is a contract between the railway administration and the Co-operative Bulk Handling organisation the matter will simply involve a change of landlord. 
-They will be accepted. It is clear that the liability in respect of that and also in respect of the issue raised by  Senator Jessopany  contractual arrangements- will be honoured. There is no question of that. I think  Senator Jessop  raised the question of the meaning of clause 9 of the Bill. That was included because during the interim period railways will still continue to operate on behalf of the Australian Government. As land and equipment during this time will be owned by the Australian Government, the clause is necessary to ensure that the State laws can be applied during the period. The clause is simply to ensure that in the event of any contest or any challenge of invalidity State laws can be made to apply. 
-They will be applied until there is a reconciliation. If a challenge is made it becomes proper and pertinent for the State Government to take over the obligation by State law. The need to write into a Commonwealth Act some new prescription will be considered as required. 
I think it was  Senator Jessop  who raised a question in relation to paragraph 9 of the Agreement, which refers to the closure of lines. We have talked about this matter before. I do not think anybody considers that the arrangement in this case is not a satisfactory arrangement. Before I explain the position regarding the possible closure of lines perhaps I should point out to honourable senators that, as they would well know, most of the State governments have already taken action to close lines in their own States. In this respect I am referring not only to the position in my own State in relation to which some line closures have been proposed and there has been disagreement and negotiation, but also to the position in every other State where such proposals are put forward. It will be recalled that the report of  Sir Henry  Bland proposed the closing down of a massive number of lines in Victoria and there was negotiation on that proposal and a settlement reached. Everybody knows what is the position in New South Wales today. For example, a controversy has been raging between the Australian Postal Commission, the unions and the New South Wales Government about the closing down of travelling post office services in relation to some lines. Those are actions that the State governments have to take because of the huge expenditure involved and the lack of compensating revenue for the operation of such lines. Paragraph 9 ( 1 ) of the Agreement states: 
The Australian Minister will obtain the prior agreement of the State Minister to- 
any proposal for the closure of a railway line ofthe non-metropolitan railways; or 
the reduction in the level of effectively demanded services on the non-metropolitan railways, and failing agreement on any of these matters the dispute shall be determined by arbitration. 
That is the only clear way in which to do it. I have mentioned cases where lines have been closed within the States and there have been negotiations between mutual parties. I can remember taking part many years ago with  Senator Lillico,  who was a member of this chamber at the time, in negotiations with railway unions in Tasmania in an attempt to prevent the closing down of some lines. The matter was settled by way of an agreement. The cases mentioned in this respect will go to arbitration. I think it was  Senator Davidson  who raised the question of what happens when a case goes to arbitration and the arbitration goes against the State's demand. It is obvious that it would be a just arbitration and the State would then have to decide what it should do. I think it has been suggested that the only way in which to get away from that situation would be for the State Government to provide funds to maintain the line that it thinks is economically, socially or regionally necessary. I think that is one of the only ways of being able to achieve any sort of agreement. 
Despite some of the criticisms that have been made and that rest simply upon political differences because it so happens that there have been State Labor governments and a Federal Labor Government making the agreements, I think it is clear that the Opposition supports the proposal. I hope that we will now be able to talk about something that I have had in mind and that many of us have had in mind for many years, that is, the need for the Australian Government and the State governments to move towards a really national and standardised railway system. That is where the efficiencies will be obtained in the future. I have already referred to the deficits being incurred in this field. Even with perfect administration- even with energetic gentlemen like, for example, Bill Gibbs of South 
Australia, who is now the  Chairman  of Commissioners in Victoria and who is innovating many new services- there is a great and heavy responsibility upon finances, which means that the provision of any improved services for the community is very hard to do because of the great expenditures involved. I want to wind up simply by thanking those who have contributed to the debate and by thanking the Senate for supporting the proposals. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. 
In Committee 
The Bill. 
The Minister for Transport has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
1 ) Sixteen of the twenty-four airlines conducting scheduled air services to and from Australia are members of IATA. These airlines are as follows: 
Air India 
Air New Zealand 
Alitalia 
British Airways (Overseas Division) 
Canadian Pacific Air Lines (CP Air) 
Garuda Indonesian Airways 
Japan Air Lines 
Jugoslovenski Aerotransport (JAT) 
KLM Royal Dutch Airlines 
Lufthansa German Airlines 
Olympic Airways SA 
Pan American World Airways Inc. 
Philippine Airlines 
Qantas Airways Limited 
South African Airways 
x vi ) Union De Transportes Aeriens ( UTA ) 
The remaining eight international operators are not members of IATA. These are: 
Air Nauru 
Air Pacific Ltd 
iii) Cathay Pacific Airways Ltd 
iv) Malaysian Airline System 
MerpatiNusantara 
Singapore Airlines 
vii ) Transportes Aereos De Timor ( TAT) 
Thai Airways Interenational Ltd 
The foregoing represents the position as at 12 September 1975. 
The Minister for Transport has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
) and (2) The information sought in the question would only be available to the Government in contracts that have been submitted pursuant to the export control on aviation fuel. The Minister for Minerals and Energy, in his statement of 23 February 1973 announcing that the Australian Government had imposed export control on all minerals, emphasised that the contracts and related information provided to the Government by exporters would be treated in the strictest confidence. 
I am therefore unable to provide the honourable senator with the information. 
Former Parliamentary Office-holders: Facilities (Question No. 727) 
The Minister for Defence has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
1 ) There are seventeen journalists employed in my Department. There are no journalists employed in commissions and statutory authorities under my control. 
The seventeen journalists in the Department are designated and classified as follows: 1 Journalist, Grade B-$ 10,647- 1 1 ,  169 6 Journalists, Grade A-$ 1 2,565- 1 3, 1 59 5 Journalists, Grade Al- $14,815-1 5,397 3 Assistant Directors Public Relations- $ 1 6,537 1 Director Public Relations-$ 18,8 16 
In addition fourteen Service personnel are engaged on journalist-type duties. 
The Minister for Defence has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
1 ) The Jindalee project is progressing as planned. Construction work is going ahead at the transmitter and receiver sites north of Alice Springs. Equipment for use at the sites is being gathered together and checked out at Weapons Research Establishment, Salisbury, South Australia. Theoretical analysis and planning of experiments is proceeding in consultation with the United States Department of Defense. (2 and 3) The costs attributed to the project were $28,000 in 1973-74 and $1,161,000 in 1974-75. These costs include the project's share of the staff and overheads of the Weapons Research Establishment. To achieve the progress planned for 1975-76, the cost- on the same basis- is expected to be 2¼ million dollars. 
An OTH-radar system for Australian defence would be a very costly item, needing to be carefully phased into the equipment acquisition program. Such a system would be specially developed for our needs; it could not be purchased off the shelf. There is no plan yet for that development, because we need the results of the research being conducted in Jindalee project to help determine whether to undertake the development. It is estimated that the research now planned will be completed about the end of 1977, and a further stage of research is likely to be necessary. Clearly we would not expect to have a developed radar enter service for many years. 
Two press releases have been made concerning Jindalee.  Mr Barnard  announced his approval of the program on 1 1 April 1 974. My colleague the Minister for Housing and Construction announced on 15 May 1975 that contracts for site construction and civil works had been awarded. 
The Minister for Defence has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
1 ) Improved Tartar Retrofit (Tartar ITR), Standard 1 , Seacat, Redeye. 
Tartar ITR: Semi-active homing; Standard 1- Semiactive homing; Seacat- Command Line-of-sight; RedeyeHeat seeking (Infra-red). 
Tartar ITR-1965; Standard 1-1975; Seacat-1964; Redeye- 1 972. 
It is not planned to acquire: 
new types ofmanportable surface-to-air guided weapons before 31 December 1980. The question of the replacement for the Redeye missile in Army's inventory is under consideration in my department. 
On 28 August 1975, I announced a decision to acquire a battery of Rapier surface-to-air weapons with ancillary training and support equipment. Rapier is planned to enter service in mid- 1978. 
It is not planned to acquire new types of surface-to-air missiles for the RAN and RAAF before 3 1 December 1980. 
The Standard missile, now entering service, will replace Tartar ( ITR) in the three RAN DDGs (HMA Ships PERTH, HOBART and BRISBANE) after a period of parallel service, and the Seacat missile will remain in service in RAN Destroyer Escorts during the 1980s. 
The need to acquire equipment in this field of technology for the RAAF is currently under review within my department. 
The Minister for Defence has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
I ) and (2 ) The Australian Army has ordered for delivery commencing late 1976, 42 Leopard A3 gun tanks to be fitted with an advanced fire control system in lieu of that presently fitted to German Army tanks. The fire control system which is manufactured in Belgium, is also being fitted to Leopard tanks in service with the Belgian Army. In addition to the 42 gun tanks on order, the Australian Army has ordered 11 tanks specially fitted for recovery and bridge-laying operations. The Leopard tank is not air portable in current RAAF aircraft but is more readily transported by road and rail than existing Centurions. 
The Leopard tank was chosen for the Australian Army following evaluation of it and the United States M60. These two tanks are likely to remain as competitors for sales to other countries and it would not be appropriate for detailed cost information to be given by the Australian Government on either vehicle. On the question of Australian industry participation, under contractual arrangements agreed with the German suppliers, they will continue to offer work for Australian industry for a period of seven years until a target figure of 30 per cent of the value of orders placed with them is reached. 
Anti-tank Guided Weapons (Question No. 765) 
The Minister for Defence has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
ENTAC; 
Wire Guided; 
1964; 
Acquisition of further anti-tank guided weapons is not planned before 31 December 1980. However, this field of military technology is currently under review within my Department. 
The Minister for Transport has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
This vessel was not in breach of any Australian law. It did, for example, obtain customs clearance, and was in compliance with all relevant provisions of the Navigation Act. 
It appears, however, to have breached several regulations of the New South Wales Maritime Services Board, and I understand that the Board is taking action. 
Former Parliamentary Office-holders: Benefits and Payments (Question No. 775) 
The Minister for Defence has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
See the Minister for Defence's announcement in the Hansard p. 483-4, House of Representatives of 26 August 1975. 
The Report on the Army Cadet Corps, June 1974 pointed out that 'The cadets' military activities cease on discharge, and only a small proportion of them ever go into the full time or reserve armed forces.' 
3 ) There will be no savings. 
The decision to disband the Army Cadet Corps will have no adverse effect on Defence capabilities but will free some 330 Regular Army personnel- for higher priority activities. 
5 ) There will be no additional cost. 
It is the Government's objective that every dollar which is spent in the Defence vote is used to the utmost benefit of Australia's defence preparedness and it was on this basis the Government's decision was made. The release of highly proficient Regular Army personnel for more important activities will increase defence capability. 
The Minister for Transport has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
22. 
) Department of Transport 1 x Director Public Relations $1 7,676 2 x Assistant Director of Public Relations $ 16.537 1 x Journalist, Grade A 1 $ 1 4.8 1 5- 1 5,397 1 x Journalist, Grade A $ 1 2,565- 1 3.1 59 1 x Journalist, Grade B $ 10,647- 1 1, 169 
Australian National Line 1 x Public Relations Officer $13,505 
Qantas 1 x Director ofPublic Affairs $20,5 10 1 x Press Relations Manager $ 1 6,97 1 1 x Qantas News Editor $ 1 2, 1 34 4 x Press Officers $ 1 2,65 1 , $ 1 2, 1 34, $ 1 1 , 665. $ 1 1 , 43 1 1 x Magazine Editor $ 1 4,379 3 x Journalist (Overseas)- London $A 16.971: San Francisco $A 1 1,900: New Zealand $A1 1.471 1 x Chief Press Officer $ 1 1 , 47 1 
TransAustraliaAirlines  1 x Public Relations Manager $ 1 5,633 2 x Public Relations Officer $ 10,40 1 , $ 10, 1 32 
The Minister for Defence has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
1 ) The unserviceability rates for Centurion tanks on issue for each month from September 1973 to the latest complete month were: 
The answer to the honourable senator's question is as follows: 
1 ) and (2) There are no journalists employed in the PostmasterGeneral's Department. 
<para pgwide="yes">The following information is submitted in respect of the Australian Telecommunications Commission, the Australian Postal Commission and the Overseas Telecommunications Commission (Australia): 
AUSTRALIAN TELECOMMUNICATIONS COMMISSION 
Number of journalists employed is fifteen. 
For the information of honourable senators I present a report prepared by the Australian Advisory Committee on the Environment entitled  Postal Land.  The report is dated July 1975. 
-A11 I can tell the honourable senator at this stage is that I understand that the Australian Transport Advisory Committee has considered in particular the question of accidents involving buses which are occurring too frequently. Over the last 18 months, the Committee has made a number of regulations. More recently, in August, it adopted by consent a regulation that buses should have brake inspections. This has been enforced. Before that, the Committee also formulated and agreed upon what was to be a uniform inspection code. The problem of course is that most of these things have to be agreed to within the States. The uniform code was determined by concensus. In addition, I understand that the Minister has been promoting the idea that the provision and wearing of seatbelts not only by drivers but also by passengers ought to be enforced. Structurally, the vehicle ought to be inspected and supervised for safety standards generally speaking. Proposals also are being considered in respect of the style and strength of seating. The Advisory Committee has had these things in mind. As to whether the Minister himself or the Advisory Committee has recommended the enforcement of the use of tachographs on each vehicle, I am not sure. All I can do is ask the Minister to advise me in connection with that part of the question. 
Having been involved in the early stages with  Mr Hancock  of my staff in the settling of industrial matters relating to the new services, I am anxious to see that they start as early as possible. I am assured by the Commission that that cannot be done for technical reasons before early February, when those 3 capitals will be serviced completely by a courier service. At the same time there will be terminal facilities, and in Adelaide there will also be sufficient vehicles available to supply a complete courier service for that ciy. It is hoped that as soon as possible after that service starts it will be extended to all capital cities. It is not anticipated that there will be any problems in relation to the private courier services operated because the market indications are that the Post Office courier services have plenty of room for expansion. I am anxious to see the service operate as quickly as possible and I will talk again to the Commission to see whether it is possible to expedite the service. 
-A11 1 can do is to refer the honourable senator's question to the Minister for Environment. Obviously the question relates to a matter which would not fall within the responsibility of only one Minister but I am glad that the honourable senator has drawn my attention to the report. To be frank with the honourable senator, I have not studied the report yet. But I shall ask  Mr Berinson  to examine it straight away in order to see to what extent I can advise the honourable senator. 

 -Yesterday, Senator Withers asked me, in my capacity as representing the Minister for the Capital Territory, the following question: 
ls it a fact that a Government shop in Downer is more than 2 years behind in its rent as at this date? 
If the answer is yes, what steps are being taken to recover the outstanding rent? 
In regard to the successful bid on 27 August last of $24,200 annual rental for the supermarket site at Evatt, does the Minister propose to reduce the rent in future years if the lessees are unable to maintain the rent charged? 

 Mr Bryant supplied the following answer: 
Yes. A judgment for outstanding rent has recently been obtained in the Australian Capital Territory Supreme Court against the lessees. An offer to pay the outstanding liabilities in full has been received and payment is expected to be made within the next few days 
No. The advertised terms of lease provide: 
for the amount bid to be payable annually for the first 6 years of lease; 
b ) that the rental becomes due for reappraisal at the end of the sixth year and at the end of each subsequent 3 years but that it will not be reduced below the rent initially bid. 
The Minister for Defence has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
1 ) Reports that the Soviet Ambassador to Australia said at a Press conference on 6 August that the Soviet Union did not have 'any significant naval presence in the Indian Ocean ' have been brought to my attention. I suggest that the Ambassador is the person best placed to confirm whether or not he was accurately reported. 
to (4) Ships of the Soviet Navy have been present in the north western Indian Ocean since March 1968. The numbers and types of vessels involved vary, but short-term variations are not necessarily significant. Information for the period between August 1973 and February 1975 has been provided in my answer to House of Representatives Questions Nos 1524 and 1801 of 1974. There has been no significant change since February 1975. 
The governments referred to have not all commented in terms that enable a reply to this question. Few governments appear to see the Soviet deployments as a threat to their security. The deployments are, of course, in a part of the Indian Ocean many thousands of miles away from Australia. Many governments are concerned, however, that there should not be a competitive build-up in the naval deployments into the Indian Ocean of the U.S.S.R. and the U.S. and there is wide spread support for the Australian proposal that these two powers agree on mutual restraint in their deployments. 
The Minister for Defence has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
1 ) Information on Soviet naval ships in the northwestern Indian Ocean area has been provided in answer to House of Representatives Question on Notice No. 1524 of 12 November 1974, No. 1801 of 19 November 1974, and No. 1942 of 5 December 1974. Short term variations in the numbers or types of these ships are not necessarily significant. There has been no significant change since the information contained in the answer to Question No. 1801 was provided on 15 April 1975. 
The answer to the honourable senator's question is as follows: 
1 )  Mr P.  Sims, Honorary Director of Tasventure Environment Centre. 
The Tasventure Environment Centre originally applied for a grant of $1,200 to prepare a report on the Norfolk Range area. This application was rejected as it was considered that the consultant to be retained was unsuitable for a project of the type described.  Mr Sims  subsequently advised the Department that Professor Jackson of the Botany Department at the University of Tasmania would be available to prepare a report for the sum of $5,000. 
Professor Jackson, Botany Department, University of Tasmania. 
Recommendation of a three-man committee chaired by an officer of the Department of Environment with representatives from the Department of Science and the Australian Conservation Foundation. 
No. 
$5,000, the maximum grant available under the scheme. 
7 ) Tasventure Environment Centre. 
A break-down of expenditure was contained in the letter of acceptance setting out conditions to be met by the sponsoring organisation. The total grant was to cover consultants' fees with the exception of a small amount for the provision of land transport. The Department of Environment subsequently received a financial statement audited by a qualified accountant setting out a detailed break-down of expenses and stating that the grant did not form part of the funds of Tasventure Tours. 
On 27 August, 1975,  Senator Devitt  asked me the following question, without notice: 
I should like to ask the Postmaster-General a question concerning the problems being met at Associated Pulp and Paper Mills Ltd. Has the Postmaster-General discussed with representatives of APPM their operations at Wesley Vale in Tasmania? ls he able to say whether consideration will be given to diverting some projected overseas orders for paper used in telephone directories to the Wesley Vale mill to alleviate the serious production difficulties facing APPM at Wesley Vale? 
Further to the information which  I  gave in answer to the honourable senator's question at the time,  I  have now received advice from the Australian Telecommunications Commission that an order for an additional 2000 tonnes of telephone directory paper has been placed with APPM. 
The answer to the honourable Senator's question is as follows: 
The information you requested is shown in the attached table. Work undertaken by Australian and State Government agencies and Universities on behalf of the Department has not been included. 
The Minister for Transport has supplied the following answer to the honourable senator's questions: 
The 'landing' charges for the various types of aircraft and airports are as follows: 
Recent grants approved for South Australia by the Minister for Transport now mean that South Australia has received its full allocation of $1.5m for 1975-76 for road safety and traffic improvement.  Mr Jones  had previously approved a partial program to facilitate the prompt implementation of agreed works. Now, following discussions with the South Australian Highways Department,  Mr Jones  has approved a program of works which will include a co-ordinated traffic signal system in the Adelaide city area, new channelisation of the Keith bypass and creation of priority roads along electoral boundaries. 
The Australian Telecommunications Commission has stated that a 12 per cent growth in the number of telex services is expected this year. A new program has been set up by the Commission involving an investment of $7m for new exchange equipment and nearly 4000 telex machines, which is about 500 more machines than were originally programmed. The new program also provides for a speedy installation service which will mean that most new subscribers will be waiting less than 3 weeks for connections, compared with a former connection time of 8 weeks. 
It has been the policy of the defence Services to become involved more than usual in the cases of floods and bush fires that have affected civilians over recent years. I think everybody appreciates that they have done a wonderful job when they have been used. I am thinking in particular of the cases in Queensland and New South Wales. I am not sure to what extent the Minister might consider using the Army Reserve-the former CMF- for such circumstances, but I should think that it would be available where it could be used to perform such duties and would perform them as well as the Regular Army does. I will ask the Minister to react to  Senator Walsh's  question and let him know what is the answer to it. 
I am not aware of any complaints having been made about the quality of the shoulder castings to which  Senator McLaren  has referred. He may, of course, be putting in a plug, which I assume he is, for the South Australian industry near his home that manufactures them. I know that they are of good quality. I will take up the matter with the Minister and see whether I can get a reply for the honourable senator this week. 
-The answer to the first part of the honourable senator's question is yes. The Telecommunications Commission has withdrawn the concessions. The honourable senator will recall that previously I pointed out, in relation to the Budget strategy, the subsidies which had been appropriated for various concessions. On the telecommunications side they amounted to about $13½m and overall to $17m for both Commissions. The concessions relating to the emergency fire services in South Australia were not included in these figures. I have, however, received representations from two of my colleagues about the matter and I presently have them under consideration by the Telecommunications Commission. I will put the honourable senator's representations also to the Commission also and let him know the outcome. 
I have seen the article which appeared in last week's Adelaide  Sunday Mail,  but it is inaccurate. The position is that consignments of up to 40 containers of mail arrived sporadically in Sydney. There are at present on the Sydney docks 43 containers of mail awaiting collection by the Postal Commission which is handling between 35 and 40 containers each week. A black ban on the use of contract transport to carry the containers has added to the problems of clearance of overseas mail, and the bank-up has led to an increase in wharf storage charges. However, so far this year the storage charges have totalled about $58,000, which is a long way short of the amount claimed in the article. The Postal Commission is presently negotiating for suitable premises to suit container handling needs and is confident that this will lead to improved clearances in the future. 
Yes, I have seen the references to this matter in the Press. When the matter was raised originally  Mr Morrison  requested that  Mr Hunter  should supply a statutory declaration, and I understand that it has now been lodged. The matter is presently under consideration by the Minister for Defence. He has not completed his inquiries. So answering the last part of the question first, I think I should say that at this stage we would not be justified in tabling the documents concerned. When the Minister for Defence has determined the matter and has given a reply I will let the honourable senator have it. He might wish to follow up the other suggestion later. 
I will add some points which have been given to me because the matter has been ventilated a number of times. Tunnels were used to store chemical munitions in the Blue Mountains area, but records show that they were all cleared. Large quantities of chemical materials were disposed of at a site in the same area. This site was checked 2 years later and it was found that disposal had been complete and the area was safe. Mustard gas spilt on the ground is rendered harmless by natural processes in a matter of days. Leaking phosgene gas disperses in the atmosphere and leaves no trace. 
A statutory declaration received from a citizen living in Adelaide refers to the storage, handling and disposal of leaking containers and bombs in the Blue Mountains area. It is rather more relevant to matters of compensation for those handling the material than to possible dangers to the public. Nevertheless, the Minister for Defence has said that he is asking for more details on locations to check against the records. For example, if it is established that the site already mentioned is involved, we already have direct proof that it is safe. 
The Minister for Transport has supplied the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
and (b) It is recognised that the aerial agricultural industry is experiencing difficulties at the present time. However, the situation is clearly not brought about by the Government's decision to remove the bounty previously paid on superphosphate. 
The fortunes of the aerial agricultural industry are, of course, dependent on those of the rural industry, and with the present downturn in certain sectors of the latter industry, particularly in beef production, the economic viability of many aerial agricultural operators is being seriously eroded. 
There are many service industries and other forms of business enterprise that rely to varying degrees on the rural industries for their livelihood. All are likely to suffer reduced profitability or worse in times when prosperity in the agricultural sector is at a low ebb. 
The Government would be most concerned if the availability of services and essential inputs to rural industry were permanently affected by a downturn in the agricultural sector. As you will know, there is a significant element of unpredictability in the fortunes of rural industry but the present downturn appears to be largely attributable to short term influences. 
There have been many initiatives taken by the Government to assist rural industries. They include grants for rural reconstruction, the support which has been given to the wool market and the recently approved assistance to the beef industry. In addition, the Government has referred to the Industries Assistance Commission questions relating to assistance to users of phosphatic and nitrogenous fertilisers, assistance which might be justified to reduce fluctuations in the incomes of rural producers and other issues of both a general and specific nature. It would be inappropriate in my view for the Government to attempt to bring m any further assistance measures before the Industries Assistance Commission reports on these matters are considered. 
As to the suggestion that the present level of air navigation charges and hangar rentals is a major factor contributing to the depressed state of the aerial agricultural industry, I would simply point out that air navigation charges would, in most cases, represent only about 4 per cent of the total operating costs of aerial agricultural aircraft- hardly the tremendous burden in the industry as claimed by the honourable senator. Similarly, the present level of rentals, which I might add have been reviewed for the first time in 1 1 years, are not a heavy burden on the industry. In fact, of the 268 agricultural aircraft currently on the Australian Register, only 34, or 13 per cent, are hangared at Government aerodromes. 
The Minister for Transport has supplied the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
I would refer the honourable senator to the answer I gave to Question 474, as I believe that it clearly states the Government 's attitude on this matter. 
Aborigines at Wilcannia (Question No. 599) 
The Minister for Environment has supplied the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
Yes. 
A telex was sent to  Dr Cass  on 22 April 1975. 
Yes, from Tasventure Environment Centre. 
Yes. Tasventure Environment Centre has requested $5,500 to undertake the study with the assistance of consultants from the University of Tasmania. 
I have not the information available. If  Senator Bessell  puts the question on notice I will get an answer for him. 

 - Senator Devitt gave me enough information this morning to obtain a first reply on this matter from the Minister for Transport and his Department. I have to advise that all tyres fitted to new motor cars since 1 January 1974 have been required to comply with Australian design rule No. 23. This rule which is based on the motor vehicles safety standard enforced in the United States of America includes strength, endurance and high speed tests as well as dimensional and labelling requirements. These tests can be met by 2 ply tyres if properly constructed. The rule does not at this stage include a test for traction in wet conditions but I am informed that such requirements are being investigated for inclusion in the rule. If the honourable senator can give me further details about the matter, I will pass them on to  Mr Charles  Jones, the Minister for Transport, and ask him to investigate the problem through his Department. 
After discussions with the Commission in May I made a statement, and have since made other statements, that the matters would be properly considered and that, because the proposals have important implications for the staff and for community groups, full consideration would be given to any aspect which they put before the Commission and myself. The Postal Commission has had continuing discussions with all staff organisations on the various elements of the proposal and is considering the fairly extensive viewpoints put forward by members of Parliament and some community groups. It is expected that an overall assessment will be completed shortly and then I will discuss with the Commission the tentative proposals, which in some cases might involve reorganisations. I will consult again with the community groups and with staff organisations and, where necessary, with members of Parliament before determining the matter. 
The last time questions were asked about enrolments for the armed Services they were in the form of complaints that we could not attract people. The fact is that even before the trend towards unemployment developed the Services were recruiting satisfactorily. Officer resignations have dropped and generally the intake of new recruits is greater than previously. That is the general position, of course. The trend that we were all worried about most was that officers eligible for the defence force retirement benefits were resigning. That situation has been overtaken and improved. I think I should get a fuller explanation for tomorrow for the honourable senator as regards the remainder of his question. 
As I have mentioned previously, a private telephone meter has been available for some years. Its cost was $8, but it has been found that it had fairly limited application and that there was a need for an improved method of control available to private subscribers. Consequently one such new meter has been developed. It will be available shortly. The new type of meter will enable subscribers to control the number of calls made, measure the number of meter registrations for individual calls or a series of calls, and record the accumulated total of meter registrations made against the services. The design of the meter is such that a follow-on call cannot be made after hanging up from the previous call until a push button is operated. Apart from its use in private homes the meter will be very suitable for installation in localities such as those having small shops where the telephone is often available for use by the public and where the subscriber wishes to recover the actual costs of calls. 

 -As Senator Drury has mentioned,  Mr Morrison  already has announced that the Government intends to purchase the United Kingdom manufactured Rapier system to replace the out of date Bofors anti-aircraft system.  Mr Morrison  has said also that about onethird of the work involved in producing this equipment should be done in Australia, and mostly in South Australia. The British Aircraft Corporation, which does the work in the United Kingdom, will be doing the work in South Australia. Under that contract the Corporation will be involved at the Salisbury plant in manufacturing parts of ground equipment and also participating in the development of the repair facility. 
In addition to the work at Salisbury, we intend to promote the manufacture of some optical parts in other facilities in South Australia, although some cost penalty will be involved in this work. A study is being made on the feasibility of undertaking the work, because of the opportunity provided for the introduction of technology and the development of skills in that sort of manufacture. 
-The quarterly billing of telephone subscribers was introduced on a limited basis in Sydney and Melbourne from 1 July. The bills will be issued quarterly to telephone subscribers whose telephones have been connected from that date. On present planning, a similar service will be provided in other capital cities and some larger provincial centres in the next 3 years. In South Australia it will be provided towards the middle or the end of 1976. Subscribers in Sydney and Melbourne under this system will receive their first accounts in November. As yet we are not in a position to say how customers will react to the system. However, it is expected that quarterly billing will ease the financial burden on subscribers, who will be better able to control and monitor the use of their services. 
I have a long prepared answer to  Senator Laucke  's question. I seek leave to have it incorporated in  Hansard. 
-I am informed that the tests conducted on the system have been very successful so far. The system is a microwave landing system that is aimed at prolonging the life of some airports by permitting greater movement rates without increasing noise pollution or adding any safety hazard. It provides accurate guidance over wide sectors in the approach and take-off regions, permitting curved and segmented flight paths for both landing and take-off. This helps with noise abatement as well as catering for the new type of short take-off and landing aircraft. The equipment is meeting its design specifications, as developed by the 2 bodies mentioned, and the level of accuracy required by the International Civil Aviation Organisation, which originally requested its members to develop such systems. The tests are continuing. In fact, the current series will be completed at the end of the year. I am informed that further tests will go on next year and that they are expected to be completed by the end of 1976. I think that the contributions that have been made by the 2 departments are very praiseworthy. 

 -Mr President, yesterday  Senator Missen  asked me a question without notice relating to recruiting for the defence force. I gave him some information, but I now have additional information from the Minister for Defence. I seek leave to incorporate it in  Hansard. 
The Minister for Defence has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
I refer the honourable senator to the Prime Minister's reply to question No. 885 (Senate Hansard, 2 October 1975, page 930). 
The answer to the honourable senator's question is as follows: 
I refer the honourable senator to the information provided by the Prime Minister in reply to Question No. 885 (Senate Hansard, 2 October 1975, page 930). 
-The first of the 12 mail centres that are to form the new network around Australia was established at Blackburn in the Melbourne metropolitan area in August last. Another centre will be opening at Geelong later this month. A further one will be opening at Ballarat in April 1976. There are plans to set up similar organisations in New South Wales and Queensland. The advantages are, of course, the greater reliability of the network in facilitating the direct interchange of mail between the centres, the flexibility in meeting variations in growth and the smaller working groups in more congenial organisations. The concept, of course, is one that derives from the recommendations of the Vernon Committee. 
-Yes, I have seen the article. Already a decision has been made that an aerogram depicting a biblical scene, which we think will be acceptable to the public generally, will be on sale from the end of October 1975 until 1 December at a cost of 25c. This compares more than favourably with the ordinary charge of 45c for a letter to England. It was decided not to produce the article in multiple languages because of the large number of ethnic groups in Australia and the danger of offending some of these groups. 
There was a forced landing by a Chinook helicopter in about June at Amberley. It was severely damaged. Following the accident, an interim restriction of 100 hours flying time was placed on all engines in service, pending an investigation of the cause of the engine failure which had resulted from a failure of a bolt in the power turbine area. The cause of the failure has been resolved. The interim restriction on engines which have been inspected and cleared for normal overhauls has been lifted. There was some slight effect on squadron operations, but they have now returned to normal. 
I am not an expert on birds.  Senator Mulvihill  asked me to obtain information about the success or otherwise of the use of falcons to combat the seagull problem. I have not been able to get any information about the question regarding Adelaide, but I am now told that currently a series of trials are being done by professional men from the United Kingdom who have had wide experience in the operation and handling of these birds at aerodromes in that country. We can never really be sure whether the use of these birds will be successful because much depends on whether the operators are amateurs or professionals. I have been told that there may be some difficulty in training the birds to adapt to our Australian conditions. The choice of birds is another factor. The birds have to be young enough to train but at the same time old enough to have had some hunting experience. The trials are expected to be completed in December this year or January next year. The information from the Department is that the use of these birds is regarded as successful in other countries, and we expect the same thing to happen in Australia. 
The Senate will recall that in my second reading speech delivered on 23 April 1975 I specified in some detail the need for the proposed operations of the InterState Commission. Honourable senators will be aware that the Bill for the re-establishment of the Commission has been before the Senate since that date. I wish to announce that in the light of subsequent deliberations the Government has decided to withdraw clauses 13 and 17 of the Bill. Also, following negotiations between the Honourable C. K. Jones, Minister for Transport, and the Honourable P. J. Nixon, the honourable member for Gippsland in another place, certain further amendments to the Bill have been agreed to. These amendments will be moved by the Opposition in the Senate and will be accepted by the Government. I am pleased to be able to record these developments which will lead to the reappearance of this Commission after so many years to work in the field of interstate transport. We expect the Commission to make a positive contribution to actions of this Parliament in promoting the development of this country's transport system. 
I think it is unfortunate that at this stage  Senator Wright  should propose an amendment. 
I am talking about an agreement made between the Government and the Opposition as we understood it. 
-In the other place, of course. 
It must be extraordinary, surely, for the honourable senator to seek to defend in this place what I consider to be a breach of a very sensible arrangement made between the Opposition and the Government. Honourable senators have heard me allude to the report which refers to the fact that on 23 April we brought down a Bill and we agreed that the Opposition should consider it. We provided a vehicle by which it could set out its own views, and we reached agreement. What  Senator Wright  proposes is a Lone Ranger action, which is a most reactionary proposition. In the first place, it conflicts with what the Opposition agreed upon with the Government. That is the first point. 
The honourable senator is involved as a member of the Opposition. I am surprised that the honourable senator should talk in that way because I know that generally he agrees with arrangements which have been made. As  Senator Withers  well knows, those arrangements have been made, and I came into the Senate thinking that in fact we had reached agreement. What  Senator Wright  proposes conflicts entirely with the arrangements which his own Party agreed upon, because we have dropped out of clause 16 (2) the sort of powers which he now wants to be put into the Bill. 
Of course it does; it conflicts. It is an odd position for  Senator Wright  to take up. While we are used to  Senator Wright  taking up aggrieved positions, I cannot understand how an arrangement in relation to which there has been - 
The arrangement between the Opposition shadow Minister for Transport in the other place and the Government. I remind those honourable senators who are interjecting that I have been told that it was put to a meeting of their Party. If those honourable senators were not there, they should have been. 
I was told that the proposition was put to the Party of which  Senator Missen  is a member and that it was agreed upon. It has been reported. I have read the statement. If the honourable senator does not agree with it, he had better get on to his shadow Minister. Let me read the statement again for the honourable senator so that he may know the truth of the matter. 
I would like to get an answer to that question from the Minister. 

 - Senator Laucke asked a question without notice in the Senate on 1 1 September concerning air navigation charges and the current situation in the general aviation industry.  Senator Laucke  also asked whether I had read the report sent to me by the Cessna Flying Club Inc., of South Australia, concerning the Government's cost recovery policy, and also seeking advice as to the present basis used for arriving at the proportion of total costs attributable to regular public transport operations and general aviation operations. The answer to the honourable senator's question is as follows: 
Following receipt of the report from the Cessna Flying Club Inc., of South Australia, concerning the present situation in the general aviation industry and the impact of the Government's cost recovery program, the Minister for Transport arranged for officers of his Department to discuss the matters raised in the report with members of the club. 
As a result of those discussions the  president  of the club wrote to the Minister thanking him for arranging for the discussions to take place and acknowledging that the material contained in the report was not altogether factual. I am enclosing a copy of the  president  's letter for your information. 
On the question of the allocation of costs between the regular public transport operators and the general aviation operators, the Department of Transport is presently engaged in a study to determine an equitable apportionment of costs between the sectors of the aviation industry. The Minister is unable to say at this stage when the study will be completed. 
There have been rumours here and there and unconfirmed reports that at some time the Government might follow the Canadian pattern, but I do not think that that argument was raised during the course of the debate in this place when the legislation was approved by the Senate. I think honourable senators will recall that the Prime Minister and the former Minister for Defence,  Mr Barnard,  made it very clear that there was no intention to unify the defence forces in the way in which Canada had done, I read that today  Mr Bruce  White, who had 49 years in the Public Service, and a great deal to do with the current reorganisation, has commented that in his view the proposal to follow the Canadian pattern would be bad. That confirms the Government's attitude. In addition, I think it is fair to say that  Mr Bruce  White, who is well known to most honourable senators on both sides of the chamber, can be taken to be an independent observer of what the Government did. We note that his reign as Secretary of the Department of the Army has been terminated by the passage of the legislation upon which he comments. I note also that, according to recent policy statements made by the Minister for Defence, there is no clear intention by the Opposition to make any attempt to disturb what is a progressive move. 
As the honourable senator knows, this matter was investigated during the recent sittings of the Estimates Committees, and I think the general position is as stated then. The Minister presently is considering to what extent the cost recovery targets of the Government ought to be achieved. Everybody knows, including the honourable senator who asked the question, that the first examination of cost recovery was not started in the reign of the Labor Government but was determined by the previous Government. The matter is also being examined by every international organisation. The reports of the international organisations show that every government presently is looking at ways of achieving cost recovery because of the very heavy expenditure incurred in maintaining air services and aerodromes. So what the Government is doing is not unusual. All I can tell the honourable senator at the present time is that the aspect to which he refers is receiving the very close scrutiny not only of the carriers but also of the Minister and his Department. The Government is attempting to recover as much of the cost as possible, as are most governments. As to the current position, I will have to ask  Mr Charles  Jones for information and I will let the honourable senator know the result of that. 
I know that  Senator Douglas  McClelland and  Senator Withers  have discussed the procedure to be followed in relation to this matter; but it might be appropriate if at this stage I give the official Government view about the proposal put forward by  Senator Wright  so that it will be in the record and honourable senators will be able more appropriately to consider this matter. Firstly I wish to make some general but I think relevant observations about  Senator Wright's  amendment. The Government has consistently acknowledged the need for the closest attention to efficient communication between the various centres of this country. It recognises the special dependence of Tasmania on sea transport. Indeed, the very object of re-establishing the Inter-State Commission is to bring into existence a continuing expert body that will always be available to make recommendations to the Parliament so that action can be taken. 
I would invite  Senator Wright  to examine once again the provisions of the Bill as it is now amended. It will give this Commission a clear charter of investigation over interstate transport and the capability to seek out the truth and propose positive remedies for problems. No more would the government of the day need to set up special commissions with attendant delays and cost of establishment when a problem arose. The Inter-State Commission will always be there when required. So I would point out that the amendments accepted by the Government and approved by the Senate last night already pave the way for a substantial advance in catering for the transport requirements of a State such as Tasmania. 
It is spurious for  Senator Wright  to suggest or imply that this Government has not had regard for Tasmania's shipping needs. After 23 years of neglect it was the Whitlam Government which set up the Nimmo inquiry into the problem. 

 - Senator, as honourable senators know, the report of this inquiry is expected by the end of this year. It is the first time that any Government has attempted to grapple with Tasmania's difficulties. 
I should like to put on record what has been done by the Government. Firstly there have been subsidies of $4m to $5m this year to north bound general cargo while awaiting the Nimmo report. Secondly there is liaison with the Australian Council of Trade Unions to ensure that whenever possible essential Tasmanian shipping is exempted from strikes and bans by the maritime unions. On some occasions- I think 3 occasionsTasmanian ships have been so exempted. Thirdly, the Government has made available more than $ lm to allow the Tasmanian Government to purchase the  Ra  to ply to Tasmania 's dependent islands. Now this Bill provides for a continuing supervision of all interstate shipping, including to Tasmania. 
Last night I mentioned that it seemed to me that the thrust of the proposed amendment runs counter to what the Opposition parties had insisted upon- that is to say, the deletion of all the provisions of the Bill directly regulating or providing for the regulation of interstate transport. It seems to me that paragraph (b) of the amendment in particular simply could not be made to work without a power to make legally binding orders. But the Opposition has insisted on deleting those provisions from Part III of the Bill. I would also observe that paragraph (b) would have the potential of making the InterState Commission the most powerful statutory body in Australia. It would have the legal capability of directly controlling interstate shipping, including private shipping, virtually according to its own whim. This goes far beyoind what was originally proposed. The clause would give the Commission the power to make or break shipping operations without the responsibility for its decisions. In reality paragraph (b) is a selfoperating provision which would in effect enable the Commission to socialise interstate shipping without ministerial or parliamentary approval. I wonder whether the full potential of that has been realised. 
One may be pardoned for wondering what paragraph (a) of the amendment means.  Senator Wright  observed that it is vague but I want to point out, for example, what the relationship would be between this provision and the responsibilities of the Australian National Line under its Act. However, I should remind honourable senators that the Bill originally contained a clause, clause 13, which would have enable particular powers and functions already vested in other bodies under other laws to be transferred to the Inter-State Commission. As I said last night, the Government decided to withdraw the provision. That was what was wanted by the Opposition. Once again  Senator Wright's  amendment would run counter to this. It would attempt to vest powers and functions conferred by other laws in the Commission. It would also have the added disadvantage that it would be completely general in nature without any concern at all for the particular circumstances. I have no doubt that this has the potential for creating serious problems. 
However, if  Senator Wright  or any other honourable senator would like to suggest specific functions under existing laws that could be transferred to the Inter-State Commission the Government would be happy to consider those proposals. But let us first get a commission and get it operating. The Government has always recognised the potential value of the Inter-State Commission but it has seen the first priority as getting the body re-established. As it grows in stature it can be given additional functions by the Parliament. That is the time at which we should be considering the kinds of things that might be covered by paragraph (a). 
Paragraph (c) of  Senator Wright's  amendment is an attempt to write into the Bill powers that go far beyond those contained in the Conciliation and Arbitration Act. Since the early days of Federation, the Conciliation and Arbitration Act, to which I referred last night, has provided the code for the industrial relations policy of the Government of the day. This Government takes the view that industrial relations are a subject to be dealt with in the sphere of the conciliation and arbitration processes and not in a piecemeal fashion in the manner proposed. It is, of course, a matter of irony that one of  Senator Greenwood  's main complaints about the former clause 1 3 was the possibility that it might be used to take industrial matters away from the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission and bring them into the jurisdiction of the Inter-State Commission. So we see again that  Senator Wright's  amendment is contrary, it seems to me, to the attitude of the Opposition and the point made by  Senator Greenwood  to which I have just referred. 
I would indicate on behalf of the Leader of the Government in the Senate  (Senator Wriedt)  and the Government that we have no objection to consideration of this matter being postponed. The Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  and the Government would like the matter to be settled today, so we hope that there will be an opportunity to bring it back on this afternoon so that it can be determined; or if not today, no later than tomorrow. 
Progress reported. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
I seek leave to have the speech incorporated in Hansard. Explanatory notes have been circulated. They are contained in a 60-page document. 
The Minister for Environment has supplied the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
I refer the honourable senator to the Prime Minister's reply to Question No. 885 (Senate  Hansard,  page 930 of 2 October 1975). 
Honourable senators know that pending the report of the present committee of inquiry which was intended to investigate the general problems of Radio Australia and also the Cox Peninsula site at Darwin, the Government decided to set up a temporary facility at Carnarvon, Western Australia. The work is proceeding at the present time. Aerial construction has been commenced and will consist of one set of 4 aerials pointing towards South-East Asia. The aerials and one 250 kilowatt transmitter will be installed against a contract worth over $2m. Tests on the transmitter have already commenced. The Telecommunications Commission is diverting another 100 kilowatt transmitter from another project for installation at the site. The station is being established on the old National Aeronautics and Space Administration tracking station. Many of the existing facilities are being used. It is expected that the station will commence to operate in December. 
As of yesterday there were good prospects of a high work load at the Weapons Research Establishment, Salisbury, because of various major projects which have already been included in the Defence Report tabled a few days ago. Because of the increased work at the Weapons Research Establishment and among private firms in the adjoining district in connection with the Rapier missile system, it is expected that the Establishment will have a continuing role of advising the defence forces on equipment already in service and on proposed weapons acquisitions. This is a good thing. Work at Woomera is currently the subject of negotiations. It is clear at the present time that there will be no reduction in any of the activity to which I have referred, but there could be some improvement at Woomera as a result of negotiations and the activities of the Government in respect of various service trials at Woomera. 
Qantas Airways Ltd has planned modification to 1 6 engines over the next year. The work will be carried out in the United States by the Pratt and Whitney organisation. My information is that the new engines will provide additional power giving the jumbos a greater range and reliability and a higher carrying capacity. Basically, the complex modifications will produce lower operating engine temperatures and are expected to reduce engine faults. I understand that the manufacturers have assured Qantas that the noise levels will be within international standards. 
The only information I can give to the honourable senator following upon the examination which the Committee conducted and which I have referred to previously is that the Government has given the operators a warning that there ought to be a review. It is not the first warning that any government has given as to the rate of recovery. As everybody knows, that has been under examination for many years. I also referred yesterday to the situation that applies in other countries. As the honourable senator would know, the government of every nation is presently faced with an objective, a target, of recovering increased costs from the airline operators. The Government is presently negotiating with all the operators. Whilst our targets have been announced, I understand that the Minister is still considering what should be the position. As it is the responsibility of  Mr Jones  and as he is involved directly in these things, I think I should ask him whether he wants to add anything to my answer. 
The matter has been examined before. As a matter of fact,  Senator McAuliffe  might recall that his own State branch of the Australian Labor Party put this matter to my Department. It is considered by the Australian Telecommunications Commission to be impractical. It has to be understood that the average cost of installing a telephone is a little over $2,000 and, as everybody knows, this cost is greater in country areas. It has been stated by the Commission that if all rental charges and connection fees were abolished there would be a great increase in the number of calls, particularly from the low volume users, and these services would be most uneconomic bearing in mind the high capital cost of installation. Consequently, call charges would have to be increased. This would lead to a fall off on the number of calls, which would require a further increase in charges. The Commission has looked at the matter and found that it would be virtually impossible to operate such a system in any way within its financial charter if such a system should be insisted upon. 
The Minister for the Capital Territory has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
I refer the honourable senator to the Prime Minister's reply to Question on Notice No. 885 which appeared in  Hansard (page  930) on 2 October 1975. 
Honourable senators opposite are laughing. It is a very serious question. Only a few days ago honourable senators opposite sat on the relevant Senate Estimates Committee. During a gruelling examination, which took over 2 hours I think, of the funds appropriated for the defence Services they made sure that those funds were identified in respect of every Service- the Royal Australian Air Force, the Army and the Navy. It is clear that, because of the Opposition's action in blocking supply, after 30 November- that is the date I have been given- there will be no money for the defence Services. 
Is it not a serious question? This result, of course, will be due to your action. Opposition members of the Senate Estimates Committee have approved the funds that are required for the Services. Now they want to make sure that all the ships, aircraft, etc will not operate. They will make sure that not only the 70 000 Service men and women but also all the people in the civilian services will not have funds and will not receive wages after 30 November. 
This Government expects the nation to honour any entitlement which those staff will have in regard to pay, travelling and overtime. I hope that the Parliament of the country will accept that entitlement. We will see what we can do to ease whatever burdens there will be. The position is clear and the Opposition cannot get away from it. I wish to refer to one other very important service that has come to our attention, namely, the Natural Disasters Organisation. That Organisation has been launched and is perfect in its operations. That Organisation, like the rest of our services, will be affected. Of course, not only the defence departments but also every other department will be affected. It is up to the Opposition to decide what to do about it. 
A new telephone trunk service known as the distant exchange service was introduced some time ago to cater for the needs of organisations such as the two domestic airline operators which maintain regional telephone reservation offices. Under the system, they can have a 24-hour service. For example, if a Canberra subscriber dials a local number to book an airline ticket, instead of the matter being dealt with locally it goes through to the centre in Sydney. This saves a lot of money and, as I have said, gives the customer a 24-hour service. The idea of the regional booking arrangement is to give a better service to customers and to effect savings in local staffing and accommodation. I understand that, as well as the airlines, a number of other organisations are using or are interested in using the service. 
I promised  Senator Young  some weeks ago that, as soon as I had the opinion and it had been examined by the heads of both the Postmaster-General's Department and the Department of the Media and had been interpreted, I would let him know. We have received the opinion but it has not yet been evaluated or examined. I would hope that within a few days I will have an expression in relation to it from the 2 departments and at that time I will certainly be able to give the honourable senator some information. 
May I start with the point at which  Senator Rae  left off in relation to this Bill. It is not what the Government wants to do. In fact, as everybody knows, this last clause of the Bill that is before us results from an agreement between the Government and the Opposition parties. They have fully canvassed the sorts of powers which the Inter-State Commission proposed by the Government should have. As honourable senators now know, looking at the paper that we put down last week, the powers of the Commission have been greatly reduced at the request of the Opposition, as far as we are aware, in a responsible way. Although the Government did not want to give way on some of the powers that the Commission would have had under the legislation, which had been proposed by the Government and which had been discussed for many years, it decided to do so on the plea of the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  that the most advantageous thing to industry and to the nation would be to have the Inter-State Commission set up as quickly as possible. Of course, honourable senators who have taken part in this debate have spoken largely, I suggest, about the problems which are related to Tasmania. I do not discount those problems. If we look at those problems in relation to the legislation about which we are talking, it would seem to me that in the final analysis we will have to rely on what  Mr Nimmo  advocates in his report which is expected to be released later this year. When the report is available it will be up to the Government to consider the recommendations that  Mr Nimmo  makes in relation to the matters put to him. 
As regards the industrial questions which are bound up in the amendment, it seems to me, as I have mentioned before, that the amendment is just too powerful. For example, the Opposition agreed upon a moderate Bill, which we accepted. Honourable senators will note that in paragraph (a) of his amendment  Senator Wright  enters into the area of not only shipping for carriage of cargo and passengers, but also stevedoring. It means that the Commission could take over the obligations of the stevedoring authority which we have had for years. It could intervene in matters concerning waterside workers and stevedores. Paragraph (b) of  Senator Wright's  amendment is the most powerful part of the amendment. I would think that in other days the Australian Labor Party would have been glad to have such a power as is proposed in paragraph (b), which states: 
The Commission shall ensure that all such services are carried on regularly according to schedules and time-tables which shall be predetermined by the Commission so as to ensure regular and efficient and economic shipping and stevedoring operations. 
If this amendment were carried it would mean that if we wished we could discount any intervention by the private shipowners or by the nation's own operators and also interfere with what is taking place in the stevedoring operations. That would be a very strong socialised power. I think that even if we said we had to have that power to do what  Senator Wright  wants to do, no Parliament would accept such a wide and strong power, vested in that way. The other matter which I consider to be highly dangerous is the proposition that the Commission, consisting of 3 specially selected people- one of whom is a legal man- can make a declaration. There is no criteria. The Commission simply has to make a declaration about the strike that  Senator Wright  has referred to, or the protest concerning the political scene today, because things should be done urgently on the wharf. Once this declaration is made nobody can act- no union can negotiate or have a matter considered under arbitration. The union is subject already to a penalty. 
-Senator Wright has referred to the situation which exists in the United States of America. But I have never known the Opposition Parties to accept, nor would we accept in totality, the industrial relations system of the U.S.A., where it is usual for unions and employers to allow a period for agreement, then for the agreement to be subject to discussions and strike action and then, later on, to have recognised cooling off periods. That part of the system does not operate in Australia. It may be developed. There is no doubt that in better economic times when we were talking about more conciliation-  Senator James  McClelland might easily enter this argument- we were looking at the possibility of having negotiated agreements for a term. I think it is unreal for  Senator Wright  to expect the Parliament to give him the powers he requests. We certainly could not agree to the industrial powers for which he is asking. But the strengthening of the powers of the Commission could be considered at a later stage. 
Perhaps,  Mr Chairman,  I should wind up by saying, as was mentioned by the Minister for Transport  (Mr Charles Jones),  that if once the legislation is passed senators feel there are matters which should be encompassed by the Government, the Minister will consider these matters in the same way as he has considered constructively- I think honourable senators will agree with me- the recommendations from the Opposition with which we have been in agreement. I say on behalf of the Minister that we welcome the discussions that have taken place. It would seem to me that they have made possible the inauguration of a very important piece of legislation which a lot of well known and recognised authorities and our own committees have considered to be an essential requirement for modern day Australia. At a later stage we shall have to review how the legislation should work and in what respects it might be altered. The Government is not able to accept any part of the proposed amendment. 
Amendment negatived. 
Part III as amended agreed to. 
Title agreed to. 
Bill, as amended, agreed to. 
Bill reported with amendments; report adopted. 
The answer to the honourable senator's question is as follows: 

No submissions have been received. However a number of representations have been received. 
No. See answer to (2 ). 
and (5) Understand the report of the 'Committee of Investigation into Transportation Costs in Northern Australia' chaired by  Sir Louis  Loder was considered by the previous Government in Cabinet in 1965. No subsequent Cabinet consideration has occurred. 
None. 
The Australian Government is committed by the Northern Territory Acceptance Act and the 1949 Railway Agreement (S.A.) Act to the eventual construction of a standard gauge railway from Port Augusta to Darwin. The Minister for Transport sees the Tarcoola to Alice Springs line currently being constructed as the first stage of a NorthSouth rail link, and that prior to completion of this project the Bureau of Transport Economics will be asked to reevaluate the feasibility of the Alice Springs to Darwin line with a view to seeing whether the commencement of construction at that time would be warranted. 
Department of the Media: Government Publications (Question No. 843) 
This question has been answered in part before. The position is that when  Mr Barnard  was Minister for Defence he explored the availability and efficiency of a joint services training base at Yampi Sound in Western Australia. Since that time  Mr Morrison  has pushed on with the examination of the proposal. Broadly it has been accepted as suitable for the sort of joint exercises that would be necessary. Recently a survey party has been in the area but the further promotion of the scheme relies on an environmental impact statement that has not yet been received. Examinations have been conducted not only by Australian Government departments, including the Department of Aboriginal Affairs, but also by the Western Australian Government. The procedure from now on will depend upon the environmental impact statement which is expected to be available soon. There have been negotiations with the Western Australian Government and with the lessees of the property in respect of the takeover. Generally speaking I think the Services have welcomed the move and the Government expects that the matter will be concluded soon. 
-Perhaps I should first say unhesitatingly that the answer to the latter part of  Senator Young's  question is no, it is not for the reasons he might presume. This is a matter which has to be considered by  Dr Cass  and me in the light of legal opinion. The honourable senator has been in this place long enough to know that when we are dealing with either spoken or written legal opinion it is possible to have a number of different interpretations. That is not new. We certainly have a lot of such experience ourselves. So it is not true to say that this matter has been held up because such opinion recommends against the issuing of these licences. Obviously such an opinion has to be examined by the 2 Ministers, but firstly by the heads of the Department. As I told  Senator Young  yesterday, there is certainly no intention on my part or on  Dr Cass's  part to restrict the availability of this matter to the shadow minister. When the information is available I will ensure that  Senator Young  gets a copy of it. 
I received representations on Monday I think is was, from the tuna boat operators and also from the Ulladulla Fishing Cooperative. I have been advised by the Overseas Telecommunications Commission that the station reports are local weather reports prepared by the Bureau of Meteorology and transmitted by OTC coast stations. As from the weekend commencing 18 October the Bureau ceased to issue these reports for broadcast by the OTC on the basis that not only was the Bureau looking at the economics but also the reports were not as useful as the general weather forecasts for the relevant areas which the Bureau of Meteorology still issues. In view of the request made to me I have been in touch with  Mr Clyde  Cameron, the Minister responsible, and he is presently considering the matter. 
The Press gave some publicity to this matter yesterday and I asked the engineers of the Australian Telecommunications Commission to investigate it because the way in which the matter was reported in the Press amounted to a serious allegation. The engineers have conducted an investigation and they consider that the accident to the lady was not caused in the way reported. For example, there were no carbon deposits on the cable heads in the street, which is usually evident after lightning strikes. There was no evidence of insulation breakdowns in the wiring. No telephones in the vicinity were reported as being faulty following the storm, and there were no problems caused at the power transformers in the street nearby. Both telephone instruments were tested and found to be satisfactory. The engineers reported to me that the telephone operated by the lady was located near a stainless steel sink in the kitchen, and they believe that there may have been a power static electric charge which passed from the lady's hair to earth via the sink, which could have appeared to be caused by lightning.  Mrs Cooper  is receiving attention and her hearing has recovered. While we are sorry that the incident occurred, it would appear at the present time that it was not caused in the way reported in the Press. 

 - Mr President, the amendment moved by  Senator Withers  and the speech of  Senator Withers  are intended to deceive the Australian electors, but the Opposition has not been successful in deceiving the Australian people up to date. We know quite well that since it came to power the Labor Government has been challenged by that group of Opposition senators who have set out by every means in their power to frustrate the work of the Parliament. Up to now those frustrations have been hard on the Labor Government but they have not been successful. Today we have the situation in which  Senator Withers  has moved an amendment to the Government's motion. I shall start by referring to the critical or key part of the amendment. It states: 
That the Senate has the right and duty to exercise its legislative power and to concur or not to concur, as the Senate sees fit, bearing in mind the seriousness and the responsibility of its actions, in all proposed laws passed by the House of Representatives. 
Where is the responsibility and the seriousness in the action of the Opposition in deferring the Appropriation Bills and also in making this new move to reject a message from the House of Representatives, which is the popularly elected House, which is the House that has the support of the Australian electorate and which is the House that, in association with the Senate, should guide the destiny of the nation? How can the Opposition say that there is any sense of responsibility in what it is doing now? 
The country is entering a crisis, a disaster situation. Honourable senators opposite well known without my going over it again that after 30 November the whole of the organisation, administration, work and construction of the defence facilities of the Commonwealth will come to a halt. They will not come to a halt because of any action by the Government. They will come to a halt because of the action of a group of senators in this place who are not properly representative of the States and who have a distorted view of the Australian Constitution and of the position of the Senate as set out in the Constitution. Their views have been distorted by their counterparts in the States whose votes they carry across the chamber. I can do no better than to reiterate what  Senator Steele  Hall said when he spoke on this question last week. He said:   . . every time that  Senator Young  walks across the floor he takes a dead man's vote with him in his pocket . . . The Bill was defeated in that fashion only by the vote of a dead man which the Opposition has, contrary to the convention of this country. 
If honourable senators opposite were responsible, if they were a party of moralists, if they agreed with the Constitution and if they wanted to preserve parliamentary democracy they would have regard for that situation to which I have referred and denounce it. But what they are doing is adopting an expedient attitude which is based upon the march to power by  Mr Fraser.  As I talk, there are people in the Opposition who have been divided in the past over the struggle for leadership of the Opposition. That great challenger who deposed John Gorton and  Mr Snedden  comes to power as Leader of the Opposition and sets up a great campaign by marvellous and expensive measures, backed by lots of people who have many millions of dollars, to take charge of the country. What is this talk about the seriousness and responsibility of the Opposition's actions? 
The Government intends to stand fast. It is the Government. It has been endorsed by the Australian people. Its actions recently have won the applause and support of the Australian people. 
As far as our Government is concerned, there will be no shift by the Prime Minister from the stand that it is the Government. It has the power to govern, and the Senate ought to reconsider the matter. Today it ought to support the motion of the Government to restore the Bills to the notice paper. It ought to debate the Appropriation Bills and reassess its position. We know- everybody knows because it is the talk of the town- that the members of the Opposition are divided about the matter. And well they might be because among their ranks is a large number of responsible people. 
Yes, there are decent people in the Opposition who do not like what has been going on. Who can support the procedures which have created in the Parliament an unusual situation which is not democratic? How can members of the Opposition justify using nondemocratic means and distorting State representation, while looking to the Constitution to hold up a government? They are not merely holding up a government, because it is not just an ordinary challenge for power. It is a situation which could bring this country to disaster. Everybody knows that as from about the end of October there will be a real shutdown of all the essential services of the country. It will not be caused by the Government; it will be caused by the action of the Opposition. No form of words can betray the deception. I believe that the people understand that. 
I think that one of the reasons for the great support that the Government has received in recent days has been a basic understanding by the Australian people that the parliamentary system must survive. It is amazing to me that the great advocates of parliamentary democracy over the years, the people who challenged all the new revolutionary movements in other parts of the world and talked about the Red thrust from South East Asia, from Saigon, about the danger to parliamentary democracy and about the great powers of the trade unions, should now seek to use a power which is badly based. It is not based on the power of the Senate, properly represented from the States; it has been distorted in the way that we have indicated. Of course, honourable senators opposite do not like to hear any reference from our side to a member of Parliament by saying: 'Well, you are using a dead man 's vote to get what you want'. 
Everybody knows that the Opposition is privately disgusted with what has been done by the Queensland Government and the New South 
Wales Government and with the actions of the Queensland Governor in interceding in public debate on these matters. But again in this Parliament today, knowing what could happen in Australia, the Opposition attempts to push the Government out of power. The Government will not be pushed put of power. If the Opposition continues in this way, from the end of November a quarter of the Australian work force will completely come to a halt. Even next week when we sit in this Parliament many measures will indicate to the Senate that, however well the Government might try to eke out the funds which it has to run government, everybody will be affected by the situation. But we believe that that is the way the Government should go about it. 
What are the Opposition 's general arguments about what the Government has done? The Government's record was tested before the Australian electorate last year. The people supported this Government. Yet the Opposition tries again, as some people said it ought to try, to get Labor out of power. Why? Because Labor sets out to control the economy in the way that benefits most of the people. It takes certain actions, where it can, to ensure that Australian interests are preserved. On occasions the Prime Minister, in observing that principle, had to take action against certain of his Ministers when he considered that those Ministers had misled the Parliament. Can the Opposition blame the Prime Minister for doing that? If he had not done so would the Opposition not have complained that he was not carrying out his role as he should? 
How can the Opposition talk about changes in the administration of the Government and in the Ministry in the face of the history of its own record, which  Senator James  McClelland presented this morning? It was not only a history of changes but of campaigns by  Mr Malcolm  Fraser to depose the leaders of his Party. I am looking at people now who were divided about the issue of leadership. When we were discussing the matter of leaders certain people were out to get rid of the leaders. There were 31 changes mentioned by  Senator James  McClelland- almost one change a week. So the latter part of the amendment does not convey anything at all. 
The Opposition has tried by many means to place in the minds of the people of Australia that somehow the Government has been shady in its operations. Yet, with all its efforts, the Opposition has never been able to find an atom of evidence to show that the Government has done anything wrong. This is despite the campaign by the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition,  Mr Lynch,  who went into every sleazy corner of the world several times. No doubt he was backed by large amounts of finance from vested interests. The Opposition convened a special inquiry by the Senate. What did it find? Nothing. Yet daily it continues with these sorts of tactics. What does it hope to find? 
As every honourable senator well knows, for the first time in my experience, in the recent Senate Estimates Committees the Opposition made devious investigations by asking all sorts of silly questions. Previously, when we had inquiries we certainly got the information required. However, in the recent Estimates Committee inquiries, the Opposition asked questions such as: Who was supplied with a telephone? Who could ring up by subscriber trunk dialling? Which heads of departments or officers of departments had an official motor car? When did they use it? These questions were asked as if all these measures were introduced by our Government. What was the Opposition doing? It was digging in the dirt and trying to find something which might indicate to the Australian people that the Government had failed to maintain a proper control over the administration of the country. Well, it found nothing at all. After all the endeavours of the Liberal Party and the National Country Party they found nothing to substantiate what they are doing. 
There is no doubt in my mind that there are many people among the Opposition with a guilt feeling. Of course, some of them want to chase the power of government. What would they do if they got into government? We do not know yet what sort of measures they would introduce. It has been reported that  Mr Fraser  said that it would take 3 years to correct the economy. But the Australian economy is one of the things which reflects the circumstances of the world economy. The Opposition knows that the economy is now on the upturn and it is trying to deceive the Australian people into believing that it is time for the Liberal Party and National Country Party to take over. That summarises the position. 
The propositions contained in the amendment mean nothing to me but deception- the use of words to try to convey to the people that the Opposition is not seeking power but that it wants parliamentary democracy. There is no question that the rather militant speeches in this place by some of my colleagues about the threat to parliamentary democracy point to a very real situation. All honourable senators know that when we cross the chamber tempers are frayed. It is so this week and it will continue for weeks. Sooner or later there will be trouble in this place. But people in the public arena- the masses of workers and people in the community who are aggrieved about the situation- will not worry about the Parliament. It is our job to worry about parliamentary democracy and to see that the institutions of the Parliament are respected and preserved. I do not think that the Opposition has done anything to preserve the idea of parliamentary democracy. I want to see the Parliament survive and I want to see both sides of the Parliament work as they should. 
I say that the power used by the Opposition is badly based- it is distorted. The Opposition knows it is; it has no answer to that. If that is the case, if it is presently a partly corrupt power, it should not be used in the way the Opposition is using it. The Opposition knows that it frustrated the Government over the years in respect of almost countless Bills. It knows that it forced the Government to go to the electorate last year, when the Liberal Party and National Country Party were defeated. We now have a circumstance in which it is well known that the people of Australia are reacting against the Oppositionthey are coming out in support of the Government. They are doing this not because they like everything which the Government has done economically but because they believe that the Government is right and because they are acting in accordance with that innate basic philosophy of Australians that they want the Government to have a fair go. The Government is not getting a fair go. I say that the propositions contained in the amendment are false. 
There is talk about incompetence of Ministers and the Prime Minister not maintaining proper control over the activities of his Ministers. He has maintained control; that is what the Opposition is complaining about. He has removed some Ministers and has changed some Ministers. He has taken action when a Minister has come into the Parliament and given wrong information. That is his job as Prime Minister. Some Ministers might not have liked it, and of course the Opposition laughed at the time the action was taken, but that is the proper function of government. 
What is this all about? It is a situation where the Opposition is prepared to go to the brink; it is prepared to bring the whole economy of Australia into disarray. It is prepared, in fact, to stop the profitable activities of its backers. The great industries and the commercial people are going to get very concerned directly and are going to apply the brakes on what they started. What is the situation in relation to the Opposition's backers? This morning in the other place 

 Mr Daly gave some figures which showed that last week Liberal Party advertisements were circulated throughout Australia about this matter. They were all tabloid stuff- headlines to attract the notice of people. They were not decent examinations of the political, economic or constitutional issues- at least they have not been up to now. Examples of the headlines in most of the papers are: 'Go now, go decently', 'There must be a double dissolution', 'The time has come', No more petty tricks, let the people decide' and A doomed government'. This advertising cost $180,000 last week. Who is supplying the money? 
Of course they are, senator. The great vested interests. Every time Labor gets into power it sets out on a course of great welfare programs, as honourable senators well know.  Senator Webster  is interjecting, but he, the operator of a timber mill, will be squealing directly. So far so good for him, but if the whole economy comes to a stop and there is a crisis- a defence situation, or a problem in  Senator Cavanagh  's portfolio in regard to supplying police to airports- who is going to squeal then?  Senator Webster  will squeal- of course he will. The Opposition, of course, is setting out on this disaster program. In my opinion, the situation which is now disclosed is a most disastrous one for any opposition. 

 - Senator Devitt reminds me that  Mr Fraser  originally made what seemed to be a very reasonable statement in relation to what would be reprehensible, but we now know that as time went on he changed his mind. It would now appear that from the start he was setting course on what is now a contest for power. In March he said that governments should be allowed to serve their full term unless there was evidence of some extraordinary and reprehensible circumstances. There are no such circumstances, as everybody knows. Question time in this Parliament each day has disclosed that no such circumstances have been revealed. The critics expound and expand in the area of the power of the Prime Minister to control his Ministers, or not to control them. That, of course, has led to a situation about which the Parliament might be concerned, but it would be more concerned if, having any defects in mind, the Prime Minister took no action. He has taken action. 

 - Senator, you started off early in the year with this sort of nit-picking. All it is is a nit-picking exercise. No evidence was found, and yet the Opposition is trying to convey to the Australian people, who are now backing off from the Opposition, that the Government is at fault. You are asking the same nit-picking questions every day. The Opposition came into the Senate with the intention of doing- I will not repeat the phrase; it is well known outside- with the intention of changing the face of the Government by holding an inquiry in the Senate. What happened? The inquiry was abortive. Since that time what has the Opposition done? Day after day the Leader of the Government in the Senate  (Senator Wriedt)  has been attacked and day after day the Opposition goes away defeated. The Opposition then returns the following day with the same notion and says: 'Yes, we should go to an election'. The Government is not going to an election. The Opposition has failed to be a responsible Opposition. It has not discharged its duties in the way it should, that is, by properly examining and criticising the record of the Government. It has been able to establish nothing. 
I have quoted what  Senator Hall  said. What did  Senator Jessop  do about crossing the floor? He is the famous senator from South Australia who was going to be courageous and not vote for the deferral of the Appropriation Bills. He got headlines in the newspapers.  Senator Jessop  got his name in the  Advertiser  again. Yes, he said, he would refuse to vote to block Supply! What happened? This week he appeared on television. I must say that at the end of his contribution on the radio program  AM  he rather weakened a bit. I think and I hope that in the weeks to come  Senator Jessop  will not only weaken but will back up completely to the position that he took in the Party room. I hope that other Opposition senators- everybody knows that  Senator Missen  is one of them- and other people will do the same. Honourable senators opposite talk about the struggles in the Labor Party. They have talked about the changes in the Labor Ministry. But let us look at the people who have been knocked over in the Liberal Party. John Gorton, an outstanding Australian- 
-No doubt he will be returned to this place. Although there was division amongst honourable senators opposite they got rid of Gorton and then they got rid of Billy Snedden. Now, in the aftermath of their failure to take over government, it may be that they will get rid of their present leader. No matter what the Opposition thinks, there is no doubt that in the public arena it must be clear to every rational observer that the Prime Minister is still the Prime Minister of Australia. He still has control of the Government. Not only has he control of the Government, but in my opinion he and his Government also have the support of the Australian people. I agree most strongly with his statement that no democratic government should take an action, in the situation promoted by this Opposition, to give away power. If we did that it could well mean the end of parliamentary democracy. So the Opposition has got to face the situation. Very soon now there will be a shutdown of the whole of the administration of the country. Construction work will come to a halt. The budgets in relation to many necessary construction works will be cut. The defence forces will be sitting on their tails and not able to move around the country or sail naval vessels. The people who have caused that situation are honourable senators opposite and not the Government. The Opposition should be held responsible for it. I had hoped that this morning the Opposition might have considered the request from the House of Representatives and again debated the issues in relation to this matter, instead of which it has taken the guilty way out and said: 'No, we will not restore the Appropriation Bills to the notice paper'. The Opposition should be aware that it has got to face the consequences. 
The  Minister for Transport has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question. 
See the answer provided by the Minister representing the Prime Minister on 2 October 1975 (Senate Hansard, page 932). 
The expected completion date is five or six years hence. Of course, how much can be expended this financial year depends on the passage of the Appropriation Bill (No. 2) which provides $5 1.9m for Australian National Railways capital works. As this project is a very important one for South Australia, obviously everybody is expecting that we will be able to get the Appropriation Bill passed to allow the work to continue. 
-The failure of the Opposition to pass the Appropriations Bills imposes very serious problems on the Australian Capital 
Territory. In order to conserve the funds the Minister for the Capital Territory has organised, in co-operation with the Department of the Capital Territory and his other Ministers, a constant review of those activities in relation to which expenditure can be controlled, such as transport, cleaning, information and community services, consumption of petrol and such things. The main issue, of course, is related to the payment of salaries to all the public servants who live in the Australian Capital Territory. A serious state of uncertainty and concern is rapidly emerging, as everyone can see from the resolutions passed by the Public Service organisations. We feel that those people will really remember for a long time what the Opposition is doing. 
-The information that I have received is that it is believed that the reason for the ditching of the aircraft on Tuesday was the total loss of transmission oil pressure. At the present time efforts are being made to recover the aircraft so that the crash can be thoroughly investigated. All 4 crew members were rescued without injury by another Sea King helicopter that was flying in company with the ditched aircraft. Two ships, the HMAS  Derwent  and a minehunter, HMAS  Snipe  are in the area. It is hoped to locate the aircraft soon although the depth of the water is 35 fathoms. It is intended that when the aircraft is located the 2 vessels that I have mentioned will lift the aircraft. Divers will accompany the operation. 
I have seen the figures that have been taken out now on the matter and they indicate a trend in the direction that  Senator Walsh  suggests. I think that it would be better if I produced the report on Tuesday and tabled it in the Senate. 
Yes, I saw the report. Also,  Senator Mulvihill  directed my attention to it and asked whether I could get some information from the 2 Ministers involved. I think everybody knows that the Australian Department of Transport conducted noise level tests during the recent trials of the Concorde aircraft in Australia. My colleague, the Minister for Transport, expects that the results of these tests will be published at the end of the month. Of course, the responsibility rests with the British Aircraft Corporation to provide a comprehensive environmental impact statement. This will be considered by our Department of Environment. I understand that the Heathrow tests are a source of concern to  Mr Berinson,  the Minister for Environment, and that he expects that the impact statement will cover results of both the Australian and the British noise level tests. 
-The report, which appeared in the Adelaide  Sunday Mail  over the weekend and which I have been told appeared in one other newspaper, was apparently taken from the annual report of the Weapons Research Establishment. For many years remotely piloted vehicles have been used for a variety of purposes, including weapons and gunnery trials. For example, the Jindivik and the Turana target aircraft are well known examples of work in Australia in the field and have been, of course, an accomplishment of the WRE. Until recently those vehicles have been of a moderate size in order to carry the necessary guidance instrumentation and control systems and, as a result, have been fairly expensive. With the development of miniature components the equipment has been developed to the stage where it can be carried for longer periods in small vehicles. The one that was mentioned in the newspaper report was a model aircraft. Australia has always had a very active program in research developments of this sort. Researches and studies are presently being carried out by the Navy and by a defence group. As a result there will be an evaluation of the use to which Australia might put this vehicle for its own purposes. 
For the last month tests have been conducted on a new maritime telex service which will enable ships at sea to place direct telex calls to subscribers anywhere in Australia or, through the Overseas Telecommunication Commission's international communication network, to almost anywhere in the world. Some hundreds of ships around the world are equipped to use the system. It will start on 1 November. Australian and overseas telex users will also be able to place calls to suitably equipped ships in contact with OTC's Sydney radio station. The tests have been successful. We think the service will be welcomed. I am told that in the present circumstances a large container consortium already proposes to use the system and that the early response proves that the advance is necessary in the world-wide application of new techniques. 
As honourable senators will know, the Government has been most concerned with the effects of natural disasters in this country. There has been a number of important initiatives, including the setting up of the Natural Disasters Organisation and the high level coordination of the defence forces in these areas. Concerning the honourable senator's question about the River Murray, I can inform him that a working party was set up some time ago to report on a whole range of problems- pollution, erosion, flooding and environmental aspects- of the River Murray. Its report was submitted this week to the Minister for Environment,  Mr Berinson,  and will be considered in depth by a committee of Ministers tomorrow. 
Yes, the decision was a good one because it proves - 
Being an old railway socialist,  Senator Mulvihill  would be pleased with it. As everybody knows, there was a good deal of controversy years ago when licences were given to private operators to install Red telephones. During the period when I was responsible for the Australian Post Office I recommended that we should take over the Red telephones. Some 20 000 units have now been taken over and they all have been converted to take 10c coinage. In addition, there has been a 5 per cent increase in the demand for Red telephones. As recently as in the last eight or nine months there have been 4000 applications from people who want to have Red telephones. 
I suppose that the essential advantage with Red telephones is that they are located in protected positions. The trouble with ordinary public telephones is that they are located in exposed positions and they are subject to much vandalism. The Red telephones have the advantage of being in areas where there are groups of people. It has been a very satisfactory operation. 
-The matter is presently under investigation. As honourable senators would know, at the present time STD charging equipment is limited to 2 charging scales; that is, day and night rates. However, equipment is being ordered which will enable Telecom Australia to offer up to 5 charging scales. These could be used for special rates, for calls on different days or for calls made during the busier periods of any one day. However, on present indications, that new equipment will not be available for about 2 years. In considering the options, Telecom Australia is concerned that the revenue from the additional calls attracted by reduced rates is not outweighed by the loss of revenue from the diversion of traffic from higher rate periods. The Commission is certainly going to follow up the matter and I will be able to advise later in connection with it. 
-This subject has been raised more than once in this place. As the honourable senator knows quite well, the Government's advisers have pointed out that no such damage has occurred at all as a result of resignations. As I think everybody now knows, the real position is that those resignations took place because this Government acted upon the recommendations of the Jess report, which the Opposition would not do when it was in government. As a result benefits were afforded to officers to retire sooner than they might have done. Certainly no damage has been caused or problem created within the defence services. In fact, the reverse has happened. In the last week or so the Minister for Defence,  Mr Morrison,  has been advised that retention rates within the Services generally might have to be looked at because of the $1,000 bonuses which our Government provided for servicemen. It is thought that promotions might be slowed down because of serving members wanting to stay in the services. If the honourable senator has any other questions on any other aspects which he wants answered I shall certainly attempt to obtain an answer from the Minister. 
I have been informed that it is standard practice to initiate a procedure which the Navy calls submiss if at any time there is doubt about the safety of a submarine. The doubt can arise through lack or failure of communications during an exercise. I am advised that such incidents occur occasionally and may be caused by the failure or malfunction of, for example, a grenade signalling device. I am advised also that the safety procedures are well tried and practised and are instituted if there is any doubt as to the safety of a submarine.  Senator Drury  asked me this morning about this matter but that is as much information as I can give him at this time. I will follow up his question and will see whether there is some other information I can give him in respect of this incident. 
I think I answered a question about this matter last week. The committee is still working. It has not yet made its report. We have asked it to attempt to speed up the report. Presently the equipment for the transmission at Carnarvon in Western Australia is being established. I think I gave the date of operation last week. The construction is proceeding satisfactorily. Radio Australia will be operating soon. I will get the date for the honourable senator. The future of Radio Australia will depend upon the committee's recommendation to the Government. It will be for the Government to consider that recommendation. I cannot yet say whether the situation at Cox Peninsula will be altered or the sort of recommendations which the committee will make in respect of Darwin. I have forgotten the date of operation of the temporary site, but I will get it for  Senator Young. 
The answer to the honourable senator's question is as follows: 
I ) For the financial year 1974-75, the due date of 14 July 1975 for issue of group certificates was not met for approximately 5050 temporary employees of the PostmasterGeneral's Department, who had been re-engaged by either the Australian Postal Commission or the Australian Telecommunications Commission as from 1 July 1 975. 
Because of the inherent difficulties in finalising within a short period all wage records for the many temporary employees of the Postmaster-General's Department stationed at numerous locations in post offices and outlying operational areas, it has often been impossible to produce all group certificates by 14 July. Under the Income Tax Assessment Act, the Commissioner of Taxation may grant an extension of time to issue certificates. For 1974-75, although extensions were sought by some States, the need to make formal application was inadvertently overlooked in Victoria and Western Australia, which also required such extensions. 
Difficulties were experienced also with some 250 employees previously located in the Northern Territory but relocated in other States as a result of the Darwin cyclone. Unfortunately, the full earnings records of Northern Territory employees were not available in time for certificates to be issued by 14 July. 
However, the Australian Postal Commission and the Australian Telecommunications Commission arranged the completion and despatch of all outstanding group certificates by early August in time for employees to lodge their returns by 31 August 1975, the stipulated closing date for Personal Returns. 
-I have seen the Press reports. I can assure the honourable senator that there has been no change in the policy of providing emergency medical treatment for civilians at naval hospitals. In fact, only last weekend 2 civilian divers who were suffering from the bends were admitted to Balmoral naval hospital. They received specialist treatment in a recompression chamber at the Navy's school of underwater medicine. Civilians have always been provided with necessary emergency treatment and will continue to be so provided. 
It is well known why the Government decided to abolish the cadet corps. This was done on the advice of its advisers that the amount of $llm which was spent on the cadet corps should be spent in the defence area. As everybody knows, the schools did not maintain the cadet corps; in fact, the defence Service did. The advisers recommended to the Government that in the light of the present situation, that money could be better spent. A lot of publicity is being given to the fact that the Opposition somehow is committed to change that policy. There has never been any statement at all to that effect. All that  Mr Killen  has gone on record as saying in the newspapers and in his defence policy is that the Opposition will encourage schools maintaining cadet corps. I suggest to any people who think that the Government's policy will be changed by another government that the matter has been misrepresented. As regards the other matters which have been raised, for example, the recommendations made in respect of the Citizen Military Forces, I indicate that twenty-two of those recommendations have already been adopted. So I suggest that the complaints which have been made are ill-founded. 
I enter the debate briefly to state that while this debate has been in progress  Senator Withers,  so I am told, has been in the passages. Of course, he should have been in the Senate chamber. He was told by  Senator Douglas  McClelland that his Press statement would be replied to in the Senate. He is not here in the Senate chamber when we are considering a matter which used to be the subject of an understanding between the Leaders in the Senate. As everybody knows, to some extent, over the last 12 months we have had understandings respected by both sides. Of course, what we have today is a clear breach of an understanding made between  Senator Douglas  McClelland and  Senator Withers  about a matter for debate next week. They decided on the matter mutually, and I emphasise the word 'mutually'. We know that discussion was conducted across the table. I heard some of it. In addition,  Senator Steele  Hall relates that he consulted  Senator Douglas  McClelland about the arrangements. 
So, what is this talk we hear from the Opposition about courtesy when arrangements have been made today consistently with a practice which has worked fairly well? It is a sign of a new arrogance on the part of the Opposition. Not only does the Opposition make an arrangement, but its Leader goes out of the Senate and makes a Press statement- not about whether  Senator Douglas  McClelland has defaulted but about a debate which would proceed next week. He knew- I overhear the conversation at the tablethat such a debate would not be completed today. So it is a ruse. Of course, what the Opposition should have done, if it was intending to proceed with this matter constructively, was to carry out its promise or indication that it would call Khemlani before the Senate. The Opposition will not use the opportunity because it knows that there is no substance in proceeding in that fashion. But it wants to keep the scare going by setting up a select committee of the Senate. That is the whole stunt. It wants to have a select committee which will be sitting during a period of controversy in order to keep dragging things before the public with the assistance of the newspaper barons. The Opposition thinks that in that way it can divert the argument that we and the public now find has been exploited. 
Along with  Senator Douglas  McClelland, I want to resist what is contained in the public statement by  Senator Withers.  He is becoming erratic. He must be, because he talks about the courtesy of the Opposition. He uses these words: 
In any event, it was absolutely clear that the Government would have resisted by every device possible bringing my motion on for debate. 
It has never been debated. He does not know what the Government will do. 
Yes, the Opposition still has the numbers in the Senate. Our Caucus might advise us to do anything. 
-Listen to this, though.  Senator Withers  states: 
The Government, clearly running scared - 
Apparently, the Government is clearly running scared from people who decided not to have this  Mr Khemlani  brought before the Senate even though they have the power to do so. I repeat what  Senator Withers  said: 
The Government, clearly running scared, was obviously hoping that the Opposition would then use its numbers to gag and force the motion through. It would have cried unfair' - these are  Senator Withers'  comments- probably boycotted the Committee and continued its attempts to avoid the truth. 
What is worse in all this is the breakdown of an arrangement which we have had and which our Manager of Government Business in the Senate  (Senator Douglas McClelland)  has reported to us as being satisfactory in the past. 
The second point in relation to this adjournment debate that has ensued, is that  Senator Withers  went out into the public arena about a matter which is the property of the Senate- that is where it should be debated- in order to criticise our own Leader. I think it is a new indication of the sort of concern which the public is having that there is a new arrogance about the Opposition. It intends to use its numbers. It does not intend to debate these issues. It intends to use its numbers to keep the scare going in the hope that will influence the Australian electorate. I do not think it will. 
Reflections upon Members, the particular individuals not being named or otherwise indicated, are equivalent to reflections on the House. 
In conclusion I should just like to say that free speech is a wonderful principle but it should be tempered with moderation. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
I had hoped to have the letter for  Senator Young  today. It is not yet available, but it will be delivered this week. The letter, the subject matter of which obviously has been discussed by the heads of departments, the officers concerned and the Ministers, will set out the opinion of the Attorney-General. The position is not as suggested by  Senator Young.  I put to  Senator Young  that he received a copy of the report of the inquiry on public broadcasting as soon as I did and he has had an opportunity to make points to the Minister for the Media or to me about what he thinks should be the position regarding the general question. As far as I am aware now  Senator Young  has not made any response. 
It is related because the question is raised in the report. For the reason that I have given I hope to have the letter for  Senator Young  this week. 

 - Senator Drury has mentioned that  Mr Morrison,  the Minister for Defence, has announced already that a total of 1 1 local and overseas companies were invited to tender for the project. The cost of the studies will be met by the Australian Government and it is planned that they will commence in April next year.  Mr Morrison  states that the craft probably will be built in Australia, subject to satisfactory quality, cost and delivery times, although it may be necessary to consider building a lead craft overseas should an overseas company be the successful tenderer. The decision will be taken in time for construction to begin early in 1977, with the first craft planned to enter the Service during 1979. 
I think the question relates mainly to aircraft production and ought to be answered by  Senator James  McClelland. I do not have the information required and I do not think that  Senator James  McClelland has it either. But we shall get the information for the honourable senator. 
The Australian Telecommunications Commission has been in touch with a firm called Datatronics. It has discussed the new device which is a unit that is a small keyboard similar to that of a typewriter and an electronic display unit which at any one time can display a message of 6 words to 8 words and provide a communication medium for deaf people. We have been told by the manager that his firm proposes to submit the system to various government departments with a view to getting some assistance for users of these units. At present, the Telecommunications Commission does not have the device for examination or approval but it expects that it will receive these units within a few months' time. 
I have a full answer from  Mr Morrison.  Perhaps I could best serve the substance of  Senator Walsh's  question by quoting the substantial parts of that answer. The Minister has advised: 
As I indicated in the Parliament, it is Government policy to allow greater use of the Defence Force in natural disasters. To the extent that it proves practical for them to be available this also applies to the Army Reserve, some elements of which for example assisted in Darwin in March 1975 after cyclone Tracy. 
Consideration is therefore being given to amending current legislation to allow greater use of reserves for natural disasters and civil emergencies. However, the actual requirement to utilise reserve units will naturally be dependent on the adequacy of the other means available. 
The advice goes on:   in the event of a major national disaster, and when the resources of the regular components of the Armed Services are inadequate to support State Emergency Services to the extent required, it would seem useful for the Government to have the power to make reserves available. 
In respect of the question raised about the local issue, the advice states:   it would not be normal policy to expect that the Army Reserve unit at Kambalda-Kalgoorlie would be made available for bush fire fighting duties in that area. 
The answer to the honourable senator's question is as follows: 
The following numbers of persons (151) are authorised to open mail: 
) N.S. W. 4, Vic. 3, Qld 1 1 , S.A. 6, W.A. 1 1 , Tas. 4 (Total 39). There is one office in each State for articles in category (a) above. The remainder in each State are for Customs examination purposes. 
No, except in emergencies such as where articles are suspected of containing explosives, dangerous gases or liquids and expert assistance is required to make the article safe. 
Mature adults employed in positions of at least Mail Officer or equivalent classification. 
Yes. There are detailed working instructions. Broadly they provide that: 
all authorised persons are made aware of the conditions and penalties for disclosing information relating to the contents of an article ( Regulation 47); 
prescribed number of authorised persons must be present when the opening and examination takes place; 
the examination in each case must be confined strictly to the purpose for opening the article. For example, with undeliverable mail to the location of the name and address of the sender; and 
each article must be endorsed as prescribed that it has been opened (Regulation 48). 
Yes, to the State Manager where the postal articles or their contents are in contravention of postal legislation. 
Under this Regulation authorised officers are permitted to make a quick sight check to ascertain whether the article is entitled to be transmitted free or at an appropriate rate. This check is made only when there is some reason to suspect that the article is not so entitled. 
It has not been necessary to apply the provisions of that part of Regulation 45. If it became necessary to do so, a figure of 1000 articles is considered, at this stage, to be appropriate. 
1 540 045 letters, packets and parcels. Of this number: 
723 articles suspected to have been posted in contravention of postal legislation; and 
the balance were undeliverable articles of domestic origin which did not have the sender's name and/or address on the outer cover and articles of overseas origin selected by Customs officers for examination. 
Well over 60 per cent of 'undeliverable' enveloped and packaged mail is able to be returned to the sender after examination. 
NOTE: The opening of undeliverable domestic articles has not always been done on a centralised basis, that is, at one office in each State. From early 1972 until recently, much of this work was decentralised to almost 700 selected post offices. The Australian Postal Commission decided at its meeting on 8 September 1975 that, because of the privacy issues involved, undeliverable domestic articles should no longer be opened at post offices, notwithstanding that no cases of privacy violation had come to notice during the period of decentralisation. 
Ethnic Radio (Question No. 8S0) 
On  4  September  Senator Young  asked me whether the issue of licences to 12 new stations would be made under the provisions of the Wireless Telegraphy Act and whether such an issue would be in contravention of that Act. He also asked whether I had sought a legal opinion from the Attorney-General's Department. 
I subsequently advised that my Department had sought such advice and that the views of the Attorney-General's Department were being studied by the Heads of both my Department and the Department of the Media. The advice which my Department sought was whether special and experimental licences issued to certain stations, for example, Universities and Ethnic Stations, had been validly granted under the Wireless Telegraphy Act, and also whether the licences it was proposed to issue to selected educational institutions announced by the Minister for the Media, could be properly issued under the same Act. 
The Attorney-General's Department has indicated that a licence for a Broadcasting Station cannot be issued under the Wireless Telegraphy Act but that one has to look at Section 4(1) of the Broadcasting and Television Act which defines a Broadcasting Station to mean 'a station for the transmission by means of wireless telegraphy of broadcasting programs, that is to say, matter intended for aural reception by the general public, and includes the studio, transmitting station and technical equipment used for the purposes of those programs. 
The Attorney-General's Department has observed that the question to be determined prior to the issue of a licence is whether a station is a Broadcasting Station within the meaning of the Broadcasting and Television Act. 
Significant factors which must be considered are the nature of the matter which is to be broadcast, the audience intended to be reached by the broadcasts and the frequency, power and location of the stations. 
After consideration of these factors, the Attorney-General's Department has concluded that the licences already issued to the University of New South Wales, the Australian National University and University of New England have been validly issued under the provisions of the Wireless Telegraphy Act. 
In the case of the Ethnic Stations, the case is not as clear cut as these were issued under the Wireless Telegraphy Act on the basis that they were experimental licences broadcasting material in a foreign language and directed specifically to ethnic groups. They were of a special character and could be considered as falling within the nature of a social/community experiment and not intended for general public hearing. I believe these licences were properly issued. 
In response to your particular query about new licences, the Attorney-General's Department has advised that the validity of granting licences under the Wireless Telegraphy Act to a number of educational institutions must be viewed against the nature of the material to be broadcast and the proposed audience. - Taking this advising into account, it is proposed to issue licences to selected institutions under the Wireless Telegraphy Act with special conditions relating to the nature of the material to be broadcast and the people intended to be reached so that there can be no doubt as to the legality of the licence. 
These conditions would be along lines that the stations should transmit matter of an educational character intended for the aural reception of staff and students of the institution. 
I have seen the statement and can state that there is no foundation for the allegation. It should be realised that the defence investment at Lavarack Barracks is more than $60m at current day values. In addition, a $3m expansion program is planned for the area. It may also be of interest to make mention of the extent of defence activity and involvement in the Townsville area. The Royal Australian Air Force base at Garbutt and the various Army installations represent a total investment of about $ 1 40m. The pay packets of the Services personnel and civilian work force exceeds $620,000 
Since that action was taken, several countries have expressed interest in the service which currently provides for delivery of mail within 48 hours to many places in the United States of America and selected cities in the United Kingdom, and a reciprocal service to Australia is available in the United States of America and the United Kingdom. Feasibility tests are being conducted in relation to extending the service to Hong Kong and Singapore and there is every indication that this will be possible. 
-Presently 5000 subscriber trunk dialling coin telephones are being purchased in Japan. They are being received progressively and are being distributed in large numbers already. Some 67 have been established in South Australia. The unit which is available offers a high degree of security against theft and vandalism. Recently, specifications for the unit were revised to incorporate even greater security requirements. A modification which is to be made to the unit is presently being considered. The unit is regarded as being equal to any other unit of its type in the world. It is simple to operate. 

 -As Senator Townley well knows, this subject was canvassed at the meeting of the relevant Estimates Committee and the officers present explained what was the Government's objective in relation to the target for the recovery of costs. It was explained to  Senator Townley,  as he well knows too, I think, that Australia is in no different position from every other country in that international operators whose countries are members of the international body are already facing a problem similar to that faced in Australia. 
The task of recovering a greater amount of the funds that are required for aviation services was started in the time of the last Government. The only one who can say whether the target which was announced by the Minister for Transport,  Mr Jones,  regarding recovery is to be maintained is the Minister himself, and I will ask him about that matter. On the other aspect, it is true that traffic can be affected by any increase in fares and that the recovery of the cost of administering the system would add to the costs. But I put it to the honourable senator that already what the Opposition Parties are doing at present is seriously imperilling not only the aviation industry but also, of course, the whole of our economy. So, I cannot see any source of satisfaction to the honourable senator in talking about the burdens imposed upon airline organisations. In respect of the other questions, I will ask  Mr Jones  whether he can supply me with direct answers so that I can give them to the honourable senator. 
Originally  Senator Young  asked questions of  Senator Douglas  McClelland and me as far back as May when the committee on ethnic stations was being set up. Later, in September, he raised the question of legality - 
I am identifying  Senator Young's  question with what he did, because I understand that he is - 
That is right. I am answering  Senator Young  as the shadow Minister, which I understand he is. The critical question was asked on 4 September. It became apparent that a number of people were asking questions, as the honourable senator did, and seeking to test the legality of the issuing of such licences. As a result I took it upon myself to undertake with the other Minister to get an opinion or advice from the Attorny-General's Department. As the honourable senator knows, that took a bit longer than I had expected. But we acted upon the opinion, and I issued a statement about it yesterday. I suppose it is fair to say that as a result of that advice new licences when they are issued will have attached to them the definitions to which I referred in the statement. So in the statement which I issued the honourable senator has substantially the advice which was received from the Attorney-General's Department. I do not think that I am in any position to give to the honourable senator the document which contains the opinion. I do not know of any other Minister who has ever done anything like that. 
If  Senator Young  is making to me the representation that some of the licences have not been legally issued and should be withdrawn, or if he is proposing to me that the other Minister might consider a new form for issuing licences or new restrictions or definitions being attached to licences, or even something in relation to the public program involved, I would be only too happy to consult with  Dr Cass  about such matters. 
I conclude by saying that I do not think that  Senator Young,  as I understand him, is proposing any restrictions in respect of the program of the Government. If he is, he ought to say so and ask me to consider that matter. That I think is the position in which we find ourselves. I will consider whether the written opinion might be handed to  Senator Young.  I think that he has received substantially the advice which we were given. He has seen, too, the report that the Ministers and the Government are prepared to consider whatever points he has raised. If he has other points which he wants to put to me, I will be only too glad to consider them on my own or with the other Minister. 

 -As Senator Rae well knows, the position in relation to defence targets has been explained many times, as has what I consider to be one of the greatest achievements of the Australian Labor Government- the introduction of a new relationship between the pay scale and the improved defence forces retirement benefits; also the reorganisation and integration of the Defence Department, which  Senator Rae's  Party opposed in this place but which fortunately was approved with the assistance of other honourable senators. The Minister for Defence has explained already the sort of problems which will arise as a result of the actions of the Opposition. I think that  Senator Rae  ought to be more concerned about his own actions in voting for the Opposition to stop funds that are necessary - 
That is the real position.  Senator Rae  should be more conscious of the immediate effects of his action in preventing the defence forces of Australia from operating satisfactorily in situations which might be called 'critical ' at the present time. That responsibility is at the Opposition's doorstep and not ours. I think that in respect of the general tenor of the targets of the defence forces I should get the figures, which are on record, from the Minister for Defence,  Mr Morrison.  I shall then give them to the honourable senator. 
-The plans for the reorganisation are already well known to the honourable senator because they were discussed in this Parliament not more than a month or 6 weeks ago. 
I do not need to repeat them.  Senator Rae  can read Hansard. He voted against the plans of the Labor Government to make perfect an integration scheme which was first raised by General Morshead back in the 1950s during the currency of the LiberalCountry Party Government. This Government perfected that scheme. At the present time the organisation of the defence forces is more efficiently based than at any time in the post-war years. If the honourable senator wants figures relating to targets, recruiting, enlistment, retention and the bonus payment of $1,000 for servicemen who want to have a second term- a provision which was introduced by this Government, not by his Government- I will get them from the Minister. 
I have seen the report. It has been drawn to my notice by  Senator Drury.  I note that the report refers to  Sir Arthur  Tange as the former head of the Department of Defence. Everybody knows that he is the present head. It seems clear to me from what has been reported, if the reported statement is true, that  Mr 
Barraclough either is not informed or is purposely putting out false information.  Mr Morrison,  in a statement to the Parliament on 26 August, pointed out that the recommendation to the Government to abolish school cadets had come from the Defence Force Development Committee which represents the most authoritative source of advice on defence matters to the Minister. The Minister said that the Committee had formally advised him that abolition of the school cadets would have no adverse effects on capabilities but would release Service manpower for other purposes. This view was endorsed by Major-General Pearson, who recently retired as Chief of Army Personnel, at a seminar in Brisbane on 1 September. He said it should not be the responsibility of the Services to maintain cadets and drain defence expenditure. It is the view of the Chief of the General Staff and the Military Board that the $ 1 1 m-plus allocated to cadet training can be more effectively used for the defence of Australia in other fields. In relation to allegations that  Sir Arthur  Tange had misled the Government, I repeat that the advice to the Minister from the Defence Force Development Committee was unanimous and included the views of all its members, namely, the  chairman  of the Chiefs of Staff Committee, Admiral  Sir Victor  Smith, the 3 Chiefs of Staff- Vice Admiral Stevenson, Lietenant-General Hassett and Air Marshal Rowland- and the secretary of the Department of the Defence,  Sir Arthur  Tange. 
I do not know why senators on the other side keep asking questions about the uncertainty of defence pay. The Opposition is creating the situation, not the Governmentit is in the Opposition's lap. The Opposition can get rid of this uncertainty today if it wants to. In respect of the general position with which we are faced because of the Opposition's move, all I can say is that certain decisions have been taken with a view to achieving administrative economy and to conserving financial resources. Other measures are under consideration and will be put into effect at the appropriate time. There is no possibility at all that any measure which may be taken will be illegal, as somebody mentioned previously. 
-In respect of that part of the question, I am not aware of any such statement having been made. All I can do is find out whether such a statement was fed back. As the honourable senator knows, there is a great deal of speculation not only in the defence forces but also in every other department as to what might happen if the Opposition continues to do what it is doing, that is, obstruct the Government 
There has already been a great expansion of the east-west trunk system to double the number of telephone circuits on that system. Some $2m worth of equipment was ordered earlier this year to provide a further 600 telephone circuits to raise the capacity to 1 ,800 circuits by 1977. Interstate television programs for the national station at Norseman will be improved by 1976 by the installation of a television program relay bearer between Kalgoorlie and Norseman. A coaxial cable from Ceduna to Cobar will be installed by 1978 to provide a more direct and alternative link to Sydney. The Telecommunications Commission is also planning for the installation of a fourth transcontinental telephony bearer from Norseman to Ceduna by 1979. 
-Senator Wheeldon has already answered a similar question in respect of repatriation matter. According to the article in the  Australian  this morning,  Senator Jessop  allegedly referred to misleading statements, Ministers creating uncertainty about matters, and claims about funds for the Army and the defence services. I have checked with the Department. It is aware, as I am, of only one representation that  Senator Jessop  made to me. It was not about funds. It was about the case of a particular serviceman. I responded very quickly by showing the honourable senator the file of the person concerned. No instructions have been given to the Army or to the Department of Defence to cease paying any accounts properly presented for payment. Contractors to the Services have no reason to expect that September accounts will not be paid. What will happen to accounts presented next month is a very different matter. As to creating uncertainty, I suggest that  Senator Jessop  is the one who is doing that. We all know that it was not long ago that members of the Press were trying to find out from him whether he would vote for Supply. Not long ago he said that he would not stop Supply. Yesterday the television people were at his office to find out what his position is now. It is not the Ministers of the Government who are creating uncertainty. I suggest that it is  Senator Jessop  and others. 
The answer to the honourable senator 's question is as follows: 
No. the 40 per cent increase in sea freight rates imposed by the Australian National Line on its coastal shipping routes between Melbourne and Brisbane on1 August 1975 has not been reduced. 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Prime Minister. It relates to the question of staff ceilings to which  Senator Knight  referred earlier. I ask the Minister: Is it clear from the directions given to Public Service departments and to statutory authorities, which involve a reduction of more than 6000 public servants- perhaps more in the statutory authority area- that there will be no sackings to reach the reduced ceilings? 
-In supporting the motion that the Senate take note of the statement, I want to comment briefly that the statement of the Minister for Administrative Services  (Senator Withers)  clearly endorses what the Labor government decided to do about the patrol frigates and the DDL program.  Mr President,  you and honourable senators will remember the great agitation on the part of the people who are now on the Government side of the chamber about the deferment of the DDL program. The review which was promised by the Government in one of its wordy defence policy statements put out when it was in opposition has in fact supplemented and confirmed what  Mr Barnard  did when he was Minister for Defence and what  Mr Morrison  did when he was the Minister for Defence. I seek leave to continue my remarks at a later stage. 
Leave granted; debate adjourned. 
-In supporting the motion of the Minister for Administrative Services  (Senator Withers)  I would like to say that I am quite sure that all South Australian senators and members of the House of Representatives will be sorry to see- as it appears in the statement- a finality about the arrangements at Woomera. The statement of the Minister commenced by stating that in future the activities at the Woomera Rocket Range will be reduced to a care and maintenance level. But in fact, as I think all honourable senators know, particularly those from South Australia, that has been the situation for some years. 
I am alarmed about the decision to reduce the staff by some 700 within 12 months, even though examinations are being made of the use of Woomera by the Royal Australian Air Force and the Royal Australian Army to which the Minister referred. I should like to refer to the Minister's statement in part. He said: 
The Australian Services currently are examining possible uses of the Woomera area. 
The Minister recently pointed out that it was not the Government's intention to sack people but to allow reductions in staff to occur through wastage. It seems to me that this statement means that 700 people at Woomera will get the sack. That is bad enough but it seems to me to be necessary to make the point- I am directing this to the Minister- that I hope no finality will be made in relation to the matters raised in his statement until the Army and the Air Force report to the Government about their investigations into the use of Woomera for various tactical exercises. I think it is a fact that where such activities have been carried out the reports have been favourable. I am sure any South Australian senator would be as concerned as I am about this matter. I am suggesting to the Government that there should be no finality in this matter, as seems to be indicated in this statement. There should be a further attempt to see to what extent our own 2 Services might utilise the area. They are conducting examinations into that at the present time. I make those remarks not only in respect of the need to maintain Woomera but also to ensure that the staff which is presently usefully engaged does not suffer any bad effects. I seek leave to continue my remarks. 
Leave granted; debate adjourned. 
I take this opportunity to congratulate those new senators who have made contributions to the debate today and to wish them well in the Senate. The Senate, which has been a very important place, unfortunately was used last year as a device for getting rid of a popularly elected government- the Labor Government. I need only reiterate very briefly what was said initially by my colleague  Senator James  McClelland, in a very fine speech when he talked about the issues that preceded the elections that resulted in the defeat of the Labor Government, and later by my colleague  Senator Douglas  McClelland. I am honestly and firmly of the opinion that parliamentary democracy in Australia suffered a great blow with the events of last year. In no other country which operates under the Westminster system is it possible for a government which has a majority in the people's House to be deposed. We saw the situation in the other place where, after the Labor Government had been sacked, it showed in a vote that it still had a majority among the elected members of that House. The Labor Government was wrongly sacked. I agree that it was done by various arrangements- incidental, accidental or on purpose. It seems to me that that has resulted in a reduction in the prestige of the parliamentary system as such. 

 Mr President, I listened to the words that you used yesterday when you talked about the need to observe standards. This is not the first occasion on which other members of the Australian Labor Party and I have risen to our feet to declare our support for parliamentary democracy. In my opinion there is no doubt that most Australian electors agree that the sacking of the Labor Government was wrong. It has done nothing to enhance our parliamentary system. As I said at the declaration of the poll in South Australia, it is a pity that a coalition which might have won the support of the people in an ordinary election at the proper time had to have recourse to that sort of device. In my opinion this has done the coalition parties no credit. We know, of course, that previously the leader of the major party in the coalition had declared himself to be against the very thing that happened. 
I am sad that the people who talk about observing standards have been the first ones to break them. That is why I commenced my speech by reacting to  Senator Young's  comments about the Parliament. Surely this Parliament must be the voice of the people. We would not have minded if we had been defeated in an election that had been properly called under the parliamentary system in Australia, but under it there is no power to recall the members of the Parliament. The previous Parliament should have run its course. The events surrounding the dismissal of the Whitlam Government and the arrangements that were made- knowledge of which was added to tonight by  Senator James  McClelland- no doubt will be the subject of the writings of many historians and other experts. I think it is sad that such a thing happened. I am sorry that it happened to the parliamentary system because I think that if the parliamentary system does not stand the test of the everyday needs of society in Australia something will replace it. We should ensure at the proper time that what happened last year does not happen again. I say again that parliamentary democracy was struck a very heavy blow. 
The events leading up to the sacking of the Labor Government were not new. We know that prior to the 1974 election the then Opposition, in concert with the people who backed it- the great vested interests in Australia and the Press monopolies- had set out to destroy the Labor Government because the Labor Government was catching up on the need to make great welfare reforms in particular, to change the face of Australia and to give Australia a new image in the world. Despite the attacks on the Prime Minister of the day,  Mr Whitlam,  nobody can say that he did not emerge as one of the great leaders of the world. There is no doubt that at that time he stood amongst the great leaders of the world, including Willi Brandt of Germany. He brought Australia out of the backwaters and into a new area of influence in the world. As a result, we set up thoughout the world many new posts of Australian identity. 
-I will get to that. Before doing so I wish to take up the last point raised by  Senator Young  when talking about the influence of Australia. One cannot gainsay that  Mr Whitlam  became a world figure. There is no questioning the fact that the Whitlam Government became caught up - 
-Senator Sim said that it was a joke.  Mr Whitlam  was a great leader who spoke throughout the world of Australia's new role and the great needs. What do you want to do about aid and about the new Australia? You will go backwards. The honourable senator and many other people such as  Senator Young  and  Senator Davidson  went into the Estimates Committees and declared that there was a need for new aid programs on the part of Australia. What are the honourable senators doing today? They are cutting back those programs. What are they doing about international posts? They are cutting them back. What are they doing about Australia House in London? 
The honourable senator talks. Honourable senators on the Government side are people of double standards. They always talk with 2 voices. At the Estimates Committee hearings they talked about Labor Government waste and about the need for new aid and formulating new programs. Today they are cutting everything. They said that there was a failure on the part of Labor to control inflation so that jobs may be had by all. That was in the GovernorGeneral's Speech. But what did  Mr Lynch  say? He is the spokesman on financial matters. On Monday, 9 February, he gave an address as Treasurer to the 29th International Banking Summer School. The title was:  Some Realities Of Recent International Developments.  He is one of the people who outside the Parliament, in the Press, in amendments moved to motions relating to the Budget Papers, in motions moved in the Senate, with their supporters, said that we were producing inflation and unemployment. This is what  Mr Lynch  said on 9 February: 
The rapid changes in the economic environment over the past 4-5 years, sometimes traumatic, can have had few parallels in recent times. It may now be that we have reached a stage where some of these changes are sufficiently behind us to allow some assessment, and draw some lessons, for the future, with particular reference to recent international developments. 
After talking about monetary problems, he stated: 
The next date of major significance would be October 1973, which saw the first of several sharp increases in the price of oil, and the resultant transformation, virtually at a stroke, of the size and direction of traditional financial flows. This event of course impacted on what seemed an already fragile exchange rate and trading situation. 
Government supporters, when in Opposition, said that inflation did not come from outside Australia.  Mr Lynch  continued: 
It also impacted on a very fragile international economic situation. The rate of inflation in the industrial countries, which had already doubled between 1972 and 1973, doubled again between end 1973 and end 1974. 

 Mr Lynch was not talking about Australia now. He was talking about other countries. He continued: 
Meanwhile economic activity in these countries turned down towards the end of 1 973. 
Notice that he said: "These other countries'. He continued: 
It is now a matter of history that the ensuing period has been the most adverse in the postwar years in terms of economic activity and price stability. 
That was the Treasurer. He said that the only trouble in Australia was that the Labor Government was causing all these things. Now he says it is a matter of history that the ensuing period has been the most adverse in the postwar years in terms of economic activity and price stability. In his address he stated:   not only, of course, for the industrial countries but also for the developing countries. 
Of course the then Opposition knew as well as we did that this situation was world wide and that the Labor Government was facing a problem similar to that faced by every other Western organised country. 
What is the position today? For a forecast I cite a survey made in the quarterly survey 'Business Opinion' by PA Consulting Services Pty Ltd. It was issued on 14 February 1976. A statement in the  Canberra Times  reads: 
Only a minority of executives were taking a more bullish view of the economy because of the advent of the new Government, the quarterly survey, Business Opinion, by PA Consulting Services Pty Ltd, said. The survey, issued yesterday, indicated that only 3 7 per cent of executives had altered their expectations about the timing of an economic recovery as a result of the ousting of the Labor Government and of these, 88 per cent expected the recovery to come sooner than they previously expected. 
The report continued: 
The survey underlined the difficulties of regenerating growth in the private sector with a finding that only 19 per cent of respondents anticipate increasing their blue-collar work force in 1976 compared with 1975, while 18 per cent of respondents said they would be hiring fewer blue-collar workers. 
The outlook for apprentices remained bleak, with 12 per cent of companies expecting to hire more apprentices than last year . . . 
What is the situation that the Government is developing in Australia? What is the position with the school leavers? What is the chance of employers taking on more apprentices? The cuts and economic policies of the Government have ensured that more people will be sacked, that more people will be retrenched and fewer school leavers and apprentices will be taken on. This is so not only in relation to the private sector but also in all Government agencies such as the Public Service departments. In the statutory authorities fewer people will be employed. Fewer apprentices will be taken on. Fewer school leavers will be taken into employment. What about the Government's aim to make sure that more people are employed than were employed before? Today in this place the Leader of the Government in the Senate  (Senator Withers),  in answering a question which I asked, said that the ceiling targets which had been imposed by the Prime Minister were, in his opinion, simply designed to take up the reduction caused by wastage, retirements, etc. 
At the same time as the Leader of the Government in the Senate said that, he read an announcement about the position at Woomera in my State of South Australia. I shall refer, as did  Senator Young,  to some of the South Australian matters. Woomera, in South Australia, is a multimillion dollar investment. We now learn, despite statements by the Prime Minister, that at Woomera there will be a reduction in the staff by 700 people in the next 12 months. The Government says that its policy is simply to take up the wastage. I should speak about what the Labor Government did in South Australia, because  Senator Young  talked about Redcliffs. Let us think about some of the Labor Party initiatives which were taken, particularly in my State of South Australia. For example, let us look at the great land commission grants. This was the first time in Australia that any government decided to provide funds to acquire land which would prevent the escalation of prices by speculators. The South Australian Government was given grants by the Minister for Urban and Regional Development,  Mr Uren,  which totalled $50m. That was the first time that had happened. In my State they have the advantage of having an organised socialist housing commission. It is an effective housing commission. It was established by a socially interested Premier,  Sir Thomas  Playford, who knew the value of such national undertakings. So South Australia has that advantage. The Labor Minister for Urban and Regional Development,  Mr Uren,  not only did that but also he followed it up with a water purification policy which would amount to nearly $100m when finally completed. Up to now I think the South Australian Government has funds totalling about $18m. Is the Government going to cut that scheme too? It has not said yes or no. Will it stop those great progressive steps to provide improvements for the State. 
We did not invest in Redcliffs but we did these other great things. Let us talk about railways. For the first time a State governed by the Australian Labor Party and led by Premier Dunstan decided to hand over the" country railway services to the Australian Railways. As a result there was a beneficial settlement to that State as there was to Tasmania. There is no case for any South Australian senator, whether he is a Liberal man or a Labor man, to talk about a bad deal for South Australia. In fact, what we are worried about in South Australia is whether the great programs which were started by the Labor Government will be cut off. Already certain statements have been made by the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser).  It is true, of course, that the Fraser cuts which total $360m, organised and determined by the Cabinet early in February, do not represent a very high percentage of the total 
Budget. But they affect many important people and they affect many important initiatives. 
For example, I refer to the area of responsibility which I had as Postmaster-General. It is the story of another statutory authority. The Government, by those cuts made in February, decided that there would be certain restrictions of funds available to the Australian Postal Commission and the Australian Telecommunications Commission. The cuts were reported in the Press and they are well known to most honourable senators. They mean that the capital investment in necessary construction- telephone, telex and other services in Australia- has to be cut. Surely those expenditure cuts must lead to a reduction in the productivity of the country. If the Government cuts back services such as those provided by the 2 organisations I have mentioned which were given the right to work independently and separately, this must restrict activities in the private sector. If private business and manufacturers cannot get telephones, telex services and all the new related technological and technical advice which is available to make their activities more profitable, surely that is a retrograde step. 
That is an example in only one area. If we look at other statutory authorities we find a similar situation. What the Government is doing in respect of statutory authorities which have a productive capacity is, of course, cutting off its nose to spite its face. In addition the Government has now imposed a staff ceiling which will further embarrass the carrying on of those activities. I am told that presently the unions involved in these industries are arranging to meet the Ministers concerned. I hope that as a result of their discussions such piecemeal and wrong policies will be changed because they are bad for the country. They may serve the commitment that is talked about in this document presented by the Governor-General but they serve no productive advantage because they are bad for employment and they are bad for business activities. 
What did this Government do when it let the axe fall? I ask honourable senators to think of all the things that were cut out. For example, pharmaceutical benefits, the Family Law Courts, consumer affairs and legal aid were all affected by the $360m expenditure cuts. The Foreign Affairs vote was also affected. International aid was cut by $22m.  Senator Sim, Senator Young  and  Senator Davidson  at Senate committee hearings have talked about the need for more aid and the need to look after people who cannot look after themselves. The Government has cut off aid to many of these people and made it more difficult for others to obtain it. In addition, departmental representation has been abolished in some countries. It has been abolished in Bombay, Calcutta, in Hamburg, Los Angeles and Messina. We know the work done by such offices in foreign countries.  Senator Sim  and many other Government senators have been to these offices. The closures include the offices in Milan and Osaka. We are talking about countries such as Japan and West Germany, that great western democracy. 
What has happened to our Australian Government office in Brussels? We also have staff reductions in Washington. Honourable senators opposite talk about offending our great friend, the United States of America. We are cutting down staff in Washington and we are cutting down staff in London.  Senator Young  talked today about offending our great ally, the United States of America, while the Labor Government was in power. There is evidence from statements made by the former United States Ambassador Green that relations between himself and the Labor Government were good. They have never been bad; they were not any worse or better than they had been with the former Government. Then, on the same day as  Senator Young  makes that statement  Senator Withers  announces that this new Government has decided to purchase 2 Navy patrol frigates. He talked about the good relations between the United States Government and the Australian Government. These were things that  Mr Barnard  and  Mr Morrison  as former Defence Ministers had done. They were not new. They said when they went to the hustings, 'We will have a new defence policy. We will have surveys of the DDL program'.  Senator Young  has talked frequently about the wrong in cutting out the DDL program. What do we find? In a statement made today the Government has stated exactly what the Labor Government and Lance Barnard decided to do; all the things which have now had the seal of approval placed upon them were developed by a Labor Defence Minister. Of course, this must be added to all the other things which the Labor Party did. 
Let me continue to deal with these expenditure cuts which the present Government has started.  Senator Young  talked today about the need to keep the Adelaide Singers going. What happened to the Adelaide Singers? They are to get the axe. Who has done this? It is the new Government. Premier Dunstan in South Australia has written to the Prime Minister and said, 'I might be prepared to join with the Federal Government in providing moneys to retain the Adelaide Singers'. That group is to be disbanded under the Australian Broadcasting Commission's cuts in expenditure in the same way as every other authority has had to make cuts. Let me outline the position in relation to other matters. Drug charges under the pharmaceutical benefits prescription scheme have been increased from $1.50 to $2. This is the Government 's new welfare scheme.  Senator Young  read from the Governor-General 's Speech a reference to this matter. This is the new welfare idea. It is that people shall look after themselves, that the poor shall look after themselves. The GovernorGeneral 's Speech states: 
The Government's long term objective is to prevent the growth of centralised bureaucratic domination in Australia, the increasing dependence of individuals on the state. It is to encourage development of an Australia in which people have maximum freedom and independence to achieve their own goals in life, in ways they decide ... the Government does not believe that the poor and disadvantaged can be best helped by increasing the dependence of everyone on what the Government chooses to provide. 
Do honourable senators remember the great arguments we used to have about repatriation? That is the next area that will face the chopper. We were assisted by other people to act in this area.  Senator Wright  who sits opposite me on one occasion supported a motion which I moved that an inquiry be set up. That motion was carried. Despite the fact that previous LiberalNational Country Party coalition governments always talked about the concern for defence, we were the first government ever to give support to Returned Services League claims as soon as we came to power. The evidence is on record. The General Secretary of the RSL pointed out that the Labor Government had met all the aims and policies of the RSL. We did that. The Liberals never did that. It was the first time that that was done. Now, the present Government will act to worsen repatriation services. Honourable senators opposite will not be able to give lip service, as they used to do every year, to what the RSL wants because, they will be the instrument of worsening what has been applied. 
The same position pertains in community affairs, tourism, consumer affairs, Aboriginal affairs and in the Northern Territory.  Senator Kilgariff  made an excellent speech tonight about affairs in the Northern Territory. But,  Mr Deputy President,  do you know that the axe has fallen on the Darwin projects? Today's Adelaide  Advertiser  states: 
Canberra ' freezes ' Darwin contracts. 
The article goes on to state: 
The Federal Government had frozen the letting of contracts to restore cyclone-damaged Housing Commission homes in Darwin. 
The  chairman  of the Northern Territory Housing Commission  (Mr G. Stolz)  said this yesterday. 
There is an obligation in this area. The Prime Minister at the time,  Mr Whitlam,  and the then Leader of the Opposition said that they would do all in their power to restore Darwin. Is it the way to restore the economy to make expenditure cuts in every area of economic activity?  Senator Guilfoyle  is not present in the Senate chamber tonight. I suppose that her actions could be described as reaching the bottom of the barrel. She has said that there would be a saving of $1.7m as a result of ending funeral benefits for pensioners. This is the Government that talks about the necessity to help the needy. Of course this is only the start of it; this is only the first instalment. Wait until we get other appropriations in regard to many of the things that the new Labor Government did that were said to be extravagant. For the first time in Australia organised sport became the beneficiary of aid from the central government, the Australian Government. Local communities either by way of grants or the Regional Employment Development scheme had important works done for the first time in Australia, not with funds that they obtained themselves or from State governments but with funds from the Australian Government. Is that a bad thing? 
A Government senator said: 'Yes'. I have been in many cities and towns of Australia and I have seen examples - 
-Well, it was not from this side, senator. I have seen many examples of the benefits that accrued to ordinary outback places which would not have got a benefit. The Government's new Federal-State relations policy will not follow the sorts of things that we did. What about when the new cuts come? There is no doubt that there is no future for the sort of activities which were instituted under the Labor Government. 
What will follow? Will the Government reintroduce television and broadcasting licences like it tried to do? I am pleased to note from the Press that some honourable senators on the other side became active in resisting that proposal. As I said the announcement by me when Minister and by  Senator Douglas  McClelland to remove the licence fee was one of the great reforms made in Australia. The re-introduction of the fee should never be tried; no government should try to do so. I hope that the forces in the Government who resisted the attempt to re-introduce upon the people of Australia that poll tax will have enough strength to do so again. If they do not we will certainly campaign strongly within the Parliament and outside the Parliament to resist such a measure. 
There is some thinking inside the Government forces that enterprises like the Australian Broadcasting Commission should be restricted to a budget related to the levies obtained from television and broadcasting licences. It would be a backward step to place the ABC and other such services in a position where they would rely purely on such levies. Of course the Government calls the ABC a socialist enterprise, as it does many things today. It has become fashionable today to describe as a socialist enterprise everything that is national, sensible, centralised and efficient. It would be a pity if the people who wanted licensing fees to be restored should win. I hope that if they do we will be active enough to stop the re-introduction in this Parliament. 
As I have said it seems to me that the important thing in the economic thinking of the Government is whether it will succeed. The attitude that I have on this is sensible: If you cut productive works you are reducing the ability of the Australian work force to be used efficiently and skillfully. That is a bad thing. Everybody knows that. If you cannot give the skilled, unskilled or semi-skilled worker proper employment you reduce opportunities, and that is exactly what the Government is doing now. There is no doubt in my mind that despite the temporary relief in the Australian Capital Territory in respect of some sackings that were to take place, sackings will take place throughout this country in all the Public Service departments and all the statutory authorities this year. This will have the effect of putting more people out of work. It will destroy, as I have mentioned, opportunities for the young people- the people who might become improvers and apprentices and other skilled and semi-skilled people. It is better to have opportunities for work than to have unemployed school leavers. The worst aspects of the policies which this Government is developing relate to employment. The Government's solutions to the economic situation are not as good as those proposed by the Labor Government. As I mentioned,  Mr Lynch  stated on 9 February that he now accepts that there are universal economic situations which match those in Australia. I refer also to the survey I mentioned earlier which showed that there is no more optimism by employers in the basic structure of the economy than there was during the course of the Labor Government. 
I conclude by saying what I said earlier Parliamentary democracy in Australia has received a great setback. That is not a popular argument at the moment and certainly the Press does not in any way recognise the principles to which we have referred. I am sorry to say that as a member of the Commonwealth Parliamentary Association and the Inter-parliamentary Union I cannot go into the countries again that I have been to previously or meet the colleagues that I have met before and say that our parliamentary system is as good as it was when Labor was in power. 
My question, which is directed to the Leader of the Government in the Senate, refers to his reply to a question I asked him last week about Public Service staff ceilings and also to his statement concerning reductions at Woomera and the Weapons Research Establishment. Is it now clear that that reduction of staff by 700 personnel at Woomera and the Weapons Research Establishment will come within the criteria which he announced last week, namely, by wastage and retirements, or will some people be retrenched? 
My question is directed to the Minister for Industry and Commerce. I refer to a public announcement which appeared in the Press this morning that General MotorsHolden's Pty Ltd has an alternative plan for the manufacture in Australia of 4-cylinder engines. I ask the Minister: Has that proposal been put to the Government? If so, has any determination been made in relation to it? Is such a submission likely to delay the date of the Government's determination of the Lonsdale issue about which the Minister spoke the other day? Does the announcement alter in any way the general trend of the Minister's reply given last week to  Senator Young? 
My question is directed to the Leader of the Government in the Senate. It follows other questions in relation to reductions in staff ceilings throughtout the Commonwealth 
Public Service. No doubt the Minister has seen statements by a number of important organisations that industrial action will be taken if any retrenchments occur. Is it clear now that it is the Government's intention that where the staff is to be reduced this will be done on the basis of the criterion the Minister reported last week, which was that the reduction has to be achieved by retirement, wastage, etc; or will the reduction occur, as the unions expect, through a number of retrenchments? If it is clear that no such retrenchments will occur will the Minister make a clear statement? If the position about sackings is unclear, will the Minister advocate what seems necessary, and that is the calling of a top level conference of all the staff associations with a responsible group in order to achieve some sort of consultation and arrangement in respect of this important matter? 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Transport and refers to the joint railway projects in South Australia. Is it a fact that the current cuts in funds allotted for the South Australian standardisation works will delay and impede the connection of Adelaide to the east- west standard system? Is it also likely to cause retrenchments in South Australian workshop staff? I also ask the Minister: Has any action been taken, or will he consider and promote action, to review the cuts that might have been made and will affect staff? Further, is it likely that the Alice SpringTarcoola project will be affected similarly? 
My question, which is directed to the Minister for Industry and Commerce, refers not only to his own statements previously about the 4-cylinder engine project in South Australia and more recently the General Motors-Holden's Pty Ltd announcement, but more particularly also to a statement made yesterday by the Prime Minister which has been interpreted as indicating that the Government is opposed to the 4-cylinder engine project in Adelaide. Has the Minister or the Government at this stage taken a positive position of opposition to that plan? If so, has he indicated that position to the consortium or to GMH, because previously his attitude has been interpreted as being that the matter is under consideration? In view of the lack of available information, will the Minister indicate the Government's views so that the matter might be cleared up? Has the Minister noticed that the General Manager of Chrysler Australia Ltd has said that the GMH project does not interfere in any way with his company's resolution to go ahead with its plan? 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Prime Minister or, if it is more appropriate, to the Minister representing the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations. It follows questions asked previously about staff ceilings and the Minister's own view about the need to reach those ceilings by retirements and wastage. In view of the fact that there is now widespread concern that unless the present deadline date of 30 June is moved further into the future there will be retrenchments, and also having regard to the Minister's own acceptance of the fact that there could well be retrenchments at Woomera, will he ask the Prime Minister to reconsider the deadline date of 30 June? Having regard to the fact that the new superannuation scheme will not come into operation until 1 July, can further consideration and support be given to that point of view because certainly more retirements will be achieved due to increased superannuation rights? 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations and refers to the practice adopted by a few- I repeat 'a few'private employment agencies of insisting that a job seeker pay a fee before any information is given about job vacancies. Reputable agencies usually recover their service costs in other waysfor example, by imposing a charge upon the employers. Will the Minister ask the Commonwealth Employment Service to investigate this matter with a view to assisting unemployed persons, who generally do not have such fees available? Secondly, will he also make inquiries as to whether information from these private employment agencies is used in any way to penalise unemployment beneficiaries? 
My question is directed to the Leader of the Government, representing the Prime Minister and the Minister for Defence. It refers to the recent discussions between  Mr Fraser  and the New Zealand Prime Minister and to reports in the Press at the time that new and significant joint defence procurement arrangements would result from those discussions. Did the 2 governments canvass and approve new joint equipment procurement policies, including the manufacture of defence hardware? If so, can the Minister say to what extent such new arrangements, which would be quite different from the existing ones, would affect the recent recommendations contained in the Industries Assistance Commission's report on the Australian aero-space industry? If the Minister cannot give me the information, will he attempt to get a clear statement on those discussions so that honourable senators will know what the position is? 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Post and Telecommunications. Did the Minister, in answering a previous question, state that the Labor Government had issued broadcasting licences to ethnic or publicly-operated organisations on purely political grounds? If he did, was he aware that the announcements of the Labor Government's proposals in respect of both the ethnic stations and the community-involved stations were made publicly in the Parliament and that, in addition, the Minister who issued the licences gave an indication that their operations would be very strictly controlled? Was he aware that nobody in the Parliament, including his own colleagues and his own shadow Minister, objected to the setting up of such stations or to the issuing of the licences? Was he also aware that in the formative stages members of his party, including I think  Senator Davidson  who was a member of the first committee, considered what the Government would do in respect of the new licences? If that is the position, I take it thai the Minister might either give me the chance to make a point of explanation later on or admit that- if his answer was framed as I am advised- in view of the information I have given his answer was incorrect? 
-I seek leave to make a statement in connection with the statement put down by the Minister for Social Security  (Senator Guilfoyle). 
I echo what  Senator Grimes  has said. Over the years, in connection with very important statements, particularly one such as this which I suggest is most serious and incorporates a new method for the payment of the unemployment benefit, it has been the custom for a warning to be given to the Opposition spokesman so that the Opposition may consider what motion should be moved. We have had no warning at all about the new strictures which have been announced and we have not considered whether they are reasonable. It is clear that before such matters become established Government policy there ought to be consultation with the Australian Council of Trade Unions. 
-Of course there should be. 
No, it is not. This is where the Leader of the Government in the Senate is out of step with his Leader. The Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  and Government spokesmen during the election campaign claimed that they would do what they could to obtain belter relations with the trade union movement and that they would consult with the ACTU at all times. 
That is the clear position. Is the Leader of the Government in the Senate now saying that he does not want to do that? 
This is an industrial matter. Is not employment an industrial matter? 
-I put this to the honourable senator: Is not the transfer of an electrician from Newcastle to Port Hedland an industrial matter? The man in question was about to get married and he was offered a job at Port Hedland. He was not sure about accommodation. He was told that he could not get the unemployment allowance because he could not go to Port Hedland. Is not that a matter of employment, a matter associated with the work force and with the ability of the nation to cope with the lack of productivity? Of course it is. An important case has been brought to my attention. It has been to appeal. It is the only one of a number about which I have heard. A young man got into trouble with the police and lost his car licence and had a short term of imprisonment. He had to get accommodation at Victor Harbour in South Australia which was some 30 or 40 miles from the nearest source of employment which he was offered. He was offered a job a Noarlunga. He tried it for one day. It took him 4 hours a day to get to his place of employment by public transport. For the reasons I have given he could not get employment in the town where the abattoir was. He appealed to one of the appeal bodies to which the Minister has referred but his case was rejected. He has been refused the unemployment allowance. That is a shocking case. I am presently putting it to the local authorities for examination. 
I am told by my colleagues that there are many other cases like this. This is a clear example of the appeal cases to which the Minister has referred. It seems to me that it would be competent and appropriate for the Minister to ask the appeal bodies to report to her about some of these circumstances. I am more concerned about the general tenor of the paper which we have not had time to study properly. Reference is made to a person who, because of his own resources, voluntarily gives up a job. Even if people do not have resources but their parents have resources, they could be refused the unemployment benefit. To me this is a most drastic step to take. I suggest that if the Government starts on the sort of bureaucracy that it will have to build up to examine these applications, instead of getting away from the bureaucratic controls which it talked about in its policy statement it will have a much worse situation. In addition, there are many other aspects of the document about which we have heard but which we have not had time to study. 
I think the best course would have been to list the matter for debate in the next day or so to give honourable senators a chance to properly examine it. It seems to me that because of the way in which this matter is framed, the Commomwealth Employment Service and a number of ancillary Public Service bodies will be set up as determining authorities to say whether an applicant is genuine. We do not want the situation in Australia where a man behind an office counter will be the sole judge of whether a young man or young woman applying for the unemployment benefit is getting the correct treatment. We want a system which is just. 
It is true that to some slight extent the unemployment figures have dropped but at the same time, as honourable senators know from recent records, clearly the number of vacancies also has dropped. These are off the cuff suggestions. Maybe the Minister did not formulate the policy but I suggest that before she embarks on this drastic re-organisation which will give bureaucrats greater power to determine whether people should be paid unemployment allowances she should do what the Liberal Party said it would do, that is, find more jobs for people. If the Government finds more jobs for people it will not need to place strictures on the individual rights of the person. If the Government sets up, as it seems to me it is doing, a large, organised officialdom which will see many ordinary persons penalised, then it is doing a bad thing for the country. There should be no arbitrary controls over the employment rights of a person. No person who is working should be at the beck and call of the employer if that person has a reasonable excuse for giving up his job or for taking some action with which the boss does not agree. 
I have referred to 2 cases. I do not suppose the Minister has ever been employed in a factory where he has been subjected to a boss. It seems to me that the Minister has a pretty free hand today. I suggest that he should look at the 2 cases I have mentioned. If he tells me that that is a reasonable way in which to enforce the non-payment of a benefit, then there is something wrong with his modern thinking. 
-I ask the Minister representing the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations: Is it a fact that the previous Liberal-Country Party Government and the Labor Government, together with employers and trade unions, have, over the years, advocated that industry and Commonwealth Departments should take a maximum of apprentices and other skilled trainees? Is it a fact that special incentives were introduced by the previous Liberal-Country Party Government and later improved by the Labor Government with the result that the intake of these apprentices and trainees was greatly increased? Is it now clear that because of Government cuts and the general cut in capital works programs the intake of these 2 classes of labour is likely to be reduced? Will the Minister see to what extent- despite the Government's ceiling on staff intake- efforts might be made to maintain a general increase in apprentices and industrial trainees which would give Australia a highly skilled workforce? 
I take advantage of this occasion to talk about certain threats which have been made in relation to the employment opportunities of members of the Public Service and statutory authorities. Most honourable senators will know that hundreds of public servants and employees of statutory authorities are now wondering what is going to happen to their jobs at the end of June following the announcement by the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  of certain policies. At the same time the Government has announced that far more stringent work tests than those now applying will be applied to those people who find themselves out of work as a result of the announced cutbacks. It is to me a fundamental and important question concerning the Australian economy. The Government ought to say very clearly and concisely what it proposes to do. 
Despite the fact that most of the central organisations representing the staff and the Australian Council of Trade Unions have been to the Prime Minister about this matter there has been no guarantee from him that the ceilings will be arrived at simply on the basis of wastage, although when the Prime Minister announced the cutbacks last year- cutbacks which have been made more severe more recently- he assumed, as did the Leader of the Government in the Senate  (Senator Withers),  that the targets set would be secured by wastage and retirements. The position has not been made clear yet. I am tonight urging that the Government hold the position as of now and that there be no further indications of sackings in the Public Service which must only add to the general unemployment situation in the community. The unions are concerned about this matter. Many of them are threatening to take action if such retrenchments occur. 
What is the position? We have had an announcement by the Government early in December about a reduction in staff numbers and we have had the statement made by the Prime Minister as recently as 12 March at a meeting in Victoria when he said: 
A stop has been put on the growth of the federal bureaucracy. On 23 December we announced our intention to hold staff ceilings at the level they had reached at the end of November. As a result of a further searching appraisal of priorities and programs, we have reduced these ceilings still further. By the end of June - 
That is June of this year-  there will be 17 480 fewer people employed in the federal bureaucracy than under the ceilings set by the previous Government for departments and authorities. 
Having regard to the general economic position, the previous Labor Government did not restrain staff recruitments. It intended to expand various commissions and authorities but we know such proposals have now been cut. The Fraser Government has now said: 'We have done a good thing. We have saved over $360m.' But the net result of those staff ceilings is that there will be 8000 fewer workers in the Public Service and the statutory authorities by the end of June, or a total of nearly 18 000 workers on the basis of the Labor Government's program, which means that many people are going to be sacked. Many of them are highly trained people. Some of them are unskilled. Many of them decided to make the Public Service their career. It is true that the Prime Minister had consultations with the unions about this matter and then made announcements which were considered at the time to be to some extent a moderation of the Government's policies. But the point I am making is that there has been no clear statement from the Government that it will not secure those ceilings without sacking people. It will be recalled that it was in respect to a question that I asked the Leader of the Government in the Senate,  Senator Withers,  on 1 8 February about the employment of people at Woomera and the Weapons Research Establishment in South Australia that he first announced his opinion about these targets. He said: 
My understanding of the directive from the Prime Minister is that the reduction in numbers is to come about by natura] wastage. 
When a clear statement on the situation was available to him he wrote to me in the following terms: 
As indicated in ministerial statement I made on behalf of  Mr Killen  on 18 February 1976, the rundown of the Joint Project at Woomera and Salisbury will involve some 700 f&gt;ersonnel on the number employed at the beginning of July ast year. 
In another part of the letter, amongst other things, he said: 
At this stage it is apparent that a reduction of this size cannot be expected to come from natural wastage alone. . . . 
He went on to say that some examination had to be conducted of the matter. It is clear to me and to the unions that there will be sackings unless the Prime Minister says that there will be no sackings and that the Government will hold the position as of now because of the general unemployment position. There is no doubt that many people are going to be forced into the unemployment field. As honourable senators know, the work test for unemployed people is already very strict, but the Government announced only yesterday that the position is going to be made worse. It is quite possible that professional people- architects and engineers- and highly skilled people could be made in the future to take a job which is certainly not a job for which they have been trained and at lower rates of pay- a menial job. The position is probably worse for the school leaver and the person who wants to undertake an apprenticeship. 
Perhaps I should mention that there was a small improvement in the employment figures at the end of February. We believe that it was the result of the Hayden Budget. The situation improved to the extent that there was a fall of 2793 in the number of people out of work after the seasonal adjustment had been taken into account. It is significant to note that at that time- in February- the unfilled vacancies dropped. 
-That is naturally what  Senator Walters  would say. If it was due to the return of business confidence, I ask  Senator Walters  to do what I am proposing to do, that is, request the Prime Minister to tell the unions concerned that there will be no sackings of people from the authorities about which I am talking. It might be appropriate to mention at this stage that many statutory authorities and constructing departments employ people who are productive in that they are performing a service. I instance the position with respect to the organisation with which I was associated. It is darn silly to say to Telecom Australia, which has a great target set down for the laying of cables and the establishing of new services, that it will have to reach a target which will impede it from providing services for the community and the private sector which might easily bring into the private sector new orders, which is what it wants at the present time. To attempt to set a target over the whole range of Commonwealth departments is wrong, as the unions have already told the Prime Minister. 
I return to the unemployment figures. I suppose that I should remind honourable senators what it is like to be out of work. Those who listened to  Senator Colston  tonight will have a very good idea of what it is like. He told a personal story- a very human and genuine story- about the difficulties that he, a highly trained person, had in getting employment and the indignities that he suffered under the old system of going to the Commonwealth Employment Service and sometimes being confronted by public servants who, because of the amount of work they had to do, were not as considerate as they might have been. He told the story about his child wanting to go to the toilet. I compliment  Senator Colston  on his very human story. The new guidelines- the new work tests- can force a boy living in a country area to shift to a city. A professional man can be denied unemployment benefits if he does not accept a menial job. When we are discussing them we ought to think about what  Senator Colston  talked about. 
Following the report in February of an improvement in the unemployment situation and a drop in the number of vacancies, which I have mentioned,  Mr Street  was asked to comment on the situation. An article in the  Age  of 6 March 1976 states: 
He said it appeared a significant number of school leavers had found employment, although many had also returned to full time studies. He said the reduction in the number on the dole was due to a combination of factors including the absorption of school leavers into the work force and the stricter guidelines formulated by the Government for paying unemployment benefits. 
To reduce the number of people on the dole we will have a work test which makes it much more difficult for people to get the unemployment benefit. As everybody ought to know, of course, the result of the combination of these new measures will be more people out of work in the Public Service- generally public servants are a highly qualified group of people- and school leavers who ought to be trained in apprenticeships will not be given unemployment benefits. 
As I mentioned this afternoon in a question to the Minister representing the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations, over the years, and including the reign of the previous Liberal Government and of my Government, many incentives were provided for employees. This was done more recently by the Labor Government when we bumped up incentives to make sure that every employer had good reason to take on young people to train in the trades, to train as cadet engineers and so on. We had been doing that and most of the State governments had been doing that. While the Government is providing financial incentives to employers it has decided to set staff ceilings throughout the whole of the Commonwealth Government and the statutory commissions, some of which are independent, because it will save $20m. The Government will create conditions which no doubt will result in some people being sacked. I suppose I should mention here something which was written in the  National Times  of 9 February 1976 about the problems of a young school leaver. The young person was looking for a job and she is mentioned in the article in these terms: 
To go on the dole before you turn 16 you must have worked in at least one job, which Shirley - 
That is the girl the article is about-  has not. If she could get a job, she could then get the dolebut if she had the job, she would not need the dole. 
She says the easiest thing to do would be to go back to school. The article then refers to a number of figures which ought to be quoted. I mentioned today in a question the drop in the number of apprentices in training. When we were in Government we asked all Government departments to take on more apprentices, not only to take on the prescribed number of journeymen, but also to take on more than their quota. In one year and adequate number of apprentices was being trained. The article in the  National Times  of 9 February to which I have referred continues: 
In New South Wales this year, there will only be 12 000 new apprentices taken on- 1000 less than the previous year, and 2500 less than in 1973. Of course, the problem of unemployment isn't confined to would-be apprentices. The building, metal and electrical trades provide three-quarters of all apprenticeships. In those industries alone there are already more than 35 000 skilled people unemployed in Australia. This includes 7622 apprentices who have finished their training. 
The article then refers to the efforts being made to recruit new apprentices. Let us look at the situation in regard to plumbing, which is a very important, skilled and highly paid trade. In New South Wales over 3 years the intake of plumbing apprentices into the technical schools has dropped from 1300 in 1973 to 600 today. Of course that is the position generally. What I am saying is that rather than the Government inflict these very stringent conditions of staff ceilings on the Public Service, it should be doing the relatively important work of providing financial incentives- the same as the Labor Government did with financial incentives- to make sure that if young people cannot get ready employment they certainly can be trained in jobs which will in the future be very important for the work force. While it is true that the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  has made various statements about a cheaper bureaucracy, what in fact is happening today is that the Federal Government is investing in the Commonwealth Employment Service officers vast new powers, which they should not have, to decide how to judge the eligibility of a person to receive unemployment benefits. 
The honourable senator ought to know. She has heard  Senator Colston  tonight telling the Senate about the very difficult times a person out of work would experience. Fortunately I have never been out of work. I have been very fortunate. I came into the railways following the Depression years, but I know the fate of the people who were out of work then and who are out of work today. The Government is doing something worse than was done to those people on the dole in the 1929-32 period when they got at least a ticket for four and tenpence to buy foodstuffs to live on. Honourable senators opposite talk about decentralisation and helping the country people. They will force the young person to leave his country home and go to the city. Of course what they are doing - 
-Senator, what will you do about the ceilings I have referred to? 

 - Senator, what about the cuts that have been made in your Department? How many people will you retrench, or are you going to hold them? What do you propose to do in your portfolio? What about the skilled people? 
The matter does not rest on whether we might have done enough. The Government has been in office now nearly 3 months and it was going to do all these things to correct the economy and to stop unemployment. As everybody knows, not only is it creating new unemployment- and the honourable senator knows that is a fact; it is on record- but also the work test will be so difficult that the Government will create within the Australian community a new group of displaced professional workers, semi-skilled workers and unskilled workers who will highly resent what the Government is doing and certainly will take very strong measures in the future, despite what might be done electorally. 
My effort tonight is mainly to ask the Government to reconsider the argument put to it by staff associations in February and early March of this year when they requested that no sackings be made in reaching these ceilings to which I have referred. That would be a very constructive aim. I suggest that so far in answering questions neither the Prime Minister nor the Leader of the Government in this place  (Senator Withers)  has agreed to the request. It is a very urgent problem. I hope that as a result of the union representations, my own statements and other comments made today in the Senate, reconsideration will be given to this matter by the Government. 
My question follows the earlier questions concerning the manufacture in Australia of a 4-cylinder engine and also the point made in  Senator Davidson's  question. Can the Minister for Industry and Commerce say whether the announcement yesterday by the managing director of Chrysler Australia Ltd has in fact created a new situation? He is reported to have said that if necessary Chrysler will go it alone and manufacture its own engine requirements irrespective of what General Motors-Holden's Pty Ltd does. Can I take it from what the Minister has stated that this is in no way likely to impede his report to the Government? I also ask, as  Senator Davidson  asked, whether the Minister can in fact say that the decision will now be made about 3 1 March. 
-Has the Minister representing the Minister for Health seen a statement by  Dr R.  Munro Ford, who is the  Chairman  of the Asthma Foundation and also the  Chairman  of the College of Allergists, protesting about a new requirement that asthma and allergy sufferers pay between $5 and $6 for each new prescription which they require for antihistamines. As the Minister well knows, the complaint is a most distressing one and in most cases the sufferers have it for many years. The  Chairman  of the Asthma Foundation states that he has not been consulted by the Government about the new requirement. Will the Minister be good enough to ask her colleague the Minister for Health to consider meeting the  Chairman  of the Foundation? I point out that there would be many cases of hardship because the drug is usually and generally required all the time. 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Defence. I refer to today's newspaper report of an interview with the Minister for Defence,  Mr Killen,  in which he is reported as having said: 
One of my initiatives was the creation of the Defence Council. I find that body literally invaluable. 
Among other things, he is also reported as having said: 
I am at a loss to understand why our predecessors in office did not, as you say, take this one step. 
Does the Minister not recall that in the concluding stages of the debate on the Defence Force Re-organisation Bill 1 975, in answer to questions raised by various honourable senators, I announced on behalf of the then Minister for Defence,  Mr Morrison,  that the Government proposed to reconstitute the Council of Defence with the following membership: The Minister for Defence, the Minister Assisting the Minister for Defence, the Secretary of the Department of Defence, the Chief of Defence Force Staff, the Chief of Naval Staff, the Chief of the General Staff and the Chief of Air Staff. I also pointed out that regulations would be drafted. I ask the Leader of the Government in the Senate whether he would be good enough to draw the attention of the Minister for Defence to this matter so that a statement which appears to be misleading may be corrected as this was, as I have said, a commitment by the then Government which preceded the adoption of the Bill. 
I will not be long but I think it is like the cheek of  Senator Sir Magnus  Cormack to tell the Opposition in this place what it should do and who it should select. He has no right to decide what we on this side do or whom we appoint.  Senator Douglas  McClelland has been designated by the Australian Labor Party to be the Leader of the Opposition Business in the Senate because we want him to. We have a a perfect right so to designate him. 
-Senator Wriedt is the Leader of the Opposition and  Senator Sir Magnus  Cormack has no right to tell the Opposition what it should do. As a matter of fact tonight he has strained the responsibilities of the 
Parliament. He has done this for many months. This is a matter of principle and I am not kidding. We on this side have a perfect right to arrange our spokesmen and to appoint the people we want to be our shadow Ministers. Such people have been popularly elected by our Party.  Senator Douglas  McClelland is a distinguished member of the Senate, as all honourable senators know. He was a Minister and he performed his duties well. He performs his duties for the Opposition very well and no honourable senator has a right describe his position as being redundant or unnecessary unless we of the Labor Party do so. 
I reject completely the point of view put forward by  Senator Sir Magnus  Cormack tonight. It has been a bad night for the Senate. All honourable senators ought to realise that if we want to make the parliamentary system work we have to behave a bit better. Let us play politics but let us do so a bit more cleanly than we have done in the last few weeks. 
My question, which is directed to the Minister representing the Prime Minister, follows previous questions about staff ceilings and possible retrenchments. The Minister no doubt will recall that on several occasions I have pointed out that the unions have met the Prime Minister and that some targets have been modified. As far as I am aware the unions have not been told yet whether the deadline of 30 June will be altered. I ask: Does the Prime Minister or the Leader of the Government in the Senate intend to make a statement in respect of the representations made by the unions about the staff ceilings? Can the Minister give any information as to where the modifications have applied in respect of statutory commissions? Also, in view of the fact that the proposed Superannuation Bill does not now provide any added incentives for people to retire at 60, will the Minister ask the Prime Minister to reconsider any policies which were announced earlier in the year? 
-Is it a fact that the Minister for Environment, Housing and Community Development has approved the redundancy of positions of some 70 employees in his Department into which has been incorporated the former Department of Tourism and Recreation? Is it a fact that unless these employees can be placed in other Public Service positions or with statutory authorities they will be retrenched? If that is not so can the Minister inform the Senate what efforts are being made to keep these people in employment? 
My question, which is directed to the Minister for Administrative Services, relates to future employment prospects for the skilled and experienced transport pool in Adelaide. Is it a fact that a number of regularly employed transport drivers in Adelaide are likely to be demoted to storemen positions or otherwise declared redundant? Is it a fact that at the same time as these management changes are occurring, taxi and hire car services are being used for duties formerly performed by these drivers? Are Commonwealth cars formerly driven by these drivers now being driven by administrative officers in other departments in order to save money? Will the Minister investigate this situation with a view to maintaining the longstanding and excellent services performed for all members of the Commonwealth Public Service, and people in the Parliament, by the transport pool? 
My question, which is directed to the Minister for Social Security, refers to a report this morning that an additional Commonwealth Employment Service officer will be appointed to the appeals tribunals. I ask the Minister: If this is correct, would she review any such appointment, having regard firstly to the independence of the tribunals? Also, in any such reconsideration would she consider whether any appellant who might be applying in respect of unemployment allowances or social service benefits generally might be represented or assisted in the same way as an appellant is represented in other tribunals set up under Commonwealth laws? Does she agree that, for example, in respect of the unemployment work test many new categories of skilled and professional workers will be scrutinised and interviewed and may require sympathetic and specialised assistance, not only at the counter, but at the appeals stage? 
I direct a question to the Minister representing the Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs. It relates to people from Lebanon who wish to come to Australia. Has the Minister seen publicity referring to the arrival in Adelaide of  Mr and Mrs F.  Aoukar who fortunately came to Australia via Cyprus after a rather spectacular exit from Lebanon and who were met here by  Mrs Aoukar's  brother who brought them to South Australia but who, on arrival in South Australia, said that their sister Vivienne and her family had been refused visas to come to Australia? I have been told personally that this is the case. Would the Minister be good enough to refer the case to the Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs with a view to seeing whether any such direction might be reviewed in the compassionate circumstances occurring? 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Prime Minister. It refers to previous questions about how to achieve the staff ceiling targets of the Government and to statements made yesterday by the Prime Minister that those targets had been attained without any dismissals. I ask the Minister: Is it now clear that the previously announced redundancy at Woomera and at the Weapons Research Establishment of between 400 and 700 workers who may or may not be placed elsewhere now does not apply? In relation to answers given to my questions by the Minister and by  Senator Greenwood,  is it also clear that no dismissals will arise from the Government's objectives which, according to the Prime Minister, have been achieved? 
I direct a question to the Minister representing the Minister for Defence. It refers to the controversy which has broken out in South Australia in relation to the increase in the establishment of the Royal Australian Air Force base at Edinburgh and the reports by various flying and gliding clubs that the request by the RAAF would prevent those clubs from operating. I ask: Is it now clear whether or not the 4 flying clubs, the gliding club and the soaring club would be stopped from operating should the request by the RAAF for new controls over the air space be granted? Can the Minister also advise to what extent the establishment of the RAAF base at Edinburgh is to be increased with its new operations and with the transfer of the No. 1 Aircraft Research and Development Unit? To what extent will that increase in personnel and operational staff assist the defence forces and local community interests in South Australia? 
I direct a question to the Minister for Industry and Commerce. In view of the fact that it is now some weeks since he gave to the Senate any information about his negotiations with the motor car firms with whom he is consulting about the manufacture of an Australian 4-cyclinder motor car engine- I inform him that I have seen his fairly brief Press statement on the matter- is he in any position to tell the Senate whether it is likely that settlement or compromise might be reached in the near future? Does he see the position as being one in which, if there is no early solution, the manufacturers may go it alone if they desire to do so? Is that the situation at the present time? Can he give the Senate any additional information other than what is appearing in the Press? 
I want to add one or two points from the document which has been tabled by  Senator Wright.  I support what  Senator Wriedt  has said and I do not embark - 
-Senator Wriedt has tried to bring some logic - 
If you would listen and comment afterwards I would be well pleased. I am trying to bring some logic to the history that has been canvassed by  Senator Wright. 
Would you mind listening? If you do not agree you can attack me afterwards. I support  Senator Wriedt  for bringing before the Senate what happened about the Caravelles and what happened about the Liberal 
Government's preference for Ansett airlines. As everybody knows- everybody talked about it- in those days it was clear that the Government supported the private airline and always tended to act against the advice which Trans-Australia Airlines gave it. I do not intend to talk about  Senator Shane  Paltridge. I was in this place when he was a Minister and I found him a competent but rather a rough Minister, and one who dealt in debate quite fairly. As I said when I raised a point of order earlier, I think the question about the Lockheeds has to stand aside and has to be examined separately. I do not know about it and I am quite sure  Senator Wriedt  does not know about it. It is a matter which has to be examined by the people who are interested in it. 
I refer now to the matters raised by  Senator Wright  and the history of the Caravelles, the Electras and all the other aircraft. I would like to quote from the document he has produced. Page 136 of the papers refers to an article in the magazine  Airliner  by the so-called Stanley Brogden and relates to the equipment struggle. It reads: 
The first skirmish between the Ansett organisation and TAA provided the private enterprise firm and its  Chairman  Ansett in particular with a notable victory. The victory provided the Labor Party with ammunition it still uses in debate and disappointed many non-political observers of the airline scene. It also postponed a major step in the modernisation of the airline industry here by many years. Briefly, TAA wanted to introduce jet airliners into Australia while Ansett-ANA did not. The Government rejected TAA. The political enmities aroused or exacerbated by this incident have confused the entire affair in the public mind, yet the facts themselves are quite clear. 
That is an extract from the document to which  Senator Wright  referred. That is the background to the many debates we have had in this chamber since I have been here when we used to say, as honourable senators opposite well know: The dogs are barking that the Liberal Government supports Ansett'. I am only filling in the background; I am not talking about Shane Paltridge. I am talking about something which arises from the debate, and that is why the Liberal Government -  ( Government senators interjecting)- 
Honourable senators opposite do not want to hear about this.  Senator Wright  produced a paper and the paper which he produced supported TAA at the time that this matter was in dispute. 
I know honourable senators opposite do not want to hear about it because it supports the Labor Party and TAA. Page 1 37 of the document states - 
The honourable senator does not want to hear about this. Of course he does not want to know that the Liberal governments supported Ansett over the years. Of course the honourable senator does not want to know whether Liberal governments always held back the nationalised industries. Page 137 of the paper which  Senator Wright  tabled refers to collapse and reconstruction and states: 
Why has TAA selected the Caravelle in preference to the Electra which developed as one of the greatest moneymakers in all flying history? The main reason was that TAA knew that if ANA or Ansett organisations had chosen the prop jet the Caravelle would, without any doubt whatever, draw bigger load factors just because it was a jet. 
I simply add those comments to a debate which commenced with  Senator Wright  condemning a statement made by  Mr Whitlam. 
-I told the honourable senator that the matter has got to stand alone. 
The honourable senator should listen to me instead of interjecting as he usually does. The matter has got to be examined by the people who know most about it. I am adding to the debate. If  Mr Whitlam  knows about the content of the debate, it is up to  Mr Whitlam  to prove his proposition. If  Senator Withers  knows something to the contrary, it is up to him to raise it.  Senator Wright  has raised these matters, but he has also raised associated matters. I am saying that the question of the supply of aircraft to the aviation industry in those days was certainly - 
-It is a distorted thing.  Senator Wright  has included in the Senate record certain things and I am taking out of the document which he has tabled certain things which make the position clear, namely, that the recommendations of TAA were the correct recommendations of the time. That document proves that to be so. 

 Senator Sir MAGNUS CORMACK (Victoria) (11.33)- I claim with your kindness and courtesy,  Mr President,  a priority in relation to this matter because, although there are a number of honourable senators who wish to enter into this adjournment debate in defence of the late  Senator Sir Shane  Paltridge, at least in common with  Senator Wright,  for example, and  Senator 
Wood I served in the Senate with  Senator Paltridge.  I want to say categorically and without any equivocation that he was one of the most able Ministers who ever sat in this Senate. That is the first thing I want to say. The second thing is that having served in this Senate with him, I knew him to be an honourable man. 
In the context only of  Senator Bishop's  intrusion into this debate in order to try to drag a false trail across the matter raised by  Senator Wright  and of getting into the techniques of what was involved in the cross chartering of aircraft -it was a cross-chartering operation- I would just like to deal with this matter for a minute or two. It was the policy of the Government which  Senator Paltridge  as Minister for Civil Aviation was bound to carry out. What he had to carry out was an equalisation of the 2 airlines to produce fair competition. It should be borne in mind that the Chifley Government had made money available to Trans-Australia Airlines, giving it an advantage over the private airline, Ansett-ANA, which had to try to raise money in the market place at much more disadvantageous rates than were available to the government airline. TransAustralia Airlines was able to raise money on the government's reputation. With Coles, a recalcitrant Liberal, as its first  Chairman  and using government money it took advantage to establish a nationalised airline that was intended by the Chifley Government to drive the private airline out of business. Certainly it was capable of doing that because it had the backing of cheap government money. 
The policy of the Government when  Sir Shane  Paltridge was Minister for Civil Aviation, a policy for which I do not apologise, was to set up a 2-airline policy under which the airlines operated competitively. To achieve this reasonable objective the then Minister for Civil Aviation was instructed by his Prime Minister and the Cabinet- we have Cabinet government in Australia- to equalise the air fleets of the 2 airlines.  Senator Bishop,  who attempted, as I said, to draw false trails across the matter, attempted to purport that  Senator Paltridge  was giving a concession to Ansett-ANA. It must be borne in mind by those people who care to forget that in fact Ansett was still financing the purchase of his own aircraft. There was a cross-charter. TAA did not have to give certain aircraft to Ansett-ANA. It was a cross-charter operation. 
I have explained the background of what took place. Having done that, I now come back to the essential matter raised by  Senator Wriedt,  namely, that a man who once stood at the front of this Parliament House and described  Mr 
David Smith as Kerr's cur last week in Townsville behaved as a cur himself. In the public gaze and without the privilege of Parliamenttherefore he is not entitled to the protection of Parliament- he defamed a man who is not able to defend himself and whose defence must be left to those who lived with him. By God,  Senator Wright  and I are prepared to defend him. There are very few people from his era left in this chamber to defend him, but  Senator Wright  and I are determined to defend him. 
I do not know what in parliamentary practice can be done about this. It would be an interesting exercise if the Senate set its mind to work and said to you,  Mr President;  'In accordance with the Standing Orders of this Parliament, a prima facie case of a breach of privilege having been made out, we ask that the Senate Privileges Committee call the Leader of the Opposition before it.' But the Senate has no capacity to do it because the honourable member in another place who made the charge against the late  Senator Paltridge  would rely on the protection of the House of Representatives and would not be bound to appear before the Senate Privileges Committee. 
So, we are confronted with 2 problems. First of all, we reject the defamation of the character and quality of a man whom many of us lived with and knew. Secondly, we are determined, I suggest, to give some aid and encouragement to his widow. We have now reached another stage. What can the Senate do? All it can do is to point out in the privacy and collegiality of the Senate that the man who stood on a platform in Townsville at the end of last week and defamed the late senator is a liar and a cheat. 
Government of the day in New South Wales did was to amend the relevant statute in New South Wales to prevent anyone from casting aspersions upon a former member of the New South Wales Parliament who was dead. That is what the New South Wales Government did. 

 Mr Whitlam was an active member of the New South Wales Labor Party in those days. He must have been privy, I suggest, to the action of the New South Wales Parliament of that time, which enacted a provision that former members who were dead were entitled to protection. I am not going to argue whether such people are entitled to protection. The fact is that the parent State from which this honourable man comes was governed by an element of the Australian Labor Party which changed the law of that State to prevent people from making declarations of defamation of the order and quality to which  Mr Whitlam  addressed himself in Townsville last week. There is no recourse left to people of my order and nature who sit on your right,  Mr President,  except to defend in the public gaze the character and quality of a man who once sat in this place- and who sat where  Senator Withers  is now sitting- a man whose capacity, honesty and integrity were beyond reproach. We are forced in these circumstances to defend him not against  Senator Bishop, Senator O'Byrne  or  Senator Cavanagh  or any of these people who are now sitting in this place but against the allegations and defamations of a man who sits in another place and relies on the privilege and protection of the Parliament that the House of Representatives can accord to him. I think his behaviour was despicable and dishonourable. 
My question is directed to the Minister for Environment, Housing and Community Development and refers to the capital assistance for leisure programs involving South Australian recreational projects, in particular at Adelaide, Kadina, Port Augusta, Marion, Gepps Cross and Bowden. Is the Minister aware that on 1 8 December,  Mr Bott,  the Secretary of the then Department of Tourism and Recreation, advised local authorities that the Minister at the time had approved of the grants to those projects and that such notifications could be taken as firm commitments? Is the Minister aware that in most of the cases certain expenditures have been committed because of the progress, planning and feasibility studies? In view of that will the Minister consider representations from those bodies to give these projects some priority because they were commitments at the time, the Government had accepted them and the Minister then responsible had apparently approved them? 
My question, which is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Health refers to the very extensive deletions and other restrictions to the pharmaceutical benefits list and the recent increases introduced by the Government. Is the Minister able to advise whether the Minister for Health has considered the many representations from eminent doctors, other people and members of this Parliament in respect of numerous prescriptions which are necessary for the good health of citizens and which have been specially urged upon the Government by those bodies? Is she able to give any information about this? If she cannot, will she give any information later on in respect of antihistamine prescriptions? Will she also give information about the 3 recommendations from the prominent heart specialist and the petitions which have been presented to this Parliament in respect of milk substitutes? 
My question is directed to the Minister presently representing the Minister for Defence. He may recall that recently there was a statement about Woomera being placed on a care and maintenance basis. In addition there was some evidence that the Service Chiefs were to look at Woomera to see to what extent that base might be used for general tactical exercises or support purposes. Will the Minister give information at this stage as to what success there has been in those investigations and as to whether, with the new changes in the Edinburgh establishment, there may be some support activities possible at Woomera? 
My question, which is directed to the Minister for Science, refers to meteorological services. No doubt the Minister will be aware that in the past few months a number of questions have been asked by members of this Parliament and by certain sections of industry, particularly the fishing industry, about the adequacy of the services. The question refers also to the advocacy by General Stretton of the Natural Disasters Organisation for better cooperation between the Bureau of Meteorology and the Natural Disasters Organisation. I ask the Minister: Is he satisfied that the present services of the Bureau are adequate in respect of daily weather forecasting and the supply of information to the community? Does the Minister's Department co-operate fully with General Stretton 's organisation to ensure that there is efficient organisation and back up services? 
On Thursday last the Minister for Industry and Commerce  (Senator Cotton)  presented in the Senate the statement on fiscal policy decisions from the Treasurer  (Mr Lynch).  In the course of that speech, the Minister said: 
The election policy speech delivered by the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  on 27 November included the following passages: 
On 14 December, we will start the most rigorous planning for the 1976 Budget. We as a Government will be concerned that you get value for the dollars we spend on your behalf. 
Spending on essential Education, Health and Welfare programs will be protected against inflation. At the same time, a great many improvements in administrative efficiency can and will be made. 
These actions will give the private sector room to start expanding production and providing jobs. 
Over the next 3 years, we will introduce a number of major reforms to direct resources away from Government and back into the hands of individuals and business. 
What has happened since that time? In the  6V2  months since this Government took office by fraud, no successful attempt has been made to cut the level of unemployment. As a matter of fact, in March unemployment increased by 20 000 workers to be followed by an increase in May of 13 000 workers. Everybody recalls the statements by the Prime Minister and other Ministers that unemployment would be stopped and that those unemployed would be placed in employment. We know too that, despite the assurances of the Prime Minister, the education, health and welfare programs all have been cut and that all the Labor initiatives which had been developed and which were so progressive have been hamstrung and almost eliminated. 
No doubt honourable senators will recall that following the statement in February, this Government, after the Parliament had been meeting for a short period, announced a number of cuts. Now in very strong statements about a so-called package, a package which the Government is trying to sell to the work force and the Australian Council of Trade Unions, the Government is saying that the package is enough to overlook all those massive cuts which have affected the public sector and important public works and have resulted not only in uncertainty but also in many people being put out of work. The simple question I want to pose is: How can we get back to prosperity if we put people out of work? Obviously it is essential to increase consumer spending to ensure the highest rate of employment. 
In the February cuts, which the Government no doubt would like to forget, approximately $300m in expenditure was cut and this affected many important projects. Let me remind the Senate of some of them. From the Australian Industry Development Corporation $75m was cut and from the Australian Bureau of Statistics $8m. Health benefits were affected and there was a great onslaught on pharmaceutical benefits with deletions from the free list. Restrictions were applied to something like ISO items on the list resulting in severe imposts upon people who could not afford to pay them. Whether the Government likes it or not, the Australian Broadcasting Commission also was affected. When we talk to the administrators of the Australian Broadcasting Commission they say that the restrictions in programming are due to Commonwealth fund cuts. In February $9.5m was cut from expenditure in the Northern Territory and $24m from foreign affairs expenditure, including a cutback in overseas postings. The current situation is that members of the Department of Foreign Affairs, who were not previously organised into associations, are protesting to the Government about the cuts in staff. That is what has happened to our image externally. 
There were also repressions upon the great Australian Telecommunications and Postal commissions and other statutory commissions. There were cuts in expenditure on construction, the environment, housing, education and many other areas about which we all know. Everybody thought that that might be the only initiative taken by the Government in respect of cuts. At the same time there was great pressure upon every department and every statutory corporation to cut out recruitment. In some cases those recruitment directions were modified but generally speaking replacements which were required to staff those departments and corporations even after new responsibilities had been imposed on them by this Government were not provided except in rare circumstances. The latest is that the 
Government now says 'We have a package' and asks the ACTU to accept the package which, of course, does not accept total wage indexation but offers tax indexation which affords some relief certainly to the very low wage earners in the community. However, in doing this it has adjusted Medibank. The gravediggers have been in to destroy and bury Medibank and it will no longer be a viable concept. As a way of correcting the funds that had been put into all these aspects of social welfare the great idea of Medibank is to be emasculated. 
Surprisingly in this and in the other place Ministers every day are trying to defend some of the cuts presently under way. They are saying that the massive cuts which have been made, particularly in construction in which I am interested and in respect of the railway projects in South Australia about which I will talk directly, are only stalling measures and that the State governments will still get the amount of money which was provided by the previous Government. As  Senator Wriedt  properly said today when asking a question of a Minister, it is a question of the total allocation to the States. The real test is how the figures now provided by the Government after these massive cuts compare with the allocations of the former Labor Government. We all know that one of the reasons for the long agitation in this place by honourable senators opposite particularly which resulted in 2 elections in the 3 years that we were in office was the claim that we were extravagant in our welfare provisions. They said that there was no question that that was the reason and that they had to be cut some time. Before the general election they said that the future of Medibank would be ensured; there would be an improvement in employment and our education and general welfare policies would be maintained. Everybody knows that that was a hollow promise. 
May I remind honourable senators opposite of what their Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  said on  Monday Conference  this week. When he was checked by one of the interviewers about these pre-election promises he said literally that politicians could make all sorts of fantastic promises but the resources of Australia were not there to keep the promises. I suggest that he was saying- I do not have the transcript but that is in effect what he said - 
-There is no doubt about that. The honourable senator listened to the program, and so did 1. 1 tried today to get a copy of the transcript. In fact  Mr Fraser  was saying, as we have said, that the promises that he made before the general election could not be taken seriously. But those promises and the actions in this Senate of honourable senators opposite were enough to carry the anti-Labor Parties into government. As a result they have made massive and deadly cuts in important programs which have helped the States and every community in Australia. The great advances in regional development which the Labor Government supported and developed have all been cut. The great programs which honourable senators opposite applauded in this Senate have been cut and they are trying now to defend those cuts. 
What are the cuts? Medibank has been slashed by $450m. Health services have been reduced by $100m, including those pharmaceutical items I have talked about. The great aids provided for people who are sick and who need replacement drugs have been cut. Hospital fees are to double and will range from $40 to $60 a day. Mortgage interest rate taxation deductions for families have been excluded. Housing commission homes have been affected. There will be substantial increases in rents for them. Canberra can be used as an example of a localised area in which massive increases will apply in all aspects of the community. The great regional development areas that I have talked about, including Wodonga, the sewerage schemes and the Adelaide water filtration program are all in doubt. The Land Commission policy in my State, which allowed the Australian Government, aided by the previous Federal Minister for Urban and Regional Development,  Mr Uren,  to buy massive tracts of land to keep land sales down, is suspect. No doubt that will receive the same treatment as all the others. 
As a result of the Government's proposals there will be increases in air fares, presently calculated to be 15 per cent. The allocation for roads has been estimated to be cut from $453m to $220m. There will be an increase in fares in the Australian Capital Territory. I think honourable senators heard yesterday about the new attack on the railways organisation in the Northern Territory which, it would appear, will mean the sacking or displacement of 200 workers in the Territory. These are just some examples of where the cuts will take place. 
So what we have in fact is a promise of a package but the promise is not being fulfilled. I did not mention the organisation which was established to assist tourism. This had been very well founded. In fact, it was established by a previous Liberal Government, expanded by our Government but then destroyed completely by this 
Government. How can those sorts of things be justified? But the package as such is being held until this Parliament passes the Conciliation and Arbitration Amendment Bill. Honourable senators will recall that whereas earlier the Australian Council of Trade Unions and the Fraser Government were heading for a headlong clash on union elections the Government has now agreed to meet the ACTU. As all honourable senators know, the Conciliation and Arbitration Amendment Bill contains new strictures to be imposed upon the trade union movement. It contains new provisions in relation to union ballots. This Bill will be coming before the Senate for consideration next week. The second reading speech of the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations  (Mr Street),  concludes with the following paragraph, which appears at page 2326 of House of Representatives  Hansard  of 20 May 1976: 
As a result of the Government's initiatives, the ACTU has agreed to take part in wide-ranging discussions with the Government on the state of the economy, with particular emphasis on wages policies. Such a spirit of co-operation is vital in the interests of the Australian community. Wage restraint is essential for economic recovery. As a further evidence of the Government's good faith, we have agreed not to proclaim the legislation, other than that relating to the appointment of the additional judge . . . 
So what the Government is offering to the trade union movement for its support is an effective increase in income tax because of the need to provide for a levy for Medibank. Honourable senators will recall that previously, when in opposition, the present Government parties resisted the imposition of a levy of 1.3 per cent by the Labor Government. But, in power, they have now decided that a  Vh  per cent levy should be imposed to provide for a new form of Medibank. The new provisions in respect of Medibank are not yet properly understood. Yesterday, in response to questions asked of a Minister in another place about the suggestion by organisations that Medibank could well cost a family man another $10 a day and, in addition, that many officers of the health benefit societies would be dismissed, the Minister stated that the position was still obscure and that he could not tell people about it. 
I want to turn quickly to something which is very essential to South Australia but which should concern those honourable senators on the other side of the chamber who supported the 2 great programs which have been developed in our time- I refer to the South Australian senatorsthat is, the rail standardisation program. Agitations were made in the post-war years by the Playford Government for such a program, which  we  supported. I was active in the debates in this chamber on the issue. There was an agreement that the rail standardisation link between Adelaide and Port Pirie should be completed. This agreement came before this Parliament and honourable senators on both sides of the chamber from South Australia applauded it. As all honourable senators know, before the agreement came before the Parliament and when the matter was a proposal the present Minister for Transport  (Mr Nixon)  said that the project had to be properly costed and he insisted upon the socalled Maunsell report, which had in mind the efficiency and the correctness of such a project. 
-Not that Maunsell. The honourable senator well knows this because he was one of the people who supported the project. I quote the words of the Treasurer  (Mr Lynch)  in relation to this project: 
The Government has decided to ask an independent committee to inquire into the Adelaide/Crystal Brook railway project and the options available, and into the Tasmanian railway system. 
This means, of course: Why have an inquiry if there is no intention to stall, to stop the project? The project has been approved by one of the Government's own consultants. It is something which every Liberal senator supported. The same thing applies to the agreement in respect of the Tarcoola-Alice Springs railway project. How can a country be developed in this way?  Mr Killen  is on record as having spoken about the failures of the Labor Government in defence matters. That is one essential defence matter. Because of lack of time I am going to be pushed to answer some of the questions raised by  Mr Killen. Mr Killen  made a very improper attack upon the Labor Government in his defence statement yesterday. He said: 
Defence preparedness under Labor was given a low priority. Apathy to defence problems was a distinguishing feature of the Labor administration. 
Let me remind all honourable senators that when  Mr Barnard  was made Minister for Defence he set in train actions which resulted in the following: The complete reorganisation of the Services, increases in pay and a new method of calculating pay for every serviceman, including the members of the Civilian Military Force. These things had never been introduced by the Liberals- they were introduced by Labor. There was a re-engagement bonus for servicemen and an allocation for war service homes. Every serviceman had the right to apply for a war service loan. He had the right also to get repatriation benefits. We did that, not the Liberal Government. We also provided for new and improved leave provisions for people in civilian employment. We established the position of ombudsman. In addition, we did something which the present Government Parties opposed. In 1972, as soon as Barnard became Minister for Defence, he instructed that there be an examination for the reorganisation of the Services. We brought to the notice of the Senate the fact that in the 1950s the General Morsehead report in fact stated a number of grounds upon which this should be done. In the Senate and in the other place this was strongly opposed by all Opposition members. It was only because of support from  Senator Hall,  who was then an Independent, and from  Senator Bunton,  that we got that legislation through. It meant a great reform in making sure that each arm of the Service works intelligently within an integrated defence service. 
Nobody who understands the position can say that what was done by the Australian Labor Party in the area of defence was not constructive. None of the programs included in the statement made by  Mr Killen  was initiated by this Government. All the programs were initiated by the Barnard-Morrison combination in the Whitlam Government. I took part in some of those matters because during most of the time I was the Assistant Minister for Defence. It is unfortunate that people should use a report such as this to be political in the sense that they do not recognise the great contribution which was made. The Government says: 'Yes, we will spend millions of dollars'. But the Government is not going to spend this money now. The important point which was made in the report was that most of that money will be spent in the last 3 years. Let me remind the Government about a little matter.  Mr Killen  went on record as saying: 'As soon as we get to government, we will restore the cadet training scheme'. That was  6lA  months ago. Presently, as everybody knows, the aircraft industry is begging for assistance. If it does not get assistance from the Government quickly the whole machinery and organisation and the great developments which were carried out as part of our support for the Nomad program will fold up. It is essential that some funds should be given. 
The only answer which the Minister has given for this part of the program is to say that there will be a study by the Defence (Industrial) Committee. That Committee has been in existence for years and years. I agree that it performs a great service to the nation. What the people of Australia are concerned about is the confusion which results from these massive cuts and from the indecision about the welfare programs, particularly about the future of Medibank. What will happen to the aims of this Government in relation to employment? I suggest that they are matters of which the Government and Ministers in this place might well take notice. Instead of Ministers aggressively answering questions asked from this side of the Parliament and trying to defend something, very often in a deceptive way because total funds to the States are being cut, why do they not admit the circumtances if that is the fact? Let the Government face up to the promises it has made. I think it is unlikely that the Australian trade union movement will accept the proposition which has been afforded to it at the present time. But it is not for me to say that there should not be consultations between the employer organisations, employees and the Government. I believe in that; I support it. However, Government policies do not lead one to think that the results in the future will be favourable. 
 Mr Temporary Chairman,  may I just impinge on the general argument? I have been a member of Estimates Committees and of the Committee of the Whole for many years, but 1 have never struck an occasion, in the life of former Ministries or in the life of our Ministry, when background information relating to an item was not given. In regard to this matter, it seems to me that it is a very clumsy way in which to hold back information from the honourable senator. The information about what happened to the River Murray working committee might easily have been revealed by one of the officers of the Department of National Resources. I certainly do not accept as a general ruling for the future the view which has been expressed because in the Committee of the Whole we have always been given relevant and irrelevant information. 
My question, which is directed to the Minister for Social Security, refers to the paper which she circulated yesterday about a review of the migrant telephone interpreter service. I ask the Minister: Can she give any information about the representations which were made by members of the Interpreters Advisory Committee of South Australia detailing their area of criticism of the service in South Australia? I understand that details of this criticism were submitted to the Minister and also presented to the South Australian Government. The criticism comprised the complaint that the system of selection of interpreter translators was inadequate, that the interpreter translators were not recognised as professionals- and the members of the Committee provided some recommendations in respect of that matter- and that when the interpreter translation service was established in Adelaide the ethnic composition of the panel of full-time interpreters was not thoroughly considered. As I have found no reference to those matters in the paper which the Minister circulated and as I understand that similar submissions have been made elsewhere, is the Minister in a position to give any information regarding this question? 
I move: 
That the Senate take note of the statement. 
Briefly, I think it ought to be understood that this proposal does not honour the promise that the Government made before the last Federal election, which was that it would recommence the cadets training scheme. This scheme is a revised one. It will cost less than half of what the previous scheme did, and it is being introduced on an entirely new basis. It ought to be noted that a number of modifications have been made to the previous scheme. 
This proposal refers to the increased responsibility which now will fall on schools in relation to the organisation of the cadet corps. Also, as has been pointed out, a cost saving will be achieved by reducing Army support in respect of the scheme. Two of the related matters in the scheme apply to the number of boys required to form a unit. Previously, fewer than 70 boys could form a unit. I also note that there will be certain restrictions in relation to the support given at Army camps and for travelling allowances. I think that a lot of people expected the old scheme to be restored. The previous Labor Government was forced to abandon the previous scheme on a recommendation by the defence Services so that they could use better the $12m or $ 13m which was provided for school cadet corps. With those brief remarks, and because of the time, I seek leave to continue my remarks at a later stage. 
Leave granted; debate adjourned. 
I refer to Division 655 and Division 662, which relate to the Department of Transport. I refer also to the announcement made by the Treasurer  (Mr Lynch)  and by the Minister for Industry and Commerce  (Senator Cotton)  in the following terms: 
The Australian National Railways Commission will withdraw its twice weekly freight service between Darwin and Larrimah in the Northern Territory but will continue with the co-ordinated road/rail service to Darwin, which will be able to provide a faster and more regular service. 
I ask firstly whether the total vote has been adjusted in any way to meet these changes and decreases in the operations of the railways. Also, is the Minister for Industry and Commerce able to give me now and, if he cannot give it to me now, will he supply me with, information on the effect of the reductions in the twice weekly freight services. I am really asking what services presently apply, how passenger services will be affected and to what extent generally engineering and train operating staff will be affected. The first question is this: Does the vote in any way reflect the decision of the Treasurer which was announced by the Minister for Industry and Commerce last week? 
I ask the same question in respect of the review which is going to take place with regard to the Adelaide-Crystal Brook railway project. You,  Mr Temporary Chairman,  would remember that all parties took part in the discussions in the Parliament to get this railway going. The agreement consummated was presented to the Parliament in due course. The Treasurer's statement was to the effect that the Government had decided to ask an independent committee to inquire into the Adelaide-Crystal Brook project and the options available. What I am asking firstly, is again whether the present vote in any way reflects or anticipates any cutback in the activities presently being carried out in respect of the construction of this line which was approved by agreement between the State and Commonwealth Governments and ratified by this Parliament. 
Also, would the Minister for Industry and Commerce be able to supply, as soon as convenient, the guidelines for the inquiry? For example, will the inquiry consider an alternative route? The Minister no doubt will remember, because he took part in answering many questions on this, that the decision to build the present railway and the route of the railway was determined following a long argument presented by the Maunsell and Partners report. I think that subsequently some discussion and disagreement took place between the States and the Commonwealth but the report was accepted. It was a firm report. I imagine that the Minister will not be able to supply the information I seek now, but would he supply it as soon as possible? 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Prime Minister or to the Minister representing the Minister for Transport. It refers to the agreement between the Australian Government and the South Australian Government on the takeover of South Australian country railway services. The Minister will remember that this Parliament ratified the agreement. Can he say whether the Commonwealth Government intends to reject or frustrate the agreement in any way? I remind the Minister that in this place the agreement was ventilated, debated and supported by the Opposition and the Government of the time. 
I, like  Senator McLaren,  wish to take a few minutes to talk about railways. I will supplement the points he has raised and points which have been raised before. The displacement of 200 employees on that service ought to be of very much concern to the Government. We have asked the Government for replies to questions on this matter. I do not doubt that we will get them in time. In addition,  Mr President,  as a good South Australian you would know that we are very concerned about railway projects affecting South Australia. Comments already have been made by me and other honourable senators in this place about the Tarcoola line and the Adelaide to Crystal Brook connection but I am more concerned in these few comments with asking the Minister for Industry and Commerce  (Senator Cotton)  to give some assurance about the agreement between the Australian and South Australian governments to which I referred at question time today because if there is a clear decision by the Australian Government that there will be no disturbance of the agreement, the sooner the Minister for Transport  (Mr Nixon)  states that the better. I refer to the comments made by  Mr Nixon  in the House of Representatives last Wednesday recorded on page 2464 of  Hansard  in reply to a question asked by  Mr Jacobi.  This answer has excited a lot of comment in South Australia and most of the South Australian Press has been concerned about what the statement means.  Mr Nixon  said: 
The Agreement between the Commonwealth Government and the South Australian Government, which was signed by the then Prime Minister,  Mr Whitlam,  and the Premier of South Australia,  Mr Dunstan,  makes it impossible Tor the Australian National Railways to take any decision which the South Australian Minister cannot veto, and if agreement cannot be reached between the 2 parties the matter has to go to an arbitrator. Has any honourable member ever heard of a business selling out and then letting the seller control the business? It is the most stupid deal ever undertaken by a federal government in the history of Federation. 
I remind the Senate that in this place a member of the then Opposition,  Senator Jessop,  supported the agreement. All the details of that agreement were announced on a number of occasions. However when the agreement came before the Senate there was no opposition to it. That agreement dealt with the arrangements to which  Mr Nixon  referred and provided that if there were any curtailment of services there had to be consultation with the South Australian 
Government with respect to the displacement of staff or new arrangements. The South Australian Government as the ex-owner had to be consulted. Not only I but also the South Australian Government understood that that agreement was acceptable to all parties and it was simply a matter of perhaps protracted negotiations to settle the argument as to operational activities and the extent to which it would affect such matters as staff and superannuation. I think it was in the Adelaide  Advertiser  that this matter was first reported with very heavy headlines which concerned everybody. On Thursday 27 May the newspaper reported: 
Government sources denied last night that the Fraser Government wanted to dismantle the Agreement and hand the railways back to South Australia. 
One source said the Government would honour the Agreement, but wished it did not have to. 

 Mr Virgo was reported as having said: 

 Mr Nixon apparently resents the fact that a South Australian is still looking after the interests of South Australian country people. 
He has already sent one of his henchmen to S.A. to investigate what country lines should be closed. 
In other words, he is deliberately embarking on a campaign to disadvantage those people his Party claims to represent. 
He said other things but the situation can be summed up by  Mr Virgo's  words when he said: 

 Mr Nixon is looking at line closures and reducing services purely as an economic exercise without thought or regard for country people. 
There is no doubt that the agreement of which honourable senators will be well aware by now, because it was debated at some length in this place in May last year, was considered to be appropriate. I put on record the substance of my question today and would like the Minister for Industry and Commerce to answer it if he can: Is it clear that the statement by a so-called Government source that the agreement will be honoured is a reliable indication of what the Government proposes to do in respect of the agreement or is there already some intervention by either one of the Minister's officers or a member of the Department of Transport in relation to the examination of lines in South Australia with or without the knowledge of the South Australian Government? No doubt this matter will be followed up in the same way it was followed up before but I hope that the Minister will be able to elucidate it at this stage. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a first time. 
My question, which is directed to the Minister for Industry and Commerce, refers to the shipbuilding inquiry and more particularly to the deputation from Whyalla which the Minister met. Can the Minister give any indication to the Senate of when his submissions will be finalised and when recommendations will be made to the Government? In particular, can the Minister estimate whether any short term provisions may be made for the Whyalla shipbuilding industry? Has the Minister had an opportunity to follow up the suggestion made by the deputation that to keep the subcontractors busy consideration might be given to making an amount of offset work available from various departments or other industries? 
My question, which is directed to the Minister representing the Prime Minister, refers to reports of another round of Public Service cuts, including proposals for cuts in all staff ceilings with some mention of selective reductions. Is the Minister able to advise whether there will be any sackings in connection with the new proposals which follow the announcement in January? In view of the fact that there have been complaints from the Department of Foreign Affairs and also, I see, from union delegations in relation to the statutory authority Telecom Australia that the present ceilings are hampering necessary developmental work, will the Minister consider holding discussions with staff associations in the same way as talks were consummated in February? 
My question, which is directed to the Minister for Industry and Commerce, refers to the very grave situation which has resulted from the Minister's announcement on 13 August about shipbuilding policy which has been variously described by industry, unions and community leaders as being disastrous to shipbuilding and, it is claimed, will destroy the continuity of the shipyards. I ask the Minister: Does he agree that such continuity is imperilled by his decision or has he some projects which, in an interim way, will keep the shipyards active? Is he aware of a claim that one-third of the workforce in Whyalla will be made redundant over many months? Will he consider again the representations made to him by the Whyalla community group and the proposals by the Australian Council of Trade Unions building group? 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Transport. The Minister will recall that on 18 May the Treasurer made a statement, later confirmed by the Prime Minister, that the Commonwealth Government had decided to ask an independent committee to inquire into the Adelaide-Crystal Brook railway project and the options available. Is the Minister aware that criticism from business and other leaders in South Australia suggests that that inquiry may result in a cancellation of the project? Is the Minister also aware that a previous Prime Minister,  Mr McMahon,  agreed with the view of the consultants? Firstly, is the Minister able to state when that committee of inquiry, which I understand comprises a representative of Commonwealth Railways and two other persons, will make its report to the Government? Secondly, does he consider that the criticism to which I referred might mean that the rail standardisation project will be cancelled? 
-The Minister for Science will recall that recently I asked him whether or not in his opinion sufficient weather and other information was available to the Natural Disasters Organisation to enable it to perform its duties properly. I refer in particular to this morning's Press report about the second earth tremor in Darwin. The article stated that the Bureau of Mineral Resources in Canberra did not learn about the tremor until yesterday because its telegraphic equipment connecting Darwin with the Bureau in Canberra had not operated since the Darwin cyclone. Is the Minister able to bring us up to date on these matters? Will he look again to ascertain whether the Natural Disasters Organisation has the best equipment possible to enable it to perform its national duties? 
There used to be a great tradition in this place that when matters affecting South Australia were discussed in the Senate all sides of the Senate would support the requests of the South Australian Parliament. I have been here for some 14 years and my late colleague  Senator Toohey  was here before me. This is one of the few occasions when all honourable senators from South Australia have not responded to a call by the South Australian Parliament to support something needed in South Australia. I regret very much that tonight  Senator Jessop  should deny support to the South Australian Government.  His  own leader in South Australia,  Dr Tonkin,  is presently - 
I am talking about the shipbuilding industry. 
-I will tell the honourable senator about his policy. Only three or four weeks ago  Senator Jessop  joined me and his Liberal colleague  Senator Messner  in supporting representations from the Whyalla community, including representations from the Lord Mayor, the Council, and other important people, which were made to the Minister for Industry and Commerce  (Senator Cotton)  for some support to be given in view of the possible transfer of orders to Japan.  Senator Jessop  was there. He supported the local community. He had his name printed in the local newspaper as being a supporter of Whyalla. Today he came into the Senate - 
The honourable senator cannot get out of it. Today he marched in here and denied that report. He knew all those things. He was told by  Senator Cotton  how difficult this shipbuilding issue is and the problems which the industry faces in Newcastle and Whyalla. Despite that the honourable senator and I both said that there ought to be some support for Whyalla in South Australia.  Senator Jessop  came along tonight and gave some lip service to Premier Dunstan on one issue but acted as a turncoat in respect of the obligation he made to the Whyalla people. That is a bad thing. I was surprised to find that his old political enemy,  Senator Hall,  supported him somewhat. I do not want to read now all the comments made by  Senator Young, Senator Hall  and  Senator Jessop  when they had that confrontation. It is a quite interesting record but I will leave that matter on the basis that South Australians will make up their minds. 
-Senator Young should also consider the support he is giving to his State and the support he is giving to a resolution carried in the South Australian Parliament. All those honourable senators have received a request from the South Australian  Speaker, Mr Connelly,  for support for the State demand to have the Federal Government review its attitude to shipbuilding. 
I know this touches the honourable senator. I would like to encompass in my comments tonight our worthy  President, Senator Laucke.  I spoke earlier of our traditions. On more than one occasion he came in here and supported the South Australian Parliament, Premier Playford and later Premier Hall, in relation to Chowilla Dam. We had great debates. 

 - Senator Hall was another one but that happened before he changed sides. Honourable senators will remember the great debate about the standardisation of railways. All of us came in here thinking we were serving the State. We were all serving the State by trying to ensure that South Australia was properly supported, it being a small State, in getting communication to the markets of the East. We did all those things and we were successful. We got the Liberal governments to agree that there should be standardisation. But who stalled the standardisation program? It was the Liberal Government. Let me continue the argument about shipbuilding. 
The honourable senator and the Government he supports. The Government has an inquiry proceeding at present into whether the Adelaide to Crystal Brook connection should be made. It is not yet clear what the Government will do. 
If the honourable senator listened he might find out something. 
-Well, senator, what has happened to the Northern Territory? Without being sidetracked, let me refer to what has happened about rail standardisation. This Government has decided to have some sort of evaluation of the line. We all know that in 1970 the then Minister for Transport,  Mr Sinclair,  decided to approve the report prepared by the consultants, the Maunsell report. That report has been criticised in many areas. It was dealt with in  Senator Hall's  time as Premier. The Federal Government said it agreed with the consultants' report and would build the line. But what has happened? In 1976 the Government finds it necessary to set up some committee of inquiry consisting of 3 people who are to consider the options. Why is it necessary to consider the options at this time? It is nonsense and quite wrong to say that this Government is doing  everything  for Australia. I am talking in particular about my own State because I am concerned about it. Each of us from South Australia accepted an obligation when we stood for election to support our State. I want to know what  Senator Jessop, Senator Young  and  Senator Hall  told  Speaker  Connelly in South Australia and what they told  Dr Tonkin.  Those 3 honourable senators probably had a meal tonight with  Dr Tonkin. 
Of course the honourable senator had a meal with him. Did he tell him that he would support his policies? Did  Senator Jessop  tell him that he was reneging on the shipbuilding issue? The shipbuilding industry in South Australia- I mentioned only Whyalla previously- was created by a private entrepreneur, Essington Lewis, as a facility for defence purposes. Unfortunately that shipyard has not been advanced by successive governments in the way that it might have been. The Liberal and National Country parties were in control in those years and it was their responsibility to support the shipyard and to make sure that it had all sorts of new equipment. 
The honourable senator knows these facts. He has been to Whyalla. In that area he has been the roving representative of the Liberal Party. 
I am pleased to hear the interjections,  Mr President.  They mean that 

 Senator Jessop and his colleagues are very sensitive about the switch they have made. I am sorry I have to say this. When  Senator Jessop  started his speech this afternoon I thought he was going to say that the Whyalla shipyard and the Whyalla community had to be supported. It is an isolated and important region. It contains many new Australians- English people, Spanish people, Scots people- and they are highly skilled. They are shipwrights, boiler makers and welders and we have to keep them. All of a sudden the Government decides that it does not want all these skills in Australia. Why does it not want all these skills at this time? 
In trying to defend its action, the Government is saying that the Australian Labor Party adopted a certain attitude to the shipbuilding industry. I put it to  Senator Jessop  and to the Senate quite honestly that the situation today is quite different from the situation which prevailed when the Labor Government decided to let a contract for the building of 4 bulk carriers which, at that time, could not be built in Australia. In addition, it is true that people such as Charlie Fitzgibbon wanted those ships on the Australian run within a certain time. The responsible Labor Minister said: 'Yes, we will do that for the time being'. The policy of the Australian Labor Party in this respect has never been obscure. The Labor Party has always said that the defence industries, including the shipbuilding industry, must be maintained in Australia. At any time we are most vulnerable in this respect. The Government says that we are not maintaining our policy. Let us consider that. This afternoon in the other place, the honourable member for Port Adelaide,  Mr Young,  made a claim in respect of which I support him. Mention has been made in this Parliament before of subsidies in respect of shipbuilding, but what are the facts? Let me point out what has been done in overseas countries. In 1973, to maintain their shipbuilding industries, Japan spent $500m, Spain $60m, Sweden $85m, Germany DM 100m, Norway $160m, the United Kingdom $50m and France between $400m and $500m. 
The Government proposes to give away our shipbuilding industry. There is no way in the world that the Government can escape from that accusation. Government supporters always talk to the Labor Party about the need to support Australia's defence capability. Yet the Government proposes to give away those skills which have been built up in the shipbuilding industry. The Government says that these are not required any more and that Australia will not have shipyards. I put it to  Senator Jessop  - 
-Nonsense. If I remember - 
There he goes again. I say to  Senator Hall  that I have just read the facts to the Senate. This afternoon  Senator Jessop  blamed the situation all on the unions. He blamed demarkation disputes. 
I will answer him. I have already answered him. I will answer that claim in the words of one of the Government's Ministers. I ask Government senators who are seeking to interject to listen to what  Senator Cotton  said. Honourable senators know that  Senator Jessop  said: 'Bob Cotton is a great bloke'. He reported support from John Stackhouse for  Senator Cotton.  This is what  Senator Cotton  said about the issue when I asked him what was going to happen regarding retrenchments at Whyalla. I wish to relate this answer to what  Senator Jessop  argued.  Senator Jessop  claimed that the present situation was the fault of the unions through demarkation disputes. I quote from an answer given on Wednesday, 18 August 1976, by  Senator Cotton.  As reported in  Hansard,  Senator Cotton  said: 
Discussions about productivity improvements and freedom from disputes have indicated that the actual gain from eliminating industrial trouble would not be as great as one might think. 
That is exactly the point. I have condemned, as others have, the fruitless arguments in our country about demarkation. Nevertheless, the cost of those disputes amounts to only 5 per cent of wasted costs. 
Honourable senators asked what is required in this respect. I went with  Senator Jessop  on a deputation to  Senator Cotton  in the course of which we put to him that there should be consideration of a plan for shipbuilding which would embace the union movement and the Australian Council of Trade Unions. What was the result of that proposal? The ACTU met in discussions with the shipbuilders and the Government and it indicated a number of avenues in which cost savings might be effected. That is the only plan that will work in the shipbuilding environment in Australia. 
The responsibility for that action rests with this Government and with  Senator Jessop,  as he has been requested by the Parliament in his State to support the industry. The honourable senator will know that the Premier of New South Wales and the Premier of South Australia have made a request to the Federal Government in which they ask  Mr Malcolm  Fraser and  Mr Nixon  to consider what is to happen to the shipbuilding industry. It is up to us to devise a scheme which will allow the shipbuilders and the unions to meet and to reach some form of compromise. 
The honourable senator said that - 
I invite  Senator Jessop  to look at his speech tomorrow, as reported in  Hansard.  His statement was that this situation was all the fault of the unions. 
Let me make this other point: Even if the subsidies were to be as great as the honourable senator reported or as people assume - 
Let  Senator Jessop  tell me this: Is he prepared to sell out all of the skills which we have in Australia in the shipbuilding industry? I refer to the technical workers, shipwrights, boilermakers, welders and others who help to build ships. These people are now getting a shipbuilding program under way in Whyalla by building sections of ships off-shore? Does the honourable senator want to deny skills of that type to Australia for all time, when the fact is that millions of dollars are being spent in the countries I mentioned earlier to maintain a shipbuilding capacity? Do not tell me that that shipbuilding capacity is not as essential for ordinary trade purposes as it is for defence purposes. The fact is that at present throughout the world-  Senator Wriedt  knows this better than I do because he is a former maritime official- there is an excess of shipbuilding capacity. It so happens that in Australia we must front up to the problem and make sure that we do not lose any of our shipbuilding skills. I have one other piece of news for  Senator Jessop.  While he was talking - 
-This is perhaps the best news of all. While you were throwing your weight on the side of the Government in respect of its action- I say to you that in future when you go to Whyalla you will be asked by many British and Spanish workers why you changed your mind about the shipbuilding industry in Whyalla, and you will have to tell them why you switched at the last minute- apparently the Japanese - 
-Yes, of course. 


 -Mr President, I am just informing  Senator Jessop  that perhaps the situation has been solved by none other than the Japanese shipbuilders. The information that I received just before dinner this evening was that Japanese shipbuilders and the Japanese Government had advised the Australian Government that they would defer signing the agreements until the situation in Australia had improved. 
-Yes. The Prime Ministerhe may have had some scent of this attitude by the Japanese- said today that the contracts would not be deferred. I suggest that obviously the responsibility and the option rest with the Japanese shipbuilders. Tonight on the Australian Broadcasting Commission program  PM,  Mr Nixon  said- no doubt  Senator Jessop  heard him- that the contracts - 

 - Senator Jessop is not going to leave the chamber, is he? The information I received was that on  PM  this evening  Mr Nixon  said that the contracts would not be deferred but that he was advised by his Department that there was a technical hitch with the contracts. The only comment I make on this issue is that the Japanese, I suppose, are concerned about their relations with Australia in other than the shipbuilding area and may be concerned also about what the results might be if the Australian trade union movement, including the unions representing seamen, waterside workers and shipbuilders, decided to take some action against a country other than our own in connection with that order. 
I put it to the Senate that this is a most important question. I am not impelled by political motives tonight. I am concerned very much about what will be the future of that technical skill which we have in Australia and which we must keep. Honourable senators will agree with me- I am sure this view is held by honourable senators opposite as much as it is held by methat nobody wants to see that work force in our country, skilled as it is to do almost anything in this industry, depleted. We already know that unemployment has produced a situation in which many teenagers are not acquiring skills. Young people between 15 and 20 years of age constitute 40 per cent of the number of people out of work. They are not skilled tradesmen and they are not learning trades. That sort of situation has to be corrected. This nation has to ensure that it has a skilled work force. No matter what honourable senators opposite think about the political issues involved, Australia certainly has to have industry and it has to train its young people in the necessary skills, otherwise it will not survive. We have to have the competence. It is no good people saying that we can knock out one industry after the other and lose the competence. That means, of course, that we will then be subservient to some foreign power. 

 - Senator Archer does not come from the mainland. So he ought to know that because of the large distances that have to be travelled over water the country could be held to ransom at sometime unless it has the knowhow to produce things. Retention of the shipbuilding industry is one way of doing that. I suggest that the people of Australia will respond to the demands of the trade union movement and of those on this side of the chamber who want the Government to change its policies. While I am on the job I should finish what I started with  Senator Jessop  and mention what he said about the economy. 
He raised the issue by saying that the Government had to get the train back onto the rails. That brought to mind what the Government is doing about the railways in my State. I have already mentioned what happened concerning the standardisation policy which was approved in 1970 and which was proceeding according to plans when it was stalled by the Liberal-Country Party Government when it came to power. Honourable senators know how it came to power. It came to power by frustrating the Labor Government and by sabotaging over several months, if not years, what the Labor Government was trying to achieve during a period of world inflation. It came to power at a time when the Labor Government might have succeeded in getting on top of that inflation. As I have pointed out in relation to shipbuilding, one of the characteristics of the lack of trade was the world situation with which we had to contend and which we were about to overcome when honourable senators opposite decided to take power as best they could. 
By subverting the course of justice, anyway. There is no doubt that certain arrangements were made. What they did was wrong. The Australian people will come to know in time that this Government cannot correct the inflationary situation by acting in the way in which it is acting. What is it doing about railway projects? I refer to the standardisation connection that is important to South Australia if the products of its factories- the consumer durables, the motor cars, the electric motors- are to be shipped to the eastern States at a low cost.  Senator Messner  might well know what I am talking about as he is a South Australian. The standardisation project is being stalled by some sort of refinement. There has been a change in the Government's policy. The then Prime Minister,  Mr McMahon,  agreed in 1970 to adopt the Maunsell report and said that the line should go ahead. A second railway project that is also of very great importance is the construction of the Alice Springs to Tarcoola railway line, which is most essential and overdue. Honourable senators know that that project was stalled for a while but that finally the responsible Minister came out and said: 'We are now going to build the Tarcoola to Alice Springs line'. But at the same time as he did that he made sure that the railway service in the Northern Territory would be terminated. 
As  Senator McLaren  has pointed out, it is to be closed down. That railway service will be needed in the future. The Leopard tanks that our defence forces will be using in the future often will need to be carried on the railways. But the Government is to cut the railway system in two. It intends to sack 300 people in the railways. That is what the Government is doing about the railways.  Senator Webster  spoke just before  Senator Jessop.  He could not do much more than talk about great advances that had been made in the scientific field. 
I must admit that  Senator Webster  is very helpful whenever one asks him a question. He gives a longer answer than perhaps is necessary, but I must admit that he expands his functions and responsibilities quite a bit. I thought that all he could do this afternoon in speaking of the Budget was tell us what a fine job he was doing in his field and how much money it was getting. I wish to quote from a recent Press release that he issued. It states that the Minister for Science,  Senator Webster,  said that he was pleased with the Government's respect for Australia's science programs as reflected in a number of favourable Budget decisions. Of course, he did not tell us that there had been expenditure cuts recently in certain areas. 
-Yes. There have been cuts recently in the expenditure on the weather reporting services.  Senator Webster  concluded his Press statement by saying at page 3: 
The Government had been particularly concerned to establish that public money for meteorological services is being spent prudently- 
That is a good word-  at the right total level. 
So what he is doing is making the best case out of something on which expenditure is being cut. In particular, I refer to a situation that I brought to his attention. It is sad to think that the telegraphic link between Darwin and Canberra that was broken in the Darwin cyclone has for some reason never been repaired. Apparently no money is available to repair it. It means that the Natural Disasters Organisation cannot get any information on any earth movements for several days. That is not good. 
-Yes. I come now to a most important subject about which I want to talk. I do not have much time to talk about it. 
-There he goes! Do honourable senators remember the days when  Senator Hall  sat in a different part of the chamber? By moving to his present position he has sabotaged his own colleague. I must say that a brief statement of the sayings of  Senator Hall  has been presented to the South Australian Legislative Council. It is worth reading. 
-Senator Hall's actions will live with him for a long time. I would like to quote one of the Government's policy objectives, which reads: 
We recognise industry, in particular our shipbuilding, aircraft, vehicle manufacturing, weapons, machine tool, electronics and telecommunications industries as a fourth arm of defence. 
Urgent action is required to minimise our dependence on other nations for the supply of defence equipment. 
-That is the LiberalCountry Party Government's policy. I have been repeating those sentiments tonight and I have been challenged by honourable senators opposite tonight about their logic. In the time that I have left to me I want to talk about the other important skills that are needed. Everybody knows that there is a general lack of confidence in the community. I have in front of me many statements about how the retailers in generalthe people in business- are very concerned about the economy and inflation but more particularly about the growth in the rate of unemployment. Those statements already have been made use of during the day. Therefore I will not quote them. Everybody knows that the level of unemployment is growing and that there are no remedies to overcome it. Everybody knows, because it is on record, that the Public Service departments have not taken into their compass as many apprentices as we did when we were in office. The Labor Government employed more of them than the legislation required it to do. In addition it commenced training procedures. During 1973-74 we had a record intake of apprentices and trainees- the highest ever. The Labor Government did that. The Labor Government believed in the teaching of those skills. 
Since then, as honourable senators know, the number of teenagers who cannot get a job in the work force has been growing. More than a third of those who are unemployed are teenagers. Most of the young people who are included in the 300 000 people who cannot get jobs have been on the dole for 6 months. Honourable senators opposite know that none of them talks now about dole bludgers, because they know that the level of unemployment has been growing since they have been in office and they have no remedies to overcome it. 
The sorts of things the Government might have done by stimulating the public sector have not been done. In all the States the Government is making it possible for further cuts to occur. The 
State governments now have to make up for the lack of capital works which were started by the Labor Government. Of course, as most honourable senators know- although nobody will talk about it- there is a need at this time to stimulate capital works expenditure and to go back to the sons of plans which the Labor Government had in order to make sure that people in the community will have jobs. Nothing is produced unless labour is applied. If we lose the ability to produce we lose the skills which go with it and the technical know-how. Australia cannot afford that. Since the war years we have built up a fairly active and efficient manufacturing industry. Now, the Government's advisers have come along and said: 'It should be dismantled. Let us chop out the shipbuilding industry for a start'. I suggest that what is required is what is set out in the motion proposed by  Senator Wriedt.  I hope the Senate will support it. 
My question, which is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Transport, refers to the rail transfer agreements affecting South Australia and Tasmania and statements by the Minister on 1 1 August and subsequently, that the main issue remaining to be resolved is the terms and conditions of employment for the State personnel who will become employees of the Australian National Railways Commission. The Minister said: 
I would urge those engaged in the negotiations to reach agreement quickly. 
I now ask: Can the Minister give any indication as to the progress of discussions relating to these conditions in view of the fact that difficulties associated with reconciling grades might take a long time? My second question relates to superannuation which could be a major obstacle. I refer to the proposal put forward by the unions in South Australia and the State Government that the South Australian Government would, if necessary, amend the State Superannuation Act to provide a benefit to those who elect to remain in the State scheme. Will the Minister consider whether this easy solution might be given priority and be reached more quickly? 
I wish to ask a supplementary question. I understand that the State Governments have written to the Minister about the proposal in order that this matter might be solved more quickly. Perhaps the Minister could advise the Senate at another stage what has been done in relation to this matter. 
My question, which is directed to the Minister for Industry and Commerce, refers to the Government's consideration of shipbuilding policies and representations made to the Prime Minister, I understand, by the governments of New South Wales and South Australia. Can the Minister indicate whether those representations have been made to the Government? When is it likely that they will be determined? Is it likely that they will be determined on the basis of the Industries Assistance Commission's recommendation? Can he advise whether the continuing discussions with the Australian Council of Trade Unions shipbuilding group are to be preserved so that labour and industrial problems and recommendations in relation to that matter can be considered? 
My question is directed to the Leader of the Government in the Senate in his capacity as Minister representing the Prime Minister. He will recall my questions about staff ceilings and the complaint of many staff associations representing departments and statutory authorities that the ceilings adopted by the Government are unreal. I draw the Minister's attention to the report of the Public Service Board which supports that contention. As the Leader will know, the Board now suggests that such ceilings may affect the efficiency of the Public Service. Will the Minister draw the Prime Minister's attention to these reports, including the reports from the unions, and suggest that a review be made of those ceilings to make sure that maximum employment opportunities will be available, particularly in the apprenticeship area? 
My question, which is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Defence, refers to the fairly recent promotions of some female officers in the Australian defence forces to senior posts. As some of these officers are now posted to senior established positions previously considered to be exclusively for male officers, will the Minister request the Minister for Defence to consider a special review of salary scales applicable to these officers which are less than those applicable to male officers and to consider any similar situation or anomaly affecting other servicewomen? 
My question, which is directed to the Minister for Social Security, concerns domiciliary nursing care and it refers to the application of section 58e of the National Health Act. A very distressing case was brought to my attention yesterday concerning a male age pensioner caring for his totally blind wife, who is also additionally handicapped by the loss of a leg. The husband has been refused the allowances under that section because his wife is aged 62 and not 65. As it is 4 years since this matter was brought into the Parliament, I ask the Minister whether she will be good enough to discuss it with her colleague the Minister for Health with a view to reducing that limitation? I am told that there are many distressing cases similar to the one I have mentioned. Alternatively, will the Minister consider an application under the Social Services Act under which she might, when she is satisfied about a case, pay a special benefit? 
My question, which is directed to the Minister for Repatriation, refers to the Toose report. I ask: Is it a fact that, since the report of  Mr Justice  Toose was tabled in the Parliament on 19 February, all ex-service organisations have made submissions to the Minister, generally supporting the recommendations of the inquiry, which has been completed. Can the Minister advise what action has been taken by the Government to legislate or to announce whether the items to which I have referred will be adopted? 
My question which is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations is about unemployment but it refers particularly to the subject of reduced apprenticeship employment in government departments and statutory authorities resulting generally, I think, from the reduction in capital works programs and staff ceiling policies about which I have asked questions fairly recently. I have been advised about the National Employment and Training scheme and the apprenticeship support schemes. I ask the Minister. As it is now clear that some more positive steps are necessary to ensure the employment of more young people, particularly apprentices and appropriate trainees, will the Minister consult with his colleague with a view to lifting staff ceilings in relation to the employment of young people in particular and to review programs wherever possible which might possibly ensure that young people will be employed. I suggest to the Minister that while it may be likely that improved apprenticeship support to employers and improved training schemes might be partly effective, a more positive role is to take more apprentices into employment. 
-I seek leave to move a motion. 
My question is directed to the Minister for Social Security in her dual capacity as Minister for Social Security and Minister representing the Minister for Health. It refers to Medibank and health insurance. She will be aware that whilst a considerable amount of printed information has been distributed at present, and more is promised, to members of Parliament and to members of the public, many thousands of citizens do not yet know the procedures which ought to be adopted in order to exercise their options. I understand from information given to me that in each of the 3 departments concerned special officers are assigned to study the matter and to make that information known to the public. Would the Minister consider discussing with the Minister for Health the need for a wide television campaign which would make known to the ordinary citizen the options which are available and upon which he should decide, so that more could be aware of the action which they should take to complete their obligations? 
My question is directed to the Minister for Industry and Commerce or to the Minister representing the Prime Minister. It refers to what I consider to be the disastrous effects upon the shipbuilding industry and the skilled employment in that industry should the report of the Industries Assistance Commission be adopted and if negotiations for a mutual solution to the problems are not concluded successfully. Now that the report has been received does the Government intend to renew its consideration of the alternative proposals put by the Premier of South Australia and the Premier of New South Wales? Has the Government agreed to discuss all these problems with the Australian Council of Trade Unions, including the trade union reaction to a former proposal by the Government offering to place orders for ships? Is it intended to discuss all these problems on the basis that a mutual solution might be found to the matter? 
I ask a supplementary question. I put to the Minister the question: Does the Government agree to discuss the issues with the Australian Council of Trade Unions? The Minister has not answered that question. I understand that it is fairly common knowledge- at least it has been reported in the Press, and the Senate might be told- that there are in fact proposals to renew the discussions. Can the Minister add any positive advice about the discussions? Are these matters still available for solution so far as the Government is concerned? 
I support the viewpoint advanced by  Senator Brown.  I refer to the serious matters raised in the Senate over recent weeks to  Senator Guilfoyle  who represents the Minister for Health  (Mr Hunt).  I have been one, so has  Senator Donald  Cameron, who has pointed out to  Senator Guilfoyle  the sort of concern which is expressed by most citizens about the complications in the new scheme. It seems to me that it is very important that that confusion be dispelled. If we did what  Senator Brown  proposed and adjourned the consideration of the matter in the Committee for half an hour, we could go on with the next business. In the meantime  Senator Cotton,  who is the responsible Minister, could seek some information. I know he is the Minister in charge of this Bill, but  Senator Guilfoyle  is the Minister representing the Minister for Health. Perhaps she could come back into the chamber and give a studied opinion as to whether the Minister for Health views the matter in a more positive light than that which has been put to us. It seems very important to me that people who will have to make options in regard to what they should do and in regard to the sorts of benefits they will need in future should be well advised on all the complications which are involved. 
I am one of the senators who very recently has been consulting the 3 bodies concerned.  Senator Donald  Cameron, who is not here at present, and I have been in conversation in South Australia with the Department of Social Security, the Taxation Office and Medibank. We found that on many matters none of the officers could tell us exactly what options apply to various categories of people who want to know their entitlements. I think that ordinary citizens should be entitled to the advantage of being able to transfer from one scheme to the other. I know as a result of talking to workshop people in 
Adelaide last Friday that many people are staying with their present health fund when, in my opinion, it might be better for them to transfer to Medibank. For that reason I think there ought to be some indication by the Government that it accepts as a principle the right of transferability. There may be legal complications or implications, but if the people had that right it certainly could be a principle which we could carry over into the future. Let  me summarise.  It seems to me that this place is just as important as the other place. I think the Minister in charge should indicate the views of the principal Minister. I would accept  Senator Cotton's  statement in that regard. If there is any doubt about the matter, consideration of the Bill could be adjourned for half an hour while we deal with the other Bill. Then we could consider what the Minister concerned thinks about the position. 
I direct a question to the Minister representing the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations. The Minister will recall that I have asked questions about staff ceilings and the way in which they affect the employment of apprentices and trainees. I directed a question to the Minister on this matter on 16 September. I asked: 
As it is now clear that some positive steps are necessary to ensure the employment of more young people, particularly apprentices and appropriate trainees, will the Minister consult with his colleague with a view to lifting staff ceilings in relation to the employment of young people in particular and to review programs wherever possible which might possibly ensure that young people will be employed? 
In addition to the inducements which have been recently announced by the Minister and which might be currently under review by him, can the Minister give any indication that staff ceilings in government departments and /or in statutory authorities might be lifted to allow the induction of more apprentices, even though the level of apprentices might be higher than would be necessary under the apprenticeship Acts? 
-I present the following petition from 1 1 9 citizens of Australia: 
To the Honourable  President  and Members of the Senate in Parliament assembled. The humble Petition of the undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully showeth: 
That whereas Vorster 's white minority government in the Republic of South Africa continues to deny basic human rights to the Africans, Asians and Coloureds who together form the great majority of the South African people: 
That whereas the Vorster government has swept aside United Nations demands for an end to Apartheid and for the cessation of armed South African rule over the former United Nations trust territory of Namibia (South West Africa); 
That whereas the world is currently witnessing the slaughter of Africans, many of them school children, who are protesting against Apartheid; 
Your petitioners therefore most humbly pray that the Senate in Parliament assembled will take the most urgent steps to: 
Implement a total economic boycott of South Africa; 
Cut all diplomatic and political links with South Africa; 
Offer immediate aid to the victims of Apartheid by 
providing places and scholarships at Australian schools, colleges and universities, to students who have been forced into exile, 
making a substantial contribution to the United Nations Trust Fund for Southern Africa. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Transport. It concerns the Adelaide-Crystal Brook rail standardisation project and the Tarcoola-Alice Springs railway. The Minister will recall that recently, following a question from me, he advised me that the Minister for Transport had stated that the committee for the Tarcoola line was in operation and was to report shortly but that the committee on the South Australian standardisation work had not been appointed. Because it is now more than 5 months since the Government announced that these committees would be set up and there is considerable confusion not only on the part of the South Australian Government but also on the part of a number of corporations who have written to South Australian senators, will the Minister ask the Minister for Transport to inform us whether he has set a target date for the completion of the inquiries by these committees and when it is likely that there will be final discussions and determinations? 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Transport, upon notice: 
1 ) Have flow-on payments of national wage case wage determinations to Australian National Railways employees been delayed for many months. If so, what is the cause of such delay. 
) What is being done to avoid future delays. 
3 ) When will Australian Railways ' employees receive all adjustments flowing from these judgements. 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Defence. I refer to a report that the contingent of Royal Australian Air Force pilots presently with the United Nations peace-keeping force in the Middle East considers that its helicopters are inadequately equipped for night flying because their instruments are not satisfactory. Is this report true? Is it also true that Navy pilots will be sent to use either those helicopters or other helicopters in such circumstances? Why cannot the necessary adjustments to equipment be made to make the aircraft available for emergency calls 24 hours a day? 
My question to the Minister representing the Minister for Post and Telecommunications concerns reports which have reached the postal unions that one of Australia's largest transport operators is endeavouring to obtain a share of the Australian Postal Commission's mail and parcels business. Of course he will recall that earlier this year there was a report that the courier service might be going over to private interests, a report which was dispelled by the Minister. Is he able to give any information about the latest report? Is any offer such as that I have mentioned presently being considered by the Commission or the Government? If there is not, will he ask the Minister for Post and Telecommunications to give a quick denial so that the staff of the Postal Commission can be reassured that the province they have is to be preserved? 
I draw to the attention of the Minister for Veterans' Affairs  (Senator Durack)  the fact that in the States various organisations- in particular, the trade unions, the musicians and actors' equityare dependent on Federal source for these documents. I have no doubt that  Senator Melzer  has been asked, as I have, for copies of the Industries Assistance Commission's report on the performing arts. It seems to me quite wrong that members cannot get copies when the Press can get copies and float the _ information almost instantaneously. There seems to be some arrangement for some members of Parliament or committees on which they sit to get them very quickly. I ask the Minister to consider the point I have raised. The information does not reach organisations in the States for some days, even when they are getting privileged issues of Question resolved in the affirmative, reports. Senate adjourned at 1  1  .6 p.m. 
I second the amendment and reserve my right to speak. 
-Has the Minister for Veterans' Affairs seen a statement in this morning's  Canberra Times  by the national secretary of the Returned Services League,  Mr Bill  Keys, that the Cabinet has a proposal to increase the interest rates on defence service home loans. I draw to the Minister's attention the fact that during the reign of a Labor government the application of the old war service homes legislation was extended to further categories of ex-servicemen and women, at a higher interest rate. The benefits of that legislation were extended to all servicemen, including those serving in the defence Services but who may not have had war service. Has the Minister been consulted about this proposal? If so, has he issued any advice to the Government in respect of the proposition? In any consideration of an increased interest rate will he consult the RSL and will he use his influence to persuade the Government against increasing the interest rates from the levels which have been formulated over many years? 
My question, which is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Transport, refers to previous questions asked by me so that the Senate might be informed about the progress of negotiations in relation to committees which were to be set up to inquire into the Tarcoola-Alice Springs railway project and the standardisation of the Adelaide rail link. As more than 5 months have passed since the Government announced that committees of inquiry would be established- I have referred previously to the concern about the projects not only of the State Government but also of certain municipalities- can the Minister say whether a target date had been set? Have the committees now been established and, if so, are they working? Has a target date or a declared date been set for reports to be presented to the Government? The delay in relation to these matters is affecting many projects, including the standardisation of the Adelaide rail link which is a very important project. 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations and Minister representing the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs. It refers to the question of staff ceilings and employment opportunities for the young. It follows previous questions to the Minister. He will recall that at meetings of Estimates Committee F witnesses representing the Industries Assistance Commission, the Trade Practices Commission and the Australian Legal Aid Office pointed to the effect which staff ceilings were having on the efficiency of those organisations. Will the Minister direct to the appropriate Ministers the need to recruit new staff in those areas, thus giving new employment opportunities, particularly to young people. 
-The comments which I shall make tonight refer to the question of staff ceilings in the Public Service and opportunities for employment of young people as apprentices and trainees and are related to some extent to what  Senator Sir Magnus  Cormack said. I shall use the evidence which was put before Estimates Committee F in respect of staff ceilings and how they affect 3 commissions to claim that the Government is not doing all it can about employment opportunities for the young. For many months in this place and in the other place members of my Party, including myself, have been arguing that Public Service ceilings inhibit the employment of young people. Not only that, they restrict and inhibit the efficiency of the various departments. The replies from the Government have always been that staff ceilings and cutbacks are there to make economies and that the Government will see that the opportunities for training are kept to the sort of requirement needed by the particular department. I have argued on the basis that if there is a need in Australia today it is a need to have skilled men available in the years to come. None of us, I suggest not even the most conservative member on the other side, would say that because there is reduced activity there should be a reduced requirement to train young people. I think the obligation should be to train the maximum number of skilled people. 
I take up the point that  Senator Sir Magnus  Cormack raised earlier, which was rather a doomesday statement, about the years which preceded the last war when this country faced a dearth of skilled people. Everybody knew when the war started that there were many people whom we had to train in a hurried fashion. They were not as skilled as they might have been in the early stages of the war. Australia should be well aware of that requirement to keep apprentices trained and to take trainees into the Public Service even in a period of cutbacks. My point of view has been reinforced by the evidence put before Estimates Committee F, which was the only one I could attend. I have been arguing for many months that staff ceilings should be increased in many areas. Not only myself but the staff associations and the trade unions in the Public Service have been arguing that. I have pointed to the restrictions which have applied in many departments and in many statutory authorities. Perhaps I should direct the Senate's attention to a question which I asked  Senator Durack  as Minister representing the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations  (Mr Street).  On 16 September I asked this question: 
My question which is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations is about unemployment but it refers particularly to the subject of reduced apprenticeship employment in government departments and statutory authorities resulting generally, I think, from the reduction in capital works programs and staff ceiling policies . . . 
I asked: 
As it is now clear that some more positive steps are necessary to ensure the employment of more young people, particularly apprentices and appropriate trainees, will the Minister consult with his colleague with a view to lining staff ceilings in relation to the employment of young people . . . 
That is the first proposition which I put to the Government. There is clearly an opportunity for the Government to do what the Labor Government did when it was in power and when it was facing an impending unemployment situation. We lifted the allowable ceilings in the awards to take in apprentices and asked all the Commonwealth departments and the State governments to take in more apprentices. By this action the Government would absorb many people from the unemployment pool and would be assured that those people would get training. The general answer has been: 'Look, you must worry about the future when job opportunities may not be available when they have finished their training'. My answer, like that of the unions, is: 'We should not anticipate a situation in which employment opportunities in Australia are so restncted that we cannot train the people necessary to have a competent work force'. Despite these regular questions and the answers by the Government that there is no impediment to the Public Service by imposing restrictions, recently I pointed out to  Senator Withers  what was in the Public Service Board's annual report. The Minister replied that the report merely says that there is a point beyond which restraints may impede efficient administration. As the Public Service Board has said that, I ask the Government at what point does it say the efficiency of the Public Service administration will be impeded. The Public Service Board says it will be. I say there are opportunities for young people and something should be done. The Government has said: 'Staff ceilings have been applied. There has been a reduction in the public works program. Generally departments are coping'. Only today the Leader of the Government in the Senate  (Senator Withers)  said exactly that. 
I want to refer as quickly as I can to the evidence given before Estimates Committee F, firstly by representatives of the Trade Practices Commission. Senate  Hansard  of the Estimates Committees records at page 528 the following answer given by  Mr McKeown  to a question asked by me: 
It is a fact, as  Senator Bishop  recalls, that in the second annual report of the Trade Practices Commission, which was tabled a month or so ago, there were some comments about the effect of staff ceilings. There were really 2 points: First of all, the commission was not really fully staffed up, or anything like it, when the staff ceilings were introduced, it being a comparatively new organisation. As a result, the staff ceiling had never got up to anything like the establishment that was originally approved. That figure was 243 and the maximum staffing was 228. As a result of staff ceilings, the present level of staffing is about 120. This has been achieved by tapering off recruiting at base levels, and this has an effect which concerns the Commission both for the present and for the future, because it is from recruiting at the base levels that future operational staff is trained. There is concern that not only are they not available now, but their absence will have a long-term effect. I think those are probably the matters which concern the Commission most. 
On further questioning not only by me but also by  Senator Jessop,  who is not here tonight, we found that the same situation applied in the Industries Assistance Commission. You will recall,  Mr President-  of course the Minister will, because he has been concerned with this matterthat the Industries Assistance Commission has recently made reports on many matters, including the shipbuilding industry. We found on questioning representatives of the Commission that they have been suffering from the same problem resulting from staff cuts.  Mr Koukoulas,  who represented the Commission, said this in answer to a question from me, as reported at page 529 of  Hansard  of 1 2 October: 
I think it is true to say that we have had some difficulty coping with the staff ceiling cuts that have been imposed over the last 1 5 or 1 8 months, to the extent that we have had to cut back on administrative support and technical support areas to cope with the level . . . 
Later he supplied a written reply to further questions from me and my colleagues on the Committee. It appeared to us that maybe the Commission was impeded by not having a satisfactory establishment or sufficient consultants. In a written answer which was given to the  Chairman  of the Committee about expertise it was said: 
In cases where the Commission does not have available sufficient background or detailed technical or specialist knowledge, it has sought to use consultants to supplement its available resources. Consultants are largely drawn from academic institutions and, from time to time, from industry. 
This is what I want to emphasise: 
This source of supplementary experience has been markedly affected by recent expenditure cutbacks. 
Under our responsibility to examine the estimates of the Attorney-General's Department we looked at the Australian Legal Aid Office. I asked a similar question of the departmental officer about the representation of officers throughout the States and cutbacks in staffing and representation. As recorded at page 544 of the Senate  Hansard  of 12 October, I said to  Mr Harkins: 
You refer to the fact that they are operating under very difficult conditions. While I do not want to press you too much, you also mention that in the case of 13 officers there is only one officer present. In your opinion, does that constitute a service which is satisfactory in the circumstances? 

 Mr Harkins, who represented the Australian Legal Aid Office, said: 
It creates obvious difficulties. Where there is only one lawyer, he perforce will be confined primarily to the office and giving legal advice. It makes it almost impossible to provide a duty lawyer service at the local court, which is one of the functions of the office, or to provide any other handling of court cases. So it does create special difficulties . . . 
If other senators on other committees put to officers of the departments the sorts of questions my colleagues and I put they would have found that that answer is typical of what is occurring today. It may be that in some departments the ceilings are satisfactory, but certainly the efficiency of some other departments is impaired. Most precisely, I want to argue that ceilings ought to be relaxed in respect of the employment of young people. So I return to the first proposition I made. One of the things which the Government can do now, apart altogether from the apprenticeship support schemes which have been tried to see if they can cure the problem, is immediately relax the apprenticeship intake targets in all departments to ensure that this country will have not only a reduction in the unemployment total as such but also a work force which is equipped with higher skills. I follow up this proposition. I hope that the Minister will again examine what I have stated in support of the general contention. The answer has been: 'We do not intend to relax staff ceilings, only to see that certain minimum necessary requirements are met in relation to the employment of apprentices and trainees'. I think it is an acute situation. What was said today in the debate about Tasmania and what  Senator Sir Magnus  Cormack described as the general economic conditions which preceded the war years ought to remind us that in this country today employment certainly has been reduced by the effects of inflation, but we might still support essential industries such as the defence industries by telling departments to relax their targets to ensure that training can be made available to young people. That will certainly help the unemployment situation. 
I thank the Minister for Education  (Senator Carrick)  for that information. I have one question which I have asked before, as he will recall. Has a target date been set for the completion of those 2 inquiries I mentioned? The last time I asked the question the date had not been determined. Can the Minister say whether the date has now been set? 


 - Mr Chairman, many years ago  Senator Wright  used to be called- it is many years ago- the Hursey man. How long ago was that? 
-In 1950. 
I want to follow the comments of  Senator McLaren  in relation to division 662 concerning the Australian National Railways. I was at a committee function when  Senator Kilgariff  spoke about the actions of the South Australian Government regarding railway works in South Australia and the Northern Territory obligations. My colleague  Senator McLaren  has informed me of what  Senator Kilgariff  said. I am surprised at  Senator Kilgariff  because I would have thought that he would be the strongest arguer here against what the Commonwealth Government has done. 
I am rather surprised at  Senator Sheil  who talks about all these items which have specific obligations as far as the Government is concerned- this Liberal Government and previously the Labor Government- which ought to be considered as national objectives. 

 -What Senator Sheil has been arguing tonight is that most of these services might be turned back to the doctors, to private enterprise. I wish to relate my questions to what  Senator Sheil  said about Woomera because that is the issue that concerns me enough to make me enter the debate. I am surprised that a senator who often gets up in this place and talks about the need for defence and for Australia to have a defence capacity should now suggest what he did about Woomera. Although the activity of Woomera has declined, presently this Government has put it on a care and maintenance basis, as did the Labor Government, which does not mean that it is in disuse. In fact, Woomera is an important base which might well be activated quickly if the friendly powers with which we are associated decided to use it again. But more importantly, as the honourable senator would probably recall, questions have been asked in this place about the base. The present position is that the Australian Services are presently considering to what extent Woomera might be activated with respect to operations by the Royal Australian Air Force and the Army and other people who see it as an important base within Australia. 
It is not a question of giving it back to the Department of Health. I am arguing that there has to be a capacity within Australia. Woomera is a village with an important population which has been maintained by this Government. It was agreed that it should be maintained by the Labor Government. That population has to be maintained. The people who are there are skilled. The people who represent the Defence Services and the Department of Administrative Services ought to have available a competent health component to run the area if there is a new use for the base. I know that presently the base is being evaluatedbecause I have asked questions- as to whether the Army or the Air Force might be able to use 
Woomera for various Service exercises. Of course we in South Australia are hopeful that there will prove to be an available use for Woomera until such time as the other powers which joined with us in the early days again decide to conduct certain activities at Woomera. What  Senator Sheil  is saying to the Committee is that we have to disband these facilities. 
-Senator Sheil says: 'Look at it'. I cannot understand what he means. When he says that it seems to most of us on this side of the chamber that he is saying: 'Why don't you cut it out?' That is what he is saying to the Government. 
Of course you are. 
And you are too, senator. I am surprised at you. 
Yes, I am, because you come into this place and you often charge- 
My question, which is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Health, follows previous questions asked about pharmaceutical benefit items. The Minister will recall that a number of questions have been asked, including questions asked by me, about the February 1976 review which took from the free benefits list a number of important pharmaceutical items, particularly those relating to allergic and hypertensive conditions. Since that time, representations have been made to the Minister. As it is now some 9 months since that review and as representations to senators from associations and people have been continuing, will the Minister ask the Minister for Health whether some current review might now be conducted? 
I refer to division 540- Administrative. I think that this is the occasion when I should raise a matter which I raised in August of this year and which is still important to me. I have told the Minister for Science  (Senator Webster)  that I intend to pursue this matter which I raised with him early in August concerning his department 's liaison with the National Disasters Organisation in relation to weather reports generally and to other matters. He told me at the time that he understood that the Department was satisfied with the present arrangements. On 24 August, at page 21 1 of  Hansard,  I asked him the following question: 
The Minister for Science will recall that recently I asked him whether or not in his opinion sufficient weather and other information was available to the Natural Disasters Organisation to enable it to perform its duties properly. I refer in particular to this morning's Press report about the second earth tremor in Darwin. The article stated that the Bureau of Mineral Resources in Canberra did not learn about the tremor until yesterday because its telegraphic equipment connecting Darwin with the Bureau in Canberra had not operated since the Darwin cyclone. Is the Minister able to bring us up to date on these matters? Will he look again to ascertain whether the Natural Disasters Organisation has the best equipment possible to enable it to perform is national duties? 
The Minister referred generally to the question which he had answered before and said that that answer indicated that the Organisation had direct communication with Darwin and, so far as he was aware, did not require any other. Later he sent me a reply which read as follows: 
On 24 August  Senator Bishop  asked a question without notice concerning the Natural Disasters Organisation and the Bureau of Mineral Resources. Part of the information he sought concerned weather information which is made available to the NDO and I said in reply that I had earlier obtained an answer for the honourable senator which indicated that the Organisation was entirely satisfied with the information that it received. 
He then referred to the Bureau having a close working relationship with the NDO and to how it received warnings. He continued: 
There is a close liaison with the NDO and State emergency services in time of emergency due to hazardous weather. The Bureau has provided information for NDO public education programs on tropical cyclones and floods. Bureau officers ave been involved in conferences with NDO and State emergency organisations and relations are most cordial. 
With regard to  Senator Bishop's  query on channels of communication between Darwin and the BMR, I should point out that the BMR is part of the Department of National Resources. That part of the question should be directed to the Minister responsible. 
After I received that reply I suggested to the Minister that he should refer the question to the Department, and he did so. I have received a reply which I shall read. As to communications and the responsibilities of the Minister I ask whether the position is as it was reported by the Minister on 15 September. What has changed? Has there been any instance where the head of the Natural Disasters Organisation has stated that communications with the Minister's Department are satisfactory or that they need to be improved? On 19 August, I suggested to  Senator Webster  that, Darwin not being directly connected with the NDO, in the event of any extensive earthquake the information would not be available to the headquarters in Canberra for some hours. On 19 October he sent me this letter: 

 - Mr President, my question is directed to you. It relates to your answer to 

 Senator Cavanagh about the book by  Mr Odgers.  Would you provide the Senate with details of all the revisions claimed to have been made to the document which was actually tabled in the Senate on 1 8 February and which the Senate agreed should be printed?  Mr President,  whatever the practices, I put to you for your consideration that, if there are major revisions to a document, they should be reported to the Senate. It should be for the Senate again to give assent to the printing. I do not know the position but I put that proposition to you to ensure that without the consent of yourself and/or the Senate there are no major revisions to a document which has been tabled. 
 When the Committee adjourned last night I had raised a matter about a question which I put to the Minister for Science  (Senator Webster)  on 24 August this year and an earlier question about general relationships and communications between his Department and the Natural Disasters Organisation. The question arose from a report in a newspaper on 23 August. It referred to the second earthquake tremor in Darwin. My question was: 
The article stated that the Bureau of Mineral Resources in Canberra did not learn about the tremor until yesterday because its telegraphic equipment connecting Darwin with the Bureau in Canberra had not operated since the Darwin cyclone. Is the Minister able to bring us up to date on these matters? Will he look again to ascertain whether the Natural Disasters Organisation has the best equipment possible to enable it to perform its national duties? 
The Minister promised to give the information. He later said it was a matter for another Minister. He referred it to another Minister. On 19 October he sent me a letter which seems to prove that the Press report was correct. If it was correct and that situation still applies, something should be done about it urgently. The letter that  Senator Webster  wrote to me is as follows: 
You will recall your question without notice on 24 August, and my answers both then and on15 September, relating to the Natural Disasters Organisation. Copies are attached. 
Subsequently you asked me to seek a reply from the Bureau of Mineral Resources to that pan of your question dealing with channels of communication between Darwin and theBMR. 
I am now able to advise that the seismographic recorders at the Bureau's Darwin office had to be removed after Cyclone Tracy damaged the office. They were resited at Manton Dam, some miles from Darwin. 
Previously, the reading equipment only was sited at the dam, and readings were telemetered by telephone line to Darwin and recorded there. Under this arrangement readings were visually available immediately in the Darwin office. 
Now, officers have to travel to the dam daily to check the readings, and this accounts for the delay you referred to. 1 am informed that the intention is to return the recorders to Darwin when the office there has been repaired. 
I appreciate that this matter is not the responsibility of the Minister, but it would appear that the Press report is correct and that presently, unless there has been some alteration recently, records are not available immediately to the organisation in Canberra as they should be. The Minister would have been made aware of this matter last night. He may be in a position now to advise whether the situation has changed. I understand that the dam in question is some 40 miles from Darwin. This matter is fairly important and should be considered as such. 
I refer the Committee to division 526 which deals with repatriation hospitals and other institutions. I was a member of the Estimates Committee that presented this report. I would like to inform the Minister for Veterans' Affairs  (Senator Durack)  that since the Committee met I have been informed by some wives of ex-servicemen in South Australia, who have a disability caused by psychiatric conditions, that in South Australia there is a reluctance on the part of the repatriation hospital at Daw Park to admit such exservicemen. In discussing the matter with the families concerned, I put forward the view that perhaps it is due to the fact that new concepts are held by the medical staffs who currently argue that such people, as far as possible, ought to be accommodated in community environments and conditions. Nevertheless, they have told me that they intend to send me evidence of particular cases in which they think that because of family circumstances an ex-serviceman should have been admitted by the medical officer immediately, as was the case formerly. 
I am not sure whether that practice is a new trend, but I put it to the Minister in order that he might tell us whether he can make a general observation that a new procedure has been adopted by the medical staffs of the hospital wherein they may say that those people can be left in the community for a longer period. If that is the case, I think we ought to be told about it. I inform the Minister, in case he requires me to produce particular instances, that I have been told of the cases I have mentioned by the organisation comprised of the people concerned. Perhaps the Minister might indicate to the Senate whether perhaps any new procedure along the lines I have mentioned are currently being observed and whether those procedures are satisfactory. We probably have to see how they operate over a period of time. But at least I can tell the Minister that the wives of these ex-servicemen are very concerned because their husbands could not be admitted to the hospital as quickly as they have been in the past; they were returned to their homes. I would be pleased to hear the observations of the Minister after he has consulted with his officers about that matter. 
-by leave- I move: 
That the Senate take note of the papers. I seek leave to continue my remarks later. 
Leave granted; debate adjourned. 
I support the proposal by the Government. I think it is a very sensible one. I want to make 2 short points. I think the facts indicate that the issue which the Standing Orders Committee must first decide is whether a document which is ordered by the Senate to be printed on a certain date should be revised later. It is clear that there has been revision. The second point I make relates somewhat to  Senator Brown's  statement. The  Australian Senate Practice  is not just a book of record, it is a book of opinions expressed by the  Clerk.  Nothing I say should be taken as a reflection on the integrity of the  Clerk.  It is true that because of the present climate in Australia the opinions expressed by the  Clerk  should have been made in retrospect. On reflection, any opinion of his might occupy debate on a later occasion. 
My question, which is directed to the Minister representing the Minster for Environment, Housing and Community Development, follows the questions about Monarto. The Minister shifted his ground in the last answer. Is his answer to  Senator Messner  to be taken as an indication that the Commonwealth Government will not -now join with the South Australian Government in a consideration of a joint project which the South Australian Government, the State Minister and certainly the State Parliament still consider to be operative? I draw to the Minister's attention the fact that only this week  Mr Hudson  suggested that the Federal Government was considering such proposals. I am sorry to state that if  Senator Carrick  's statement, as reported in the Press, is true, it would be taken as an official rejection by the Federal Government. Is this the position? 

 - Mr President, my question is directed to you. It relates to your answer to  Senator Cavanagh  about the book by  Mr Odgers.  Would you provide the Senate with details of all the revisions claimed to have been made to the document which was actually tabled in the Senate on 18 February and which the Senate agreed should be printed?  Mr President,  whatever the practices, I put to you ibr your consideration that if there are major revisions to a document, they should be reported to the Senate. It should be for the Senate again to give assent to the printing. I do not know the position but I put that proposition to you to ensure that without the consent of yourself and/or the Senate there are no major revisions to a document which has been tabled. 
My question, which is directed to the Minister for Industry and Commerce, relates to the Government's shipbuilding policy. I refer in particular to the statement of the Prime Minister during the weekend about an offer which has been put before the New South 
Wales Government. I ask: Does the Prime Minister's statement indicate that the representations from the South Australian Government and industry in South Australia are being rejected, or does the Government still have under consideration the proposals from the South Australian Government and/or the Australian Council of Trade Unions shipbuilding committee? Finally, is the offer to New South Wales the whole residue in relation to representations which have been made to the Government about shipbuilding in Australia? 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations. It follows previous questions asked by me relating to the fact that the current Public Service staff ceilings imposed by the Government are restricting the useful employment of apprentices, trainees, and other young people. It also refers to the fact that the Government's community youth support scheme, which has been referred to by  Senator Ryan,  will cost the Government about $2m. I ask the Minister: In view of the fact that the situation is worsening, that the intake of apprentices has dropped and that the seasonal intake of school leavers will create a very serious position for young unemployed persons, will he ask his colleagues to reconsider the present policies of restricting Public Service ceilings at this stage in a way which prohibits the added employment of young people? 
My question, which is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Post and Telecommunications, concerns the Australian Broadcasting Commission. Has the attention of the Minister been drawn to the wide support in South Australia for actions taken by those who want the implementation of the recommendations of the Green inquiry stayed and who want to restrict the present cuts, particularly in local news broadcasting? I refer to the retiring Governor of South Australia, to  Dr Tonkin,  the Leader of the Opposition in South Australia, and to the State Premier, the latter two of whom yesterday said during a public appeal which was made in Adelaide to a very large audience that they had made representations to the Government asking for those 2 things? Will the Minister examine those statements and have them transmitted to his colleague for consideration at some future date? 
-I rise to respond to an invitation by the Minister for Education  (Senator Carrick).  I was rather surprised that he took such a strong attitude in view of the fact that the Bills are not being opposed by the Opposition, even though some speakers have attempted to revive the longstanding argument about the 2-airline policy in Australia. The Minister knows as well as I do that there has always been a long-standing argument, particularly in this place, about the 2-airline policy. It is true that over the years I have taken part in many arguments and said that TransAustralia Airlines was inhibited by the policy adopted, particularly in respect to the associated facilities enjoyed by Ansett Airlines of Australia I am not talking about service facilities or the general safety of the airlines. It is clear to me that when the 2-airline policy was established in Australia TAA got into the general transport act last and, consequently, is presently embarrassed by the arrangements. That does not mean, of course, that the Opposition does not accept the 2- airline policy; it does. The Labor Party made it clear when in government that it accepted the 2- airline policy. It pronounced that publicly so that the airlines would know what they were operating under the conditions that had been established formerly. If one were to go to South Australia and see the headquarters that have recently been built by Ansett for all its services- I am not just talking about airline services- and compare them with the TAA headquarters in South Australia one must reach the conclusion that the advantage the Ansett organisation has is much greater than any government ever gave to TAA. I must admit that while the Labor Party was in government it did not promote the associated services for TAA that would have put it in a good position. 
-That is a silly remark.  Senator Keeffe  referred to the quality of service. Quality of service is really a matter of assessment by the passenger. Many people consider that the service of Ansett is as good as or perhaps better than that of TAA. Most of the Labor Party members, as everybody well knows, consider that generally the quality of service is better when they fly with TAA. We made no alteration to that viewpoint at any time. It is a matter of choice by the passengers. It would seem to me most unusual that a Minister of the Crown should adopt such an attitude. After all, his job is to defend Australia's own airline. Labor has always supported Australia's own enterprises whether a Labor or Liberal government was in office.  Senator Carrick  would respond to that by saying: There are the socialists coming out'. I think that Ministers, provided they are satisfied with the services of a nationalised enterprise, should support that enterprise at least as strongly as they support a private enterprise. 
While the Minister may have objected to  Senator Keeffe  's comment, or slant as he put it, his preference in quickly defending Ansett was surprisingly lop-sided. Most of us agree that safety standards in Australia are certainly the highest in the world. Our services, comparatively, are fine. But the passenger has got the right to decide, under the policy which is accepted by the Government and the Opposition, whether he prefers one or other of the airlines. The arguments of my colleagues have been only in relation to allowing the national operator into certain lines which to us seem restricted. Under various Ministers, including  Senator Cotton, Senator Paltridge  and  Senator Henty,  we have often argued about that matter in a technical way without getting too upset provided we make headway. 
The  CHAIRMAN (Senator DrakeBrockman)  We are in Committee. We are dealing with 2 Bills together and we are dealing with the clauses of those Bills. I suggest that we try to avoid making second reading speeches. I call  Senator Keeffe. 
My question, which is directed to the Minister for Social Security, refers to the concern expressed by some migrant groups in Adelaide over the proposed appointment of an assistant director for migrant services in the Department of Social Security in South Australia, about which the Minister recently responded following a question asked by  Senator Messner.  In that answer  Senator Guilfoyle  said: 
I acknowledge the necessity for linguistic and human relations qualifications to be held by the person who will be appointed. 
Can the Minister say whether such an appointment has now been made? Does the appointee possess the qualifications to which the Minister referred? 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations, although as it refers in particular to the Australian Broadcasting Commission perhaps the Minister representing the Minister for Post and Telecommunications may like to reply. I direct the Minister's attention to the questions I have asked about the various government departments which have been inhibited by current staff ceilings. I now ask: Has he seen this morning the statement by the  Chairman  of the ABC,  Sir Henry  Bland, that the ABC news service has suffered a greater staff loss than the Commission would wish, principally because the Government has required that Commonwealth agencies should by normal wastage reduce to staff ceilings the Government has set? He pointed to that area of complaint which obviously people have about the service, about which honourable senators have talked. I ask the Minister whether he recalls that on 17 November he said to me: 
One thing that has been made perfectly clear by this Government is that it intends to maintain the staff ceilings which have been adopted by it for the current year. 
In view of the many complaints that have been made by officers of many departments, will he reconsider the general policy of the Government and at least see that in the coming year no further reductions are made? 
-Will the Minister representing the Minister for Post and Telecommunications be good enough to take account of the question that I put to  Senator Durack  with respect to the Australian Broadcasting Commission's news service being restricted by staff ceilings? 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Defence, and it refers to the loss of 12 Navy trackers. I ask the Minister: Can he give the Senate any information about temporary and long term arrangements which will be set up by the Department of Defence to provide what is considered by the defence Services to be adequate surveillance of fishing waters and also to continue anti-submarine activities? 
My question, which is also directed to the Minister for Industry and Commerce, is on the same subject about which  Senator Messner  asked his question. Has the Minister seen a statement to the effect that the  President  of the Australian Council of Trade Unions has had discussions with the Prime Minister and other officials, I understand, as recently as last week, in connection with the problems of the shipbuilding industry. Is the Minister aware of what was discussed at that meeting? Can he inform us as to whether any progress was made in regard to a solution of the problems which now exist in respect of both places? 
My question is directed to the Leader of the Government in his capacity as representing the Prime Minister. I refer to the Prime Minister's statement in the House of Representatives on 1 December about the Government's position in relation to the shipbuilding industry and to this well-known meeting last week with  Mr Hawke  on the question of wages and incomes, which was preceded by discussion about the shipbuilding industry. The Leader of the Government will no doubt recall that in answer to me  Senator Cotton  has said that the representations made by the Australian Council of Trade Unions, the South Australian Government and the New South Wales Government will be taken into account. In view of the very great concern in South Australia about the future of Whyalla, which is becoming desperate, will the Leader of the Government ask the Prime Minister to provide some information in the Parliament as to whether the discussions between himself and  Mr Hawke  on the question of shipbuilding have been fruitful in obtaining a solution to the problem? 
I direct a question to the Minister for Social Security. It refers to questions asked by me and other honourable senators about the appointment of an assistant director for migrant services in South Australia. The Minister will recall that in a reply on 2 December she referred to the visit to South Australia of  Mr Scott  and the possible report from the DirectorGeneral. Has she received the report and determined the matter? 
My question, which is addressed to the Leader of the Government in the Senate as the representative of the Minister for Defence, refers to questionnaires and notices sent to members in Adelaide of the Weapons Research Establishment of the Department of Defence concerning employment either at Salisbury or Woomera, and to a newspaper report that 300 people are to be sacked during the year. I suggest to the Minister that last year when he answered a question by me natural wastage was greater than the target set for the year. I now ask the Minister whether the proposed figure of 300 is correct. If it is correct, will he take up with the Minister for Defence the question of requesting a stay in the notices sent to employees, officers and other skilled men? As he well knows, the employment position is worse now than it was earlier; that is, in the first year affected by the redundancy target for the area. 
My question is directed to the Minister for Veterans' Affairs and concerns the general question of repatriation benefits and the benefits accruing to repatriation beneficiaries and servicemen under the defence service homes plan. The Minister will be aware that in recent times 2 proposals have been considered by the Government. I speak about the increasing interest rates for occupants of defence service homes and the recent report to the Government suggesting that there should be rationalisation of 
State and repatriation hospitals. Both these matters have received the strong criticism of  Mr Keys,  the National Secretary of the Returned Services League. Are these 2 proposals still under consideration by the Government or have they been rejected? In the event that they are under consideration at present, will the Minister take into consideration the long-standing promise of all governments, including the Labor Government, that repatriation benefits to exservicemen and to serving personnel would not be reduced? 
My question is directed to the Minister for Social Security. It concerns reports which reached Australia during the overseas visit of the Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs, when he was alleged to have said that there would be a new 6-point plan to improve the position of Italian migrants to Australia and also that he was discussing a new social security arrangement with Italy. I ask the Minister: Are any such agreements in the course of consummation between Italy and Australia? If so, do they include the points I have mentioned? If such agreements are in fact being promoted between Australia and Italy, will the Minister consider making similar arrangements with other comparable countries from which migrants come? 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations. It follows the Minister's answers regarding the Norgard inquiry and about the Commonwealth Employment Service. I put it to the Minister that now that the Government recognises that the Commonwealth Employment Service and its related facilities, including services for training, retraining and related activities, cannot cope with the general chronic unemployment situation on the present staffing policies, will the Minister again put to the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations the frequent representations from me and other people about staff ceiling policies which in fact present one of the greatest obstacles to the satisfactory performance of the services in this climate? 
I direct a question to the Minister representing the Minister for Transport. It follows the questions asked by  Senator Wriedt.  I refer to the replies that the Minister gave yesterday. He said that the Labor Government had placed orders in Japanese yards for 6 ships for the Australian National Line. He also said: 
I also say that the story that the 4 bulk carriers which were amongst the order for the 6 ships placed in Japan and the seventh that was to be converted were too large to be built in Australia is not true. 4 
Does the Minister now know that one of these orders was approved by the previous Government? This fact has been referred to previously in questions in the Senate which have been directed to  Senator Cotton,  and it has been complained about by former  Senator Lawrie  and  Senator McAuliffe.  Is the Minister aware that  Mr Dalziel,  an expert in shipbuilding and the previous manager of the Whyalla shipbuilding yard, said in special evidence and on numerous occasions that vessels in excess of 100 000 tons were too large to be built in Australia's existing shipyards. Does the Minister also know now that his statement about the Labor Government closing down 3 Australian shipyards is incorrect? An order involving $8,500,000 was offered to Walkers Ltd in Queensland, a company whose yard was subject to flooding, by the Labor Government in order to sustain activity in that shipyard. Also, the owners of the Adelaide ship construction yard placed orders elsewhere. The Labor Government had no options in respect of those matters. 
My question which is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Environment, Housing and Community Development, refers to the subject of metropolitan Adelaide's water treatment program. The Minister no doubt will be aware that the quality of Adelaide water has been under some general criticism and that an agreement was made between the Commonwealth Government and the South Australian Government in 1974 in respect of a part funding and a part grant program over a period of 1 1 years. The Minister may also be aware that recently a party composed of all the South Australian senators toured the sites, inspected the schemes and were very mindful of the need to get a continuing program. Can the Minister advise the Senate whether a continuing program will be cemented by the present Government along the lines of the 1974 program? Is there any question of that program being disturbed? If he cannot so inform the Senate this afternoon, would he be good enough to find out the situation? 
I should like to take the opportunity of congratulating  Senator Lewis.  Before I commence my general remarks I wish to reply to some of the points which  Senator Jessop  has raised. He raised a doubt about the future of people who may change their jobs and who, according to the recent statement of the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser),  would not be eligible for unemployment benefits.  Senator Jessop  stated that in some countries- he did not nominate themthose people who want to change their jobs or those who are out of work have 3 options. If they do not take up the option of employment- that is, employment in categories in which they are not qualified- they are taken off the list of beneficiaries. I am surprised to think that such a suggestion should be put forward by a government which announced in the speech read by  Her  Majesty the Queen yesterday that it was its intention to bring down legislation to protect the rights of individuals in the community. All honourable senators will recall that in the early parts of that speech the Queen said: 
At the heart of my Government's policies lie a commitment and a concern: commitment to increasing the freedom, opportunity and equality of the Australian people; and concern with enhancing people's ability to make their own choices and live their own lives in their own way. 
The fact is that in Australia today, as everybody knows, there is an economic crisis and in addition we have what is now being recognised as a political crisis. As has been stated well by  Senator Wriedt  today, unemployment is rapidly increasing. All that the Government and honourable senators opposite can say is that they lay the blame on the Labor Government. They continue to blame the Labor Government even though at the time of the elections- elections which they brought about by a political fraud in my opinion- they promised jobs for all. We have a situation where jobs are not available; skills are being lost to the Australian community; the private sector productivity is dropping; manufacturing production is dropping; and the skills of our young people are being lost. And people are talking about imposing further burdens on people who cannot get a job. The thing is all wrong. 
To make sure that it is properly considered I refer to one of the schemes which have been introduced by the Government. In this place we on this side on many occasions, as you well know,  Mr President,  have raised the need to maintain in the public sector for the time being an increased intake of apprentices. I note that in my State the South Australian Government is taking more than its entitlement of apprentices to ensure that in the future there will not be a lack of skills when industry takes up. Some incentives have been provided but the incentives are not enough. Everybody will recall that when Labor was in government we were told that inflation was created within Australia. It was not long after this Government took office- within a month or two- that the Treasurer,  Mr Lynch,  said that of course there was world inflation. Now the Government says there is world inflation but whatever residues of inflation and unemployment there are are due to the Labor Government. The Australian people will not go for that sort of fraud today. I refer to the matter raised by  Senator Jessop  because it is a very insidious attack upon the rights of people who cannot get jobs. One of the schemes which has been promoted by the Government is the community youth support scheme, but it offers the young people no pay for the jobs they do. The statement which accompanied the Minister's information about this scheme stated that it would provide   a range of programs which will help to keep unemployed youth oriented to work and improve their ability to apply for jobs and find employment. 
Some of the areas in which they might participate are in assistance with minor maintenance to community facilities and in conservation or environment protection projects; they might assist in paper and metal recycling activities; they will learn job skills in an informal atmosphere and maintain a positive orientation to work and to job finding. That is no good for the Australian work force, it is no good for the nation, it is no good for the young people who want jobs and who want to learn trades which are necessary now and will be necessary in the future. Any provision which the Government brings forward to do that sort of thing and to take from people who have been displaced because of its own economic policies would be a form of conscription. As everybody knows, the Federal Government sets the economic climate, and the new federalism policy is no different from the old arrangement under which the Federal Government set the climate in which industry, commerce, transport and State Governments had to work. The Federal Government is responsible for the situation, and the Opposition is very much opposed to any scheme along those lines. 

 Senator Jessop made a number of pleas in relation to various projects in South Australia, but I am sorry to say that in his State important projects which were approved by the Labor Government have been stalled by this Government and allowed to run down. I refer to the Whyalla shipbuilding industry, to the question of roads, which  Senator Jessop  raised, and to 2 railway projects which the State Government is being forced to deal with in a new climate. Agreements which were made with the State Government relating to the Tarcoola railway and to the broadening of the gauge have been stopped, and the State Government, as well as  Senator Jessop  and I, has been anxious to make representation to the Minister. If those agreements had been kept the projects would nave proceeded more quickly and the slowing down which has occurred since this Government was elected would not have happened. Not only would that work have proceeded and been completed earlier but more people would have been involved. There are many other areas involved, and I speak about matters relating to my own State because they come more readily to mind. For example in relation to the water improvement scheme about which I spoke today, in 1974 the State Labor Government did a deal with the Federal Government in respect of a general metropolitan water improvement scheme, bearing in mind that that could not be done at once but that there had to be a comprehensive improvement. It might be recalled that at Question Time today reference was made to the fact that all South Australian senators inspected the plant. The State Government is concerned that the funds for the job will not be maintained. The point I wish to make is that when the Labor Government was in power the State Governments, local authorities, and road and railway authorities knew in what part of the economic sector they had a place. They knew that in the long term there would be funds for certain work, for railway rolling stock improvements and for improvements in urban transport. 
All that has been shattered by a policy called the new federalism. There have been a series of cuts in a whole range of Labor policies which have affected not only the economy within Australia but have also affected our overseas administration. At every level expenditure has been reduced and Labor has been charged with being extravagant. We were charged with being the cause of inflation which existed only within Australia. The people of Australia now know that that charge was a fraud, and this Government is perpetrating a great fraud. In my opinion, it seized power by means of fraud, and the Senate might recall that when I spoke at that time I said that I believed parliamentary democracy was imperilled by the actions of Liberals in this place in refusing Supply to Labor. The closest statement I have seen to that definition- a definition which the Australian Labor Party considered to be correct- came from the mouth of none other than the Liberal Party Whip,  Senator Chaney,  when he spoke recently on the Constitution alteration legislation. In talking about the referendum he said: 
The passage of this referendum will be good for democracy in Australia. There are problems in our democratic system. 
That is an about turn, is it not?  Senator Chaney  continued: 
The action we took in 1975 in which I participated and which I believed and still believe was right put strains on the political system. If we have a long term interest in the survival of this place as a part of democratic Australia we must ensure that it is responsive to the will of the people. 
I commend  Senator Chaney  for making at that late stage what seems to be a very important statement about the Parliament in Australia. We know that the visit of  Her  Majesty the Queen to this country has been undertaken at a time of great tension in the community. Nobody who attended last night's reception would be unaware that there is a political tension within 
Australia. A large part of the Australian community believe that Labor was wrongly dismissed from Government, and it will be many years before that wound is healed. It will only be through a straight forward approach by this Government to the country's economic problems that people will believe that the Liberal Government honestly intends to correct the problems existing in the community. Nothing put forward in the program announced in  Her  Majesty's Speech indicates that sort of approach. 
Prior to the election the Liberal Party said: We are now enlightened. We will ensure that there are jobs for all.' The answer to that statement is that inflation has grown to nearly 6 per cent, a figure almost as high as that in the United States and certainly much higher than that of many European countries. That rate of inflation is not nesessary. Industry lacks confidence, and the Government's promise to bring about better relations with the Australian Council of Trade Unions has been diminished. All that has happened in recent months is that continual attacks have been made upon the unions, the ACTU and  Mr Hawke,  the ACTU  President.  The Government has forgotten that in every major industrial dispute in Australia  Mr Hawke,  like his predecessor, Albert Monk, has played a sterling role and has solved many disputes which nobody else could solve. In many disputes affecting the airlines, transport and the waterfront, Bob Hawke comes in with the ACTU apparatus and helps to solve the problem. Arbitration cannot do it. The Ministers of the Government cannot do it. When I was Postmaster-General or Acting Minister for Labour during the time that we were in government, I could not solve many of the disputes which occurred. Who did solve them? It was Bob Hawke, and Bob Hawke and the ACTU promised the Government and the Government promised to take up the option, to consult with the Federal Government about economic matters within Australia. As the  President  of the ACTU has said, despite conflicts in their policies the trade unions are concerned about the future of Australia. 
What is the program set out in  Her  Majesty's speech? While there is a promise of more freedom for individuals and a promise to increase and foster the strength and independence and creativity of Australian people, it is clear that the sort of legislation to be brought down will make conditions worse for the ordinary working man and for the unions. In fact, it is intended to transfer the general economic burdens away from those who can best bear them on to the backs of the workers. People still talk about the number of industrial disputes in Australia, but may I quote the words of one of Government's own Ministers.  Mr Macphee,  the Minister for Productivity. In an address in Perth on 2 1 February he made a comparison between accidents and industrial disputes, something to which Labor had referred in the past. This is what he said: 
Management in small business and in tertiary Industry tends to accept that illnesses occur and do not recognise their responsibility in eliminating illness at the work place. The cost of illness not only exceeds the cost to industry of accidents, but it exceeds greatly the cost of industrial disputes. In an average year the number of working hours lost by accidents or illness at work is double the number of hours lost due to industrial disputes. The annual bill to Australia is many hundreds of millions of dollars, thus quite apart from the pain and suffering caused to the individual, Australian industry becomes less efficient and competitive overseas. 
Now that is a new breath. Of course in the past in odd debates we have been used to hearing  Mr Macphee,  who is now a Minister, saying something like what the Labor Party and the unions have said: There has to be a voice for the unions. Instead of bringing in new laws to repress them or talking about penal clauses or an industrial tribunal, the Government should consult with the Australian Council of Trade Unions. It should take account of the ACTU and seek its advice on economic matters. Unfortunately that is not taking place. 
I refer now to the matter of employment. Honourable senators will recall that in this place, I and other people have talked about the unnecessary staff ceiling inhibitions that apply to public service departments generally and also to statutory authorities. We have mentioned the evidence which has been brought before Estimates committees. It indicates that many departments are not able to work efficiently under the present ceilings. But more important than that is a matter which I have tried to draw to the attention of the Minister. It is the fact that unless these people can be gainfully employed in future, they will not only be on the unemployment market but in time, because they will have lost the skills and the mechanisms of the operation, they also will become less efficient. That is a bad thing. There has been a belated attempt to correct the situation. I understand, for example, that in Telecom Australia some adjustments have been made. The other thing which was evident 12 months ago was the proposition I put that on the basis of the staff ceilings the Commonwealth Employment Service just could not cope with the sort of situation which was developing within Australia. It has been in only the last two or three weeks that some modifications have been made to those programs. There has to be a genuine attempt to restore effective employment techniques and there has to be an acceptance within our own public administrations that we have to make sure that they can work efficiently without staff ceilings being restricted unnecessarily. As I have pointed out, there is evidence from the Estimates committees that departments have been restricted. 
What is the position in industry generally? The fact is that since this Government came to power, even though it promised it would restore confidence in industry, general manufacturing production is down. We know too that while profits in some areas are comparatively high, secondary industry generally is concerned about the slow pace of recovery. Hundreds of thousands of workers have been sacked from their jobs and have no chance of getting employment again in the industry. In the electronic industry, for example, we know that there has been almost a complete demise of electronic capacity. No longer can we fall back on the advantages, skills and techniques of that industry to keep up our defence support. It is a fact of life. The defence contractors have been saying publicly that this is the circumstance. Not only are they concerned about the electronic industry, but they are concerned also about manufacturing defence capability too. There has been no attempt to recognise the defence aspects of shipbuilding. We know that the Government has stood aside, blaming the Wran New South Wales Government for the fate of the Newcastle dockyards. There has been no real attempt to provide an alternative shipbuilding capability for Whyalla. Apparently the pleas which have been made on behalf of Whyalla have fallen on deaf ears because the Government has no intention of again maintaining capability in shipbuilding in Australia. It simply says that the situation is the fault of the Labor Government. I do not think the Australian people are going to take that excuse. I think they are sick of this business of blaming the Labor Government for everything. Of course we made some adjustments. 
-No, he did not, senator. If you say that, you know nothing about it. The ACTU and the Newcastle shipbuilding union made the most liberal offer ever made to any government in Australia about arrangements to build ships. That cannot be denied. 
They made arrangements quite contrary to all award conditions. 
-Senator, even if they did not do that can you justify standing aside and seeing the shipyards rot? Is that the idea of the great defenders of Australia? Is that what you want? You just say: 'Well, it is all the fault of the Labor Government and of the workers'.  Senator Young,  are you going to see the Whyalla shipyard defunct and 3000 men shifted out of Whyalla and then blame the Newcastle dockyard workers? 
Yes, I know, you are making the same sort of pleas as  Senator Jessop.  You are a part of the Government that tossed out of office the Labor Party which had programs. You knew that when you took part in this great call against the extravagance of Labor. You promoted the new federalism policy and you promoted wholesale cuts. Now you are making pleas to a government that has done all these things. In my opinion you are just kidding the electors. You have no chance at all, senator. 
Well I should like to know what you are going to do about the shipbuilding industry, if you are going to do anything. 
There honourable senators opposite go again with their cry: 'Tell us what you did'. That is no excuse, senator. You cannot keep blaming your opponent. Senators opposite are the crowd that supported what was said yesterday: 
The commitment of my Government to these goals stems from the conviction that the progress of Australia as a nation depends on creating the conditions which foster the strength, independence and creativity of its people. 
Where is the strength in the electronics industry? Where is the strength in the manufacturing industry? That area is running down in plant and manpower. Honourable senators opposite know that this is a fact. When are they going to correct the situation? They say that it is all the fault of the Labor Government. That is a fraud and they know it. So they have tried a new gimmick- the new federalism policy. What is it? It is a copy of the American policy. All they have done in the United States is to produce a strong organisation of States. A strong organisation of States will be developed in this country to combat those sons of stringent policies applied by the government of honourable senators opposite. It has cut every viable Labor policy. Now it says: 'Let us have some more social welfare; let us have some money'. Of course honourable senators opposite have said it. They said it tonight. I do not think the people are going to take that. I say that on every count what the Government is doing is affecting the viability of Australian industry. It is not even carrying out the charge of ensuring that industry in Australia will have a continuing defence capability. 
-Senator, it is a fact of life. Think of government factories; think of defence contractors and the electronics industries. 
It is not my view; it is the view of the people who put forward public information to us. I wonder whether we are reaching a situation that was mentioned by  Senator Wood  in an interview on 7 March, two days ago, on a talk-back program involving him and  Senator Withers.  They talked about the policies of the Government. The interviewer asked  Senator Wood: 
Do you think it's an integrity gap or a credibility gap we are talking about? 

 Senator Wood replied: 
Well, I think definitely it's a credibility gap and the way the Government is going on, it will be hard to get anybody to believe what they say in view of their great somersault on this particular question. 
I referred earlier to the admission of  Senator Chaney.  I compliment him on the sensitive way in which he described the sorts of tensions which have been created in Australia by the actions honourable senators opposite took and the way in which they intend to correct them. 
They were discussing the referendum Bills. Of course, the honourable senator has heard this before. In addition, honourable senators on the other side have always said that they were free from Party discipline. What did  Senator Wood  say about this freedom and the claim that there was neither pressure nor influence on Liberals. He was asked the question: 
What are they going to do to you? 
We are a caucus. We vote to support our policies.  Senator Wood  said: 
Well, as far as I'm concerned, they use a lot of pressure on the senators to make them change their mind. 
That is not true, is it? The interviewer was not satisfied with that answer. He asked: 
By pressure, do you mean pressure from the Prime Minister? 

 Senator Wood said: 
From the top down. 
I do not wish to quote what  Senator Wright  said about  Senator Withers.  There is an economic and political crisis. This Government took the Australian people for a ride in the election in December 1975 and carried the vote. At present, the Australian people must be convinced that the promised recovery has not taken place. The situation has become worse under the coalition's policies. Those policies ought to be changed for the good of the country. It is up to the Senate in particular to make sure that what has occurred never happens again. I suggest that honourable senators on the other side, rather than making pleas about small matters, might well put their weight behind the matters I have talked about, including the railway projects, the South Australian projects which have been held up and, most importantly, the shipbuilding issue. Otherwise the capability of the people will be lost. In addition to the problem presented by the 6 per cent of people who are unemployed, I point out that young people will never learn a skill unless industry is working properly. 
My question I think concerns 3 Ministers. It is specifically about the Whyalla shipyards. I am not talking about the national questions now.  Senator Cotton  will remember that late last year he had consultations with the trade union movement about the general problems affecting the shipbuilding industry, including discussions about future consultations. Later, in answering questions about Whyalla, he talked about other activities which his Department had considered for replacing the shipbuilding industry if it went phut. I now ask the Minister or Ministers responsible: Are they able to say whether, having regard to the dissimilar industrial records of Whyalla and Newcastle, there is continuing interest in the Whyalla industry, and whether the Whyalla industry might expect the Government to review the provision of other activities to replace shipbuilding because of any downturn which might occur? 
-I present the following petition from the Corporation of the City of Elizabeth, South Australia: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Members ofthe Senate in Parliament assembled. The petition of the undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully showeth: 
Australia's extensive road system is a national asset wasting because of inadequate Federal and State funding. 
Commonwealth Government funding of roads has fallen over the last six years from 2.9 per cent of all Commonwealth outlays to 2.3 per cent. 
Your petitioners therefore humbly pray that the Senate in Parliament assembled, should ensure: 
That the Commonwealth Government's long-term policy should be to provide SO per cent of all funding for Australia s roads. 
That at a minimum the Commonwealth Government adopts the recommendations by the Australian Council of Local Government Associations for the allocation of $5,903m of Commonwealth, State and Local Government funds to roads over the five years ending 1980-81, of which the Commonwealth share would be 41 per cent as recommended by the Bureau of Roads. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
My question which is addressed to the Minister representing the Minister for Foreign Affairs follows a question asked by  Senator Primmer.  Does the Minister intend making available to the Senate a studied reaction to contentions, including what was claimed to be evidence that 5 Australian newsmen were in fact murdered, made by  Mr Dunn  during discussions on East Timor which were held between him and members of the Department of Foreign Affairs and which were later reported to the Minister? In view of the current widespread criticism by newspapers in Australia of the Indonesian Government's attitude, and also having regard to the references made to  Mr Dunn,  will the Minister be good enough to ensure that some studied reaction to the complaints is made available to the Senate? I invite the Minister himself to make some observation about the matters? 
-My question, which is addressed to the Minister representing the Minister for Defence, refers to 2 aspects of the Woomera Rocket Range. The first aspect concerns the possible result of an examination being conducted- I think it has been going on for the last 12 months- into the question of the rocket range being used by each of the armed Services for weapon trials, armoured vehicle trials and Air Force trials. The second aspect relates to a request made to the Minister some weeks ago for redundancy to be stayed in view of the present economic position. Will the Minister endeavour to have the results of those trials speeded up in order that there might be an activity at the range which will allow the present redundancy target to be stayed? Will he also ask the Minister for Defence to consider my previous question about delaying some of the redundancy decisions because about 300 people are expected to be affected? 
My question, which is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Transport, relates to a committee set up to consider certain  country  railway lines in South Australia following the transfer of those lines to the Australian Government. Is the Minister aware that the committee has been set up and that it represents only departmental interests, namely, the Commonwealth Department of Transport, the Bureau of Transport Economics and the South Australian Department of Transport? Is the Minister aware that there is certain regional criticism of the inquiry and the representation of the committee and that in particular a large railway union has contended that the inquiry might be biased because of the composition of the committee? Will the Minister be good enough to transfer to the Minister Ibr Transport the criticism now appearing? Will he consider expanding the committee to include certain local authorities and /or trade union representation? - - - 
I present the following petition from 233 citizens of Australia: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate in Parliament assembled. The humble petition of the undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully showeth: 
The slaughter of baby harp seals which is particularly heavy in the Canadian gulf of St Lawrence is a subject of profound and unhappy concern to many thousands of Australians. 
Reliable statistics from the United States of America state that 127 000 baby harp seals from a total population of 200 000 were slaughtered in 1976 to provide furs. The slaughter season lasts only three weeks and the average income gained by the killers is a mere $700-$800 for a season 's work. It cannot therefore be rated as a prime source of income. 
Furthermore, apart from the need of conservation of seal life as an ecological aspect in natural balance, the method of killing is by clubbing the seals, not humanely by shooting; bullets may damage the pelt and clubbing is cheaper. It is even reported that some seal pups are skinned alive to save unnecessary damage to the pelt and that mother seals which attempt to protect their young are clubbed and often maimed to discourage their interference. 
We opine that in the cause of humanity and ecological conservation, the views of the Australian people should be expressed in a vigorous manner by the Australian Government to the Canadian Government. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
My question, which is directed to the Minister representing the Treasurer, refers to Defence Force Retirement Benefits disability pensions. Has the Minister's attention been drawn to a recent High Court decision which apparently found that the taxation of disability portions of DFRB pensions was invalid and that the Government is responsible for paying back tax payments for some years- 3 years has been suggested- which have been collected in this form? Is the Minister able to say what consideration is being given at present to this situation by the Government? 
My question, which is directed to the Minister for Veterans' Affairs, refers to pension allowances for wives and children of repatriation beneficiaries and to the recent statement issued by the Minister dated 10 March which indicates the increases in the main repatriation pensions to apply from 5 May. I ask: As no mention was made in that announcement of a possible increase in the allowance to which I have referred, has the Minister decided not to increase those rates? I draw to the Minister's attention the fact that it is some years since those rates were adjusted. There is certainly a need to have regard to them. Will the Minister indicate whether he has rejected the increases or are they the subject of a review by him? 
-For the information of honourable senators I lay on the table the official report of the Australian Parliamentary Delegation to the United States of America from 26 June to 16 July 1976. I seek leave to make a statement. 
My question, which is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations, refers to the Press reports and statements about an inquiry into trade union training which will be fairly comprehensive, Is it a fact that a committee of inquiry will include a representative from employer organisations, that one or two persons have already been appointed to the committee and that the inquiry will consider merging the Trade Union Training Authority with a management training system? Was the trade union movement consulted about the proposal? What justification is there for this move in view of the fact that when the legislation to establish the Trade Union Training Authority was before both Houses of the Parliament it was not opposed by any of the parties in the Parliament? 
I want to carry forward the line that  Senator Buttton  put to the Minister for Veterans' Affairs. There is fairly general support of the Crimes (Foreign Incursions and Recruitment) Bill which is before the Senate tonight, but there are some technical issues which ought to be thought about. Whilst I do not agree with what  Senator Wright  has said about the situation in Rhodesia, I can see that some consideration might well be given to his proposed amendment or to some substitution for it. To my mind, it certainly is not reasonable that an amendment has been proposed but not circulated. We have not been given an opportunity, either as individuals or as a party, to think about the amendment. It is an amendment of some substance. I must confess that I think every honourable senator would be favourable to the point  Senator Wright  has made in relation to the Entebbe raid. Most of us welcomed what happened on that occasion. No honourable senator would like to vote against a proposition which might provide a reasonable and practicable solution to the possible recurrence of what happened in Entebbe. 
In order to facilitate the passage of this legislation, the Minister has said that such a situation may not recur. It would seem to me to be the proper course would be that honourable senators should have an opportunity to consider an amendment that has been proposed. I can see 2 propositions available to us. The first, put up by  Senator Wright,  would be to refer the matter to a Senate committee, and the second would be for the Committee of the Whole to report progress. I put it to the Minister that what has occurred is most unsatisfactory. When honourable senators on both sides of the chamber substantially agree with legislation but want some review of certain aspects of it, there ought to be a vehicle whereby agreement can be reached. If the Minister is not prepared to agree with either proposal, I think some honourable senator should move a motion. I ask the Minister again whether he is prepared to agree to adjourning the debate on this matter and to reporting progress to allow the matters to be properly considered. 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Treasurer. It refers generally to the price freeze and to the proposal, put forward yesterday by  Mr Hawke  and supported by the  President  of the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission, that there should be a summit conference on the general Government proposals. I ask the Minister: In view of the fact that the conferences or some part of those conferences are now being conducted, can that be taken to indicate that the Government is increasing the ambit of its earlier proposals and will discuss the wider issues raised by the  President  of the Australian Council of Trade Unions and supported by  President  Moore? Also, has the Minister's attention been drawn to the situation which developed in the United States of America in 1973 following the voluntary price freeze, when food prices rose by 20 per cent, wholesale commodity prices rose by 22.2 per cent and wholesale farm produce prices jumped by nearly 50 per cent? Is the Minister able to indicate whether that issue could be considered during any of these talks? 
Yes,  Mr President,  I want to second the proposition. I want to bring the Senate back to the issue in this debate. The fact is that today the Opposition moved for debate on a matter of urgency with a view to putting before the Government the fact that it is lax in not immediately taking cognisance of the judgment in which it became clear that the actions of the Minister for Social Security  (Senator Guilfoyle)  and the present Government were illegal. If their actions were not illegal, they were not taking the steps necessary to remedy a situation within the Australian community following an appalling lapse of judgment in respect of the payment of the unemployment benefit to young people. 
Because the Minister for Industry and Commerce  (Senator Cotton)  decided to gag the debate,  Senator Cavanagh,  in my opinion, is well justified in moving that the document referred to, the document which has been tabled and which will appear in print in  Hansard  tomorrow, should be read at this stage because it will be very relevant to the debate which is taking place today. This would be a strange Senate and a strange Parliament if we, having seen this judgment reported in the Press - 

-Exactly. Earlier I wished to draw attention to this fact: It would be a strange parliament which, having seen something published in the Press, either accurately, inaccurately or not fully, did not have the opportunity to consider that matter. It seems to me that there are 2 important and key issues which the Senate ought to be considering. It was certainly a most undiplomatic decision by the Minister not to allow the debate to run its course. During the debate the Government should have stated clearly its intention about a situation which has been allowed to run for many months. There is an urgent need for the Minister for Social Security to announce a Government remedy and to state clearly the Government's views on the judgment. This Parliament should not be deprived of an opportunity to consider the matter. The mass media have had the document. They have run their own views. The correspondents and reporters, whether versed or not versed in the law, have aired their views about the document. We started the urgency debate. It was an issue which the Opposition wanted debated. It seems to me that there is an obligation on the Parliament to make sure that an Opposition which wishes to discuss an important question is given every opportunity to exercise its right. The other question is whether the Government, in view of the attack by the Opposition, can answer properly the Opposition's criticisms. I suggest that wise counsel should prevail, the document should be read and the Minister should make provision for a debate on a subsequent day. 
I direct a question to the Minister representing the Prime Minister. I refer to the general statements of the Prime Minister and the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs about what might be called an enlivened role for the Prices Justification Tribunal so that it might serve a stronger purpose. I ask the Minister: Does he recall that during last year the  Chairman  of the Tribunal reported that the Tribunal was embarrassed because the Government had not appointed a number of members or a  deputy chairman  and, in addition, that the staff establishment was much below that required because of staff ceilings? Since that time, the honourable senator will recall that during the sittings of the Estimates Committees, questions relating to that subject were asked. I now ask the Minister: Can he state what is the position at the present time with the Tribunal? Is it still being embarrassed by lack of staff or appointments? How can it perform a stronger role if the situation remains as it was last year? 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Transport. I refer to the Adelaide-Crystal Brook standardisation project. The Minister will be aware that, since the Commonwealth Government's action last year which rather stayed the project, the Minister for Transport,  Mr Nixon,  met a deputation consisting of  Mr Virgo, Senator Jessop  and me. Later on a proposal to modify the plan was put by  Mr Virgo  and apparently it was acceptable to the Federal Government. I ask the Minister: Is he able to say whether a decision has been made in respect of this submission by the South Australian Government? I understand that officers have met to consider the matter. When will that decision be put to Cabinet for consideration? 
My question, which is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Foreign Affairs refers to a recent report about a visit by 2 Australian diplomats to various centres in Timor and a statement by an Australian Ambassador which reported upon some aspects of that trip. I ask the Minister whether he will ask the Minister for Foreign Affairs to make available to the Parliament, this week if possible, the results of that visit. It would appearprobably the Minister will agree- that the Press is getting a considerable amount of information about Timor which is not made available to the Parliament. I think the Minister will agree too that Parliament is entitled to have some information on this matter because of the interest of honourable senators from both sides. 
My question is directed to the Minister for Veterans' Affairs and follows my previous questions to him about the possibility of the Government increasing interest rates on defence service homes. It also follows closely upon the very extensive publicity given to the claim that some interdepartmental committees and Government agencies have before them proposals which not only will increase interest rates but also may result in handing over to State agencies some of the functions of the present defence service homes organisation and the possibility of land holdings for those purposes in my State and other States being sold. Does the Minister recall that in reply to the most recent question about this matter on 1 7 February, he stated: 
. I say again now, that the Government has no plans to increase interest rates on defence service homes. 
I now ask the Minister: Is he able to clear up the position? If the Press report is accurate I suggest to the Minister that it would be in the interests of everybody that an honest statement about the matter be made to the Senate and to the Press. 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Transport. It refers to some alarming statements about South Australian rail jobs made by the General Manager of the Australian National Railways in Adelaide recently. On 10 May the Adelaide  Advertiser  reported that the General Manager had said on the previous day that thousands in the South Australian railway work force would have to lose their jobs before the system could operate efficiently and competitively. He is also reported as having said: 'I am talking about the kind of reductions that will make you all in South Australia cry. We are talking about thousands of jobs lost. Passenger services are the curse of the railways'. As these reports created a lot of concern among railway men and railway organisations and were rebutted in the newspaper the next day, will the Minister have the statement clarified? If necessary, will he ask the General Manager or the Australian National Railways Commissioner to make appropriate statements to clear up the matter? 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Construction. I believe it may also concern the Leader of the Government in his capacity as Minister for Administrative Services. The Minister may recall that several years ago a project reached the then Minister for Works- and was continued during the term of the Labor Governmentproposing a Commonwealth central building to house some of the twenty or more Commonwealth departments which are scattered around the city and the suburbs of Adelaide could be built in Adelaide. I understand that at present land is still being held possibly for that purpose. Is the Minister able to advise whether the project is still under consideration? If started the project would be a great aid to the economy of South Australia and certainly to the departments themselves. Some of the land being held for this purpose is used now for parking. Is that land being retained for a Commonwealth Centre in Adelaide? 
I take up the point raised by  Senator Cavanagh  because I think it is an important one. While I recognise that the Minister has agreed with the general complaint, I remind him, as I remind you,  Mr Temporary Chairman,  of the discussions held in this chamber in relation to the setting up of the Estimates Committees. Quite a broad section of senators felt that the main forum for discussion of the business of the Parliament and the expenditure of the Government was the Committee of the Whole. We were divided in that view. Those who supported the setting up of the Estimates Committees felt that those committees could play a very valuable role. Others disagreed.  Senator Cavanagh  was one. He had his reasons. He advanced his reasons today. Most of us agree that an honourable senator it entitled to receive information during the sitting of the Committee of the Whole even if it is a repetition of what might have been supplied to an Estimates Committee.  Senator McLaren  and other honourable senators have pointed out that it is impossible for senators to apply themselves to all the committees. Most senators have a number of interests. I had to direct myself to one committee, but I was interested in 3 subjects being considered by 3 different committees. Everybody would agree that nowadays the Senate is involved more in committee work. All of us are involved in committees of the Parliament and party committees. Consequently, it is impossible to keep track of all the replies which are recorded in  Hansard.  Sometimes replies are not adequate. 
When the Estimates Committees were set up originally at the time when  Senator Sir Kenneth  Anderson was Leader of the Government in the Senate everybody agreed that no honourable senator should be inhibited in discussing points in the Committee of the Whole even though the details sough may have been provided to an Estimates Committee. It would be a bad thing if we took the view that because a matter was partly answered before the Estimates Committees the  Chairman  of the Committee of the Whole directed that it could not be followed up. We want to keep this place broadly advised about the workings of all committees. I hope that the initial arrangements agreed upon when we set up these committees are adhered to. At one time there was a move to disband the Estimates Committees. I hope that they continue on the original basis. 
I take the opportunity of supporting what  Senator Mulvihill  has stated. Later on, I will ask other questions in regard to the matter. I am concerned generally of the policy on staff ceilings in the Department generally. It seems to me extraordinary that a case which was raised first in September last year, which concerned whether employees of a firm were correctly paid, has not been settled. As  Senator Mulvihill  has said, the reply from the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations  (Mr Street)  indicates- I know that  Senator Durack  is not the Minister responsible but he knows about it- that an examination is being conducted by the Commonwealth Arbitration Inspectorate. A paragraph of the Minister's letter to  Senator Mulvihill  states: 
In addition calculations are being made manually by the Inspectorate in respect of the records which are currently available. It had been estimated that the task will occupy a total of some 78 man weeks and my Department is therefore purchasing programmable calculators with a view to expediting completion of the task. 
Sitting suspended from 1 to 2.15 p.m. 
-Honourable senators will recall that before the suspension of the sitting for lunch I was referring to a case which had been drawn to the attention of the Senate and of the Estimates Committee on a number of occasions concerning claims by employees of an establishment operated at Kingsford-Smith Airport which had developed into an inquiry by the Department of Employment and Industrial 
Relations inspectorate and had been very slow moving.  Senator Mulvihill  raised the matter in September and in March he received some part answers from the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations  (Mr Street).  More recently he received another letter from the Minister, dated 5 May, which included the following paragraph: 
In addition calculations are being made manually by the Inspectorate in respect of the records which are currently available. It had been estimated that the task will occupy a total of some 78 man weeks and my Department is therefore purchasing programmable calculators with a view to expediting completion of the task. 
It is a long standing complaint on the part of the employees concerned. It certainly has taken too long to respond to the complaints and to determine whether they were correct. I should have thought that in the circumstance that representations have continually been made by  Senator Mulvihill  some attention would have been given to speeding up the inquiries. 
A more important question is whether, in the circumstances, the Department of Transport and the Minister for Transport  (Mr Nixon)  might have considered holding the particular establishment under review.  Senator Mulvihill  was advised that tenders were being called for the concession which this company holds. I do not think we know yet whether tenders have been closed or whether a tender has been accepted.  Senator Mulvihill  might correct me if I am wrong, but I think the amount being claimed by the employees and the union is something like $25,000. 
So it is a substantial claim. As honourable senators will realise, the compilation of records is taking the Department quite a long time. I therefore respectfully ask the Minister for Veterans' Affairs  (Senator Durack)  whether he will discuss with the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations whether the claims of those employees have been determined and whether there have been breaches. It would appear that in some respects there have been breaches and that in other respects things are being determined. 
I refer also to a matter which has been raised with the Minister for Veterans' Affairs before, that is, the general services provided by the Department of Employment and Industrial Relations. I am not just talking about the counter services provided by the Commonwealth Employment Service, but about all that Department's activities. As the Minister would know, that Department's activities have been widely extended these days into areas including youth programs, increased apprenticeship coverage and things like that. This raises the question of whether existing staff is sufficient to provide the services. We know that we have a very serious unemployment problem. We know that because of representations made by the unions and honourable senators efforts have been made to encourage the introduction of programs for apprentices, youth community groups and, of equal importance, the establishment of services for unemployed people who have applied for jobs to provide co-ordination between those who are registered with the Commonwealth Employment Service and employer groups to enable those unemployed people to secure jobs which are available on the labour market. 
The Senate will recall that over a period of 12 months honourable senators here, including myself, have raised from time to time with the Minister the question of staff ceilings, particularly in respect of this Department. As a result of representations from the Public Service unions and, I would hope, as a result of our representations, an examination was made. An inquiry is obtaining. But I understand that there has been a temporary addition to the staff of some 300 persons. I understand from the staff associations that there are still problems in the areas I have mentioned. The matter  Senator Mulvihill  has raised encourages me to think that additional staff might still be needed in the Department to carry out all its activities, as well as in all its agencies which are located at places approved by the Department. In the general situation of unemployment I should hope that a review would be made of the agencies to see whether they are a satisfactory substitute for permanent offices. 
I should like to know from the Minister whether, as a result of representations from the staff associations, agreement has been reached concerning the staffing of all departments. I know an inquiry is continuing. I should like to be informed whether that inquiry covers the matters I have raised. A number of employer organisations in my State have added their criticisms to those I have mentioned. It would appear that there is a need for adequate staff for first stage consultations by officers of the Department. There is a need also for adequate training staff. There is a need for improvement in all areas servicing the employment and labour market. I hope the Minister can inform me whether the Norgard inquiry is inquiring into these matters. 
I do not want to take up a lot more time but I would like to put to the Minister for Veterans' Affairs the position as we see it. He does not have to reply at the present time. It seems to me that the issue is that last year  Senator Mulvihill  raised the claims of the people who work for a particular firm. I do not want to mention names. Finally the Department of Employment and Industrial Relations made the estimate to him- and the union took this up too- that there seemed to be underpayment of $25,000. When the Arbitration Inspectorate followed up the case it seemed it was frustrated because on 5 May  Mr Street  wrote: 
My advice of 23 February 1977 indicated that the company had been requested to provide information about amounts due to individual employees and ex-employees in terms of the Inspectorate's construction of the award provisions. The company however wrote to the Inspectorate on 4 March 1977 declining to do so on the grounds that this information had already been supplied by an independent accountant who had advised that staff at the Airport had in effect been overpaid. 
The letter continues: 
I understand that this advice was conveyed to you - 
That is, to  Senator Mulvihill-  by the company in November 1 976. 
Today in the other place the Government has brought on a Bill, which was first introduced on 1 8 March, to strengthen the Inspectorate and to convert it into an industrial relations bureau with stronger powers designed in fact to enforce action against employees, not against employers. 
You are not listening to me, senator. Obviously you are not getting on to the current of my argument. I am saying that at the present time there is a Bill before the Parliament- which will be passed in both places- to strengthen the bureau in respect of the powers designed, and reported by the Minister, to be aimed at employees in particular. 
-Of course it is right. You cannot deny it. The fact is that the record shows the last Labor Government took more action against employers for breaches of awards than at any other time in the history of the Inspectorate. What concerns both of us I think, and I suggest should concern the Minister, is that there is the possibility that the Inspectorate will be able to check time books week by week. That is the Inspectorate's job and that is what it often does. I cannot understand why the ordinary processes of the Inspectorate were not used from the time when the claim was first made by the union and the employees. That is the position I put to you. I cannot understand why the matter has been so complex as to warrant a 78 man weeks investigation. So I am raising what seems to be an important need to strengthen the Inspectorate in respect of the processes which are available to it. I asked this question earlier: Is the delay and procrastination due to a lack of staff? I hope that the Minister in considering the matter further will look at that question. If the circumstances are as  Senator Mulvihill  and I consider them to be, because originally the Department said it considered that people had been underpaid by $25,000, surely when it comes to proper accounting of government money there should be some consideration by the Department in respect of the establishment. To me that seems eminently sensible. 
My question, which is directed to the Minister representing the Acting Minister for Transport, refers to the present negotiations, which are in their last stages, between the Australian National Railways management and the unions. I think settlement has been reached in respect of wages. Has the Minister seen a recent statement by the Australian National Railways union leaders stating that all 24 conditional issues would worsen the conditions of the South Australian Railways staff? I ask the Minister: In view of his own plea when presenting the second reading speech on the Australian National Railways Amendment Bill a few nights ago that the parties concerned should where possible reach agreement quickly, will he take up this matter to see to what extent there might be some modified attitude towards the conditions which have applied over the years to South Australian Railways employees, particularly in respect of guards, to see what might be done to facilitate an end to the dispute? 
In response to the explanation given by the Minister for Education  (Mr Carrick)  I thank the Minister for his ready reply to the questions that I raised this morning. Perhaps I should say that I think this has been a very successful operation because I know that management and the union have met under the control of the Australian Council of Trade Unions since a Bill was passed during Labor's term in office and great progress has been made in the area of wages, which I thought was a very complicated issue. I understand they have settled the issue on wages and the related matters which I was asked to bring up today by the union. I raised them because I thought it would be better to bring them to the attention of the Minister for some special consideration before there was a threat which might produce some dispute. So on that matter I thank the Minister for what he has said. I think that has answered my query. 
As to what  Senator Jessop  said, I do not want to take up the time of the Committee unduly but the situation is that  Senator Jessop  said he supported the Bill when Labor was in office. As everybody knows, at that time  Senator Jessop  and others on the then Opposition side applauded the agreement. I might say that I thought the State Minister for Transport,  Mr Virgo,  had been very co-operative. During the time that  Senator Steele  Hall was the Premier of South Australia there was an agreement to accept the Maunsell report which provided a much more perfect engineering job in the conversion to standard gauge than is now proposed. We had accepted that. Anybody who considers this matter would say, 'if we could afford it we would accept the Maunsell report'. The State Government decided in view of the economic conditions under this Government to consider what the Joy report had recommended. 

 Mr Virgo said that he would consider whether the proposed economy was necessary. He invited me and  Senator Jessop-  I do not think it was by direction of anybody in this place- to accompany him and a delegation to see the Minister for Transport,  Mr Nixon.  As a result there has been certainly a most constructive suggestion put which will save some $40m or $50m. What the Opposition would like to know now is what the Government intends to do about the recommendations of  Mr Virgo,  supported by  Senator Jessop  and myself. At that point I can no longer support  Senator Jessop  because I think the remainder of his address was trying simply to highlight the differences between the 2 governments. Perhaps, according to the Government's ideas, the Labor Party in government placed too much attention on the position of railways and urban transport in the general Australia-wide scene. I do not think it did. I think most thoughtful people would agree today that someone in Australia must consider the general question of railway transportation and how it might be revived. 
As all honourable senators know, in the general area of communication and transportation in Australia, the railway organisations in each of the States are losing millions of dollars. From memory, in New South Wales the forecast deficit last year was approximately $400m. In Victoria the same position applies, although the railway system in that State is under the expert guidance of an old colleague of mine,  Mr Gibbs,  who has had great experience in private industry. So, there are some great considerations necessary to revive railway organisation. I am reminded by what the general manager of the Australian National Railways said only last week. I think his views were distorted. I raised them in the Parliament. He is an old colleague of mine and of  Senator Jessop.  He was frightened by the suggestion that railways carrying passengers would continue to lose more money and that they should convert to the higher intensification of general cargo and container traffic which pays handsomely. As I see it the fact is that in Australia, as the country develops, railways still have a great role to play. If we look also at the related defence implications of railways, most of us would agree that we must support them as much as we can. 
I support the general prospects of the Labor Government. They may have been expensive but they were very necessary. I think that the issues raised by  Senator McLaren-  I was at a committee meeting when the matter was dealt withare important. If the Government takes over State railways, I cannot see how it can do other than agree to confer with the new owners and the old owners about country lines. I put it to  Senator Jessop  that, if the Labor Government had been commissioned to disband country lines, I am quite confident that his attitude would have been that the Wilmington line must be saved. Having regard to the fact that the obligation is on this Government to consider whether the Wilmington line and other lines might be saved, he tends to defend that attitude. There must be some general consensus and there must be arbitration about those matters. The fact is that in my own State- in  Senator Jessop  's and  Senator Young's  own State- there is a local community urge to maintain country lines as far as possible. The issue must be determined by conciliation. In the event of no agreement being reached, there must be some authority coming in and saying that the Government must disband the line because it is too expensive. As I see it- as honourable senators probably know I am an old railway workshop man- there is still a necessary role for railways in Australia. I hope that in association with the State governments we might see a future for them, as there was in Europe. The Minister will know that although everybody said that the railways were finished in Europe, the fact is that in Europe, and particularly in Germany, the railways carried the burden of supplies for armies on both sides during the Second World War. 
My question is directed to the Minister for Social Security and refers to the general concern expressed by charitable organisations in respect of the present policies of the 
Government and the approvals that the Minister made under the Aged or Disabled Persons Homes Act last year. I have been informed by those organisations that they are very concerned about the future. In the first place, as the Minister well knows, in announcing the most recent approvals some tighter controls were placed on them, or perhaps one could say a more inelastic system was adopted. In addition, presently organisations are finding it difficult to raise cheap money on the market to provide homes for the aged. I am told that these organisations may not be able to expand accommodation in the future and may have to use the present structures. I ask the Minister: Is she reviewing, to any extent, the position in which the organisations find themselves because of current policies? Is the Minister considering a review of the position in order to ensure that those organisations are not retarded and to encourage them to perform their proper function in society by being able to provide services on the basis of a satisfactory government subsidy? 
-I suggest that the position as it has been put by  Senator Scott  is not accurate.  Mr Clyde  Cameron was telling the Parliament about what  Mr Hawke  told the Government on 1 8 March when the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations  (Mr Street)  stated that the Government intended to bring in legislation to set up the new Industrial Relations Bureau which was aimed at the unions and the employees.  Mr Hawke  said that unless the Government altered its line of thinking there would be a confrontation with the union movement involving the sorts of things that Clyde Cameron talked about. Of course this would have happened if the Government had proceeded with its original proposal, which was probably the most cynical piece of industrial legislation that a government had ever attempted to pass through Parliament. There was no consultation. The point made by  Senator Scott  is that his Government believes in consultation. Let me suggest to the honourable senator that in this case there were no prior consultations with the Australian Council of Trade Unions. The ACTU has always been ready to talk to the Government of the day through either Albert Monk or Bob Hawke. We know that in this place there have been statements indicating that on all the issues- trade union matters, the Conciliation and Arbitration Act and the economy- the ACTU has proposed that there should be regular talks between the ACTU and the Government. During the term of the Labor Government, Bob Hawke suggested that there should be an advisory committee involved with the ACTU. 
There was no prior consultation. The consultations came only after the ACTU had examined the idea of the Bureau and decided that the Bureau was, in fact, a new attempt to impose more effectively penalties upon the union movement and also to reinforce, within employment, the actions and strengths of those people who do not believe in joining unions. The strange thing, of course, is that when  Senator Scott  talks about polls, he does not talk about polls which are taken when the unions are on strike. I mention the recent air traffic controllers strike where the controllers had a poll and decided that they would strike in respect of their claims. Honourable senators know what happened. The Fraser Government took what is known now as the new line, a strong line.  Mr Fraser  made the threat on his own that the Government intended to bring in the Army and the Air Force. Who solved the dispute. It was the ACTU. It was not the Government; it was not the conciliation and arbitration machinery. The Government frequently attacks the ACTU and the union movement and never recognises the practical knowledge that the ACTU has in solving disputes. 
In recent years we have had examples of national strikes where the ACTU has been the body which has come in to solve disputes. The air traffic controllers strike is one such situation where, had it not been for the ACTU, this country might have been in very perilous conditions. If consultations are to be held they must be held early. They must be held at the stage where the differences between the union movement and the Government are so marked as to warrant discussions. The Opposition does not oppose the new National Labour Consultative Council because it knows that it is an attempt to establish again something like the old National Labour Advisory Body, which was set up during my time on the ACTU Executive and which was supported to the stage when the ACTU and the unions considered that the then Government was using too powerfully the penal powers of the Conciliation and Arbitration Act. 
It is all right for  Senator Scott  and other Government supporters to say that the only way to stop the workers is by using penalties. I suggest to them that if they study the position in any western democracy, they will see that attempts to bring into being such statutes have always failed. The most effective recourse in the settling of industrial disputes has always been the consultation to which I have referred. The Opposition gives that piece of legislation its blessing. The unions want it and, as  Senator Button  said, the Opposition believes that it should embrace another organisation. He will move an amendment in respect of that. That is the sort of discussion which should obtain. Evidence shows that the ACTU has been the body- in coperation, if I can put it that way, with a number of officials of the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission- which has been powerful in settling matters. So there has been prior agreement. 
Whatever the courts do finally about these disputes, the body which brings the parties together in national issues- in oil disputes and aviation disputes- has, in my experience, always been the 
ACTU. Of course, there will be polls supporting the proposition that people should not have to join a union. Many people who work for their living do not agree with the unions because they object to paying fees for a start. Unfortunately as everybody knows, as honourable senators on the other side of the chamber know, there are too few people who take part in their union movement. But we know that every time there is a threat, every member of the union is active in support of his organisation. 

 - Senator Walters is talking about a situation which was produced only by the Government. In this legislation the Government has proposed consultations be held. The legislation seeks to establish a Bureau which will be able to harass and interfere with the union movement. Staff of the Bureau would have been able to enter union offices at any time- this is before this was prevented by the proposal of the ACTU- they deemed necessary to inspect any books or documents; to require a union to make available any books or documents the Bureau wished to inspect; to require a union officer, employee, agent or returning officer to make available to the Director of the Bureau any information he may require; to require the attendance of a union officer, employee, agent or returning officer before the Director or an authorised member of his staff and for such persons to produce all books, documents and papers in his custody which may be required. Those sorts of actions and enforced penalties and the actions to assist malcontents in an industry will not produce industrial peace. Penalties will not produce industrial peace. As I said, the first tripartite consultation, including the Government, the employees and the trade union movement, broke down because of the argument about penalties. 
Penalties have not been applied in many circumstances. They certainly have not been applied against the employers because the evidence shows quite clearly- I can read it to honourable senators- that during the term of the Labor Government we were able to apply what were then correct actions against employers who breached the award. Since that time the figures for prosecutions against employers have fallen off. I refer to a statement made by  Mr Kidd,  the  President  of the Arbitration Inspectors' Association, which will form the nucleus of the Bureau. In the  Financial Review  of 11 May 1977  Mr Kidd  was reported as saying that the legislation would be largely unworkable. The report of the  Financial Review  continued: 

 Mr Kidd said that on past experience, far more employers than employees would be prosecuted for breaches of the Act or industrial awards . . . 
There had, in fact, been a marked decrease in the number of prosecutions launched against employers for breaches of awards by the present administration - 
He means this Government- compared with those launched by the Labor Government. 
In 1973-74, for example, the Arbitration inspectors' annual report showed that there were 1 12 outstanding and recommended proceedings . . . 
In 1 974-75, this figure increased to 1 97 outstanding or recommended prosecutions . . . 
In the last financial year, however, the number declined substantially to 95 . . . 
As  Senator Mulvihill  said in this place last week, there was a circumstance where there was a case pending for 18 months before any examination was made by the Government. Therefore, there must be consultation. The idea is clear. It is no good the Government saying that it has a proposal to improve the union movement. What did it do when the Labor Government introduced into the Senate the ideas about amalgamations to make sure that there would not be demarkation disputes between the unions? All honourable senators know, of course, that one of the bad things in industry is the conflict between members of unions. Some 300 unions still exist. This situation occurs at Garden Island in our defence establishment. 
When the Labor Party introduced the measure to make amalgamation easier, the then Minister,  Mr Lynch  said: 'Yes, I support it'. Later he changed his mind. I point out to honourable senators that what has happened today is that the so-called Fraser Government's tough line has simmered down because it is obviously a practical solution to consult with the main ACTU organisation when there are main national disputes. Hawke has solved the question. Nobody else has solved them, not the court. It will cost the Australian taxpayer $2m to start this Bureau. In the  Australian  dated 26 May, it was reported: 
The Federal Government will provide about $2m in this year's Budget for the operations of its new Industrial Relations Bureau. 
In my opinion, and in the opinion of the Labor Party, that agreement has not been honoured.  Senator Scott  talks about the agreement being honoured but I refer to what the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relation said in the other place when he was introducing the amended Bill. It is true, of course, that the ACTU acted strongly and resolutely to stop some of the bad features of the Bill. The ACTU wrote to  Mr Street  and said: 
First, if the Government wishes to put the responsibility for dealing with the existing pains and penalties and processes into the hands of the body which they wish to designate as an Industrial Relations Bureau- and there is no explicit or implicit addition to those existing provisions or processes- the Trade Union Movement . . . would offer no objection. 
The fact is that that is different from what is proposed now. The Bill before the Parliament is different from the agreement.  Mr Street  went on to say: 
On 1 7 May I announced: 
The Government has decided to pass legislation this Session to establish the Industrial Relations Bureau which will have the function of securing the observance ofthe Act and awards in the terms already in the Act. 
The Bill is different from that proposed legislation.  Mr Street  went on: 
Pending the detailed consideration of the Act referred to later in this statement, the Industrial Relations Bureau will have the same powers as the Arbitration Inspectorate, no more, no less, and those powers will be exercised according to the same processes as they have been until now. 
Supporters of the Bill have put forward arguments. They say that they want a new situation with the Minister being taken out of the act. They say that the new statutory body has to be reinforced and that the director has to be given a new power which cannot be exercised by the employers. That is the clue to the legislation. Let me refer to what was said by one of our most prominent and respected conciliation and arbitration authorities, the  President  of the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission,  Sir John  Moore. The  Age  of 22 April 1 977 reports that  Sir John  said: 
. yesterday the Federal Government's new industrial legislation provided for an increase in powers it already had but did not use. 
The report goes on: 

 Sir John said that courts had the power to impose penalties under the existing legislation, but only governments had the power to collect the fines. 
There are in the books of the Industrial Court fines going back to 1 968 which have never been collected ', he said. 

 Sir John was answering questions at a seminar at the University of New South Wales. He continued: 
Penal sanctions so called have never been taken out of the Act. They're there now. They're simply not used'. 
Why are they not used? They are not used because the 2 main parties in industry are the employers and the unions. Experience has shown that the employers are pragmatic in their dealings with unions and workers. Employers frequently do not use the Act or the penal powers contained in it. They know that there is more chance of settling a dispute without recourse to threats and penal powers. The evidence is clearly on that side, as the  President  of the Arbitration Commission said. 
Significantly, in the discussions which followed the report by the Minister in March about the new Bureau, the national employers went to see the Minister. The national employers in fact opposed the Bureau. The national employers, in the words of the Minister, 'did not agree'. As reported on page 2040 of  Hansard  the Minister said that the employers had indicated:   . . that they believed that the ACTU 's change of attitude in regard to the establishment of the Industrial Relations Bureau and participation in a tripartite consultative body - 
What is that, senator? 

 - Senator Harradine has asked for an answer to his question. Can we be provided with an answer from the Minister, or is his question to be ignored? I think other honourable senators are interested in the points raised by  Senator Wright.  I am interested to hear the matter fully explained. 
My question is addressed to the Leader of the Government in the Senate, who represents the Prime Minister and the Minister for Defence. The question refers to the future of the Woomera rocket range. The Minister might have seen a Press report yesterday that one of the subjects for discussion between the Prime Minister and his group and United Kingdom authorities was to be whether the Woomera rocket range might be activated again. My second question refers to my recent question which the Minister will recall about Service trials which were to be held at Woomera and the report that they were being held in May. I ask the Minister whether he can provide any information in respect of the first question. As to the second question, can he say whether those trials have been completed? If he has not any information, can he get it? 

 -Mr President, I seek leave to make a short statement on this matter. 
-Briefly, I want to support what  Senator Sir Magnus  Cormack has said. I want firstly to thank him, because he chairs the full Joint Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence, the  Chairman  of the Sub-committee and members of the Sub-committee who spent more than 12 months in their investigations and studies, the results of which are now in one document. Senators should note that for the first time there is in one document, with the exception of the material on the electronics industry, most of the relevant material upon which senators, the public and experts might be able to assess the question of what are appropriate industrial support needs. 
My personal general conclusion resulting from the recommendations and conclusions of the Committee is that there is an urgent need to do something about industrial support within Australia if we are to meet defence needs. The Committee made recommendations on matters with which we all have had experience. For example, honourable senators will recall that this matter has been frequently debated in the Senate. In 1970 during the debate on the Supply Bills a motion was passed relating to the urgent need to maintain a defence capacity. It is unfortunate that in recent years there has been a run down in the work load of staff, including professional staff, of the Government factories and private industry. The Committee put its mind to points of view which might correct that situation. 
Finally, I refer to the shipbuilding industry which also was mentioned in the report. I recommend to honourable senators and to the public generally that they study the conclusions and recommendations which have come from the Committee. It could well be, in the view of Committee members- this view was endorsed by the whole Committee- that the proposed package deal could be a solution to the problem in the shipbuilding industry and it might correct the very sad position in respect of Newcastle and Whyalla. 
-I want briefly to support the condolence motion and in particular to refer to former  Senator Theo  Nicholls.  Senator Cavanagh  and I were elected to the Parliament in 1961. I followed former  Senator Nicholls  as No. 2 candidate for the Australian Labor Party.  Senator Cavanagh  was No. 3. Before that time I was associated with Theo Nicholls in Trades and Labour Council activities in South Australia.  Senator Cavanagh  referred to these activities. It has been said before that the Parliament reflects society outside the Parliament. I think Theo Nicholls contributed quite an amount to the Labor movement, first in the three unions which he represented and later as the Secretary of the Trades and Labour Council. At a very active time during the war years he assumed more important duties on bodies which were set up. As  Senator 0  'Byrne stated, he was quite an interesting and broad character. He had a lot of experience in society and in travelling generally. He was something of an entertainer. Many of the social gatherings in this Parliament have been lightened, as we all know, by his stories which are now on record for those who would like to read them. I certainly am saddened to know that he has passed away. He was a great friend and colleague in the Labor movement in South Australia. He represented an important segment of society. He made a great contribution. Although he suffered two heart attacks while he was a senator everybody knows that he was  active almost to the end of his life. He had a very active and useful life. I certainly join with the other honourable senators who have expressed sorrow about his death. I would like also to express my sympathy to his family. 
Question resolved in the affirmative, honourable senators standing in their places. 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Prime Minister. It refers to a newspaper report of a letter apparently emanating from the Prime Minister and directed to the Premier of South Australia about the Whyalla shipyard. It refers also to the recommendations contained in a report of the Joint Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence. The Senate will be aware that the report has been presented to the Senate. Honourable senators from both sides of the chamber recently requested the Prime Minister to support the notion that a specialist group should be set up to examine the Committee's recommendations. I ask: Can the Minister advise whether the letter from the Prime Minister to the South Australian Premier represents a rejection of those proposals- not only the idea of a package deal but also the request from honourable senators from both sides of the chamber that consideration should be given to setting up a specialist committee to consider a proposed package deal to retain the Whyalla and Newcastle shipyards? 
The Senate has just listened to a speech by the Leader of the Government in the Senate  (Senator Withers)-  the counterpart in this place of the Prime Minister,  Mr Fraser,  and the man in this place who on three occasions forced the Labor Government out of office. The honourable senator used every tactic in the parliamentary handbook to make sure that all sorts of actions were taken against the Labor Government, which at that time was confronted by general world inflation. He never gave the Labor Government a chance. He took every opportunity and used every small trick to get the Labor Government out of office. Why? It was because  Senator Withers,  his fellow shadow Ministers and the Prime Minister stated that they were the only people who could get the economy back into shape. What did they promise? 
-Why should the honourable senator say 'Hear, hear'?  Her  party made a howling mess of it- so much so that today  Senator Withers  does not even acknowledge the importance of the urgency motion which has been put forward so adequately and efficiently by  Senator Grimes  and which reads: 
The Government's failure to take positive steps to improve employment and its discriminatory actions against the unemployed. 
That has been established. It is clear. After 22 months in office this Government has had plenty of time to correct the economy. It has had plenty of time to find jobs, as the present Government promised it would do. After two Budgets nothing is said about the economy strengthening or about success in fighting unemployment. On 22 November 1975 Malcolm Fraser said- and it was echoed in this place, as we all remember quite well: 
A government which understands and can manage the Australian economy is essential to Australia 's prosperity and to the revival of business confidence. 
Where is the business confidence today? Listening to the statements which  Senator Grimes  made and the statements in the Press from manufacturing industry and from the man the Government has just knighted, the head of the Ford enterprise, who said that there is nothing for manufacturing industry in the Budget. There is no promise to solve the unemployment problem. The man who wanted to be Prime Minister said this: 
Only under a Liberal-National Country Party Government will there be jobs for all who want to work. 
It is not a joke? Then  Mr Street  added his words, and in the meantime they have tried to say that the unemployment developments have not been as definite as the Labor Party said they would be. In 1975  Mr Street  said: 
I am hopeful that the job opportunities will start to increase early in the life of the new Government, but it will probably take about 6 months for this to happen. 
Everybody hoped that in the Budget last night some measure of attention would have been given to the sort of projects which ought to be started and to a revival of the building programs which the Labor Party started in order to encourage employment opportunities. When this Government made cutbacks in every area- not only in the areas of its own responsibility but also in areas which are the responsibility of statutory corporations- those cutbacks influenced State projects which had been assisted by the Labor Government and, of course, influenced employment opportunities. There has been a flow-on of those cutbacks. 
As  Senator Brown  points out, there has been a flow-on of those cutbacks to private industry. The result was that there was no demand for goods. The Leader of the Government in this place talks nonsense when he talks about lowering wages. If his argument is right, then the low wage states of India, the Philippines, Indonesia and a mass of other countries would all be prosperous. The fact is that modern experience tells us that the more we can keep people in employment and the more we can encourage consumer demand the better chance there is of providing work opportunities for everybody. So there is a need, as the Labor Party has said, to examine the promises of these people who put Labor out of office because it was said that we could not manage the economy. Of course, that statement was a complete fraud, as everybody knows. It is true to say today that not only can this Government not do it but in fact its Ministers come into the Parliament and refuse to answer questions about how it will get the economy going. The future looks brighter, they say. They say that they will train people and that they are training more apprentices. The Government is training people in community welfare schemes. It has all sorts of fancy schemes but it does not have any jobs. Last night with regard to training programs  Senator Cotton  read this statement: 
The Government acknowledges the seriousness of the present unemployment, especially among young people. 

 Senator Grimes pointed out the great problems that exist, particularly with regard to young people. Half the unemployed are young people under 25 years of age who have never had an opportunity to get a secure job. In addition, the Government is making the pool greater by the imposition of staff ceiling levels on Government departments and statutory authorities.  Senator Cotton  said: 
For these reasons the Government attaches special importance to its labour market training program. 
What is the labour market? There are no jobs. Of course, labour training programs are good in a time of full employment. I support all the measures that are presently being tried but, after all, they are only extensions of Labor thinking. However, they are no solution. What must be done is to create work that can be done to assist industry and the States, not to start these nonsense schemes. I refer, for example, to the Community Youth Support Scheme - 
They are nonsense in the sense that they are not putting people into paid jobs. It may be a good idea to keep people off the streets but it is no solution. 
-The Government ought to be finding jobs for those people. There are jobs in the Public Service. Skilled men are required in the Public Service and in most of the statutory authorities but they cannot take on skilled men who are unemployed because of the staff ceiling policy of the Government which has been applauded by Government senators. There have been 12 500 people sacked from the Commonwealth Public Service and more are to go. Because of staff ceilings the railways industry cannot take on skilled workers to repair railway tracks. This would be productive work which would improve the economy. Then, the Government introduces a Community Youth Support Scheme- this is where I was interrupted. The Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations  (Mr Street)  stated that this scheme would improve the ability of young people to apply for jobs and to find employment. 
Curently 1 16 projects are in operation involving a lot of young people. The Opposition wants to see these young people in jobs. We want to see jobs created. Everyone inside and outside this place, knows that the huge cut backs in expenditure by this Government to reduce the deficit meant, in fact, that every important, constructive project in Australia was either slowed down or stopped. Not only was the Commonwealth unable to employ people but also, as I have said, many of the statutory authorities which could presently be employing people cannot do so because the Government has stopped them from doing so. It will continue to do so. The Budget Speech stated 12 500 fewer people are employed in the Public Service and there will be fewer tomorrow. What has been gained by this? All that has been gained is general disagreement and resistance from the trade unions and the Public Service. As  Senator Grimes  mentioned there is also a lack of assistance in social welfare schemes as a result of staff ceilings. That is known from evidence given at Estimates Committees. It is known that almost every department has been embarrassed by these staff ceilings. Many of them cannot do their job properly. Evidence is available to support that. It has been reported here yet the Government still claims that it is necessary. 
Twelve months ago it was claimed that service could not be obtained from the Commonwealth Employment Service because of a lack of staff. What happened? After 12 months it came out that the Opposition was right and 300 more people were appointed to the staff of the Commonwealth Employment Service. As I have said, after nearly 2 years and after promises to get the economy going, professional people have no business confidence. There is more unemployment. Unemployment continues to grow quarter by quarter and no doubt it will continue to do so. Apparently it is accepted by the Government that there could be an unemployment rate of 7 per cent by early next year. In his statement concerning the last unemployment figure in July,  Mr Street  reported: 
At end of July there were 337 391 unemployed persons registered with the CES or 5.4 per cent of the estimated labour force of 6.2 million. 
That is a lot but  Mr Street  talks about the Labor Government. After nearly 2 years in office the Government is still blaming Labor for unemployment. Unemployment has more than doubled since the Labor Government was in office. 
-I ask  Senator Walters  to listen for 5 minutes. This is the statement of the Minister.  Mr Street  said: 
This compares with 270 286 or 4.5 per cent of the labour force as at end-July 1976 . . . 
The figure was less in 1975. My time is limited. I do not intend to stop and listen to honourable senators on the other side of the chamber who seek to interject. I have less than half the time allotted to your leader in which to speak. The fact is- it cannot be counteracted- that in every department services have been hamstrung and industrial trouble has been created by staff ceilings. The Government could employ skilled people in many of these areas but it will not do so because it believes some fiction about the deficit. It believes that the deficit must be reduced by reducing workers' wages. That is its only solution. In the United Kingdom people like honourable senator's opposite have been putting forward this nonsense for two years. What was the result of a recent survey in the United Kingdom when a team of German experts and businessmen were invited to the United Kingdom by the government and the people to see what was wrong with the British economy. People over there blame the British worker in the same way as Government supporters blame the Australian worker.  The Guardian  of Monday, 1 August had this to say: 
Germans blame the British manager. West German businessmen working in Britain put the blame for our economic problems on British management, not the British workman, according to an article yesterday in the news magazine  Der Spiegel. 
The facts are clear. The Government's solution to the unemployment situation is to break the promises that it gave on the election eve to agree to full wage indexation. In addition, the Government says that wages must be reduced. It says that there is more industrial disputation than at any time. As the Australian Council of Trade Unions representative pointed out to the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission, that is quite untrue. The Government is using these devices to try to confuse the Australian electors in the same way as it confused the electorate on the eve of the election that defeated the Labor Government. The Government will not answer the pleas that have been made by State governments. It is true that the performance of the Labor Government in industrial disputes is better than that of this Government. It is true that the States with Labor governments have a better record of industrial peace than States with Liberal governments. The Government cannot put its finger on any of these things in a realistic way. 
I put it to the Government, as  Senator Grimes  has pointed out, that many of the people who come to this country have great disabilities under present circumstances. The Government is making that situation harder for them. It is not making it easier for the unemployed person to get a job. It is not training people for jobs. It is training people but there are no jobs. It is making it more difficult for people who are displaced. Over the years the numbers of people unemployed have increased. The number of months for which unemployed people have been unemployed has increased. It is now evident that the trend which occurred early this year meant that people who were unemployed for 6 months represented 80 per cent of those who were registered as unemployed. The Opposition wants to draw to the attention of the Government the need for an important revision of the works program, a revision of assistance to the States. Not only has the Government caused these troubles in the Federal area, but also it has caused the States to have a recession which has meant that people cannot be employed in the way they should be employed. 
I support the amendment moved by  Senator Douglas  McClelland which proposes that the Senate should consider this matter on Tuesday. I do so for the reasons which I advanced earlier, that a Bill proposed by the Government and drawn up many months ago, alleged by the Government to be designed to correct abuses by industrial action, has been introduced again into the Parliament to solve the dispute in the Postal Commission. My argument has been that the Bill is not designed to solve a dispute in the Postal Commission but is a more comprehensive Bill which ought to be studied by the Parliament in a quiet way. All parties in the Parliament should have dme to consider the implications of the Bill. 
I want to mention some of the issues contained in the Bill which concern me and which I am sure must concern every other member of the Senate. It seems to me that the issue in the Postal Commission is not so urgent that it cannot be left until next week. In making that statement, I am strengthened by the fact that, as you know,  Mr President,  I was the last Postmaster-General. I think I can say, being quite modest, that while I was the Minister industrial disturbances in the Postal Commission and the Telecommunications Commission were at a minimum. I do not think that anybody would challenge that. I do not claim that that record was the result of my own ministry; it was the result of having a staff which applied itself to the industrial disputes which occurred in the commissions. As a result, that staff developed a technique which solved many of the disputes. Putting it coldly, if we sat in a committee of the Senate, I think that most honourable senators would agree with what I am saying. I used the people in the commissions who were experienced in industrial matters - 
I support the amendment moved by  Senator Douglas  McClelland. The issue is whether the Senate should sit tomorrow to consider a Bill which contains very embracing provisions on the rights of labour, of unions, and members of the Commonwealth Public Service to abide by Public Service regulations or by union directions. It seems to me that the principle involved in this matter is whether the Senate itself ought to perform what has been its traditional function. The role of the Senate in this respect has been argued by both sides. I remember when the present Government parties were in Opposition that they argued that the Senate had the right to review legislation from the other place. 
What has happened today is that the Government has introduced into the House of Representatives a Bill with most embracing provisions. The Bill does not purport to cover what is claimed to be a dispute in the Postal Commission. Its provisions go further than embracing the Postal Commission. The Bill as introduced in the Senate covers not just the dispute in the Postal Commission but every department of the Government as well as statutory corporations. Its provisions mean that any incident or dispute which involves employees of the Commonwealth Public Service or a statutory body may result in a declaration by the department or Minister concerned which will lead to the dismissal of a public servant or an employee of a statutory authority. As a result of such dismissal, the employee may lose all privileges. The legislation contains a very important matter of principle which ought to be considered. It should be studied, particularly by this Senate. 
It has been claimed over the years that the Senate has a special capacity to review legislation. This has been claimed by those on both sides of the Senate. The authoritative work dealing with the role of the Senate says that the Senate has a review obligation. It is not suggested that the legislation which has been introduced purports to solve the postal workers dispute. The legislation is a most embracing arbitration law which may involve every Commonwealth public servant and other statutory employees. For that reason, my view is that what should happen is that members of this Senate ought to have the chance to review the proposed law. I would expect that those on the other side of the Senate who are lawyers might well suspect what is being put forward by the Government. I have seen the l egislation. I note in the legislation that the Government can sack any employee of the Commonwealth or any employee of a statutory corporation. The re-appointment of the sacked employee to the department or the statutory authority is subject to review by the head of the department or statutory authority or the relevant Minister. That seems to me to be a very arbitrary provision in this legislation. Before the Senate embarks on a consideration of that law, honourable senators should have time to consider thoroughly what is proposed by the Government. 
I am persuaded by arguments which I heard today in the other place that this law was prepared in the course of the air traffic controllers dispute which occurred some 4 months ago. I should point out that it was not the arbitral authority which solved that dispute. It is clear that the Australian Council of Trade Unions, the organised trade union movement, helped to solve that dispute. I am persuaded by that argument that the Senate should have time to consider what is proposed in this law. To me, the proposals which have been put forward in the Parliament and which honourable senators and members in the other place have had little time to consider are very important and most comprehensive laws which strike at the very roots of negotiation procedures and labour laws in Australia. 
I cannot remember a government department or a Minister arguing that one or the other should have the right to determine what should be the conditions of employment for an employee when therehas been a strike. The history of industrial relations in Australia reveals that matters such as these have always been referred to the umpirethat  is,  the arbitral authority. What the Government proposes is that  a  Minister or  a  department or authority can now make this decision. The manager of authorities such as the Snowy Mountains Authority, Telecom, the Postal Commission or the Commonwealth Railways will be able to decide, if this legislation is passed, whether an employee should be sacked. 
My question is directed to the Leader of the Government in the Senate or to  Senator Cotton  who represents the Treasurer. I refer to a statement made at the National Press Club yesterday by the Treasurer in which he referred to a proposal of his own which was to reduce the real wages of the young. I understand that the version of the statement is correct as it is in all the daily newspapers. I appreciate that it was a personal statement and that the Treasurer said that he was not sure whether Cabinet supported his point of view. As this is almost an alarming statement which certainly goes a lot further than any point of view put in this place by any Minister or by the Prime Minister, for this is a proposal to reduce the wages of young people, and as the Treasurer is an influential member of Cabinet, I ask whether the relevant Minister will examine the statement to ensure that Government policy in respect of this matter will be stated authoritatively in the next few days. 
-I ask the Leader of the Government in the Senate a question. He will recall that on Tuesday I asked questions about the future of the Whyalla and Newcastle shipyards and the recommendation by the Joint Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence that there should be a special group to inquire into the possibility of a package deal which was recommended by the Committee and which was later supported by senators of the Liberal Party and the Australian Labor Party in a letter to the Prime Minister. I mentioned that  Mr Dunstan  had received a reply relating to that question but that honourable senators had not yet received a reply. Did it mean that no special group would be set up, or is that question still to be determined? 
I support and agree with the comments made by  Senator Douglas  McClelland. I think that any honourable senator who has looked at the Bill and who knows anything about industrial relations, any honourable senator opposite who has had anything to do with management and labour relations and any honourable senator on this side of the chamber who has had anything to do with unions, will know that this Bill if it is carried into the law of the land will set back industrial relations about 100 years. It removes the necessity for consultation between employee and employer and takes from the arbitral authorities the chance to determine what is fair and just in regard to capital labour. That is what this legislation does. It does not do it only for the Australian Postal Commission; it does it for every Commonwealth employee. 
Of course it does. It is so embracing that it does include all Commonwealth employees. Surely the honourable senator knows that the definition of 'Commonwealth employees' means:   a person holding office or appointment in the Commonwealth Teaching Service or an office or appointment under the Supply and Development Act . . . the Naval Defence Act . . . 
Every worker, every artisan and every officer will be affected by a new and revolutionary change. It is a wrong change. It is inconsistent with every modern industrial practice. It should be discussed- 
-Senator Tehan should know, he is a lawyer. Fancy a lawyer coming into this place and defending the provisions contained in this Bill which give arbitrary powers to an employing authority and to any. Minister-it could be myself or a Minister from the other side of the chamber- the right to suspend or dismiss a man from his job and to give an employing authority the right to say arbitrarily what is in a declaration. There is nobody to say what is fair and just. If honourable senators examine the clauses of the Bill they will find that in part clause 8(3) states: 
. the employing authority may . . . 
give such other directions in relation to the terms and conditions of employment of the employee as the employing authority considers appropriate . . . 
An employing authority can make a declaration or a determination as it thinks appropriate. The same principle applies to notification of a declaration. The Bill also invests in the GovernorGeneral the power to make ancillary rules and regulations. The Government is endeavouring to make sure that the net is closed even tighter. The Government has put itself in a very serious situation. I want to draw the Government's attention to the fact that only a few months ago it complained that the Australian Council of Trade Unions had withdrawn from what was previously known as the National Labour Advisory Council. 
The Government talked with representatives of the ACTU and agreed to set up a new body, the National Labour Consultative Council. The Government promised the ACTU and the Public Service unions that when any important legislation such as this was proposed it would discuss it with that body. The Government has not discussed this legislation with that body. What happened to consultation with the workers? What happened to the Government's idea of consulting with that national body? It is true that every great national dispute in this country has not been settled by the introduction of a law such as this. Strangely enough, the man criticised most often was the instrument used to settle the oil dispute and the recent air traffic controllers ' dispute. Bob Hawke settled those disputes; nobody else did. That is true and honourable senators opposite know that. 
The ACTU officers, day by day, are being called in to settle disputes even in areas of defence and elsewhere. What happened to the idea that I instigated in the Post Office when I was Postmaster-General? It cannot be denied that there had to be a new and enlightened industrial relations procedure within the Post Office. Why did I do it? I did it because the Vernon Commission recommended it. One of the great things which the Vernon Commission did was to draw attention to the very poor industrial relations in the Post Office. That is in the report. Honourable senators opposite can read it for themselves. It has been tabled in this place and it has been discussed. As a result of that support I started a new procedure of allowing members of my own staff to interfere in industrial disputes. As a result- I reported it here- Don Hancock, a very able man, used to go to the Redfern Mail Exchange and anywhere else where there was a dispute. We solved them. 
During that time, during the time of the Labor Government and, in particular, during my own time- I am not applauding myself; it is the sort of technique that should be used by a Minister- I used every device to make sure that a troubleshooter was available to solve disputes. We have the greatest record of any government in respect of the Post Office. What has this Government done? Since the Labor Government went out of office there have been more disputes in the Post Office than ever before, particularly in the Postal Commission. Despite that, the new Postal Commission, which the Labor Government handed to this Government on a plate, actually made $29m. Now the Government is so miserable that it will not allow the Arbitration Commission to decide this question. I am not defending men who take arbitrary action. I am saying- it is the truth- that in the Postal Commission today, particularly in the Redfern Mail Exchange, the idea of consulting with the workers has gone. It should be resurrected. The Government should do the same thing as I did when I was Postmaster-General. 
The fact is- I have checked on this and I know that it is true- that nowhere do the local authorities talk to the union about new rosters. The Australian Postal and Telecommunications Union put up a plea for reduced hours. It did so because they had been granted to most other employees in the Telecommunications Commission and the Postal Commission. It was an agreement signed during my time and later extended by this Government. Having done that, this Government said to the men: 'You can have  363A  hours, but you will lose $40 a fortnight'. The men bucked the Government. They said: 'We will not take a reduction of $40 a fortnight'. A mail officer has to be a skilled, trained man. He must pass an examination. He earns $ 1 50 a week. As a result of the new rosters he will lose $23 a week. How many men will put up with that sort of nonsense? Instead of that, the Government should have said: 'We will consider what rosters might be developed in the Redfern Mail Exchange'. When it said that it was going to apply the rosters, naturally the men decided to take industrial action. 
There is time for a solution. If the Government's argument is that somebody had to solve the dispute and take action against the Redfern mail workers, why does it have to penalise every other postal officer in the country? The Government is using this type of dispute to say that there is need for a new law. There is no need for a new law. If this Bill is enacted there will be a general industrial tie-up in the country. There will be strike after strike, new agitation and dissatisfaction. Everybody, even the workers in this Parliament, will be faced with the same arbitrary powers of the boss. Does anybody here say that in 1977 we have to go back to the old days of the master and servant psychology when the boss could do anything to the worker? The worker had no rights. Surprisingly, in view of the former consultations, the Government introduced this Bill. It has been suggested that it has been on the stocks since the air traffic controllers strike and nobody knew about it. Today the Postal Commission itself will use the existing provisions. Today's  Australian Financial Review  stated: 
In Sydney, the State manager of Australia Post,  Mr Milton  Stevens, said he would use the existing provisions and apply to the Arbitration Commission today for the insertion of stand-down clauses in the postal workers award. 
It has never done that. It has not discussed with the union what might be appropriate rosters. It said: 'We will bring in the rosters'. In addition, the Postal Commission has not applied to the Conciliation Commission in the way it is applying today. Yet the Government is rushing through a Bill. I am concerned not only about the postal workers and the Postal Commission but about this law which will become far more important and far more extensive than the present law. It will turn the conservative unions in the Public Service into militant unions. It will start new grievances because in future the employing authority and the delegation of bosses will have new powers over the worker. Nobody knows the extent to which those powers will affect the worker and the extent to which he might lose his rights under existing laws and usages. It is a bad situation. I suggest that if the Government had any sense it would take days to determine what might be done with the Bill. 
It is clear to me that one of the most outstanding lawyers in the Senate does not know what the Bill provides because in developing the argument  Senator Wright  has put to the Senate today he has said, on the one hand, that the Government has to take decisive action against the dictators and the disrupters in the industrial movement but, on the other hand, the honourable senator has argued that there is no disturbance at all to the present arbitration in industrial relations climate in Australia. It is clearly evident to everybody who has seen the Bill that what is proposed in this Bill will in fact become a new law. If this Bill is passed it will become a new law. The provisions in the Bill will override the provisions in the Public Service Act. This new legislation will override the provisions in the Naval Defence Act, the Supply and Development Act and all the provisions in those pieces of legislation which have been laid down to regulate conditions between master and servant. 
Honourable senators will know from the information that was given to the Senate this morning by  Senator Button  in relation to the case which came before  Mr Justice  Sharp that the question of standing down employees under the present Conciliation and Arbitration Commission Act is one which must be regulated by that Commission. If the Australian Postal Commission had wanted to take action against any of its workers a month ago when the dispute started to develop it had that right- a right which it is using only today- to go before the Commission. How is it that the Postal Commission only today is using the existing provisions on the same day that the Government brings into this Senate a proposed law to introduce new rules? The existing law says that if there is a conflict and the employer wants to disturb an agreement or award with a union- this applies under most awards- he has to go to an arbitrator. 
There was a conflict in the Post Office. Neither the Manager of the New South Wales branch of the Postal Commission nor the General Manager of the Postal Commission is saying today: 'We are going to rely on what is proposed in this legislation'. They are before the Arbitration Commission today asking that the bans provisions be applied in respect of the Post Office group. So clearly  Senator Wright  either does not understand the position or is trying to confuse us in respect of the law. 
The new proposal does what he said in the first place it did. It gives a Minister, an authority or somebody declared to be an officer of an authority new dictatorial powers which get around the old relationship between the employee and the employer. In that regard the legislation does what I have said it does: It puts the industrial relations environment in Australia back 100 years. In an arbitrary way it places in the hands of people the power to sack or suspend employees who may not even be actively engaged in a dispute. In fact, their stoppage or stop-work meeting might be caused by something which occurred outside their own enterprise. 
The honourable senator obviously has not read the Bill. I direct his attention to clause 5, which I will read to him directly and which is where that provision is contained. What have honourable senators opposite to say about  Senator Wright's  comments?  Senator Wright  confounded his argument by holding up a copy of the Public Service Act. If the Government has the power under the Public Service Act now, why does it not use that Act instead of coming here and asking for new legislation to be passed? 
Why did not the Minister for Veteran 's Affairs  (Senator Durack),  as Minister representing the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations  (Mr Street),  recommend to the Commission that it use its powers under the Conciliation and Arbitration Act? He knows, because he was the shadow Postmaster-General, that we legislated to give the Commission employees the same rights and powers as most of the community. We placed them under the Conciliation and Arbitration Act, and that is the Act to which an employer has to turn. When I say that, I am not defending any arbitrary act by any employee, but the history of the postal dispute proves that the negotiation system which was strengthened while Labor was in power is not being used to the extent it should be. It is true that Lionel Bowen and I appointed most of the members of the Commission, or the Goverment did; but I am referring not to the top management but to the people on the ground floor. 

 Senator Durack has been to the Redfern Mail Exchange, so I ask him: What is the situation there? Anybody who has been through the place knows that it is a hazard to satisfactory industrial relations. A previous Liberal-Country Party government built it. It has no windows. It is like a prison. It is noisy and dusty and has many people working in a small space. It is most unsatisfactory and the scientific opinion developed when I was the Minister is that such places should not be built, as they were years ago, because they pro- - duce all sorts of unsatisfactory industrial rela-tions. As we read in the newspaper this morning*,"  only last night the New South Wales section of the Postal and Telecommunications Union had a meeting and said that it was prepared to negotiate but certainly not while the new rosters remained. How many people would support this view? Suppose that we were working for a boss and he came along and said to us: 'I will give you the new working hours which have been approved for 75 per cent of the employees of the Postal and Telecommunications Commissions, but when I give you the shorter working week I will reduce your pay by $40 a fortnight . Would we not then expect there to be a row about rosters, and if there is a row we do not do what  Senator Wright  has been talking about. 
The procedure these days in any place of employment where disputes over rosters are required to be settled is to have the matter discussed between the employer and the union which represents the men. We can pass what ever laws we like; but, as Bob Hawke rightly says, all major disputes are settled only by negotiation. That is the idea behind the Conciliation and Arbitration Act.  Senator Wright  having put forward this guff, I am trying to make it clear that either he does not understand or he is not telling the public the truth. It is clear that this legislation does conflict with the Conciliation and Arbitration Act. It is clear also that it gives not only the Government but also the employing authority or some small-minded bloke in charge of a department the power to sack a man arbitrarily. The legislation provides for this. That is completely wrong and nobody should defend such a provision. Nobody should defend it. 
If it is a fact that the points of alleged concern raised by  Senator Wright  are valid, this legislation should be examined by the Senate committee which has examined similar matters before. I am directly opposed to this legislation. I would not object to this Senate committee, on which Government supporters have a majority, examining this Bill in the light of what we say today and on whatever evidence is put before it. 
This Bill gives a new dictatorial power to Ministers. As we are all aware, Ministers often are not well equipped to deal with disputes which occur in the Commonwealth Railways, Telecom, the Postal Commission and other authorities. How well equipped is a Minister who does not understand the problems of an industry, who has not worked in the industry or who does not know what industrial standards prevail to determine that a man should be suspended or sacked from his job? These matters should be settled by experts. The experts in arbitration are not only the people who help to settle disputes but also the members of the Conciliation and Arbitration 
Commission. These are the people whom this Government, and previous governments, both Liberal and Labor, have appointed to these positions. But they are also the people whom the Government has been attacking regularly in the last 12 months. 
This legislation is not only bad but also adopts a new mailed fist policy towards the industrial movement in Australia. The Government is seeking to force its will upon people who are dissatisfied with their employment conditions or the standards at their place of work. For example, employees of the Department of Construction may express concern about a lack of safety measures on a job. As a result the union informs its members that they should not work under those conditions. In that event, the person declared to represent the employing authority or the Minister can say that if the employees do not work they will be sacked. Who are the experts in this field? They are the people who have been involved in arbitration work over many years. They understand these matters. They are the experts who are well equipped to deal with problems and to settle disputes. 
I said earlier today that this Bill will put the industrial relations clock back 100 years. That is true. This legislation signals a return to the conditions prevailing under the master and servant Act where the only arbitrator was the boss. In future, the boss will be the final judge. Disputes will not be settled by arbitration. We will no longer have an umpire to settle industrial disputes. As  Senator Wright  said, it will be a matter for a Minister or other authority. In this respect, an article in today's  Australian Financial Review  reports: 

 Mr Street said that the criteria for dismissal would be an employee's continual history of industrial action. 
Once an employee was suspended that history would be looked at to determine the case for dismissal. 
Such a determination should be a job for the umpire, the man who has helped to establish the code of industrial relations in Australia. Our system of industrial relations has matured and become fairly sophisticated. This Bill, of course, does away with all of that. It allows a mug, if I might put it in good Australian parlance, in charge of a department or responsible for a particular section but who does not know anything about a job or an industry or the climate of consultation, to decide that a man should be sacked. A declaration can be withdrawn without consequential penalty being imposed on the person who make the declaration. 
I referred earlier to the definition of 'industrial action'. In this respect, the safety aspect of a job ought to be considered by some committee and by lawyers. The definition of 'industrial action', as contained in clause 3 of the Bill, states: 
the performance of work in a manner different from that in which it is customarily performed, or the adoption of a practice in relation to work, the result of which is a restriction or limitation on, or a delay in, the performance of the work. 
People may decide that their conditions of work are obnoxious because, for instance, they may be too dusty. They will have no rights under their new award. The dispute will not be taken to an arbitrator or a conciliator for determination as their present award provides. No such right will exist in future. The authority, the person I have mentioned, or the Minister can say that the employees must do as they are told. If they do not they will get the sack. Those who are not involved in any industrial action can be stood down. Clause 5 states: 
Where, by reason of the existence of any industrial action (including industrial action in which Commonwealth employees are not engaged)- 
The employing authority can make a decision that an employee can be sacked or forced to do certain jobs. 
In addition, as the honourable senator well knows, there is the question of his rights. The honourable senator did not answer that. Clause 6 states: 
During any period when a Commonwealth employee is, by virtue of a declaration under section 4, suspended or, by virtue of a declaration under section S, stood down, the employee is not, except as provided in the declaration, entitled to any salary, wages or other remuneration, or allowances ... 
Who decides that? It is not a judge of the court or an arbitrator who is experienced in the matter. It is the authority or the person so designated. He may be a mug as I have pointed out or a Minister, even a Labor Minister, who, however well meaning, is not experienced. Even if it had happened when I was in power I should not have had that power. It would have been wrong. I am not experienced enough in those matters. The Bill goes on arbitrarily. 
-Yes, it states: 
Where an employing authority revokes the termination of employment . . . 
give such other directions in relation to the terms and conditions of employment of the employee as the employing authority considers appropriate in the circumstances. 
What sort of a right is that to invest in anybody? What sort of a right is that to invest in a boss? The Government is transferring the conciliation and arbitration power which exists in this country to people who are masters and employers. What sort of justice is that? Clause 9 states: 
Where an employing authority makes a declaration or determination, or cancels a declaration, the employing authority shall cause such notice as the authority thinks appropriate . . . 
He does not even have to post the declaration satisfactorily or make it known to the workers. He can say: That notification is sufficient and satisfactory to me. You can do what you like about it. ' The workers can do nothing about it. They cannot, as  Senator Wright  argues, go back to the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission. 
What I said earlier is correct. This new power which the Government wants is either a dictatorial power to enforce its new right wing tendencies in the industrial field or it is a gimmick which is a prelude to a general election which will be argued as being necessary to do away with the malcontents in industry. Despite the inconvenience of not delivering mail on time- this was improved when we were in power, as I said before, by the Minister himself using special people to find solutions- the Post Office registered the best record ever of. industrial disputes. Not only did the Labor Government achieve that, but also the Vernon Commission report which the Government and the Parliament considered recommended a new outlook on the part of the Commission. When I criticise the Commission as such I am not criticising people. I am saying that the system- of negotiation and consultation has not been used as it should be. It should be used today. The Minister should promote that form of consultation to solve the industrial dispute in the Post Office. 
Wider than that and more important is the power the Government will have over other public servants. In future every public servant covered by the Acts I have mentioned will become subject to possible arbitrary decisions by his own employers and or a Minister. 
-That is defended by  Senator Wright  and others- no doubt  Senator Jessop  will defend it directly- by saying that strong actions have to be taken against unionists. What unionists? When the Government takes this power it will take it not only against the group it is complaining about but also against every honest worker. Action could be taken in the same way even against the technicians working in  Senator Jessop  's firm. This Bill sets a new climate of industrial relations in the Government's own employment which will not, at least at present, apply m outside industry. That is a most unsatisfactory position. 
I suggest that  Senator Wright  is not putting the case correctly.  His  own arguments are confounded by the Commission itself. Today the Commission is applying to the Arbitration Commission.  Senator Button  informed us this morning that the Commission has rung  Mr Slater  of the Australian Postal and Telecommunications Union and said that it would like to talk again. Why does the Government want to bring in this law? Does it want to give a new power to the Minister? Does the Government intend to arm new Liberal Ministers with these strong powers, keep them to itself, or will it make sure that each employing authority uses not only his judgment but its judgment? The sad facts are that while the commissions are supposed to operate independently we know the Government has a strong power over them. We know that the Minister assumes strong powers. We know that the Government has given directions to the commissions in respect of a number of matters. 
If some section of the working class movement needs attention in respect of the arbitration laws, the law should be considered by the relevant parliamentary committee. I hope consideration will be given by honourable senators opposite to that suggestion. Let the Bill lapse or let consideration of it be adjourned to allow the parties concerned to solve that dispute, and then discuss the matter where it should have been discussed in the first place. As I said a little while ago, the Government brought into Parliament a Bill to provide for a national advisory labour consultative body. The Government criticised the Australian Council of Trade Unions a few years ago for pulling out of the previous body. In the discussions concerning that legislation it was stated that the intention was that all major legislation concerning industrial relations would be considered by that body. It has not been considered by that body. There have been no discussions. 
Today the peak councils and the ACTU are looking at the Bill- let us hope it does not become law- to see what should be done. All the Government is doing is organising the whole of the Public Service, all the white collar workers, into a strong and militant stand against something which is a great threat to our present conciliation and arbitration machinery. It disturbs the established relationship between the boss and the worker. It creates new and arbitrary situations which could be used against the worker and which would allow the making of many mistakes which could cause tension, differences and industrial disputes. I hope the Bill is referred to the Committee. 
My question is directed to the Minister for Industry and Commerce and it refers to discussions which the Minister had with Whyalla community leaders in respect of the future of Whyalla. As the Minister well knows, the question of the activity of the shipyards is in some dispute, and it may be that within the next 12 months the shipyards will go out of existence. I understand that the Minister advised the Whyalla community that he would send some officers to Whyalla to consider whether there were opportunities for alternative employment. Can he advise what has followed since the deputation he had from the Whyalla interests? 
My question, which is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Transport, follows upon the question asked by  Senator Jessop  about the Stuart Highway, and also the interjections by  Senator Kilgariff,  concerning requests that South Australia should provide urgent moneys for the completion of the road. I ask the Minister whether he was aware, when he answered the question, that a committee of Government supporters involved in that area had met and determined that a request should be made to the Commonwealth Government for $40m to provide assistance to do the necessary work on the road. Is he aware also that after that request was made a public campaign was started, involving  Senator Jessop, Senator Kilgariff  and others, in which public support was expressed for such a project? If the Minister is not aware of those facts, will he inquire into them to see whether at that time the members concerned agreed that there was a shared responsibility in respect of that road work? 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Veterans ' Affairs. The Minister may recall that when he was the Minister in charge of this portfolio I asked him questions about the future of the defence service homes scheme in relation to serving servicemen and others and to which he replied that, I think, there would be literally no alterations to the provisions. I now ask the Minister: Is it a fact that the conditions and eligibility requirements under this scheme have been quite drastically changed and that the future of land holdings which are at present held by the Defence Service Homes Corporation is in some doubt because of a Government direction that these are likely to be sold? Will the holdings in South Australia at Reynella, Hackham, Christie Downs and Christies Beach and O'sullivan Beach- the Minister has told me that several hundred blocks of land are held in those areas for building purposes- be sold on open tender or are they to be held for applicants who have already lodged applications? 
-I move: 
That, in the opinion of the Senate, the following is a matter of urgency: 
The implementation by the Government of the recommendation made by the Joint Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence, in its Interim Report on Industrial Support for Defence Needs and Allied Matters tabled on 3 June 1977, that an expert group should be set up to examine and report upon the cost and practicability of the shipbuilding proposals outlined by the Committee, and particularly those in regard to the Whyalla and Newcastle shipyards.' 
The purpose of the motion is to bring before the Senate an important recommendation of an important Committee of this Parliament, namely, the Joint Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence. I wish to relate that recommendation to the problem which faces the largest two shipyards in Australia and, in particular, to draw attention to the plight of the shipyard in Whyalla, which is in my State. Honourable senators would be aware of the representations which have been made on this matter over the years not only by the people of Whyalla and their local member,  Mr Laurie  Wallis, but also by honourable senators on both sides of this chamber. As soon as the report of this Committee was presented to the Senate in June of this year it was considered by honourable senators on both sides of the chamber from South Australia. Those honourable senators were invited to attend at the Whyalla Council chambers and discuss the matter with not only representatives of the Council but also local people. As a result of that discussion the whole group of honourable senators there decided to write a letter to the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  recommending consideration of that recommendation. That letter was signed by Senators Jessop, Davidson, Messner, Bishop, Donald Cameron and McLaren. 
Although we have not had a debate, in this chamber for many months on the problems of the shipbuilding industry in Australia and although there has not been one in the other place for, I think, 12 months, everybody is aware of the serious position which has arisen in Australia in relation to our shipbuilding capacity and more particularly, as a result of this report, in respect of our defence capability. The Committee of which I was a member, together with other members of the Senate and the House of Representatives, felt that the matters involved were so important that it appointed a subcommittee to make a report to the full Committee on industrial support needs for defence purposes. As a result of that a very deep examination was made of the shipbuilding industry in Australia. The members of the sub-committee visited all the important shipyards and discussed the matter with not only the employers and governments concerned but also the trade union movement. Members of the Committee will no doubt support me when I say that at the time of those visits and inspections it was found that the climate was very receptive to what is called a package deal in that recommendation. 
My purpose in raising this matter, particularly as I am a South Australian, is to get support for the recommendations of the Committee, which is greatly concerned about Australia's capacity to build ships in the event of some sort of crisis arising. The Committee has made its own postu-lations about strategic guidelines. Broadly the Committee says that if these two shipyards were to go out of existence it would take many years to reproduce the capacity which now exists. For the benefit of those honourable senators who are not aware of the present position at Whyalla in South Australia I point out that the order book for ships contains work which will cut out about the end of next year and that the work force is being progressively reduced week by week due to people leaving the city because they know that the prospects there are not good and because of retrenchments involving about 20 members of the work force a week. 
This situation is having an effect on a very critical area of industry in South Australia. The Broken Hill Pty Company Ltd employs about one half of the work force in that area. Many of the retrenched workers are highly skilled persons. Although there are some opportunities for employment in the steel works at present the work being offered is generally not the sort of work for which the men to whom it is being offered have been trained. Men with skills are finding no satisfaction in being told that there may be opportunities for employment for them at the steel mills at work involving less skills than those they have attained. 
The estimates as to the reductions in the size of the work force vary. The Industries Assistance Commission estimated that there would be a loss of about 3,000 jobs for the work force if the industry were to become ineffective. The South Australian Government suggested, following its examination of the situation, that nearly 8,000 workers would not only lose their jobs there but also leave that important area. It must be realised that Whyalla is a totally integrated city which has many foreign and migrant peoples and families that are sustained by the shipbuilding industry. The related industries also will be affected if the shipyards become redundant because those who are presently servicing the shipyards, in particular the sub-contractors, will not have a job: 
My point in rising is to carry the matter a bit further if I can. The Australian Labor Party has decided that this matter should be highlighted. It is a critical matter for the two reasons I have mentioned. One is the defence implications. The Foreign Affairs and Defence Committee, whose membership I have outlined, has put forward a unaminous recommendation. The proposition  which it has put before the Government has resulted in the letter I have mentioned being written to the Prime Minister by a number of honourable senators. I will refer to part only of the letter which is dated 24 June 1977. After mentioning the meeting at Whyalla and the presence of the mayor there, it continues: 
We believe that recommendation 7.89 of the Foreign Affairs and Defence report should be proceeded with in order to examine more closely the points raised by the Committee to establish the economic feasibility of the package deal proposed in recommendation 7.88 of the report. 
Recommendation 7.89 of the report reads as follows: 
The Committee recommends that the Government sets up an expert group comprising representatives of the Commonwealth, New South Wales and South Australian governments, managements of the shipyards and the ACTU to examine these proposals as a matter of urgency and report on the cost and practicality of their implementation as an integrated package and whether the industry could then be reasonably expected to be economically acceptable. 
As this need not be a lengthy procedure and would be of tremendous interest to those affected in the areas, we strongly urge the Government to adopt this recommendation. 
We understand that the Mayor,  Mrs Ekblom,  will be supporting this proposition separately on behalf of the Council and the Whyalla community. 
Subsequently the representatives came down to meet  Senator Cotton  in respect of the matter. The nub of the proposition is contained in the recommendations of the Committee. After talking to all the people I mentioned, the governments with which we were concerned, the companies, the employers, the ACTU, and the unionists, the following unanimous recommendation was made: 
Although recognising that substantial sums would be involved in modernising the facilities, the Committee proposes that consideration be given to the following interdependent actions directed towards the achievement of improved performance, as a possible basis for converting this generally uneconomic but nationally important industry into an economically acceptable industry: the industry to be rationalised; the existing ship construction facilities at Whyalla and Newcastle be retained; there be an injection of capital at both yards on a shared basis, sharing being between the Commonwealth and NSW Governments in the case of Newcastle, and between the Commonwealth and SA Governments and BHP in the case of Whyalla, the amount of capital to be that needed to bring the physical capability of each of the yards to a standard matching that of overseas shipyards of similar capacity; there be workload on a continuing basis for the rationalised industry resulting from a 'build in Australia' policy for Australian ships; a policy to build vessels which to the maximum feasible extent are of standard design; and, subject to a suitable manning productivity understanding with the maritime unions, an Australian flag policy for a proportion of overseas trade; there be a guarantee of improved industrial relations, particularly in respect of measures to improve productivity for ship construction and repair and an accepted objective of working towards a single shipbuilding union through a process of amalgamations; there be a system by which potential buyers of Australian built ships can be offered financial terms that are generally competitive on the world scene. 
The Committee emphasises that this proposal must be viewed as ' a package deal '-the elements are interdependent and the package stands or falls on acceptance of all the elements. 
Having decided that, the Committee then proposed the setting up of the special expert group to which I have referred. I need say only that everybody, except the Commonwealth Government, is apparently prepared to act on the recommendations of that expert committee. Although I have since seen the letter from the Prime Minister, I am not clear whether the rejection of the claims by the Committee and of the representations of the South Australian Government really mean that that expert group will not be formed at any time. I have been told by the ACTU that it and its shipbuilding union group has read the report. I have mentioned the other people who have supported it. They have said that they would be willing to act on such a committee and, as a matter of fact, are waiting to see the Minister,  Senator Cotton,  about related matters. In addition, the ACTU has put up to the Government the proposition that a separate consultative body be established in respect of the shipbuilding industry. Presently, there is in fact a general one. 
It seems to me that this is not only a good starting point for viewing the position of Whyalla in the future as a town which will lose its main economic strength but also a good starting point for ensuring that the shipbuilding industry in Australia might well be revived on a new basis. I know that some of these matters have been considered by the IAC. The South Australian Government, especially, and the New South Wales Government made submissions to the Federal Government and to the IAC. In particular the IAC commended the South Australian Government on the constructive nature of its recommendations. I notice that many of the recommendations in fact match what our own Committee has done in respect of this matter. Important elements of the community and members and senators of this Parliament are concerned about defence capability. If some action is not taken, the States that I have mentioned will lose their capacity of a work force totalling many thousands of workers. I have estimated that this will occur about the end of next year, and that is a very serious matter. 
As  Senator Brown  says, we will lose skills in which people cannot be trained fast enough. Everybody knows that, presently, the Government, in attempting to ease the unemployment position in ways urged by us, is starting various training schemes. We should seek to maintain skilled men as effective units in our community. What is the solution? We know that the industry in the past has been plagued considerably by industrial troubles and demarcation problems. The demarcation problems generally have been cured. 
What would happen if our proposition were considered? We would have the expert group. Expert people involved would look at the industry. Of course we have to relate this aspect to matters apart from the arguments about the high level of costs in Australia and the disputations which have marked the industry over past years. One of the most substantial restrictions which has applied in the past has been the fact that Australia has not seen the investment which other countries have had nor have we adopted, except in some small yards recently in Australia, improved techniques. We have not followed the German or Japanese industry practices of improving productivity in respect of the method of building ships. Only two yards that I have seen in Australia can match in any way the methods of the Japanese. The governments in the other countries I have mentioned, as everybody well knows, take a direct control and interest in the yards. They are linked with the enterprise; they actively work for it. In our country it becomes a secondary matter. We do not see a government in Australia linking itself with an enterprise to develop shipbuilding in the most positive ways as is done in Japan or Germany. That involvement is required. We do not get the instant participation to which I have referred by the work force which has had these disabilities in the past. 
I am putting to the Senate- I hope that honourable senators on the other side will support it- the proposition that the matter should go back to the Prime Minister and that his letter, the contents of which have now been revealed, should be considered again. Honourable senators will remember that on 12 August after earlier questioning I raised the question whether the reported rejection by the Prime Minister meant that in fact no consideration would be given to setting up that expert group. I have not as yet received an answer, although  Senator Withers  said he would refer the question to see whether we could be advised. In regard to that rejection, I refer to the Prime Minister's letter of 12 August to  Mr Dunstan  which reads, in pan: 
We appreciate that the decision we have taken is likely to lead to the decline of large ship construction in Australia. Our evaluations have made it clear, however, that the cost to the community of the assistance needed to protect that industry's future in Australia would have been well beyond the level that could be justified on economic, social and  defence  grounds. 
As you will be aware, the Department of Employment and Industrial Relations is taking appropriate action to assist those affected to find alternative employment, and will continue its efforts in that direction. 
We know that efforts have been made by State governments and by  Senator Cotton,  because he sent a group of people to Whyalla to see to what extent, should these things happen, other assistance might be given. We well know and recognise that those measures will only be piecemeal, but I put it to honourable senators that what was stated would be done in the Prime Minister's letter is not being done. There has not been a chance for the expert group to which I have referred to examine the whole position on a new basis. 
As I said earlier, in our visits to the shipyards we talked to men involved in ship construction. Government supporters themselves were surprised at the great support that was coming from the unions who would take part in such a package deal. I am sure such a deal would lay the basis for a new industrial relations policy which would prove to be valuable. Most importantly, it would in turn maintain for defence purposes the capacity that we should have, because this country should not be left in a position where it was unprepared for a situation that could arise overnight. Everybody knows that there are immediate matters which could develop into a world crisis. A little while ago we went through an energy crisis. That could happen again. If it did, we would be without not only ships but a shipbuilding capacity. Our shipbuilding capacity should be an urgent priority of the Government. The Whyalla shipyards were commenced at the direct request of the government of the day that there be set up a shipbuilding capacity for naval vessels. As honourable senators will know, naval vessels were built there. The shipyard got its first fillip from what was needed in the steel industry and what was needed for defence purposes. For those reasons the shipyard should be maintained. 
Another good reason comes to mind when one considers what has been highlighted by the recent South Pacific Forum. Strangely enough, it was attended by  Senator Cotton  who, I must confess, has taken a deep interest in Whyalla. I have seen him several times about the matter. He keeps us all pretty well informed personally, if not in the Parliament. I do not know the results of the recent trip to Whyalla but I do know that some of the things I am arranging and some of the representations he has received and is presently receiving from the trade union movement are receiving consideration. But what is required now is a determination by the Government to look at its recommendation again. We know that the Department of Defence and the Minister for Defence  (Mr Killen)  are looking at the matter. I consider that the Committee's recommendation accords with that of the Department of Defence because it is very close to the recommendations which the Department put to the Industries Assistance Commission. As I have said, the trade union movement is all for it. There are more recent moves which will shortly bring another aspect to the fore- wider fishing zones and other zones. I refer in particular to the recommendations made only recently at the South Pacific Forum. As a result, on 2 September the Minister for Industry and Commerce,  Senator Cotton,  issued a Press release which stated: 
The Minister for Industry and Commerce,  Senator Cotton,  said today that Australia had to take a positive attitude towards the possible widening of fishing zones. 
He said: 'We should be taking immediate action in looking for opportunities to meet the challenge of this enormous extension to our available resources. 
Also we look for and encourage the building in Australia of equipment used in winning these resources. 
It is the construction of vehicles and machinery, the transport services and then the construction and operation of processing plants that really create wider job opportunities and the chance for the injection of Australian capital. 
The Press release goes on in that vein. It of course highlights the serious situation which will confront this country if in addition to losing that defence capacity which is required in the opinion of an important body, the Joint Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence- this view was supported by everybody on the Committee, including the  Chairman, Senator Sir Magnus  Cormack- we forgo our obligations of servicing and the surveillance of the wider zones for which we will be accepting responsibility in the near future. 
Are we going to say that Australian shipyards will not build the vessels and that the shipyards ought to be allowed to run down, or should we not review what seems to be a trend that has been taking place over the years? I am sure that some honourable senator on the other side of the chamber will get up directly and say: 'Well, the 
Labor Party did this in relation to shipbuilding subsidies'. But what has never before been done in Australia is what is now being proposed by this Committee. I ask honourable senators on the other side of the chamber to support this important proposal in relation to Newcastle and in particular Whyalla in my own State of South Australia. It certainly needs continuing support. The Committee which developed the policy is presently considering the replies of the Prime Minister and the Minister for Defence. I have no doubt that members of that Committee will seek to make some other comments in respect of the proposal. But I have seen the most encouraging ideas coming from the interviews I had with the ACTU shipbuilding group, the unions, and the workers in the two yards I have mentioned. They, in conjunction with an appreciation of the defence aspect, seem to me to offer a new starting point, a new hope, for the Australian shipbuilding industry. The proposal certainly holds out hope for the representations which have come from the South Australian senators about whom I have spoken. I hope they continue that support. I hope that the Senate gives support to the proposition. 
My question is directed to the Minister for Social Security in that capacity and also in her capacity as Minister representing the Minister for Health. I refer to representations which have been made in most States-certainly in South Australia -on behalf of those who suffer  from coeliac disease and who, although working, are required to incur quite extensive extra costs in performing their duties because of the special foods needed. The position is that although they are not completely handicapped they face a great deal of hardship and so do the families which have children who have the disease. I have made representations to the Minister on particular cases. I ask the Minister whether there is any way in which these people- I am not referring to the totally handicapped- might be given assistance in the special cases I have mentioned? I also ask whether any special consideration can be given to school children affected with this disease who need special consideration from their superiors? 
My question, which is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Defence, refers to previous questions I have asked the Minister about the proposal that trials be held at Woomera to see to what extent the range might be suitable for the Services in relation to their particular trials and the facilities available to them at that place. I understand that the trials are proceeding and I ask the Minister whether he is in a position to give the Senate any indication that the Woomera range will be activated as a result of the trials. Have the trials been successful and will we see a new interest in the area? I mention the concern of the staff presently in the area about the future of the range, and the Minister is aware of that concern. 
My question, which is directed to the Minister for Industry and Commerce, follows previous questions about the general employment and industrial situation at Whyalla and, in particular, the deputation from the City of Whyalla Corporation which met the Minister. I am informed that during that meeting the Minister undertook to discuss matters raised by the deputation with his colleague the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs and that there would be departmental discussions in respect of the general situation and a proposed visit to Whyalla. I ask the Minister Have those matters which were mutually considered by him and the deputation been attended to? Has there been a visit by departmental officers? 
I direct a question which refers to two aspects concerning Woomera, to the Minister representing the Minister for Defence. The Minister will recall that recently he gave some information about the exercises which are presently taking place with the Services at Woomera. I think he promised to update that information as soon as possible. The second question I raise is related to a statement by the responsible South Australian Minister,  Mr 
Hudson, who talked about the place of Woomera with respect to the development at Roxby Downs undertaken by the Western Mining Corporation. Can the Minister give any estimate of" the new involvement at Woomera in respect to the two aspects- one concerning the Services exercises and to what extent Woomera is proving a suitable place for those exercises and the second as to whether the discussions which are taking place between the Federal Government and State Ministers about the Western Mining Corporation's exercise at Roxby Downs may mean a new operation which would help Woomera? Can he advise the Senate about these matters? If he cannot, will he do so at the first opportunity? 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations. It follows upon the answer he gave to  Senator Button  a few moments ago. My question is intended to get the Government in the Senate, if possible, to clarify why it has decided to intervene before the Full Bench of the Australian Conciliation and Arbitration Commission in respect of the Victorian State Electricity Commission strike. I also draw to the Minister's attention the fact- no doubt he is aware of it from this morning's newspapersthat despite the general concern expressed by the Australian newspapers today there is also a sharpened reaction to any form of brinkmanship by the Government. Can the Minister advise the Senate whether the Victorian Government requested the Federal Government to intervene? In respect of its intervention, is the Government to take a line which would help the conciliatory procedures of the Arbitration Commission in all its activities, or is its intervention intended merely as a stiffening of an attitude towards the very serious dispute that may become worse unless the matters are arbitrated and agreed to by the respective parties? As the Government has announced what it intends to do in view of the general gravity of the situation, can the Minister reassure the Senate that the Government's intervention, in fact, is a conciliatory move and not, as some newspapers are suggesting, a tough move to prevent what might be a reasonable settlement of the dispute? 
-I direct a question to the Minister for Social Security. The Minister is well aware that there is a great deal of concern among organisations and people who have read the Press this morning in respect of proposals that are being discussed today by the National Labour Consultative Council, including the South Australian Council of Social Service which has sent messages to members of the Opposition. Is it a fact that one of the proposals that presently are being discussed is a proposal to refuse to pay unemployment benefit to people who are stood down in any circumstances of industrial disputation, even though they are not directly involved in or connected with the dispute? The Minister would be aware of the discussions taking place with her colleague. I ask: Are the recommendations that will flow from the meeting of the Council again to be considered by the Government or has the Council been told to expect and to accept the recommendations that have been widely reported in the Press, which would further restrict the conditions now applying to the payment of unemployment benefit? 
My question is to the Minister for Industry and Commerce. I refer to the deputation from the City of Whyalla which met the Minister some weeks ago and also to the information that he has given to the Senate about the visit of officers of three departments to Whyalla and the subsequent reports. Is the Minister in a position yet to give us or to give the City of Whyalla any information about the results of those visits? Have any recommendations been made following those visits which may affect the position in Whyalla? 
My question which is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations follows upon his reply to questions asked by  Senator Wriedt  about wage indexation. I refer the Minister to the statement of the Prime Minister made yesterday in which he urged the Australian Council of Trade Unions and the Melbourne Trades Hall Council to find solutions to the State Electricity Commission dispute. I now ask the Minister whether he can advise the Senate as to the extent to which the Federal Government is helping the Australian Council of Trade Unions and the Melbourne Trades Hall Council to find an amicable solution in the interests of both parties. Is the Minister aware that had the Government supported the wage indexation policies which it announced during the election campaign that would have meant that over-award payments which have been restricted to State Electricity Commission workers would have been expanded because the policy would have applied to over-award payments? Can the Minister say whether that area has been considered as a matter which might contribute to the solution which is urged by the Prime Minister? 
-My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations. The Minister, of course, will be aware, either from his own readings or from reports from his Department, of the very significant proposals which have been developed by  Mr Hawke,  now supported by the Victorian Premier and agreed to finally by the  President  of the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission,  Sir John  Moore. These proposals will allow a speedy hearing of a claim which could produce a settlement in the State Electricity Commission dispute. I ask the Minister: How is it that since that statement became public and his departmental officers knew about it there has been no support from any of the Government Ministers for those proposals which have been developed only by the Australian Council of Trade Unions? How is it that his own Department has not been active, having declared support for the Victorian Premier in moves such as this? In view of the lack of declaration by the Government, why is it that the Government now is producing certainly more repressive laws against the union movement when it might well wait for a settlement based on the proposals which are now declared by the Victorian Premier and the Australian Council of Trade Unions to be very constructive? 
Debate on this procedural motion provides a good opportunity to do as  Senator Georges  has done, that is, to protest against the procedure being followed in this chamber today, not only in respect of the motion seeking the rapid passage of a Bill but also in respect of what occurred earlier in the day when the Leader of the Government in the Senate  (Senator Withers)  decided to gag debate when there was an opportunity to discuss what the Senate ought to be able to do today and tomorrow. 
In view of the serious situations which exist in industry and in the community generally, it is a sad reflection on the Senate that it is not given sufficient opportunity to discuss at length very serious legislation which will affect dramatically the relationships between employers and employees in private industry and in government. Had we had the opportunity this afternoon to express at some length our differences about the procedures, we might well have cleared up some of the misunderstandings about the need for the Senate to sit tomorrow. Obviously for that reason honourable senators such as  Senator Georges-  I hope other honourable senators will do the same- are entitled to discuss the procedures of the Senate as they relate to legislation enacting Government policy. 
I remind honourable senators that only a few hours ago when I asked the Attorney-General  (Senator Durack),  a question about the very legislation which will cause us to meet tomorrow, he made the very clear statement that the legislation had nothing to do with the State Electricity Commission in Victoria. He said that the legislation merely reformed a series of legislative procedures covering industrial relations which the Government had had under consideration for many months and which for some time had been before the National Labour Advisory Council. It is a sad reflection on the Senate that this legislation has been considered by outside bodies such as the National Labour Advisory Council- I understand that it has been before that body for well over a month- but we will be given so little time to consider it. Outside organisations, such as the Australian Chamber of Manufactures and the Australian Chamber of Commerce, the Australian Council of Trade Unions and the unions have had an opportunity to discuss and to think about the Government's proposals contained in this legislation. They know what is contained in the legislation. 
I think my submissions are relevant,  Mr President.  What I am trying to indicate is that on a procedural motion such as the one moved by the Leader of the Government, which seeks to permit this particular Bill a speedy passage, it is competent for a senator to rise and to question whether, in the circumstances of this Senate and the Parliament, such a procedure should be followed. For that very reason, I am raising related matters of procedure which have been dealt with this afternoon and which certainly impel me to protest. More than once, I have risen in the Parliament and pointed out that the Parliament has again to come into its own. I think that, generally speaking, people have agreed with that. 

 -Mr President, what I am saying is this: Honourable senators on this side of the chamber are concerned about giving speedy passage to this legislation. We feel this way because we have found that our work in this chamber has been frustrated. I have outlined that in the background information I have given. I think that, in those circumstances, it surely is competent for an honourable senator to express concern about the way in which legislation is being introduced, the time being allowed for debate on that legislation and the way debate has been frustrated by numbers. For that reason, we should be allowed to talk about the general background of the feelings which are present in the Senate. This Parliament has to come into its own. The Senate should be competent to discuss - 
I repeated the expression that this Parliament should come into its own because I was interrupted by points of order, first by  Senator Young  and now by his new found friend,  Senator Hall.  There seems to be some unity between those two. I put it to you,  Mr President,  and to the Senate that today no honourable senators on this side of the chamber will agree to the speedy passage of this Bill, as the motion of the Leader of the Government requires, for the very reason I have stated, namely, that we are dissatisfied with the procedures of the Senate as they are now being organised by the Leader of the Government. For that reason, this debate is related to the debate which took place earlier. The matters are inter-connected and honourable senators ought to have regard to that fact. 
We are advising the Senate about these matters. I am quite sure that not only on this occasion but also later this day- I hope,  Mr President,  you will facilitate this- we will seek to bring these matters before the Senate. Every honourable senator should be entitled to complain about unnecessary frustration. What is more, the actions of the Leader of the Government now are very similar to his actions when we were in government. Those actions were then very strongly contested by  Senator Hall.  Of course, later today,  Senator Hall-  (Quorum formed).  Perhaps I should take the opportunity to summarise what I was putting forward. However, I do not think I shall do that in the terms that  Senator Georges  did because it seemed to me that by the time he concluded his remarks he had made the wicket very unfavourable for my entry. But, for the benefit of the Senate, I do hope that, on reflection, the Leader of the Government might see the need to allow the Senate during the day to consider not only the sorts of issues I have raised in respect of the Bill which is before us, but also the wider issue of the conduct of the business of the Senate. I think it would be a good thing to have those feelings made clear before we go any further with other debates. I hope that the Leader of the Government in the Senate will take notice of the resentment which has been shown by Opposition speakers in relation to the matter raised. 
My question is directed to the Leader of the Government in the Senate who today is representing the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations. The Minister will be aware that Professor Hogan has been used by the Government and by the Liberal Party as an adviser on economic matters. It is said that much of his thinking has been incorporated in the Government's policy. He has recently made a forecast that in 1978 unemployment will reach 8 per cent. I ask the Minister: Is he able to say whether he or the Government agrees with that estimate? If not, what is the Government's estimate? Has the Department of Employment and Industrial Relations given the Government a forecast which seems to be accurate in relation to those matters? 

 - Senator Wright claimed that  Senator Button  had not dealt with the precise details of the legislation but he spent 12 minutes- I watched the clock- talking about matters about which, of course, he has little knowledge. He talked about conditions in other parts of the world. 
The fact is that in every Western democracy great account is taken of the trade union movement. In West Germany, for example, and most of the European countries, trade unions in fact are present on works councils and are part often of the directorships. West Germany is presenting legislation to allow trade unions to run enterprises jointly. In the United States the trade union movement is one of the most well recognised bodies by Congress and by the  President.  It has greater powers of freedom than does our movement. 
This legislation is clearly repressive. It is designed actually to impose more restrictions on organisations and on workers who are about the business of trade unionism. While the Government is saying every day of the week that it supports the trade unions, the fact is that day by day and year by year it is bringing in legislation to make it more difficult for trade unions to work. What is the present position in Australia? There are a great many industrial disputes. Industrial disputation is based on the economy at the present time and on the failure of the Government to produce a situation in which the economy is working satisfactorily, in which employment is high and in which men can apply themselves to productive work. Men cannot so apply themselves. That is the fault of the economy and the wages policy of this Government. 

 Senator Wright talked today about the State Electricity Commission dispute in Victoria. At no time has this Government attempted to conciliate in that dispute. I asked  Senator Durack  yesterday and he admitted that this legislation is not the cure for the SEC dispute. It is a system of reforms in industry which the Government had promised after so many years. Did the Government try to solve the SEC dispute? It did not. All it did was to tell the Victorian Premier that it would back him up in whatever repressive legislation he found necessary. The strike goes on. Who will save Australia from that dispute? It will be the Australian Council of Trade Unions and Bob Hawke again. Honourable senators on the Government side are laughing. Directly they will say what a vile bloke Bob Hawke is. Every major dispute since the currency of this Government has finally been conciliated and solved by Bob Hawke. I ask honourable senators opposite to remember the air traffic controllers' strike. Who fixed that up? Was it the Government? It was Hawke who negotiated the settlement. In the SEC dispute who is carrying on the conciliation? It is Bob Hawke. During the week I asked  Senator Durack  what the Government had done about the SEC dispute. He did not answer. He knows full well that it has done nothing. The man who is trying to find a cure is the  President  of the ACTU. That is always the case. In the transport workers case it was the ACTU. 

 Senator Wright talked about the old days when we supported the Conciliation and Arbitration Act. Of course we did. In those days the real planks of the Act were in certain prescriptions. They are still in those prescriptions today. The Conciliation and Arbitration Act 1904-1976 states: 
The chief objects of this Act are- 
to promote goodwill in industry; 
to encourage, and provide means for, conciliation with a view to amicable agreement, thereby preventing and settling industrial dispute; 
to encourage the organization of representative bodies of employers and employees and their registration under this Act; 
It also refers to the penal section and the other controlling sections of organisations referred to by  Senator Wright.  The basic objectives of the Conciliation and Arbitration Act are to promote conciliation. As the employers say and as the ACTU says today, the only way in which to settle disputes in Australia and deal with industrial relations properly is to get a consensus between those who employ labour and those who work for their living.  Senator Button  referred to the opinion of  Mr Polites,  one of the most important authorities on employer organisations in Australia. He has said that he does not agree with what the Government is doing. Employers said that they did not agree with the legislation introduced in May. So who is providing the advice? Is it coming from Ministers who know nothing about industrial relations. They have never worked in industry. They have never been involved in the sorts of things which make productive work. Yet technically they tell their departments what sorts of laws to prescribe. These laws are not occasioned to provide a conciliation but will restrict the organisation of labour. I challenge any honourable senator here to tell me where the Western world is getting laws like those proposed by the Government. 
The second thing I am concerned about- I have already criticised this- is the way in which the Parliament is not consulted about these matters. A law is conjured up in the minds of Ministers and the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser).  No doubt the Prime Minister wants to be a new  president.  He conjured up this new attitude to industrial relations and instructed the Department of Employment and Industrial Relations. With respect to the major piece of legislation which was introduced in May this year, the Conciliation and Arbitration Amendment Bill which established the Industrial Relations Bureau and this Bill, at no time has there been proper discussion in this Parliament. In the first case even the ACTU has no knowledge of what was proposed. The National Labour Consultative Council has had more time to consider this legislation than the Parliament has had. Is that good? How can people who talk about parliamentary democracy argue that that is a good thing? It is a bad thing. 
When the Opposition tried to get sufficient time to discuss the legislation what happened? The Leader of the Government in the Senate  (Senator Withers)  moved for the Bill to be considered urgently. Why was it urgent? Why was the Commonwealth Employees (Employment Provisions) Bill introduced in August urgent? It was going to cure everthing. The Post Office dispute was settled on the day we were sitting to discuss the Bill. If it was urgent why has it not yet been proclaimed? It has not been proclaimed. All the Government has done has been to find Des Linehan to preside over it. If it was an urgent and important measure to give peace to industry why was it not put into effect straight away or the next day? It has no effect on the general run of industry, as honourable senators well know. There has to be proper understanding between employers and employees. This Government has to encourage the sort of attitude which was developed even under Ministers of previous LiberalCountry Party governments. I am thinking, of course, of the late Prime Minister,  Mr Holt,  who when Minister for Labour gave way on many measures in the punitive sectons of the Act, such as section 109. Now the Government is making sure that these measures will be reinforced and that more prosecutions will be possible. 
The issue today in Australia is an issue as to whether the Government can confuse the Australian people by saying that proper economic recovery can be achieved only through repressing the trade unions. The Government is not able to improve the economy. It knows that next year the economy will not be much better. One of its advisers, Professor Hogan, has already told it that unemployment will be 8 per cent next year. The Government knows that but to divert the public's attention it will have an election. An election is certain. We all know that there will be one. Government supporters have not been consulted. Of course they have not. Nobody over there knows. They cannot find a Minister to tell them. We know that certain arrangements are being made within the Government parties which indicate that an election is on the go. Why is there to be an election? The election is going to be against the union movement as though by some stroke, by some legislation, the Government will cure the troubles in the country. I have said to the Government- it cannot confound this-that at no time did it help the ACTU to solve the SEC dispute. No officer from the Department of Employment and Industrial Relations went down to see to what extent the parties could be brought together. The man who will solve the dispute, if it is to be solved, will be Bob Hawke. What irks me is that nowhere does the Government recognise the value of the ACTU. 

 Senator Durack said that this legislation has nothing to do with the SEC. It has been said in the other place that it is one of those general reforms which has been promised to the country. The record of industrial disputation has dropped. The Government has tried to make capital out of that. It has told the electorate that things must be better under Fraser because there are not so many disputes. If there are not so many disputes why the hell does the Government want repressive legislation? It should be talking more directly and more often to the ACTU. Why does it not take the advice of the employers and the ACTU. In respect of both pieces of industrial legislation introduced this year the employers' spokesmen said: 'You cannot solve things this way'. Why try to rush the Bills through the Parliament? Why have a Parliament that agrees with them? This is what astounds me. We talk about the threat of the communist countries with their methods of organisation and control. But in this country the Parliament is becoming a fake. We are not using the Parliament as it should be used. We are not allowing senators to devote enough time to the contributions they wish to make. I reiterate that what has been done in this case is simply an attempt to provide legislation which will not work. 
Some of the provisions of the legislation are scandalous. I point out to  Senator Missen  that I have had some experience in the industrial field. I have worked in many industries and I have been a trades hall secretary. I have been involved with many disputes and I know what occasions men to stop work. I ask the honourable senator to forget the militants and the ordinary disputes that occur every day of the week. No doubt  Senator Tehan  would know a lot about this matter! Has the honourable senator ever worked in a factory? Has he ever worked with railwaymen or heard their disputes? Let me read clause 3 (b) of the Bill. 
The honourable senator says that it is about time I read it. We are allowed to speak for only 15 minutes on this Bill when we should be allowed to take as much time as we like. The Government is responsible for this. The honourable senator voted to stop members of the Opposition from talking on the legislation. Clause 3(b) defines 'industrial action' in the following terms: 
the performance of work (being work the terms and conditions of which are prescribed, wholly or partly, by an award of the Commission, an award, determination or order made by another tribunal in pursuance of a law of the Commonwealth or by or under a law of the Commonwealth) in a manner different from that in which it is customarily performed, or the adoption of a practice in relation to such work, the result of which is a restriction or limitation on, or a delay in, the performance of the work; 
The legislation contains the most extensive use of phrases and prescriptions which are designed to limit the rights of the worker to have a free association with his employer. As has been mentioned, not only is this a bad thing but also it creates a circumstance in which workers cannot act against hazardous conditions. I draw the attention of the Senate to the working conditions often experienced by railway shunters who work in busy railway yards. Because finance allocated to railways is restricted, railway shunters are often forced to work in yards badly damaged by rain and other causes. Under this legislation railway shunters would be penalised if they refused to work under these conditions although by so working they could possibly lose a leg or even their life if they slipped and fell over. Under the prescription proposed in the legislation not only would their refusal to work be an illegal action but the whole of the union could be deregistered. 
A dispute in the Mile End yards in Adelaide could lead to the deregistration of the entire Australian Railways Union or the Australian Workers Union. What sort of trade union does the Government want Australia to have? 
The Government talks about giving help to the genuine trade unionist, but what about a conscientious objector who does not want to join a union? The provision in the legislation in respect of conscientious objectors will mean that people will be able to refuse to join a union on grounds other than a genuine religious objection. The union movement has always accepted the prescriptions which are at present in the Act. Clause 22 of the Bill states:  144a. (1) Where a person, upon application made to the Registrar in the prescribed form and manner, and payment of the prescribed fee, satisfies the Registrar that the person's conscientious beliefs do not allow the person to be a member of any association of a kind . . . 
This means that people will be able to refuse to join a union on the grounds of a conscientious objection irrespective of whether those grounds are based on a religious objection. There is to be no right of appeal against the decision of the register. This is strange in view of the fact that honourable senators on the other side of the Senate talk about the rule of law. Who is to say the registrar will be correct, even according to the prescriptions of the legislation, in determining who is or who is not a conscientious objector? 

 - Senator Messner should be the first one - 
-I am sorry-Senator Missen; I have no doubt that  Senator Messner  will support what I am putting.  Senator Missen  often gets up in this place and talks about matters of principle. I would ask the honourable senator to look honestly at this position. A registrara bureaucrat- may not always be an inexperienced person- in the arbitration field the registrar is often experienced- I believe that the legislation should contain the right of appeal against his decision. 
As the honourable senator well knows, the real principle in these repressive pieces of legislation is to make sure that the trade union system does not work at all. The old idea of freedom of association and the old British concept of trade unions are being knocked bit by bit. 
The legislation is also concerned with demarcation. It is proposed that a union can be told not to take a certain class of employee. When the Labor Government introduced legislation into this Parliament which was designed to make sure that demarcation disputes would not occur so frequently the then Opposition voted against and denied that legislation. Honourable senators opposite would vote against such legislation again and again. 
Unfortunately I have just about used all the time available to me in this debate. I conclude my speech on the same theme as I began it. I am astounded that members of the Senate should allow legislation like this to be called urgent legislation. It is not urgent because it is not designed to solve any of the disputes that are currently taking place in Australia. These disputes are being handled separately by people other than the Commonwealth, mostly by the trade union movement. The disputes are not being handled by experienced officers of the Department of Employment and Industrial Relations. If the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations  (Mr Street)  told those officers to go out and help employers and the Australian Council of Trade Unions to solve disputes I am sure they would be competent and happy to do so. Instead of that the Government is laying down prescriptions which are repressive and which will not solve anything. Finally, we will have to come back to a situation that has always existed in Australia, namely, more conciliation and less arbitration. 
I direct my question to the Minister representing the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations. The Minister will recall an estimate given by Professor Hogan that the rate of unemployment in the coming new year should be about 8 per cent. I also draw the attention of the Minister to a recent statement made by the Minister for Transport yesterday that he thought the unemployment figures were overstated. I ask the Minister. In view of the comments by the Australian Chamber of Commerce and the National Bank that there is an abundant supply of labour, is he in a position to give any sort of figure or estimate of what the unemployment rate might reach in the first quarter of next year? 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Veterans' Affairs and relates to action that he himself took some months ago in respect of the proposed sale of land held by the Defence Service Homes Corporation, when the Government decided to reduce the general benefits under that legislation to servicemen and others. I now ask: Will the Minister advise the Senate of the position now in respect of the holdings which the Corporation had at the time? In particular, has the equivalent of 1,000 blocks held in South Australia been disposed of? Did the Minister consider at the time compensating in any way those who were on the waiting list for homes by using some of the funds that might be derived from the sale of the land? If he has not done so already, will he consider that suggestion? 
I ask a supplementary question. Is it not a fact that those two inquiries were commissioned by the Whitlam Government and that they reported to the Fraser Government? I again put this question to the Leader of the Government: By what form of logic does he argue that the statement 'shall be given consideration' implies that the two reports would be accepted  in toto  by any government? How does the Leader of the Government justify that statement? 
My question which is directed to the Leader of the Government in the Senate follows the question asked by  Senator Chaney  about the memorandum of understanding which was signed by Australian Labor Party Ministers. The date was October 1975. The Minister said he called for a report to make sure that the information he gave on a previous day was correct. I notice from the paper which was tabled that it was provided with the compliments of  Senator Kilgariff.  I ask: Having made great use of the document yesterday, how was it that he failed to read, as has now been revealed this morning by an interjection, this part of the memorandum: 
Contracts to give effect to this Memorandum of Understanding to which Australia is, or is to be, a party shall not become effective until Australia has affirmed them following consideration of: 
the report of the Ranger Uranium Environmental Inquiry- 
That is the Fox report- 
a report by the Interim Aboriginal Land Commissioner on any claims by Aboriginals in respect of land within the Ranger Project Area. 
How is it that the Minister failed to quote a very important qualification in that memorandum of understanding at the time he made great political capital out of it? Is it not a fact that at the time the document was signed the Australian Labor Party Government had just requisitioned the inquiry? Is it also not a fact that the reports of this inquiry were submitted not to the Whitlam Government but to this Government and that those reports were brought down a month later by  Senator Withers  in this chamber? How is it that the Minister can make great political capital out of. these things but not be clean in his support of the document? 
In supporting what  Senator Sir Magnus  Cormack said I want to add a few brief comments. This part of the report accompanies the interim report previously put before the Senate. One part of it, relating to shipbuilding, became the subject of discussion in the Senate.  Senator Sir Magnus  Cormack will agree that there has been a most comprehensive and intensive investigation by the Committee. This is a valuable report and I hope honourable senators will take the opportunity to read it. It seems to me that one important message which comes from the report is that although we have a reservoir of great professional skills and competence in the defence, scientific and technological services, particularly in the Weapons Research Establishment in my own State, we are becoming more and more dependent on overseas sources. This is a gap which ought to be filled very quickly. Representations have been made to the two Ministers most concerned. Unfortunately, the responses are not as satisfactory as they could be. I hope that the information given to the Senate and the Parliament will be the subject of more intensive research with regard to the recommendations of the Committee. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 

 Senator Sir MAGNUS CORMACK (Victoria) by leave- I move: 
That the Senate take note of the report. 
I seek leave to continue my remarks. 
Leave granted; debate adjourned. 
My question is directed to the Minister for Administrative Services and concerns also the Minister representing the Minister for Construction. The Minister will recall that over the years there has been reported an acceptance by successive Ministers of the fact that a Commonwealth Government centre would be established in Adelaide. Ministers in the present Government, the previous Government and the one before that have reported that such a project has been kept alive. I am now informed that the only block available to accommodate such a building in Adelaide, which was intended to house some of the 20 Commonwealth departments, is to be sold. I ask the Minister: Is that a fact? Will the sale of this land mean the end of any possibility of there being a structure to do that which was formally discussed? 
I wish briefly to respond to what the Minister for Administrative Services  (Senator Withers)  said about staff ceilings. He dismissed  Senator Douglas  McClelland 's arguments with a general statement which seemed to indicate that there was no substance in the representations which had been made by staff organisations and by honourable senators, including myself. I think the Minister will probably recall that many questions have been directed to him and to the Minister for Veterans' Affairs,  Senator Durack,  in which we to a large extent supported the arguments of the staff associations which claimed that in many departments staff ceilings which had been applied under the direction of the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  and reinforced by various Ministers were impeding the work of the departments. 
Evidence of that exists in the two glaring cases of the Department of Employment and Industrial Relations and the Department of Social Security. I think the Minister will recall that I made the claim that the Commonwealth Employment Service was not functioning properly. Following that the Norgard inquiry was set up and later the Myer inquiry. The result was that there was a quite extensive recruitment of labour in the Department of Employment and Industrial Relations and finally in the Department of Social Security, after about 18 months of complaints from and action by the unions and from within the Department. An additional 300 staff members were recruited. In addition to that, as the Minister might remember, I brought to the attention of the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations  (Mr Street)  the fact that it had been stated in evidence given before the Estimates Committees that on a number of occasions staff ceilings had embarrassed the Industries Assistance Commission. What I am putting to the Minister for Administrative Services  (Senator Withers)  is that staff ceilings, even now with some relaxation, can impede what might be a progress to suitable employment in the Public Service which would absorb a lot of young people who cannot get jobs. They were arbitary ceilings in the first place. They have been relaxed by persuasion and the agitation of staff organisations supported to some extent by the Opposition. I suggest that the Government might well give consideration to relaxing the ceilings again so that more people may be employed in the Public Service. 
I also refer to the case of apprentices. Twelve months ago or more I raised the matter of the employment of apprentices. In all Commonwealth departments the figures on the recruitment of apprentices were lower than they had been in any previous 12 month period. The South Australian Government and some other governments had, in fact, increased the number of apprentices employed. Those numbers were satisfactory. The Government has proposed other measures which have been partly successful. I put to the Government and to the Minister in relation to his own responsibilities that the evidence I have given indicates that the Government might well consider making sure that the staff ceilings do not inhibit the recruitment of skilled staff. Certain staff ceilings have been imposed by an arbitrary action on some statutory corporations such as the Australian Telecommunications Commission and the Postal Commission. They have prevented the recruitment of increased numbers of staff by those commissions. 
I shall add one or two points to the saga of the Commonwealth office block in South Australia. It must be 12 years since I raised in the Senate the need for building a Commonwealth centre. Previous Ministers for Works all accepted the need to build a Commonwealth centre.  Senator Wright,  the Minister for Works in the previous Liberal-Country Party Government, indicated that approximately $500,000 was being paid in rents by the Commonwealth Government to private organisations in South Australia which, as he well amplified, was unsatisfactory. That amount would now have increased to about Sim a year. I am looking for a continuing commitment by the Government, in addition to what  Senator Cavanagh  amplified, that there will be finally in South Australia a Commonwealth centre which will house some of the 27 departments now scattered around the Adelaide metropolitan area. The present facilities are not as convenient as would be provided in a central  building. The Minister's answer to me today indicated that there is a continuing commitment to that project. I hope that if there is any departure from that commitment he will so indicate. 
There is one other important matter in relation to the Commonwealth office block which was raised by Opposition senators during the period of the previous Liberal-Country Party Government. It concerns the Australian Mutual Provident Society building. Our questions prompted an inquiry into the fire hazards of the AMP building in South Australia as a result of which  Senator Wright  obtained an opinion from the South Australian Fire Brigade. This is a building of 16 floors. It has a communications system with the South Australian Fire Brigade which is the main resort to fire protection. In recent times it has been amply demonstrated that enclosed staircases and unsatisfactory draughts may well be a smoke and fire hazard. Some of the staff have spoken to me about this matter. I have suggested that they discuss it on a staff basis amongst themselves and that if they want senators from both parties to take up the matter they should let us know. The staff are conscious of the hazards. I do not want to high note the issue but I should like the Minister to give it some examination, including the advice which  Senator Wright  received in respect of the opinion of the South Australian Fire Brigade when he was Minister for Works. 
My question is directed to the Leader of the Government in the Senate, who represents the Treasurer. It refers to Commonwealth superannuation pensions and the continued representations by public servants not only to myself but to others about a proposal which was outlined by the Acting Treasurer in September. The Acting Treasurer said that there was to be a new basis for indexing increases in the pension rate. It was proposed, as the statement read, that there would be a change from the consumer price index basis to a combination of the average wage and the CPI, or the lesser of the two. As there has been no further announcement about the proposal to legislate, I ask: Is the Minister able to state whether that proposal has been dropped or whether there have been satisfactory discussions between the staff organisations and the Minister to resolve the matter? 
To try to some extent to win back his position, when he was an important South Australian individual, a leader of the Liberal Party, which could not compete with the then leader of the Labor Party, Don Dunstan - 
Let me continue, and you listen. We heard today  Senator Hall,  an exPremier, making an appeal to an Australian electorate because he is unable to win a position in the Senate team. Why? Because his new found 
Liberal colleagues will not make way for him. He is standing against a very reliable and steady South Australian, Ralph Jacobi, who, he admits, is an outstanding member of the Labor Party.  Senator Hall  wants to pose in two positions. The  Advertiser  has given  Senator Hall  the label of a rebel. How much of a rebel is he? He has been a member of four parties in two years. He could not suffer the competition of Don Dunstan, who defeated him because he was too alert, too intelligent, too conscientious. He could not put up with the Liberal Movement, which dissolved itself. Then for a time he was an independent. Now he has become a sturdy Liberal. Or is he a sturdy Liberal?  Senator Hall  wants to be in two camps. Is he going to be a reliable Liberal defending the Fraser policies or is he going to be a so-called rebel, a reputation that he tried to build up in South Australia but failed to achieve?  Senator Hall  has to choose because he is standing in Hawker against a very important South Australian, a man with a great reputation in the industrial movement. 
-Of course  Senator Hall  is trying to advertise himself, and the joke is that  Senator Withers  is now supporting him. But what did he say about  Senator Withers  a little while ago? 
-Yes, I know. This is what  Senator Withers  does not like. This is what  Senator Hall  said about  Senator Withers  on 30 October 1975: 

 Senator Withers has not earned any benefit of doubt about this matter. In my 18 months here I have heard him make scoundrels of people who want fair redistribution proposals for the nation. 

 Senator Withers wants to make scoundrels of people. That is what  Senator Hall  thinks about is leader in the Senate. The honourable senator continued: 
In recent times I have heard him make scoundrels of those people who have supported the contention that governments are made and broken only in the lower House, and I have heard the many other twists of the truth in which  Senator Withers  has been involved. On his track record I must disbelieve him. 
We have heard what  Senator Hall  has said about  Senator Withers.  I repeat that he stated: 
. I have heard the many other twists of the truth . . . 
If  Senator Hall  said that in the hearing of our present  President  that remark would certainly be ruled as being offensive. But what did  Senator Hall  say about his leader  Mr Fraser?  Is he going to support  Mr Fraser  or is he a rebel? That is what the South Australian people would like to know. On 6 November 1975  Senator Hall  stated: 
I suggest that the Opposition - 
Of course, it was led by his now leader  Senator Withers-  without a lot of fanfare, ought to prepare itself to take the action which is inevitable. Every communication coming through to me - 
This was to  Senator Hall-  or nearly everyone, certainly 95 per cent-says that it is inevitable. A letter which I had here the other day was typical of the hundreds of letters that I and I am sure all members of parliament have received - 
This is  Senator Hall  speaking- 
It stated: 
On behalf of myself and my family, we thank you for your condemnation of  Mr Fraser  for his attempt to overthrow our elected government. 
Having said all those things  Senator Hall  is now a great friend and supporter of  Senator Withers  and also of  Mr Fraser.  But, in fact, is he? As I said when.I commenced my early remarks, during the days of the Australian Labor Party Government we were accustomed to the actions of  Senator Hall.  I was often charged with having a third party assisting the Labor Party. Honourable senators on both sides of the chamber will remember that on a number of important occasions  Senator Hall  supported the Labor Party. In particular he supported a Bill for which I had some responsibility. That was the defence reorganisation Bill which  Senator Withers  said he would amend. He is very apt at talking about changes being made. He got up and said: 'We will amend this Bill when we get to power'. But  Senator Hall  helped us. In those days there was always great by-play between  Senator Hall, Senator Young  and  Senator Jessop.  Many of those things are recorded in  Hansard.  I think they have been mentioned by my colleague  Senator McLaren.  It was not infrequently that these things took place. In a contribution by  Senator Hall  on 5 October, which is found at page 1 1 79 of  Hansard,  in rebuttal of something which  Senator Young  said,  Senator Hall  stated: 
Obviously,  Senator Young  is worried about his position. He is worried about his Party in our State. May I say that he has every reason to be worried because at the last State  election I think that there was about seven or eight per cent difference between us in the vote. Given the rate of increase in votes for our Party at each election I expect that  Senator Young's  Party will some day be in the minority position in that State. 

 Senator Hall was in a different party then and he was talking differently. He had a different leader. Now he has another leader. I could go on with his quotations. Everybody knows that  Senator 
Hall has become a twister. He has twisted from his first affirmation of policy. 

 - Mr President, I want to echo the suggestions made earlier by  Senator Cavanagh. 
In supporting  Senator Georges'  remarks,  Senator Cavanagh  has respectfully suggested to you that the matter that has been raised today, and the ruling you have made in the course of a debate on a particular Bill, might well be subject to further consideration by all parties. I heard what  Senator McLaren  said, and in my opinionalthough not yours, I agree- it was a purely political observation- As  Senator O  'Byrne has made very clear, that political observation has been made in every part of the media in Australia. At different times different forces of experts, including lawyers and professors of constitutional law, have said what  Senator McLaren  said in a revised version of his opinion. To me, that seems to be a necessary part of debate in the Parliament.  Mr President,  I put it to you that it would be sad if honourable senators or members of the Parliament were not allowed to express in the Parliament opinions which, while not being disrespectful, were critical of a constitutional action which a high personage might take. What has been canvassed by  Senator McLaren  is now an historical situation. I think that any comments which the honourable senator has made might well be considered in that light. 
It seems to me to be totally unreal that in the Parliament members are to be restricted in a discussion of an important feature which already has been canvassed and talked about freely in the community, where there has been no action or suggestion that that should not be done. I do not want to see- as I am sure you do not,  Mr President-  a Senate which cannot, in a lively fashion, debate and consider the important political issues in the community. We should not be constrained or restricted in expressing our attitude. I base my views on some worthy sentiments which were voiced,  Mr President,  by one of your predecessors,  Senator Sir Magnus  Cormack. More than once he pointed out in the Senate in general observations- that is the context in which I make this point- that the Parliament and the Senate, after all, are only a reflection of the community. Within the Parliament and the Senate we get a number of different types of people. We hope that because they are different they accurately and democratically reflect the community of Australia, our country. In that respect it seems to me to be preferable for the Parliament to have a discretionary situation rather than a tight one. 
It seems to me that, if this matter proceeds in any way in which it might go, that will not help anybody.  Mr President,  on the argument which  Senator Cavanagh  and I have put I hope that you might reconsider the words when you see the text.  Senator McLaren  was simply making an observation which I might make m the Senate. I might get up and say; 'In my opinion . . .'. To me, that is only a political consideration. We on the Opposition side have defended publicly the position of the Australian Labor Party and ex-Prime Minister Whitlam because of what people outside have said. As  Senator Wriedt,  has put to you,  Mr President,  and as you well know, we in the Parliament have had to take a number of very scurrilous attacks on our leaders, as I have often said. I have no complaint, because that is the game of politics. In politics everybody is forced to play a rough game. If one plays football one has to play the game roughly or get off the field. In politics, too, that is the situation. 
-Yes, I know that there are rules, but they are sensibly adjusted not only by the players but also by the trainers and the referees. That is the way life should go on.  Mr President,  for the reasons I have expressed I hope that consideration will be given to the merits of the proposition which has been advanced not only by  Senator Georges  but also by  Senator Cavanagh  and myself. 
Sitting suspended from 1 to 2.15 p.m. 
I direct a question to the Minister for Administrative Services in both that capacity and in his capacity as Minister representing the Minister for Defence. I notice that on Wednesday, in replying to a question from  Senator Gietzelt,  the Minister stated that, for its own purposes, the Government has a policy of 'Buy Australian', which I presume concerns general storekeeping. The Minister will also be aware that the Joint Foreign Affairs and Defence Committee in recent reports, and most recently in respect of the electronics industry, has drawn attention to Australia's alarming dependence upon overseas sources for a number of defence requirements and skills. What consideration has been given to those recommendations of the Joint Committee and to what extent can the policy that he referred to on Tuesday be extended to include defence equipments so as to ensure that defence industrial capacity is adequate for Australia 's needs? 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations and refers to questions I have raised previously about staff ceilings. The Minister will be aware, because of his attendance at Estimates committee meetings, that many departments are still suffering from the effect of the staff ceiling cutbacks. That is revealed also in the reports of various tribunals and authorities. I now ask: Have there been any further developments as a result of discussions by the Government and the Public Service Board with the Council of Australian Government Employee Organisation and other staff organisations which proposed that the present staff ceilings should be extended and that there should be a forward planning system in co-operation with the union movement? Although there has been some relaxation of staff ceilings in two departments, can the Minister advise what has been the result of those discussions? 
My question, which is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations, follows upon a question asked of the Minister by my colleague  Senator Douglas  McClelland. Is it not a fact that Professor Hogan, who has been one of the advisers to the Government and to the Government parties, has forecast that in the first half of next year unemployment will rise to 8 per cent of the work force? Can the Minister state whether, in his opinion, that is a reliable forecast? Is he now able to say what the Government expects the level of unemployment to be? Is it not a fact that the Prime Minister when announcing policies on the eve of the last election said that a Liberal government would find work for all who wanted work? When can the Australian people expect to have that promise fulfilled? 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Foreign Affairs and the Minister for Defence. I refer to the general concern which has been expressed over recent months about our surveillance and operational capability in the Darwin area and in other areas in northern Australia. The Minister no doubt will be aware of the entry into Australia of a number of aircraft which have been hard to detect and of some vessels which have come from northern areas. Can the Minister advise whether the Government is satisfied with the present surveillance and operational activities of the departments concerned? Secondly, can he advise the Senate what steps are being taken to upgrade those facilities? If he does not have the information today, will he. at the earliest opportunity, advise the Senate of the general position as the Government sees it, particularly in view of the concern being expressed by the people of Australia in respect of this matter? 
-by leave- I move: 
That the Senate take note of the paper. 
I wish to ask a question of the Minister for Education  (Senator Carrick).  Two particularly important reports dealing generally with railways and with particular respect to South Australia have come from the Department of Transport. In future would the Minister consider giving a copy of such reports to the shadow Minister or to the Opposition Whip before such reports are presented to the Senate? Some honourable senators feel that we have not properly studied the reports early enough to decide whether the matter should be debated forthwith on the presentation of the report or whether we should seek a listing of the debate for an appropriate later time. 

 Senator CARRICK (New South WalesMinister for Education)- I apologise to the honourable senator that that was not done on this occasion. Of course, we shall do so in the future. I regret that it did not happen today. 

 Senator BISHOP (South Australia)-I seek leave to continue my remarks later. 
Leave granted; debate adjourned. 
-by leave- I move: 
That the Senate take note of the papers. 
I seek leave to continue my remarks later. 
Leave granted; debate adjourned. 
My question to the Minister representing the Minister for Industry and Commerce relates to the tenth annual report of the Australian Tourist Commission which he tabled on Wednesday last. In the opening remarks the  Chairman  of the Commission included the contents of a letter directed to the Minister on 1 1 October last year in which the  Chairman  claimed that the Commission's resources were the lowest for any of the years of its operations and the present budgetary position meant that the Commission could not carry out its task, particularly at overseas posts. It also referred to the fact that despite the attempt to maintain staff ceilings at the government objective the Commission was finding great difficulty in running its business. Is the Minister able to state what consideration has been given to that representation of 1 1 October to the Government? Have those matters referred to been attended to and have they been corrected? 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Transport. It refers to a public meeting at Whyalla on 9 February which was chaired by the Reverend Canon Hewitson and which was convened by the Community Welfare Consultative Council. At that meeting, which was attended by all the local dignitaries and Labor politicians, a request was made that the Minister for Transport should meet a deputation to talk about two problems- the question of rolling-stock production and the possible production of small ships at Whyalla. Is the Minister able to give the Senate any information as to whether consideration has been given by the Minister to that deputation and whether, as this stage, he has agreed to it? 
My question to the Minister representing the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs or to the Minister representing the Minister for Transport follows a question about the entry into northern Australia over recent months of unidentified aircraft. The Ministers will be aware that in the last month there have been another two reported sightings of aircraft which were not finally identified. A party of Customs officials went to the western part of Australia, to Broome I think, to check on one alleged sighting. I refer particularly to a statement made in Darwin on about 15 February and reported in the Press on 1 6 February. A transport official in Darwin was reported as having said: We are getting reported sightings of unauthorised aircraft flying into the region every morning and night'. Despite what the Minister for Defence has said about the expense and the economics of increasing surveillance in the area, what can the Senate be told about activities at present? Have searches for unidentified aircraft been successful? Has the relevant Department information which reveals that our surveillance is fairly satisfactory? If not, will the Ministers attempt to obtain a statement which can be made to the Parliament about these serious matters? 
-My question is directed to the Minister for Social Security and it refers to the type of compensation which will be payable to South Australian railway employees who were transferred to the control of" the Australian National Railways on 1 March. They have been told that they will have the option of accepting either the State compensation scheme or the provisions of the Commonwealth Employees Compensation Act. Legislation would need to be introduced to allow for the election. Can the Minister give details of the legislation that might have to come before the Parliament? If there is to be legislation, can she indicate when it might be introduced into the Parliament? 
I address my question to the Leader of the Government who is also the Minister representing the Prime Minister. It follows the questions asked by  Senator Wriedt  and  Senator Georges.  Yesterday the Prime Minister told the Parliament that the Permanent Heads Committee convened on 24 October 1977 had not considered all aspects of the case. He went on to say: 
It has since emerged that due to a genuine misunderstanding, the report was of much narrower ambit than had been intended . . . 
How did it emerge that the report had a narrower base than had been intended? What was the genuine misunderstanding mentioned by the Prime Minister? Did the permanent heads fail to follow the Prime Minister's instruction that they be satisfied that all proper procedures were followed? 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Defence. It relates to the future of Woomera and the Weapons Research Establishment at Salisbury. The Minister will recall that last year- I think it was in September- the Minister for Defence made a statement indicating the future prospects of Woomera and stating that experimental exercises were being conducted by the Army and other Services. Can the Minister tell the Senate what conclusions were drawn from the exercises? Have the future prospects of Woomera deteriorated in any way? 
The Opposition supports the legislation and agrees that it should have a speedy passage through all stages. It might be using too strong a phrase to say that some matters were in dispute, but there were some sections of the Bill which were not understood. They certainly have been reconciled between the Minister for Transport  (Mr Nixon),  the State Minister,  Mr Virgo,  the unions and the management. The Opposition therefore trusts that the Bill will go through without any delay. 
My question, which I address to the Minister for Science, refers to a matter I mentioned to him yesterday, namely, the reported scientific observations of a nuclear powered Russian satellite during its passage over Australia. I also drew the attention of the Minister to the statement of  Mr Duncan  Campbell, a scientific writer, which appeared in most of the national Press yesterday, that in fact the technical and scientific personnel of the Australian Atomic Energy Commission were in some way involved during the orbit of that satellite over Australia. Is the Minister able to say whether the matters set out in that statement are true or false? To what extent is Australia bound by an international scientific arrangement in respect of the orbiting of such satellites? Are there scientific arrangements with the Soviet Union in relation to these matters? Were Australian scientific back-up ground personnel at all concerned about that experiment? 
I ask the Minister for Social Security: Is it a fact that applicants for invalid pensions must be examined by a medical officer employed by the Department of Health? In view of the current prosecutions in Sydney, is the Minister satisfied that all such examinations have been satisfactorily conducted in that city in recent years? 
My question is directed to the Minister for Social Security or to the Minister representing the Treasurer. It refers to changes which have been made in the manner of payment of British pensions to United Kingdom pensioners now living in Australia. The Minister will be aware that South Australia, particularly the Elizabeth area, has a very high percentage of British people, many of whom are pensioners. As a result of the changes in the method of paying pensions, the recipients are now having to pay bank charges which did not apply a month ago. With one exception, all banks are imposing those charges. Will the Minister look into what action could be taken to relieve the situation of those who have suffered a reduction in pension? 
My question is directed to the Leader of the Government in the Senate or the Minister representing the Minister for National Development. It refers to Press reports appearing today that the retiring ambassador to the Philippines had stated in a conference that there is a chance that there will be a uranium agreement between Australia and the Philippines at an early date. He could not give details then but he said that they had been completed. I ask the Minister: Are the statements reported in the Press correct? In regard to the agreement, is the Government satisfied that the reservations expressed by the United States of America Government agencies and Congress committees in respect to the technical experience of the Philippines in this area are such as to warrant any agreement? In addition, will he make available to Parliament a full report about this matter at the earliest opportunity? 
-My question, which is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Transport or to the Minister representing the Prime Minister relates to Whyalla. It will be recalled that on a number of occasions representations have been made by the South Australian Government, by honourable senators and by deputations- at one of which I was present- to the Minister for Transport in respect of a South Australian working party proposal to establish some sort of productivity unit involving railway rolling stock at Whyalla. It is now some weeks since those representations were made by all parties concerned. Is the Minister in a position to say whether the representations have been referred to the Prime Minister and whether discussions have been completed between the State Government and the Prime Minister? 
My question is directed to the Minister for Science and refers to a dispute which has broken out between the Administrative and Clerical Officers Association and the Commonwealth Scientific and Industrial Research Organisation about the filling of a vacancy in its Melbourne regional headquarters by transfer rather than by an appointment which had been unanimously agreed upon by a selection committee. The Minister will know already, through matters raised in the Parliament and in the Estimates Committees, of the concern that staff associations have shown about the staff ceilings and the failure to fill vacancies. It would seem that in this case satisfaction might have been achieved by allowing the ordinary processes of filling vacancies to continue. I ask the Minister: What consideration has been given to returning to the normal procedure in the Department, which has been advocated by the union, and what can be done in that respect? 
-I do not think it is necessary to take as much time as  Senator Wright  has taken to talk about - 

 -Neither Senator Walters nor  Senator Wright  has been here as long as I have. On every occasion on which a Bill concerning the stevedoring industry has been debated in this place,  Senator Wright  has taken the same point of view that he has taken today. That point of view is purely a legalistic, enforcement point of view- the thought of a conservative lawyer who knows little about industry. From  Senator 
Wright's remarks one would think that every dispute in the community and in industry could easily be settled by the law. We know from practical experience that that is not so. In Australia today there is a dispute which concerns this Government and the Australian Council of Trade Unions. We know that that major dispute which has been concerning the country cannot be settled by the law or by government or employers alone. It must be settled in concert with the labour forces. The Government has had to rely this year upon the good offices of the ACTU and  Mr Hawke,  who is much maligned in this Parliament, to settle a critical dispute within the country. That will always be so and it is not new. One would think from  Senator Wright's  observations that that is a new state of affairs in society. It is not. It has been going on for ages. It has been going on certainly since the war when in every major dispute which affected the waterfront, it was always left to Albert Monk, the  President  of the ACTU, finally to enter into the problem area to settle the argument between the waterside workers and the employers and /or the government. 
Always Ministers for Labour, be they Liberal or Labor, have looked upon the ACTU as the national organisation of workers which they should call upon for consideration and negotiation. I am pleased to know, after listening to Government speakers in this place, that there is a quite conciliatory attitude that negotiations in this very important dispute, which has not yet been solved but which is nearly solved, should be conducted with the ACTU and the unions. The idea of the 1967 national conference was, in fact, to achieve that sort of relationship. It had many up and downs.  Senator Wright  knows as well as I do that for many years the aims of the conference were achieved but he has been a consistent opponent of them because that is his point of view. I know from practical experience that in every circumstance in industrial relations there must be conciliation. The aim of Australian arbitration proceedings and laws is to make sure that that aspect of negotiations is available. It pays off. I notice that every time  Senator Wright  debates this matter, he never talks about the increase in productivity. Today he talked briefly about the changes in the industry. All honourable senators know that in the old turbulent days the waterside workers and the employers were always boxing on. There were more direct struggles and more time and much more money were lost then than are lost now. We know that in those days productivity was low. On many occasions I and my colleagues have mentioned the rate of productivity as reported by the Australian Stevedoring Industry Authority. The current report, to which  Senator Wright  referred, states at page 8: 
Cargo handled by waterside workers at all ports totalled 50.37 million tonnes, 5.7 per cent more than the 47.66 million tonnes handled in 1975-76. Non-bulk cargoes accounted for 30.08 million tonnes (up 7.0 per cent) and bulk cargoes for 20.29 million tonnes (up 3.8 per cent). In the overseas trade, imports of non-bulk cargo increased by 17.8 per cent and exports rose by 5.5 per cent. In the coastal trade, non-bulk cargo loaded and discharged increased slightly by 0.2 per cent. . . 
At page 9 the report states: 
Additional container and roll-on/roll-off vessels were introduced during the year. The number of working visits of container vessels in the overseas trade continued to increase (up 20.8 per cent) as the number of conventional vessels continued to decrease . . . 
In this regard the waterfront industry is not much different to ordinary industry. In any industry where productivity is increasing because of technological gains, new machinery and automation, workers are faced with the threat of redundancy. In the motor vehicle industry the unions have negotiated severance pay. It is not as good as the American severance pay. The scheme is similar to that which has been established in the United States for over 20 years. Severance pay in Australia is a practically new concept. Of course, in this industry it goes back a little longer. Generally speaking severance pay in America has always been much more liberal and it pertains to many matters, including pension rights. That is not new. It is a fact of industry. If workers' jobs are to be affected by technological changes the workers are entitled to some sort of guaranteed working hours. 
In America, the electrical trades union has agreements which give its members a working week of 25 hours. It has improved the pay and conditions of its members as my colleagues know. That is not a new concept in Australia. It is growing. In the future in Australia, as in all Western countries, because of the impact of automation we will have to face up to shorter working weeks. We will have to face up to the fact that more and more people will be displaced by industry. Whether the cost is borne by the government or by the employers is a matter for debate within the industries concerned. I quickly repeat my point that, as is well known in Australia, there has always been the circumstance where not the law, but the Australian Council of Trade Unions or some special organisation has had to come in and help settle disputes. That cannot be done simply by force. This recent dispute highlights that situation. I was rather surprised to hear  Senator Wright  talking about the Premier of Tasmania having recourse to the ACTU. The Tasmanian Government has recourse to the law but the ACTU agreement was much more effective than the law which could be applied. 
Let us look at the American scene and think about the 14 week coal strike. I ask: Who finally settled that dispute? It was not settled by force. It was finally settled by negotiation. The miners' claims were greater at the end of the strike than they were when the miners first went out. Our country has not yet experienced the disturbances that have occurred in industry in America. We are often proud and we say what a great country the United States is. It has made all sorts of advances. But in comparison the number of industrial disputes in Australia has lessened in recent years. We all know that. We should recognise that fact. I have been involved in most of the debates on this matter, sometimes as a Minister. I recall  Senator Wright  taking the same view he took today. But he has never mentioned the facts of the industry. He objects to  Mr Fitzgibbon,  the Waterside Workers Federation of Australia and apparently other unions making contact with their international colleagues. He says nothing about the multinational companies which have their own international unions and standards. They are the bodies the organised employees have to face. They form an organised opposition and they are monopolies. Without going into the details of the dispute affecting the seamen, I point out that they are out to do what vehicle builders in South Australia are trying to do. They are trying to protect their jobs by ensuring that traders around the country, operate on the basis that a certain number of Australians are on the staff or are members of the crew. That is not unusual. 
In the case of the recent dispute in Germany over the economic decline in that country, the aim of the United German Consolidated Trade Union Movement was very similar to the matter we have been talking about today. Disputes are not settled by the law. They have to be settled by agreement, otherwise they will break out again and become more trouble than they were before.  Senator Wright  has been a consistent opponent of the scheme. I have always thought that the national agreement was a step forward. I know it has had its ups and downs. But the fact is that the Government which  Senator Wright  supports and the Australian Labor Party Government knew that something had to replace that agreement. We never ascertained what sort of organisation should replace the scheme. But the arrangement is being negotiated at present. In the circumstances of the industry we have to negotiate a satisfactory arrangement between the employers and the waterfront unions to make sure that we do not create bad feeling which we know all about. 
The ACTING  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Robertson)-  Order!  Senator Mulvihill,  you have spoken before. Will you seek leave to speak again? 
Leave granted. 
My question is directed to the Minister for Social Security and follows from the question asked by  Senator Jessop.  I was informed some weeks ago that applications for unemployment benefits had been sent to Canberra and to the Minister for Social Security by those meat workers in South Australia who had been stood down or whose employment had been terminated because of the meat workers' strike. Their entitlement to benefits would have been dependent upon what the Minister for Social Security decided in that matter. I now ask the Minister: Is it a fact that those applications were sent to her and her Department for consideration? Was consideration of the applications held up pending the settlement of the dispute to which I referred? Does the Minister agree that as a settlement has been reached between all parties concerned in that matter, including the Australian Government, it should now be possible to determine whether the applications of these meat workers should be considered favourably? Collusion could not be suggested in the case of applications which, as I understand it, have been outstanding for five weeks. Can the Minister inform the Senate of the position in respect of those applications? 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Industry and Commerce. It refers to the motor vehicle industry and, in particular, to a government backed censure motion against  Mr Hayden  yesterday during which the Government spokesman said that the motor vehicle industry is sound and improving. He talked about the stability of Chrysler Australia Ltd. Does that statement represent the views of the Government? If it does, is he aware that this morning Chrysler's management in Adelaide told union representatives that over the next 18 months 1300 workers will be retrenched and that 100 clerical workers and 200 line workers will be put off before the middle of May? Can the Minister indicate whether the arguments put forward by the mover of the motion during the debate were supported by any departmental references to the viability of Chrysler? Is he able to say to what extent Chrysler may be helped in this situation to avoid the retrenchments that have been forecast? 
I direct a question to the Leader of the Government in the Senate or to the Minister representing the Minister for  Industry  and Commerce. I refer the Minister to recent events in the motor vehicle industry and to continuing Press reports that the Government has before it a submission which might lower the local content plan presently adopted by the Government. With that in mind, together with the sackings at Chrysler Australia Ltd, the Minister would agree that workers and industry are becoming very concerned about the position. Can the Minister tell the Senate whether the Government has yet reacted on the application made by the South Australian Chamber of Commerce and Industry and the South Australian 
Royal Automobile Association for the Government to review its position as to sales tax? Can the Minister state whether the Press reports in respect of that review, which were repeated this morning in one of the State's newspapers, are accurate? 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Prime Minister and the Minister for Foreign Affairs and refers generally to the visit yesterday by United States VicePresident Mondale, and Press reports about the subject matter of talks between the Prime Minister and/or other Ministers and the United States Vice-President. The Minister would have noticed that ordinary members of the Parliament have been almost entirely dependent upon Press reports for information concerning the visit and the subject matter of the talks. As an example, a few days ago the Press was saying that the United States Vice-President was here to make sure that we take more Vietnamese refugees. In today's Press there are reports that the opposite would appear to be the case. I ask: In view of the fact that members of the Parliament, with some few exceptions- I understand only two members of the Opposition- were not invited to talk to the Vice-President, could something be done to improve discussions between the Parliament and representatives of other countries in circumstances such as this important visit? Will the Minister consider the extent to which these visits and talks can be reported upon quickly? I am told that the statement on foreign affairs that the Leader of the Government is putting down today does not include any information on the visit. Will he see to what extent communications can be improved in the future? 
I address to the Minister representing the Minister for Defence a question relating to coastal surveillance and defence operational capability in northern Australia. The Minister will recall that in a recent response the Minister for Defence expressed the opinion that the needs for surveillance were changing and that the Government had agreed that they should be reassessed and consequently had set up a committee consisting of the heads of the relevant departments. Can the Minister report on whether the committee has finalised its recommendations to the Government and, if so, when the Parliament may be informed of those recommendations and what is proposed in connection with this task? If that information is not available, will the Minister make a statement before the parliamentary winter recess? 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Foreign Affairs and/or the Minister representing the Minister for Immigration and refers to the proposals put up by the Australian Government to Indonesia in respect of reuniting East Timorese families following the occupation of that country. I point out to the Minister that in the last few days there have been conflicting reports about some of the discussions in respect of that matter and as to whether the International 
Red Cross might be allowed again to visit the country. I ask: Is the Minister able to supplement the earlier reports in respect of this matter? Have there been undertakings recently in relation to the matter, as reported by the Press? 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Defence and refers to the recent statements, which no doubt he has seen, which indicate that  Mr Killen  now accepts that information about the modifications to the North West Cape facility- a joint facility- were not known to the Government or apparently to senior defence officials. The statements also imply that the information was available to the joint commanders at the base. Is the Minister able to say whether that information is correct and, if it is, what action has been taken in regard to the failure to advise not only the Department of Defence but also the Government about the post changes? What action has been taken against the officers concerned and what arrangements are proposed to prevent such a situation occurring in the future? 
I rise briefly to ask the Minister for Social Security  (Senator Guilfoyle)  to reexamine the application of entitlement in respect of the case raised by  Senator Donald  Cameron and the case that was put by myself to the Department concerning people employed by the Noarlunga City Council. People who were employed by the Council for a short period before the Christmas break had to wait for four weeks for the engineering and construction teams to start work again. However, because they were working before the break they were judged to be not eligible to receive the unemployment benefit. As a result of union representations the State Government provided some unemployment relief payments. Also, an arrangement was made to pay a certain amount to married employees during the break. 
I would like the Minister to consider this anomaly. People who are employed at the end of the year suffer because their employment is interrupted by the Christmas break. This is particularly the case for people employed in the engineering and construction industry. However, married people would have applied for the special benefit if they had known that such a benefit was available. The case I have mentioned was brought to the attention of the local office of the Department of Social Security. The union made representations to the local council and it arraned loans for half of the married group so as to tide them over the Christmas period. I would suggest, without asking the Minister to respond tonight, that she might examine the circumstances of people who are employed not for the whole year but in the last month or two of the year, sometimes on State unemployment relief work, and who would be left for a period of three or four weeks without any income at all. 

 Senator GUILFOYLE (Victoria-Minister for Social Security)- by leave- I undertake to look at the matter raised by  Senator Bishop.  If he has further detailed information he would wish to give for reconsideration I would be happy to have it looked at. I accept the point raised by all honourable senators who have spoken that people not entitled to holiday pay suffer from a serious lack of income during a holiday period when limited employment opportunities are available. This situation could apply to a person who has been unemployed for several months, who finds a job towards the end of the year and then faces a shut-down period for which he is not entitled to any holiday pay. It was for this reason that we made the provision that such people should be considered for a special benefit if their job was of a permanent kind. I believe that the Department attempted to make this fact known. I would certainly see that any particular case raised with me would be reconsidered in those terms. 

 Senator COLSTON (Queensland)-by leave- I believe it might be reasonable, when people are rejected for unemployment benefit in such circumstances as have been mentioned, that the letter that goes out saying that their benefit has been rejected also contains a sentence or two indicating that special benefits may be available under certain circumstances and therefore they should check with the local branch of the Department. It would seem to me that if this were done some people who do not know that special benefits are available might be able to avail themselves of those benefits. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
My question to the Minister representing the Minister for Health refers to the current Medibank proposals which have been very unfavourably received by a large section of the community and by representative bodies. I ask the Minister In view of the promise and the undertaking by the Prime Minister before the election that the Medibank scheme would be retained in its then current form, how does the Government justify the current policy which chips away the benefits of the scheme and also the promises of future reductions in benefits? 
My question, which is directed to the Minister for Health, refers to the changes to Medibank and, in particular, to a Press report this morning which indicated that the Minister for Health had told a Press conference that the changes to the health insurance scheme should bring about a reduction in family health insurance contribution rates of about 46c a week and that the health funds would be made to pass on those savings to contributors, if necessary. I ask the Minister whether that represents a firm decision by the Government. Will it be enforced? Has the Minister seen the reaction of the voluntary health funds, as reported in the Press, that some of them have no intention of passing on those savings? Will the Minister inform the Senate of the answers to those questions as the Senate has not yet been given that sort of information? 
My question is directed to the Minister for Social Security in her capacity as Minister representing the Minister for Health and /or Minister representing the Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs. My question relates to the Vietnamese refugees who are arriving in Darwin and to the comments made by a  Dr Rosemary  Hunter, who is the Director of the South Australian Tuberculosis Clinic. These comments resulted from an examination which showed that about half of all adult Vietnamese arriving in Darwin had shown traces of tuberculosis and, in addition, 25 per cent of the children had a positive skin reaction to tests which were carried out. 
The Minister might know that  Dr Rosemary  Hunter said that whilst all the States are cooperating in relation to this matter there were many difficulties, in particular the difficulty of carrying out continuing treatment for those people and the chances of infection of the community generally. I ask the Minister: In view of the Government's intention last year to abolish many of the benefits- certainly benefits which were provided under the Repatriation Actbecause of the recognition that the disease had been almost eliminated, is she concerned about the evidence and the reports of  Dr Hunter?  If so, what is being done to ensure that the highest standards are maintained in respect of these new arrivals? 
My question is directed either to the Leader of the Government in the Senate or to the Minister representing the Minister for Industry and Commerce. The Ministers will recall the representations made over a number of months about the position at Whyalla since the decline in the shipbuilding industry. I refer particularly to a report of a South Australian working party which has been expected from the State Government by the Australian Government and which is now in its hands. It concerned mainly the development of a rolling stock manufacturing complex in Whyalla. Can either Minister inform the Senate what is the target date in respect of any determination of recommendations arising from that report and when are they likely to be announced? 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations. The Minister will know of the matter I raise because questions have been asked of him before about the Chrysler Australia Limited retrenchments in South Australia. When an announcement was made that 1,100 people were to be retrenched, the union involved met the Prime Minister and the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations and received an assurance, which was later published, that maximum retraining effort would be given to ensure that those people who were retrenched would be retrained and made available for whatever occupations were available. 
I ask: Does the Minister know that since that time the departmental representatives in Adelaide of the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations have rejected a complete and comprehensive union retraining scheme and that the scheme which has been proposed is one to retrain 40 employees under the auspices of the Department of Further Education, as a result of which there is currently a dispute and representations have been made to the Government? Will the Minister ask the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations to review whatever proposals have been put to the union on the basis of what I have mentioned, so that the whole of the retrenched work force might be given fairly good opportunities for retraining? 
-by leave- As there might not be an opportunity at a later stage to make reference to  Senator Sir Magnus  Cormack 's leadership of the Joint Standing Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence, I am sure that honourable senators present today would like to have the opportunity to make comments about that. I am sure that the Senate realises already that  Sir Magnus  is one of the greatest exponents of parliamentary theory and practice and that certainly has been demonstrated, particularly in the Committee on which we served. I think I would be supported by all members of the Committee in saying that to a large extent the excellent reports which have come from the Committee- the Committee has been influential not only in the parliamentary sense but also in the government sense and in the public arena- have been due to the style of chairmanship of  Sir Magnus  Cormack. Not only is he a practical  chairman,  but also, as all of us who have served with him in this Senate know, he has the style of chairmanship which I think leads honourable senators and honourable members to join together to gain the maximum benefit from their missions. I certainly should like to place on record my appreciation of the work he has done for that Committee. 

 Senator WHEELDON (Western Australia) by leave- It is with very mixed feelings that I rise to speak today. I certainly feel very pleased to be able to pay a tribute to  Senator Sir Magnus  Cormack but, at the same time, I have a very great feeling of grief that he will not be a member of this chamber after 30 June. He has been a member of the Senate for the 13 years I have been a member of it. I have served with him, as it happened perhaps coincidentally, on a great number of committees but particularly, as my colleague  Senator Bishop  has said, on the Joint Standing Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence. I think that  Senator Sir Magnus  Cormack has been one of the most distinguished members of this Parliament with whom I have ever had the honour to be in contact. He has contributed a great deal to this institution. He has always been most courteous in his dealings with all of us. 
Although we have known that he has very strong views on the matters with which we have dealt- in fact, I do not suppose it would be any secret that many of his views and many of mine would be remarkably different- what has been most conspicuous about him has been the courtesy he has always shown to Committee members with whom he has worked and the manner in which he has enabled other members of the Committee to put their points of view. I refer to the completely non-partisan way in which he has conducted himself within committees of the Parliament and to the efforts which he has always made to assert the authority of Parliament. If the Executive is exercising undue authority over the Parliament, that is certainly not the fault of  Senator Sir Magnus  Cormack. I do not think there has been a greater exponent of the rights of the Parliament than  Senator Sir Magnus  Cormack, in the various important functions which he has performed, including the office which you,  Mr President,  now hold. It was with great regret that I learned that he will be leaving the Senate. I know that all of us will miss him very much. We wish him well in his future career after he leaves the Parliament. Certainly all of us hope he will continue to take the same active part in public life as he has taken in the past. 
-The Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations will remember that last week I raised with him the question of the retrenchments at the South Australian plant of Chrysler Australia Ltd and the refusal at that time of the Department to provide, as promised, a comprehensive retraining scheme for those employees who would be dismissed over the next 1 8 months. As the Minister will recall, a total of 1 1 ,000 workers are involved, and some have already received notice. As the scheme which has been offered is a very minimal one, and involves only 40 workers, I ask whether something can be done urgently to initiate negotiations between his Department and the union involved to ensure that there will be an adequate retraining program, as promised by the Prime Minister. As I note that the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations will soon be leaving Australia, I ask whether the matter can be taken up urgently to ensure that, in the absence of the Minister, something can be done to reconsider and review the proposals presently before the union? 
I direct my question to the Minister representing the Prime Minister or to the Minister representing the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs. The Minister for Education may recall that continual questions have been asked about the situation at Whyalla following the announcements of the termination of shipbuilding activities. I refer particularly to the statement by the Minister in this place that the Prime Minister had before him a report from the South Australian working party. The report in fact proposed an industrial complex which might manufacture rolling stock for the whole of the Australian railways. As it is some days since I asked a similar question and as the matter is urgent I wonder whether either Minister can tell the Senate what consideration has been given to that proposition? When is it likely that a Minister will meet the Whyalla local authorities? What has happened to the report by the South Australian Government which, if I remember correctly, has been commended by the Prime Minister? 
I ask the Minister representing the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations whether he has seen reports by trade union officials that in the current economic situation unions are having greater difficulties in getting some employers to observe awards. Also, there seems to be a resurgence of the problems which arose earlier over the failure of businesses by bankruptcy and so on. As the Minister will know, this has some bearing on the recent report of a Senate committee of inquiry into the priority of Crown debts. Will the Minister ask his colleague in another place to activate his officers in the inspectorate area to see whether this is the trend and to see what action might be taken to prevent it? Finally, has the Minister yet been able to study the recommendations of the Committee into priority of Crown debts which affect entitlements such as long service leave and superannuation which arise in connection with this general matter? 
My question, which is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Transport, refers to the Stuart Highway. The Minister will recall a recent deputation to the Minister for Transport comprising representatives of a wide cross-section of the community and members of parliament. He has commented on it in this place. He may know too that the deputation unanimously requested the Government to consider a special bid for funds for the Stuart Highway project. Can the Minister advise whether that matter is being studied currently by a committee of the Cabinet or whether a recommendation has been put to the Cabinet? 
I join with those honourable senators who have already spoken about the retiring senators. In particular I mention my colleagues. It is unfortunate that we should be making these comments at this hour of the morning. I wish to make one or two references to the people on this side who have made a great contribution to my party and to the Parliament. In the first instance, I speak of  Senator Bill  Brown. In case senators do not know, Bill Brown has been the  chairman  of the Federal Parliamentary Labor Party for some years. He has been a distinguished  chairman,  controlling our party which, like other parties, often requires temperate decisions. Bill Brown, although a former trade union official, has made his mark in my party as  Chairman  of our party. He has distinguished himself in the Senate,  Mr President,  as you will recall, by making a number of contributions through the Standing Orders Committee. In that regard I think he has already established a name in the Parliament. I certainly note Bill's contribution to the Parliament and my party. 
I  Senator Don  Cameron has been a person who, like former  Senator Clem  Ridley- some older members might remember him- has often added wisdom in contributions to debates, which has distinguished his speeches from the ordinary party arguments in the Parliament. He has been able to contribute some gem of wisdom to debates on any causes which have had to be propounded. He has been a most distinguished member of the Parliament. He, too, is a former trade union official. 
I agree with the comments made about  Senator Sibraa  by the Leader of the Government  (Senator Withers).  I hope that  Senator Sibraa  will be elected again because he has already made his mark in the Parliament. He specialises in foreign affairs and defence. We trust that on his re-election to the Parliament he will continue his standard of contribution as an alert member, supporting the concept of the Parliament. I suppose the most important part of our duties is to make sure that the Senate is not just a place where the parties- the Government and the Opposition- argue; it should be seen to play its role as a chamber of the Parliament of Australia. Contributions from both sides ought to be directed at ensuring that the Parliament itself is the voice representing the people of Australia. 
That brings me to the roles that  Senator Drake-Brockman  and  Senator Sir Magnus  Cormack have played in the Parliament. We have earlier had occasion to talk about these two people. Perhaps I should mention again in passing the contribution which  Senator Sir Magnus  Cormack has made to the committee system. He has always been a strong supporter of his party; as Labor senators have supported their party. In the contests in the Parliament, there have often been very strong exchanges. But, in committees,  Senator Sir Magnus  Cormack has been one of the greatest supporters of the parliamentary system. In the parliamentary system committees provide us with a vehicle whereby the two opposing forces can often find and share common ground. On the committees on which I have served under  Senator Sir Magnus  Cormack, we have often met on common ground because of his special qualities. 
I have shared common interests in defence and foreign affairs with  Senator DrakeBrockman.  I think both of us have put up arguments from different points of view, which have brought into the arena of discussion what might be required of Australia in those matters. I have been a member of the Senate Standing Committee on Regulations and Ordinances with  Senator Sir Reginald  Wright and  Senator Wood.  We have shared the sort of experience which helps members of the Parliament to understand what should be the power of the Parliament and the Executive in relation to regulations. I welcome and support what has been said about  Senator Wood  and  Senator Sir Reginald  Wright. In relation to the other two honourable senators, I say that I hope that their term in the Parliament has been a rewarding experience for them. Members of parliament have a role to play and we understand that. We all have a case to argue. 
I hope that all of us in the Parliament share a common objective in making sure that the Parliament of Australia becomes a real Parliament. Parliament does not actually represent the Government of Australia but the people of Australia. I hope that all the retiring senators will enjoy their retirement in the same way we will when we retire. 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Transport. I think he would be aware of the controversy which has broken out in South Australia about the report which originated from the Australian National Railways Commission headquarters in South Australia recommending to the Minister for Transport that there be heavy reductions in South Australian country rail services and some complete cancellation of services. Of course the Minister would know that there is a legislative requirement that the Australian Government confer with the State Government. Is the Minister aware whether the Minister for Transport,  Mr Nixon,  has sought or received a report which recommends curtailment of services, in South Australia only, as a means of recovering losses in the Commonwealth Railways? If that report has been received, does he intend to make it known to the South Australian Government and/or the trade unions which are concerned about it? The Minister may have received- I know that South Australian senators have received- representations from all the railway unions asking us to do what we can in respect of these matters. I would be pleased to know what action is proposed. 
-I present the following petition from 326 citizens of Australia: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate assembled. The petition of the undersigned electors of South Australia respectfully showeth that: 
Child Endowment has not been increased since May, 1976. 
Recent Newspaper, Radio and Television reports indicate that Child Endowment is to be reduced in this year's Federal Budget. 
Dependents Tax Concessions were abolished in May 1 976 in place of which Child Endowment was increased. 
Your petitioners most humbly pray that the Senate, in Parliament assembled, should take action to: 
Retain Child Endownment at its present level so that families are able to maintain their present purchasing power. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
My question, which is directed to the Minister for Education, refers to study leave in universities and colleges of advanced education. The Minister will recall that on 1 1 May, when presenting the draft report of the Tertiary Education Commission, he made an announcement to the Senate in this regard. At that stage the Minister stated that he thought there would be major changes. As the Minister well understands, since that time university staff associations and academics have met honourable senators in connection with this matter. I notice that in the Budget Papers there is a statement that the matter will be reviewed and tightened up. I ask the Minister whether he is in a position at this stage to state whether there will be major changes, what stage has been reached in the consideration of the submissions of those people and when he is likely to make an announcement about the matter. 
My question is directed to  Senator Carrick  as Leader of the Government in the Senate and Minister representing the Minister for Transport. He will be aware of the confidence which was instilled in the Australian aircraft industry by the continued support by governments, both Labor and Liberal, for the Nomad project. This gave the industry a great deal of heart when times were difficult. That confidence has been shattered a good deal by the report that the Bureau of Customs wants three aircraft but the specifications set out by the Department of Transport will make it virtually impossible for the Government Aircraft Factories and the supporting private industry to put forward the Nomad aircraft for that work. The Minister will also know that the aircraft has other qualifications, such as STOL- short take-off and landing qualifications- which apparently have not been considered. If the report is true, will the Minister ensure that the appropriate Ministers review whatever tender specifications presently prohibit the consideration of the aircraft? Will the Minister also ensure that proper and adequate trials are given to the Nomad so that it can at least compete fairly with an imported aircraft? 

 - Mr President, my question is directed to you. It refers to the dispute in the Parliamentary Refreshment Rooms and follows the question asked of you by  Senator Cavanagh  requesting information. Possibly the dispute has not left us and the matter again may come before the Senate. In the light of the question that  Senator Cavanagh  put to you as to the disparity between the report given to you and what has become public knowledge now, I ask whether you will investigate the matter and report the facts to the Senate so that we and the public will know the facts relating to the employment of the person concerned. 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations. It more particularly concerns  Senator Chaney  because it refers to staff ceilings, with which he is familiar, and in particular the position in respect of the Australian Telecommunications Commission and the Australian National Railways Commission. The Minister will know the great difficulties presented to young people in seeking employment in ordinary occupations but, in particular, in apprenticeships. I put it to the Minister that despite the many support schemes which the Government is presently either proposing or endorsing, such as the Commonwealth Rebate for Apprenticeship Full-time Training Scheme, the Community Youth Support Scheme and the National Employment and Training Scheme, government or ministeral policies and instructions, particularly to the Australian National Railways and Telecom in respect of staffing, are prohibiting the employment of young people, especially apprentices. I ask whether the Ministers concerned would be good enough to examine the position to see to what extent financial or staff ceiling restraints might be lifted to allow more young people to be employed. 
My question, which is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations, refers to unemployment. The Minister would be aware of the general concern expressed not only by the unions but also by management about the apathy which exists among young unemployed and the current request that they should receive benefits as soon as they become unemployed. I understand that a proposition has been put to the 
Government that a general conference of all persons concerned with industrial organisations should be held to discuss unemployment. I note- the Minister will note this too- that  Mr Hamer  has decided to call such a conference. Can the Minister tell the Parliament what consideration has been given to this request which apparently is now supported by some State governments, employers and the trade union movement? 
My question, which is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Transport, refers to funding of the Stuart Highway. The Minister will be aware, if only from questions asked in this place, of the widespread support for a continuing program to complete the Stuart Highway and the recent deputation, representing all the parties and interests in the area, to the Minister for Transport requesting special funding from the Cabinet. Although that request has not been agreed to, it is obvious now that an improved proposal from the South Australian Government is presently under consideration. Is the Minister aware that although three months of the present financial year have elapsed the Federal Minister has not yet approved the additional amount which has been put forward by the South Australian Government to ensure that the construction will be continued? Will he ask the Minister for Transport to review the position he has adopted on the provision of extra funds for this important project? 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Transport. It follows a question by  Senator Davidson  which I think suggested- I do not do him any discredit or dishonour- that the financial burden of keeping certain railway lines open should be placed on the South Australian Government. Is the Minister aware that when the legislation for the transfer of country lines in South Australia to the Australian National Railways went through the Senate it was unanimously supported by his Party; that  Senator Jessop  was the spokesman for his Party; that I reported the legislation to the Senate, and that included in the agreement signed with South Australia were indications that there should be no closures without discussion with the State Government? Is the Minister now saying that that agreement will not be honoured and that the Federal Government and the Minister do not intend to discuss the matter with the State Government under the terms of the memorandum and then let the matter be decided by arbitration? Is the Minister aware that many cuts in staff and services already have taken place without consultation with the State Government? I refer to the reductions in country line services and the effect on employment, including the decision by the Australian National Railways to cut back apprentices, a decision which has now been modified following our deputation. I would like to know whether the Government is taking a new line by asking the State Government to take on new obligations apart from those given to it under the legislation, legislation which when it was introduced in this place was welcomed by the Minister's own Party. 
-I am sorry to find that  Senator Messner  has joined that huie circle of State knockers which has recently developed. In South Australia in recent months a number of Liberal members- not allhave set out to try to damage in some way or other the image of the State Premier. They do so because both he and the State Labor Government are so effective. The only thing they can do is go into the arena where their comments may get some Press publicity and suggest that the State of South Australia is being mismanaged. The information that they give, of course, is quite incorrect. The stance that  Senator Messner  takes is also incorrect. He begins from the premise that the development of the industry of the State of South Australia is derived from the State's low wage position and the fine work of the Playford Government. Certainly, Playford managed the State well, but behind him he had the Federal Labor Government. The origins of industry in South Australia are to be found in the war years and the post-war years, and the excellent relationship between Playford and the CurtinChifley Government. As a result, we were able to get in South Australia a start in many industries which have since been knocked by the Federal Government. 
May I mention first, since it comes readily to mind, the situation of the Weapons Research Establishment and the defence industries which, since this Liberal Government has been in power, have been whittled down bit by bit. Staff have been sacked and they are now operating at minimal capacity, with just sufficient activity to keep them going. In the Weapons Research Establishment at Woomera more than a thousand workers have been sacked. Those who will read  Senator Messner  's speech will not be much affected by the fact that he proposes to make representations to the Government about a number of matters. He talks about the difficulties in South Australia caused by labour, but honourable senators will notice that he refers to the increased charges that have just been imposed by his own Government. He complains about the new charges which are affecting the brandy industry. He proposes to make representations about that. How good have his representations been in the past? 
Let me mention one little example, which surely he will remember quite well. I refer to the Whyalla shipyards. Honourable senators will know what happened to the shipyards. They were shut down by the Federal Government. Not only did the Australian Labor Party support the Whyalla shipyards being kept in business but also an important joint committee of this parliament, the Joint Foreign Affairs and Defence Committee, decided by unanimous vote to recommend that Newcastle and Whyalla because of their defence complement should be kept going. 
In addition, senator, on your side the  chairman  of that Committee was  Senator Hamer.  I was the  deputy chairman  and for every good reason we made certain recommendations and put forward a plan. That having been done, the South Australian senators, both Liberal and Labor, signed a letter to the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  representing that the plan should be pursued. What happened? The request was refused by the Prime Minister, who advanced all sorts of spurious reasons. He claimed that it was costing too much to keep the shipyards going, and was not very much concerned about defence. We brought the matter back into the Senate, but what happened when a vote was taken? Where did the South Australian Liberal senators stand? They voted against the very case that they had put up, with such great publicity, about the Whyalla shipyards. 
Let me give a second example, the Stuart Highway, which he will also recall quite well. It is not two months since representatives of the Liberal Party, National Country Party and Labor Party as well as the Lord Mayor of Alice Springs and representatives of associated transport organisations, went to the Minister for Transport  (Mr Nixon),  and asked unanimously that the Federal Government provide funds sufficient to ensure, because of its importance, the continued construction of the Stuart Highway. Not only would it give work and interrupt the downturn in the economy, the increase in unemployment, but also it would ensure that Australia would have this important link which is so frequently interrupted because of bad weather. After much argument, those of us on the committee said, 'Yes, we want it', but what has happened? The Federal Government has refused to do what we asked. No further action has been taken by the Government and we propose to bring that matter up again in the Senate very soon to see whether Liberal Party senators from South Australia will do what they ought to do. 
There was a time when all South Australian senators, Labor and Liberal alike, supported that State's claims. I remember many battles being fought in this place when we argued in favour of water and rail support by the Federal Government. With some few exceptions, we all joined in that fight. One of the issues was the one that  Senator Messner  raised about Chowilla- the need for water in South Australia, an important overriding concern for the country which everybody should support. I am pleased to say that the  President  in the Chair today is one who supported that petition. In the same way we supported the claims for standardisation, the improvement in rail works and so on. That was all possible because of our unity. Today, of course, a small Liberal group is trying to knock South Australia. 
They talk about lowering costs. They are always saying, 'You will get out of this depression if you take lower wages. You have got to make yourself poor to get rich. ' That is the sort of nonsense we hear- 'Tighten up your belt and starve yourselves to make yourselves healthy', and so on. Yet this Government, which in every Budget introduces new and heavier imposts on industry, says 'Why should not South Australia do some of these things?' Today  Senator Davidson-  I do not think I am doing him any dishonour by interpreting his remarks in this way- said that the country sections of the South Australian railway track should be the responsibility of the South Australian Government. Having made an agreement and having come into the chamber and said that it was a great idea, Liberal senators immediately turn around and say, 'We are not going to worry about those country lines. We will let the South Australian Government do something about them.' 
South Australia offers a number of important economic advantages.  Senator Messner  knows that well because he talked about some of them. He spoke about secondary industry, about the motor car industry. We offer those advantages because we have a stable work force and always have had. It is attributable to our origins and to the good management under Labor, that South 
Australia does not have disputes although, under other conditions, they would occur. The evidence of that is in the records. Let me cite the incidence of days lost in the various States. South Australia has the best record of all. A table printed in the  Age  of 2 September 1977- the record is still as good- shows working days lost per 1,000 workers. Between 1972 and 1976 the number of working days lost per 1,000 workers was 4,892 in Victoria; 4,397 in New South Wales, 3,365 in Queensland, 2,649 in Tasmania, 2,206 in Western Australia and 1,827 in South Australia. Between 1972 and 1976 South Australia's performance was tremendous. In 1976 alone the number of working days lost in Victoria was 1,073. In New South Wales it was nearly 900. In South Australia it was only 342. 
South Australia has two things going for it apart from the arguments about its management. It has a very stable and highly skilled work force. As I mentioned earlier, it has the foundations of light and heavy construction machinery. It had a shipyard which, unfortunately, was let go. Now new policies and costs are being imposed by the Federal Government. The new charges will make transport dearer. There are the increases in petrol charges and taxation. There has been a reduction in Commonwealth services not only in South Australia but in all the States. I have mentioned the fact that the Weapons Research Establishment at Woomera has been allowed to run down. I have mentioned the need to build something on the highway. I have also mentioned the Labor proposal to increase the Budget deficit. 
The Government has argued that inflation is the only curse in Australia. It has let unemployment grow. The markets for the factories are not now there. South Australia certainly needs such markets. There is a need to have people in work, not only in South Australia but in all States. Our whitegoods industry is a very good industry. It can produce washing machines of its own design, various household appliances and many other things. The motor car industry is fairly good. It has been demonstrated by Sweden that a country can have a high welfare system, high taxation and a very efficient economy. There is nothing to say that the only way markets can be obtained is by reducing wages. 
It has industrial democracy. The deputations on industrial democracy in South Australia have all been met by the Government. The Government has done nothing without consulting all the important people in the State. The pace of that democracy is not as fast as it is in other countries. It is certainly not as fast as it is in Germany, Sweden and all the other democratic countries which have established such a system. The Federal Government is the taxing authority. It sets the economic climate. The present Federal Government says: 'The way to make us more prosperous is to cut down on everything'. As a result of cutting down on everything it has cut down on all Federal spending in South Australia. It has cut down on country rail services. The State is trying to cope with that but it cannot do so. The Federal Government has imposed new taxes. It has reduced consumer demand. That is not good for the economy. 
-That is another point. Legal aid, sheltered workshops and other areas of social security are suffering the same sorts of cutbacks. 
South Australia has a rail problem. Because of the vastness of the State it needs transportation. It needs water conservation and purification. It was the Labor Government that started those programs. As everybody knows, we have had great difficulty in ensuring that this Government continues those programs. At present, there has been a stop-gap approval of funds. We want a long term scheme such as the one approved by the Labor Government. In addition, we want to make sure that our rail services are not closed down without proper consideration. Unfortunately, this Government has issued instructions to the Australian National Railways Commission to see what sort of measures it can take to cut its losses. Everybody knows that public transport whether it be rail or motorised is very costly. The Federal Minister for Transport mentioned the cost of public transport recently. But it is very necessary because it reduces the cost of the economy. A number of services have already been reduced in South Australia. This is making people lack confidence in the future. This has been caused by the Federal Government. Its increased charges have meant increased costs in transport. We have to suffer those as well as everybody else. 
As honourable senators probably know, the services and the staff in some railway sections have been affected by administrative action. Arising from this a big meeting was held recently at Tailem Bend.  Senator McLaren  was present. A number of other important area authorities were present. The State Ministers were present. The only person who was missing was the Federal Minister. 
He did not turn up to discuss the effect of the cutbacks on the railway system.  Senator McLaren  represented the Labor Party because the meeting was held in his area. I was not invited. If I had been invited I would have attended. But  Senator McLaren  adequately represented the Labor Party. 
I do not think that anybody will be very impressed with the previous speaker who is a supporter of the Government which has just imposed extra charges making living dearer and putting people out of jobs. It is causing the economic climate to falter as a result of which young people cannot find work. Employment and costs are fundamental to the economy. The course of the economy has to be changed. There has to be more construction. The Government is cutting back on Federal construction in my State and in other States. It is talking about the empty houses in South Australia. It has to put people in jobs so that they can rent those houses. Instead of complaining about houses being empty in Whyalla it has to start up the shipyards again or assist other industries in the area. It has to get the railways to order products. That is the way to get the economy going instead of knocking the South Australian Premier and saying that the Labor Government has whiskers on it. 
-No, we have not. It is too early for the Liberals to make their run. The Liberal Party in South Australia is having great difficulty with its leader. It has never been able to produce a leader able to compete with the State Premier. A former leader of the South Australian Liberal Party entered the Senate only because he could not compete with the State Premier. I think that will happen to the present leader. I hope that in future  Senator Messner  will join with the traditional Labor group on this side of the House which has always supported any government which has done what has been necessary for South Australia. He talked about the representations he has made. I hope that those representations were not just letters. I hope that we can join together at a future time and demonstrate that the South Australian senators in the Parliament will demand from the Government some rectification of its mistakes. 
My question, which is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Health, refers to the future of Medibank staff. The Minister will be aware that last week the State managers of Medibank met to consider a report from the Health Insurance Commission in respect of the options which would be available in the campaign to influence people to remain with Medibank. She will also be aware that the question of staff retrenchments was considered. I ask the Minister whether any consideration has been given to retaining the staff presently under notice until the results of the campaign to attract extra business are known and so circumvent the need to sack staff. 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Post and Telecommunications. I think he would be aware by now of the substance of the representations that have been made by the Union of Postal Clerks and Telegraphists in connection generally with the very heavy increase in the cost of sending lettergrams and telegrams, which approximates a 300 per cent increase, and in particular with its concern about the future of the employment of its trained members in that occupation. Whilst the union has in mind the heavy losses incurred in providing this service, it has made representations to the Australian Telecommunications Commission asking for a review of what seem to be very heavy charges and for some added measures to be taken to publicise renewed services. I ask the Minister whether he would be good enough to request his colleague to consider the representations that have been made by that Union about whether some modest increase might be applied and whether some review of services could be made urgently. 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Defence and the Minister for Foreign Affairs and refers to new information that has come to light about a plutonium deposit at Maralinga. I ask the Minister: Is he in a position to give the Senate the fullest information in respect of this matter, having regard to the fact that, although since 1972 some questions have been asked about this matter, the information which has now been brought out in the public arena and which is causing concern to the people of Australia is important? We have been advised that the Australian Government has asked the British Government to remove the plutonium deposit from Maralinga. 
Can the Minister advise the Senate whether such a request has been made to the British Government? Is the Government insisting upon such a procedure being followed, or is the situation as has been reported in the Press- that an alternative that the Government put to the British Government is that the deposit may be shifted to Woomera? If that is the situation, I ask the Minister: Can he give the Senate an assurance that no such transfer of the deposit will be made, having regard to the Government's indication to the Senate that in the future Woomera will be reserved for a number of Service trials? I think the Minister will remember my previous questions on that subject. What can he tell the Senate about this matter? 
My question is directed to either the Minister representing the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs or the Minister representing the Minister for Productivity. Both Ministers will recall questions and representations directed at seeking a review of the specifications which were laid down for the purchase of three aircraft for customs surveillance and under which the Nomad aircraft was excluded. I had a response from the Minister for Transport and I understand that  Mr Macphee  and  Mr Fife  have conferred about the matter. Are the Ministers in a position to advise whether such a review has been made? Will the Government in some way protect the investment that it has in the Government Aircraft Factories and the Nomad project? 
My question, which is directed to the Minister representing the Prime 
Minister or to the Minister representing the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations, refers to the ACTU Jetset Travel Service Pty Ltd inquiry. The Minister will be well aware, of course, that by the acceptance of the Government there is a well-established agreement to consult the Australian Council of Trade Unions, which the Government does on all occasions, on a wide variety of matters. More particularly, when there are national disputes Ministers properly use the good offices of the ACTU by ringing up and discussing the matter with the ACTU President. How is it that in respect of the occasion involving the air navigation regulations an offhand procedure was used to communicate in writing with the ACTU on a Saturday morning when the opportunity might have been taken first to discuss the matter with the ACTU President in the same way that Ministers and the Prime Minister often discuss important matters with him over the telephone? 
The Minister representing the Minister for Defence and the Acting Minister for Foreign Affairs will recall that on Tuesday, 10 October I raised a number of questions relating to radioactive material at Maralinga. One aspect of that question to which the Minister did not refer was the report that the Australian Government had submitted to the British Government the alternative that the transportable quantity might be shifted to Woomera. I raised with the Minister the question of the reported exercises of the Services at that place. As the Minister promised to give me information, I now ask: Is he in a position to state whether the report is correct and what is proposed? 
My question is directed to the Leader of the Government and follows the question asked by  Senator Young  about the Redcliff project, on which the Minister has answered a number of questions. The Minister will be aware that Federal and State officers have continued talks about the need to finance infrastructure for the project and that although those talks are continuing there are as yet no signs that the situation is favourable. The Minister would probably know that, in regard to the Prime Minister's statement, a number of State 
Premiers have welcomed the new announcement. I ask the Minister whether he considers that the Prime Minister's announcement places the application for infrastructure costs in a more favourable situation than it was in before the announcement. 
The Australian people have become used to the general pattern of the Fraser Government in respect of economies through its oft repeated statement that there have to be cost savings in every area. We know from experience that in every area of government administration there have been a number of cutbacks, a number of cost savings. However, it seems to me that health insurance is the area that ought to concern people most. The Fraser Government Administration commenced with a statement from the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  that it would retain Medibank. After representations from the staff associations in the Government service, who had discussions with the Government about possible retrenchments, the Council of Australian Government Employee Organisations was given a guarantee in 1977 that the Government was concerned about retrenchments and would seek to avoid them. My remarks tonight will be directed mainly towards the future of the people who have been employed in the organisation of health insurance and Medibank and also towards the general scheme. 
The question we ought to ask ourselves is this: What is the Government up to? In the section of the Budget Papers dealing with the new prescriptions for health that we are discussing tonight, it is stated: 
The new measures will add an estimated $ 138m to Budget outlays in 1978-79 and $305m in a full year; in addition, abolition of the levy will reduce receipts by an estimated $ 1 97m in 1 978-79 and $3 1 6m in a full year. 
The first question we ought to ask is whether the Government is really setting out to cut costs. Is it designing a new system that will completely disturb not only the contributors to the health system but the staff that has been built up in an organisation which in the first instance was set up by the Labor Government and which has served the people of Australia very well? The Budget Papers also state: 
We have therefore decided upon several major changes to existing arrangements which, while producing an immediately adverse budgetary effect, are more consistent with our longer-term objectives in this area and remove much of the confusion and complexity from present arrangements. 
What has happened? The fact is that pensioners and average people in the community, who thought that they understood the health system and health insurance and their Medibank contributions, are totally confused about their entitlements and what they should do about the present situation. In addition, there are some 5,000 members of a staff which has been built up to service the system who are also very confused, and questions to Ministers in both places have not served to clarify their future. They have presented a petition on their future to the Minister for Health  (Mr Hunt),  pointing out that many of them entered the Health Insurance Commission with the idea that there would be some permanency but presently they have no such guarantee. Whilst tonight the Minister may give us figures about possible redundancy, as I understand it, nobody really knows what is going to happen to those people in the Public Service, both temporary and permanent, who have serviced the Medibank system. 
Unless the Government can guarantee employment to those employees, the Parliament itself should not endorse what is proposed in this legislation. Surely an organisation such as the Administrative and Clerical Officers Association, which has sought discussions with the Minister for Health in an endeavour to solve this problem, should be entitled to know tonight what is the future of its members. As the Minister for Social Security  (Senator Guilfoyle)  knows, many people on this side of the Parliament have sought answers to questions about the future of Medibank employees in each of the States. Until now we have not been told what is their future. The answers I have been given in respect of the people employed in South Australia have been no more revealing than they have been in respect of the answers about those employed in Canberra or elsewhere. Primarily, the Government must have an obligation to the people who have been employed in a system which has been comparatively safe and which has provided a service which people have understood and which will now be replaced by another system. 
From the discussion tonight in the Senate one can see that the opinions on what the new scheme will be are many and varied. The questions which have been posed to me- I think that honourable senators in every State will have been asked the same questions- indicate that there is complete confusion as to what will be the new entitlements. I come back to the question I asked earlier. What is the Government up to? It has an increased liability. It proposes to introduce a less complex system but in fact the socalled simplified system will cost the nation more. In addition, it will disturb the relationship between the Government and the vast number of public servants which it employs. 
I rise mainly to find out from the Minister- I hope that she will attempt to answer the questions from this side of the Parliament- what guarantees there will be for the permanent and temporary public servants who took on jobs in the Health Insurance Commission expecting that there would be some continuity of employment. Even if they had not expected some continuity, modern industrial practice indicates that there should be recognised severance arrangements. That situation would apply in most countries. I hope that the Minister is able to explain what has been the response to the representations to the Government of the union and staff organisations about the future of the Medibank employees. I hope, too, that the Minister will explain what should be done by the ordinary citizens in the community who are finding that there is a new environment in which they have to make their health insurance arrangements. In particular, I ask her to answer the questions about the Medibank staffs in all States, especially South Australia. 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Transport. It refers to a report that termination of the Ghan railway service between Port Augusta and Alice Springs has been recommended by the Australian National Railways 
Commission which has responded to cost saving demands by the Federal Government. The Minister is aware of questions by senators, members of another place and the trade unions concerned about this matter. I ask the Minister whether such a submission has yet been received and considered by the Government? The Minister in the other place has responded partly to the question but what action does the Government propose in connection with that recommendation? 
It is only a few weeks since many senators assembled in the office of  Mr Hudson,  the Minister of Mines and Energy in South Australia, to receive an important briefing about Redcliff. I remember  Senator Laucke,  the  President  of the Senate, pointing out during final comments at the briefing that it was highly important that a nonpartisan attitude be adopted towards a very important project for South Australia which will also be of value to the economy of Australia. We were satisfied, after being briefed and getting all the important documents, that the case for authority being given by the Loan Council for special borrowings to be made by the South Australian Government was well justified.  Mr Hudson  told us that the South Australian Government had indicated that it would raise $68m from its own resources and that it had requested approval from the Loan Council to borrow an additional $186m. 
I think that this is one of the few occasions- in recent years anyway- when all the members of the various political parties have been before a Minister and supported a project such as this, which is so important to South Australia. I welcome this approach. I recall that many years ago it was common for honourable senators from South Australia to join forces about important issues. I think I am speaking for every honourable senator- certainly those on my side of the chamber- when I say that we were well satisfied with the expert nature of the submissions and reports which were given to us by  Mr Hudson  and his party. 
The recent statement by the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  has enlightened the situation and heightened anticipation by the people of South Australia, particularly all South Australian senators. We appear to be reaching the stage where the borrowing of money for the infrastructure of a project which is well-founded and which will be successful might be accomplished. As  Senator Young  pointed out, recently he- I suppose I also did this recentlytried to impress upon the Leader of the Government in the Senate the view that the recent statement by the Prime Minister created a more favourable climate for the approval by the Loan Council of the additional borrowing required. I think that that is so. I think that the statement by the Prime Minister has enhanced the prospects of the request that is already with the Loan Council. I know that officers of the Federal Government and the South Australian Government have met to consider the matter. We have been told, not officially, that there is great hope for agreement in respect of the loan. I imagine that what has been said by the Prime Minister is an attempt to point to what might be an ancillary form of raising money. This does not relate to South Australia in particular, but it obviously strengthens the South Australian case. It has been noted by me and by other honourable senators that South Australia has a unique sort of economy. South Australia should be buttressed in some way from what is in fact a world economic recession. As every honourable senator knows, we in South Australia are good at operating in the field of secondary industry. We are good at making motor cars and white goods. I think we are the best State in Australia in that respect. Our markets are, far and away, the largest. 
But unless Australia has full employment generally the markets will shrink. So the problems in South Australia to some extent have accelerated at a faster rate than they have in other States. The development of a petrochemical industry at Redcliff would assist us in easing our problems. The project has been well tested. If I remember correctly, interest in the petrochemical industry in South Australia was first shown as far back as 1950. 1 notice that in item 2 at page 2 of a document prepared by the South Australian Department of Economic Development, a copy of which was presented to us, the following appears: 
Interest in a petrochemical project originally stemmed from a desire to use salt fields near Port Augusta which were operated in the 1 950 's. 
After that growing attention was paid to this matter by various governments, particularly by the Dunstan Government. The document stated further: 
In November 1 973 the . . . consortium was named to develop a project. In July 1975, after a detailed feasibility study, the project was abandoned mainly because of inflation and resulting capital cost escalation and problems related to the supply of feedstocks and Government assistance. 
In March 1976, the South Australian Government invited Dow Chemical Company to re-examine the feasibility of the project. This invitation was followed up by a letter from the then Minister of National Resources,  Mr J.  D. Anthony, confirming that the Commonwealth Government would welcome participation by Dow . . . 
Later, as we well know, a response was made to a formal project proposal from the South Australian Premier to the Prime Minister. Recently, on 25 March 1978, the Prime Minister invited the Premier to submit development project proposals. Those proposals are presently being studied and the South Australian Government has indicated, as I mentioned earlier, that it would provide $68m from its own resources and would seek the assistance of the Federal Government for additional borrowings. I know that honourable senators opposite, like honourable senators on this side of the chamber, are anxious to have agreement reached at an early date. It is only occasionally that all honourable senators from a State can reach such agreement. It must provide a very welcome atmosphere for the Government to assent to what now seems to be a well-proven case. I hope that the attention of the Prime Minister has been drawn to the questions we have asked in the light of his announcement and that the formal discussions which have taken place, which we have been told have been constructive, will be completed at an early date. If this project proceeds it will enhance Australia's security in this area. In particular, it will enhance the affairs of the State and enable it to sustain itself in the event of a continuing recession and the economic problems that would flow from that. Because of certain circumstances the debate on this subject must be brief. I welcome the statements made by  Senator Young  in this debate. I entered the debate to reinforce what he said. No doubt some of my colleagues on this side of the chamber would have liked to make similar statements. 
-The Government Whip is encouraging them to do so. At the meeting on this matter I was struck by the general support for the proposal and the conviction that  Mr Hudson  and his staff had done a very good job in relation to the project as all the technical questions were answered properly and the submissions were well-founded. I hope that my short statement will do something to help to facilitate an early determination in favour of the project. 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for National Development or the Minister representing the Minister for Defence. Last week  Mr Newman  with a party of United Kingdom and Australian defence scientists inspected the Maralinga site and met officials and Ministers of the South Australian Government. As there was little comment on the matter in the Press last week I ask the Minister whether he can inform the Senate of the results of that inspection and whether consideration is now being given to a public request reported in yesterday's  Advertiser  that the South Australian Government has sought the transfer of the plutonium deposit at Maralinga to the United Kingdom, if possible. Can a more detailed statement be made on the situation notwithstanding the fact that some of the information is classified? 
My question which is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Defence and in part concerns also the Minister representing the Minister for Post and Telecommunications, refers to the allowances and concessions presently available to members of the Australian forces serving overseas. Is the Minister aware that members of the Services who are presently engaged in the United Nations peacekeeping forces are less well off than those of other countries who are serving alongside them? Is the Minister able to tell us whether the Government now proposes to make that situation worse by refusing to subsidise the postal concessions which have been available for many years to all servicemen at overseas posts? Is that matter under consideration by the Government and has it been determined? 
My question, which is addressed to the Minister representing the Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs, relates to the announcement by the Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs yesterday as to the new points plan. Whilst the plan in relation to skills and occupational levels might be acceptable, I draw the Minister's attention to the very low weighting of family unity. In a total point score of 50, family unity is given only 3 points and is mixed up with a number of other factors. One would think that the stability of the work force and of citizens would emphasise the need for a greater weighting. What consultations were held with representative ethnic groups before the points scheme was adopted? In view of the Minister's statement that the scheme will be under review from time to time and may be amended, what sort of procedures will be adopted to incorporate an appeal system? Is that to be considered? No statement has been made available. Who would be able to assist in these appeal procedures? When will the applicants be told of their scores and what access will they have to that sort of information? Finally, is it possible to ask the Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs to consult those bodies at an early stage to ensure that this system will not be applied arbitrarily, in view of the number of clerical details that will be required during the investigations? 
My question about Whyalla is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Industry and Commerce. No doubt the Minister will recall questions from both sides of the chamber which have been asked over a number of months following the closure of the shipyards and representations from both sides of the chamber about possible industrial activity at Whyalla. The Minister may have seen the recent statement that in Whyalla there are a number of social problems arising from unemployment and that there are many vacant houses in Whyalla. Although a Minister has visited Whyalla and has had discussions with the local council- I think  Senator Jessop  might have accompanied him- I do not recall any report having been given to the Senate in response to the questions we have asked about studies being made in conjunction with the South Australian Government and whether the shipbuilding activity might be reviewed together with endeavours in relation to railway rolling stock. I ask the Minister whether he can obtain a general report about the examinations which have been made by the Federal Government, perhaps in concert with the State Government, and give it to the Senate. Can he advise whether there is still co-operation between Federal Government and State Government officials to pursue whatever economic activity is possible for Whyalla in order to avoid those social problems which have attracted some public discussion in that State? 
I have two short questions relating to the Department of Employment and Industrial Relations. It is possible that the answers will have to be given at a later stage because I cannot see the departmental officers in the chamber. My first question- and  Senator Button  reminded me about this- relates to the Industrial Relations Bureau. We are all aware that the Industrial Relations Bureau is being set up. I think it has most of its establishment. Honourable senators will of course recall the debates in the Parliament on the scope of the activities of the Industrial Relations Bureau. The Minister will recall that during debates on the conciliation and arbitration Bills there has always been the argument that the old inspectorate section which has now been taken over by the Bureau was never anxious to prosecute employers and prosecutions against unions were certainly more numerous than those against employers. It would appear from the figures taken out over the years that actions were not often taken against employers when they might have been.  Senator Mulvihill  raised a number of questions about employers and contractors working at airports. Is the Minister able to indicate to what extent the Bureau has now reached its top establishment? Further, in respect of those duties other than what we call punitive duties, is it attempting to ensure that awards and general standards are observed in industry? I appreciate that that information might have to be given later. 
The other matter I raise relates to the employment position at Whyalla. Earlier today I raised part of this matter by way of question to  Senator Chaney  as Minister representing the Minister for Industry and Commerce. The Minister well knows that the general position in Whyalla has been raised in thus place by honourable senators on both sides of the chamber. It was felt that to the greatest extent possible there should be some means of creating employment in Whyalla. The shipyards there are closed and the Broken Hill Proprietary Co. Ltd had not been able to take on the great number of people who were available after the closure and who were thus in the employment market. The result has been, as I mentioned earlier today, that over 300 homes in Whyalla are now vacant and these apparently will be filled by people coming from the city. 
This has created some social problems. I know that the State Department of Community Welfare has been active in consulting these people. In discussions we had in this place and from reports by the then Minister for Trade and Resources,  Senator Sir Robert  Cotton, and from those who have followed him in that portfolio, it was indicated that the Department of Employment and Industrial Relations would visit Whyalla and would regularly take up the question of employment facilities in that city. At one time it was thought that the Department was not active enough in that regard. The Minister may wish to take on notice those questions and also the extent to which the Department of Employment and Industrial Relations, in concert with other departments, sees the possibility of creating employment opportunities in the city of Whyalla, having regard to the discussions which I know are taking place between the State Government and the Federal Government officers and the studies that have been made. 
I want very briefly to support what  Senator Young  has said. He has gone into the matter very fully and the Committee does not need a repetition from me. It is clear of course from previous debates in the Senate that South Australian senators in unity have raised this question of water pollution of the Murray, the quality of water in South Australia and the progress being made. It is of great significance to our State because we are heavily dependent upon the River Murray for water. The matter which  Senator Young  raises is one of special significance and I hope that the Minister will take note of it and see to what extent consideration might be given to allowing related controls to prevent further worsening of the River Murray, a situation which we know is now developing very rapidly. 
Proposed expenditure agreed to. 
Department of the Special Trade Representative 
Proposed expenditure, $462,000- agreed to. 
I raise again a question which has been raised by me and other honourable senators concerning the future of Medibank staff. I appreciate that the Minister for Health  (Mr Hunt)  has replied recently to questions asked by me and other honourable senators but the replies do not give any guarantee of security for the staffs in all States. I was more concerned about what might happen to Medibank staff in South Australia. A number of people presently employed  by  Medibank have approached me. Obviously it is impossible for management to state exactly what might happen in respect of one particular employee. I want to know whether the Minister for Social Security  (Senator Guilfoyle)  and the officers who are available here tonight are able to indicate more precisely what is the future of the staff employed in my State of South Australia. Perhaps I should first read- and you,  Mr Temporary Chairman,  would not object to this course- a letter to me dated 14 November from the Minister for Health which, I suppose, gives the latest information. In the letter, the Minister said: 
I refer to your question without notice to  Senator Guilfoyle  on 26 September 1978  (Hansard  page 891) on the future employment of Medibank staff. Sena tor Guilfoyle undertook to refer your question to me for advice. 
As a result of the new health insurance arrangements certain functions of the Health Insurance Commission have been transferred to the Department of Health. A significant number of Medibank staff currently engaged on these functions, including bulk bill processing and payments to private hospitals, will be offered employment in the Department of Health without any loss of present entitlements. Arrangements are currently being finalised for an offer of employment to these people. A number of other positions created in the Department for new functions have been advertised and Medibank staff will be eligible to apply for these. 
In relation to the remaining staff, I understand that the Commission will need to maintain present staffing levels in processing centres retained by it during the transitional phase after 1 November to complete the processing of Medibank standard work. After that period some staff will become surplus to requirements but it is still not practicable to identify precisely the number as this will be affected by the market share obtained by Medibank Private and the number of people who elect to register with Medibank Private for payment of Commonwealth Medical Benefits. On this point I am pleased to mention that current business trends are most encouraging. 
The Commission has advised its intention of closing the Canberra and Geelong Processing Centres as part of a program of rationalising its processing facilities It is proposed that closure will take place on S January 1979. 
The Public Service Board and the Depanment of Employment and Industrial Relations will be actively seeking to obtain alternative employment for the staff from these centres and others who may subsequently become surplus. 
I am hopeful that an improved market share by Medibank and re-deployment arrangements by the above authorities will result in redundancies being kept as low as possible. 
The letter was signed by Ralph Hunt. Although that is a very helpful answer the fact is that honourable senators from my State and perhaps from other States have been approached by people who presently work for Medibank. Their outlook for the future is not secure. Some 30 people will be transferred to the Commission but there are some whose fate cannot be determined. From representations I am informed that it cannot be precisely stated what their future is. I wonder whether more up to date information is available from the Minister or the Department about the position in South Australia. There has been some publicity about commitments of the Medibank organisation with respect to loans which were provided to it. I wonder whether those obligations may impose another form of insecurity on the staff. If the Minister is able to provide that information tonight I will welcome it but if it is not available tonight the Committee will be pleased to receive it at a later stage. 
-I follow  Senator Mulvihills  introduction of the issue of the new points system, NUMAS, the numerical multi-factor assessment system. The Minister will recall that yesterday I asked a number of questions about the new system which has been announced since the Estimates committees met. I appreciate that at that stage she was not able to answer the questions. It may well be that the Minister's advisers can clear some of the confusion in relation to this matter among some of the ethnic groups. In my question which was praised by these people I pointed out that in a total points score of 50 family unity is given only three points and is mixed up with a number of other factors. I went on to say that one would think that the stability of the work force and its citizens would emphasise the need for a greater weighing in this area. I also asked what sort of consultations had been held and whether there had been any procedures for appeals against assessments. 
In summary, I wonder whether the Minister is now able to advise whether this new points system involves a new section in the Department of Immigration and Ethnic Affairs; what sort of establishment will be set up to decide upon that system? Will there be consultations progressively with representative ethnic bodies to ensure that decisions are not arbitrary because many determinations will be made by interviewing officers and assessments will be put on paper. Unless there is some right of appeal by way of members of Parliament or a body which can raise matters the determinations could operate unfairly. In particular States, say in South Australia, will a group repeat that sort of assessment performance as might be done centrally? 
I have not raised this matter before, but it seems to me that if the examination of the point scoring is done in the foreign country- that is the home of the applicant wishing to migrate to Australia- it would take a long time for that information to reach Australia. I am sure that other honourable senators and honourable members have found, when making representations on behalf of people wishing to come to Australia, that when a case is referred to Italy or to some such country, the information never reaches Australia until two or three months later. So unless the record of the points score is transferred immediately to the central office or to the State directors the result will be an unwieldy and arbitrary way of assessing the value of a potential migrant. Let us take the case where a man goes to the London office and is tested there. He scores certain points. Is that information transferred immediately to Canberra and is it available to the people who are sponsoring him such as a family? 
I think it is sad to note that at this stage all the benefits which the Labor Government gave to veterans have in fact been abolished or lessened. I was the Minister for Repatriation for about half of the period of office of the Whitlam Government. In that time we adjusted pensions and provided new arrangements to meet the requirements of the Returned Services League and were commended by that League for bringing into being most of its recommendations. Since that time, there has been a repatriation inquiry. 
The repatriation inquiry generally supported the sorts of things which the Labor Government did. Unfortunately, as my colleagues,  Senator Elstob  and  Senator McLaren  have said, most of those things have been whittled away. After stating the eligibility provisions of the Repatriation Act, page 79 of the Budget Speech states: 

 Rates of pensions and allowances. 

The Special, Intermediate and General Rate disability pensions and the war and defence widow pensions have been automatically adjusted each Spring and Autumn in line with movements in the Consumer Price Index. The Government has decided that Repatriation legislation will be amended to provide for automatic adjustment of these pensions on an annual basis, i.e. in November of each year. 
Some figures worsen. Page 80 of the Budget Speech states: 
The Repatriation legislation will also be amended in relation to the provision for the automatic acceptance of pulmonary tuberculosis as the basis for disability pension and the guaranteed minimum pension rate of 100 per cent payable in respect of it. It is proposed to review all pensioners in this category and to freeze at their present levels pensions which are found to be over-assessed. The Minister for Veterans 'Affairs will be announcing details of this change. 
In relation to service pensions page 8 1 states: 
As with disability pensions, legislation will also be introduced to remove pulmonary tuberculosis as a basis for the grant of service pension. Those veterans currently receiving service pensions for this reason will, however, continue to do so . . . 
The Government has decided to amend the Repatriation legislation to freeze the service pension paid to eligible veterans aged 70 years and over at its present level and pay future increases in the form of an income tested supplement. This will be consistent with the treatment of comparable social security pensions but these veterans will be eligible to have any disability pension treated in the same way as veterans under 70 years of age for the purposes of the income test. 
The standards which were established by the Labor Government, which were acceptable for veterans and which have been promoted for many years in the Senate and supported by the Returned Services League and ex-service organisations have been reduced. One of the most glaring things that has happened has been the determination by the Government to sell all those plots of land which were accumulated to supply defence service homes. Honourable senators will remember that the Labor Government extended the eligibility of servicemen for defence service homes. That eligibility has been limited to some extent since the Liberal Party came into power. It is unfortunate that this should have happened. The RSL and other organisations have made their protests about it. 
Whilst the Minister for Administrative Services  (Senator Chaney)  is selling the land, the responsibility, of course, lies with the Minister for 
Veterans' Affairs  (Mr Adermann).  In a news release on 8 November 1978,  Senator Chaney  pointed out that the developed building lots comprised 330 blocks in New South Wales, 88 in Victoria, 224 in Queensland, 190 in South Australia and 109 in Western Australia. The undeveloped land on offer included 238.8 hectares in New South Wales with a potential yield of 2,002 building lots, 294.1 hectares in Victoria with a potential yield of 2,423 lots, 196.3 hectares in Queensland with a potential yield of 2,001 lots, and 87.8 hectares in South Australia with a potential yield of 733 lots. The land in South Australia is held in prime housing areas. Unfortunately while the lots are being sold exservicemen who are entitled to the benefit are on the waiting list. The Returned Services League has looked at this decision and has said to the Government: 'If you have finally decided to sell this land- we do not agree with that- why do you not use the money raised to make sure that the waiting list for servicemen is reduced?' That suggestion has been rejected. 
I rose to speak on this matter in support of my colleagues. It is unfortunate that the land bank which was a good idea to make sure that land would be secured at very low rates and held for the benefit of servicemen and ex-sevicemen should now be disposed of simply because the Government has a cost-cutting philosophy. I hope that the Government will review some of these decisions. Although it has been decided to sell the land it may have second thoughts. It might decide that the revenues from the sales will be used to assist the purchase of defence service homes. 
My question, which is directed to the Minister for Social Security, follows the question put to her by  Senator Grimes.  The Minister may recall that, over the past years, there have been a number of individual cases of people who claimed unemployment benefit in circumstances which  Senator Grimes  outlined and who were paid that benefit. I refer particularly to those engaged in State relief work whose payments for that work included an amount for part annual leave entitlements and who were discharged because of a lack of funds. On investigation the Department paid those people unemployment benefit, particularly in locations where there was no available work. I refer to the southern part of South Australia. In particular I ask the Minister to consider those employees in the vehicle industry in South Australia, many of whom are not entitled to any annual leave payments at all because of the short time that they work on the production lines. I ask her to consider their position in light of the fact that in the past they were acceptable as beneficiaries. I think that fact places them in a different category from the general group of people who might be able to get other employment. Will the Minister consider those circumstances and give the Senate some information? 
-I want to keep alive the question which the Minister for Administrative Services,  Senator Chaney,  has been asked. I am talking about the provision of a Commonwealth office building in Adelaide. The Minister will recall that recently we raised this matter again. Over the years in this chamber it has been submitted that the Commonwealth Government should keep this proposal in mind. At one time  Senator Wright,  when he was Minister for Works, got to the stage of considering a basic plan. As the years passed and accommodation to house the 27 or so departments was scattered around the city of Adelaide, any consideration of a Commonwealth centre was dropped. But, as I said, some years ago the matter was under consideration. I raise the matter again in view of the fact that recently the Commonwealth has been disposing of a number of sites. 
I am mindful that within part of the Minister's jurisdiction he is getting rid of the land which was held for defence service homes. We have been told that property which would be suitable for this purpose in Adelaide is still retained. I think that that land is in Pirie Street. An adjoining site in Currie Street was sold last year or the year before. So I put in a plug to ensure that no action is taken which would in any way imperil the Commonwealth's ability to provide its own accommodation for those 27 or so departments which at present are being housed at very expensive rates. After all, that accommodation is temporary and much of it has required expensive alterations costing probably millions of dollars. Although the Minister recently said that there are no plans to build a Commonwealth centre I seek again his reaction to my repeated reminder of the position. My colleagues share with me the view that such a centre should be provided. 
I move: 
That the Committee is of the opinion that the Australian Government should provide special funding to enable a continuing program of construction of the Stuart Highway to be undertaken, as unanimously requested by the recent representative deputation to the Minister for Transport from South Australia and the Northern Territory. 
This subject has had wide support both in questions and speeches from both sides of the chamber. Generally, honourable senators have always urged that the Federal Government should in fact make a special appropriation for this project and should not expect funds to be raised piecemeal from the budget which has been arranged over the years between the Federal Government and the State Government. My intention in moving this motion in this atmosphere is that we might collectively carry this proposition. I hope that Government senators will give their support to it in light of the support given to the proposition when a deputation met the Minister for Transport  (Mr Nixon). 
In moving this motion, I am not contesting in any way a political issue. We are arguing that this road is in fact- as the Minister has accepted as I will mention later- a national highway and should be funded in a special way. The ability of the South Australian Government to carry out a speedy construction is impossible under the present funding arrangements. The present situation is that about 804 kilometres out of 924 kilometres have to be surfaced. It has been estimated that it would cost $70m. The construction work of this major project recommenced north of Bookaloo on 17 October 1978. Initial clearing and culvert laying is in progress, and by the end of the year some 17 items of major plant will be on the site. Route selection and advanced planning for the full length have been completed and design details have been settled. The rate of progress now depends mainly on the availability of funds. 
South Australia's allocation for national highway construction is approximately $16m a year or about 10 per cent of the total allocation of approximately $163m to all States in 1978-79. With 2,663 kilometres of national highways within its borders representing approximately 20 per cent of the length in all States the allocation is inadequate as honourable senators will realise. 
For the past four years, South Australia has contributed from State funds an average of approximately $3m a year- that is about 19 per cent of the Commonwealth's allocations to national highway construction. No other State has made any such comparable commitment. Most other States make no contribution. Because of urgent works elsewhere, this level of contribution cannot continue. The Commonwealth Government has claimed full responsibility for national highway construction but has not provided sufficient funds. I might mention here a promise which was made in connection with this road by the  Deputy  Leader of the National Country Party, the Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Sinclair).  In a Press release issued by the Minister for Primary Industry on 25 November 1977 headed 'Stuart Highway', it was stated: 
The communication needs of Alice Springs and in particular the reconstruction of the Stuart Highway are of prime importance in the Centre,  Mr Sinclair  said today. 
The allocation of monies expressly for national highway construction forms part of the regular Commonwealth contributions to State governments. 
Priorities given by the South Australian Government, however, have meant that there has been little work done on upgrading the Stuart Highway. 
The Federal Minister for Transport,  Mr Peter  Nixon, has, however, firmly committed the Country-Liberal Party Government to commence work on the reconstruction of the Stuart Highway in 1978. 
After discussing the issue with  Mr Sam  Calder, M.P., and  Senator Bernie  Kilgariff, I believe it necessary to identify a special fund allocation specifically for the reconstruction of the Stuart Highway. 
This would mean, in addition to funds provided to the South Australian Government as part of the national program and for allocation at their direction, there would be a specific sum provided to upgrade the Stuart Highway over a period of years. 
After that announcement- obviously because of the interest and pressure from Alice Springs in particular and from South Australia- a request was made to the Minister for Transport that he meet a deputation. In May this year a very representative deputation met the Minister. The meeting was arranged by the Corporation of the Municipality of Alice Springs under the name of  Mr Smith,  the Mayor. Included in the deputation from the Northern Territory were  Mr Sam  Calder, M.H.R.,  Senator Kilgariff, Senator Robertson, Mr Roger  Steele, Cabinet Member for Transport in the Northern Territory, and from South Australia.  Mr L.  G. Wallis, the honourable Geoffrey Virgo, the State Minister for Transport,  Senator Young, Senator Jessop  and myself. As honourable senators will recall, that deputation, of course, unanimously put forward a request that there ought to be a continuing program and that there should be in fact a forward 12 months allocation of funds with a continuation of funds over a three-year period. 
The arguments we put forward are sound arguments because it is obvious that to ask the State Government to wean money from its important highway projects simply means that over a number of years there will be insufficient funds to complete the roads. People involved with the building of the road and people involved in the Territory who are concerned about tourism and about the need for the swift interchange of goods have been urging that those parts of road that are not sealed ought to be sealed. When meeting the deputation, very reluctantly the Minister agreed- after some argument with the deputation- to put to the Government a request for a special allocation of $2.3m. Following the deputation, we all got advice- I got my advice on 21 August- from the Minister. I will read out the letter sent to me and I point out the acceptance by the Government of the fact that it is a national highway. This, of course, brought the matter to a head. The letter states: 
I refer you to the Question Without Notice which you directed to  Senator Carrick  regarding a recent deputation to me of Members of Parliament,  Mr Virgo  and various business interests seeking a special fund allocation for the Stuart Highway in South Australia. 
At the meeting, you will recall that I indicated to the deputation that it was not Government policy to provide funds for roads projects outside the normal road funding arrangements. Nevertheless, I undertook to approach Cabinet to seek a further $2.3m for South Australia for construction on the Stuart Highway this year. 
In view of the current budgetary restraints, however, and the 7 per cent increase in total road fund allocations to South Australia for 1978-79 Cabinet has been unable to accede to my request. 
The remainder of the letter is not important. The Minister goes on to refer to the fact that some work will be done on the section of the Stuart Highway between Bookaloo and Mt Gunson. The State Government is proceeding with that work. I do not think that the amount to be spent on that project has been settled. It is generally in dispute but it appears that the figure mentioned by  Mr Virgo  to the deputation will be in the region of $900,000 or Sim. My colleagues in the deputation- and here I refer to the Mayor of Alice Springs,  Senator Jessop  and  Senator Young,  who can make his own points about itmade it very clear that they supported the request that had been put forward. They definitely took the view that it was a project that needed national funds as it was an important national highway. Plenty has been said about the need of the road for defence purposes and as a link with Woomera. On 2 1 November last year the following report appeared in the  News  concerning the views of the Mayor of Alice Springs on the matter: 
Shocking conditions on the Stuart Highway were costing both South Australia and 'the Centre' millions in lost trade and tourism according to the Mayor of Alice Springs,  Mr G.  Smith.  Mr Smith,  who travelled down the highway to Adelaide last week, described it as a 'deadly dust bowl. 'Last week a deputation from Alice Springs met with the Federal Transport Department seeking an urgent injection of funds to enable upgrading of the Stuart Highway. 
We were not part of the deputation to which reference is made. The report continued: 

 Mr Smith said today: 'We can't expect South Australia to carry out the work as part of its general highways program. 
At last estimate about $60 million is needed to upgrade the highway. 
The most recent figure given me was approximately $72m. The report continued: 
It's in a shocking condition- almost too dangerous to travel. 
If funding for the project of upgrading the road depends on SA alone it will take years to complete. 
There is an urgent need for Federal Government funds allocated as a top priority. ' 

 Mr Smith said the shocking condition of the highway was severely hampering' tourism around Alice Springs. 

 Mr Smith said that people would not come from the south to Alice Springs and he went on to describe the effect of that on the general prosperity of Alice Springs. Those comments were supported by the Road Transport Federation which not only accompanied us as part of the delegation but, after receiving the Minister's response, set out on a heavy campaign, raising money in many parts of the area to pay for the cost of advertising. This was advertising which the Federation carried out at its own expense. The arguments put in the advertisement by the Federation are much more expansive than I have been able to present in the 1 S minutes that I have available to me at this stage. However, I have summarised the whole matter for the Committee and I trust that it will support the proposition that the Government should be persuaded to consider this as an urgent national need. On 15 June the views of the Secretary of the Road Transport Federation was reported in the  News  as follows: 
SA regional  chairman Mr Ken  Smith, said yesterday his federation was gathering support from throughout the community to press home the need for the highway's surfacing. 
He said a committee meeting next week would decide the format of the campaign. 

 Mr Smith said an appeal for funds for advertising had met with an amazing response already. 
Interested people in Coober Pedy had given $ 1,300 to the Federation, while Alice Springs supporters had also rallied. 
The report adds that  Mr Smith,  in commenting on allegations this week by a member of the 
State Parliament that the State Government was at fault for not using available funds, had said that he was baffled by the argument. The report continues: 
He said: 'A large portion of the money received had to be spent on sealing the Eyre Highway and completing the local freeway works in the Adelaide Hills. And what about the Duke's Highway to Melbourne? That's been down 25 years and will be due for repairs very shortly also. Where's that money going to come from? It has been impossible to divert any more than $1 million of the $15 million the Federal Government gives the State. ' 
This is a very important matter. I am not, of course, quoting what has been said by  Senator Young,  and by  Senator Jessop  who can speak for himself. Following that deputation,  Senator Jessop,  in a letter to the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser),  said very much what I have just said. I hope that the Committee will give consideration to what has been said. 
I quickly respond to what  Senator Jessop,  and  Senator Kilgariff  have contributed. I would like to be as conciliatory as possible. I suggest that in my approach to the matter I am trying to extend the unanimity that has existed since this matter was first raised. It seems to me that the proposition I have raised is a continuation of the request that, as senators and members of Parliament, we have made the Government in respect of the Stuart Highway. If we clutter up the proposition with one thing or the other we mix it up and we could destroy its good effects. Honourable senators will notice that honourable senators on this side who have participated in the debate have spoken in a spirit of conciliation. I cannot see the advantage of adding any words to the motion. What we say here we have all said in other places. We have joined together to say the same things. I would like to see that continue. In addition to the remarks of  Senator Jessop, Senator Kilgariff, Senator Cavanagh  and  Senator McLaren  I illustrate the absolute inability of the State Government to undertake this sort of commitment. On 23 July 1978 the Minister for Transport  (Mr Nixon)  issued a statement which is contained in the  Commonwealth Record.  It reads: 
A start is to be made this financial year towards upgrading the Stuart Highway in South Australia. The Minister for Transport, the honourable P. J. Nixon, said this today when announcing his approval of a $21 m program for South Australian national roads in 1978-79 of which the Commonwealth would contribute $ 19.5m. This grant represents an increase of some $1.3m over the amount provided in 1977-78.  Mr Nixon  said: 'These funds will be directed towards - 
I ask honourable senators to listen to these projects- construction and maintenance works on the national highways between Adelaide and the Western Australian border (National Route 1 and the Ayr Highway), Port Augusta and the Northern Territory border (the Stuart Highway) and Adelaide and the Victorian border (Princes and Dukes Highways). 
Funds will also be spent on the continued construction of the Lincoln Highway between Lincoln Gap and Whyalla, and on the section of the Three Chain Road at Port Pirie between Esmond and Wandearah Roads, which have been declared as national commerce roads'. 

 Mr Nixon also announced that following a joint Commonwealth-State study, a new route has been selected for the Stuart Highway in South Australia between Pimba and the Northern Territory border. He said: 'This route which is in the vicinity of the existing road, is some 200 km shorter. It is estimated at today's prices that construction of this project will involve expenditure of about $65 to $70m. As a national highway, it will be eligible for complete Commonwealth funding'. 

 Mr Nixon said it was expected that planning, surveying and other pre-construction activities for the project could take about eighteen months. He said: 'In the meantime, work will commence on sealing the 50 km gravel section of the Stuart Highway between Bookaloo and Mount Gunston north of Port Augusta. I have asked South Australia to spend $1 mon the Stuart Highway in 1978-79 . . . 
Work is also continuing on the South-Eastern Freeway which is expected to be opened to traffic in mid 1979. Once this project is completed, motorists will enjoy continuous freeway conditions between Crafers (in the Adelaide Hills) and Swanport south of Murray Bridge '. 
Other significant work to be undertaken in South Australia's national highways program this year includes continued construction of the Cavan overpass on the northern outskirts of Adelaide, and the 9 km Port Germein deviation some 22 km north of Port Pirie. The program as approved is expected to give the State flexibility in arranging its construction activities. 
All honourable senators agree that this is a most important national project. The only way to carry the matter further is to give it our support and hope that the powers that be will take notice of it. I think they will. It is good that the debate has been conducted in the way it has. I ask honourable senators to support the motion I have moved. 
I will not take a lot of time. It is clear that at one point both  Senator Jessop  and  Senator Kilgariff  supported this proposition. They were part of the deputation that saw the Minister for Transport  (Mr Nixon).  They continued to support that proposition until now. I remind  Senator Jessop  of what he said after the deputation had met the Minister. A report in the Adelaide  Advertiser  of 26 May this year stated: 
In a letter to  Mr Nixon  last night,  Senator Jessop  urged the Cabinet to reimburse the South Australian Government $ 18.79m, which had been spent above the Commonwealth's national highway allocation over the past four years. 
It was reasonable to expect this amount to be reimbursed provided it was spent on the Stuart Highway. 
It is felt that an urgent capital works program should be approved in order that this road, the only national highway remaining unsealed in the State, can be completed within eight years ',  Senator Jessop  said. 
Although we had led the fight  Senator Jessop  said that he hoped all of us would sign that letter. I conclude by saying that at that meeting with the deputation the Minister for Transport, perhaps reluctantly, agreed to go to Cabinet and ask for a special allocation of $2. 3m as honourable senators will remember. The Minister appreciated the special claim about which we had been talking. The Minister replied in a letter which I have read to the Senate in which he said that the request had been refused basically because of the general policy of cost restraint. Obviously, the Government recognised the need for funds to be allocated to this project. It indicated that in the present economic climate it could not allocate funds. I hope that  Senator Jessop  and  Senator Kilgariff  will support the proposition which seems to me to be completely in line with the proposition we put to the Minister about which we should be talking in the future. 
-I would like to support the remarks of my colleagues,  Senator McLaren  and  Senator Elstob,  who introduced the general question of the insecurity of railway employees in the face of the examination which presently is being discussed by the Australian National Railways Commission and the Commonwealth Government. I think that  Senator McLaren  in particular has drawn to the attention of the Committee the position which arose very soon after the LiberalNational Country Party Government came to power. Honourable senators will recall that in the first statement on this matter the Government indicated that it had decided to review the Adelaide to Crystal Brook railway proposal and the Tarcoola to Alice Springs railway project. After the inquiry into the matter to see to what extent, I presume, the projects should be stopped or modified, it was many months before the goahead was given to the projects. That created a feeling of insecurity amongst railway staff. That feeling of insecurity, to a large extent, has grown because of further statements and plans. Perhaps the basic discontent has increased following the release of the report of the committee of inquiry into the proposed closure of the Gladstone to Wilmington and Peterborough to Quorn railway lines. Of course, railway staff do not see this as the last line closure. An honourable senator from Tasmania reminded me that a wider question is involved because workshop staff, in particular, are concerned. I should like to refer to a statement issued by the Minister for Transport  (Mr Nixon)  when he made public the report of the committee of inquiry.  His  statement, in the  Commonwealth Record,  of 2 1 August, states:  the  Hon.  P. J. Nixon, today released the Report of the Committee of Inquiry into the proposed closure of the Gladstone to Wilmington and Peterborough to Quorn railway lines.  Mr Nixon  said: 'I am releasing this report to put ANF's decision to close the lines into proper perspective'. 
The report was commissioned by agreement between the Commonwealth and South Australian Transport Ministers to investigate the proposal by the Australian National Railways Commission to close these two branch lines. The report was completed in October last year by a Committee comprising a chairman nominated by the Commonwealth Department of Transport, a representative of the Bureau of Transport Economics and a representative of the South Australian Minister of Transport- 
Under the agreement between the Commonwealth and South Australia in relation to the rail transfer, the prior agreement of the State Minister to any proposal for a closure is required. 
He then said: 
The report recommends and demonstrates conclusively that these branch lines should be closed, and that satisfactory alternative transport means could be provided. I indicated to  Mr Virgo  months ago that this report substantiated the case for closing these two lines and he has had since October last to respond to the report. Some ten days ago he wrote to say that he could not agree . . . 

 Mr Nixon then referred to the arbitration procedures in relation to the closures. It is unfortunate that, as with other matters, the burden has been put back on to the State governments. 
In addition to the matters that are frightening the railway employees, perhaps I should also mention what has also been stated by one of the railway organisations in a letter to all honourable senators and members dated 14 August. In part, it states: 
Already passenger services between Adelaide and Tailem Bend, Naracoorte and Kingston, Peterborough and Broken Hill have been cancelled. Freight services between Tailem Bend and Pinaroo, Tailem Bend and Barmera and Tailem Bend and Waikerie have been reduced and freight services beyond Clare and Nuriootpa on the Truro line have been concelled. 
It says that there is some evidence for this statement: 
The closure of all branch lines except the Angaston and the dismissal of 1,000 employees is currently under consideration by the Commission and it will not be long before the final decision is made. I am sure you will agree with me that such a decision if allowed to be made, will have devastating effects on the State, particularly in the country. 
Towns such as Tailem Bend, Peterborough and Pt Pirie will be most adversely affected. 
One of the country representatives, not a railwayman sent me a map which indicates, on the information they have, that the lines other than those marked in green will come under scrutiny. 
Naturally, country people are very concerned about it. It may be argued that cost savings warrant the adjustment. The important point, of course, about this is not only the reaction from the railway organisation and the men employed in the railways but also the response, which has been indicated by  Senator McLaren,  at the meeting at Tailem Bend from a number of district councils. In the communications sent to us and from our information, we know that the District Council of Angaston, the District Council of Barmera, the Corporation of the town of Gawler, the District Council of Kadina, the District Council of Lameroo, the Corporation of the City of Mount Gambier, the District Council of Munno Para, the District Council of Murray Bridge, the Corporation of the City of Whyalla and the Corporation of the Town of Wallaroo and many others have responded to the requests from those railways organisations and citizen groups who have supported the protests and petitions. 
It is true that we have approached the Minister about these general matters. In particular, we have approached him about the matters which affect the workshop staff including, of course, the statements some months ago that apprentices were not to be recruited and that many of the staff in the workshop would be sacked. Recently I attended a meeting at the request of the Islington Railway Workshops which, as some honourable senators might know, used to be the finest workshop in the southern hemisphere. It could produce and assemble a complete railway coach in two hours. It could complete a 40-ton gondola or a sheep van within a few hours. It produced the early famous American-type steam locos. Presently, that workshop is running down with orders which do not comprise very much railway work. It has been told- I do not know how true it is- that no new works will be given to Islington Railway Workshops. The same comment may well apply in a smaller measure to the Port Augusta workshops. It is a sad situation, of course, for a famous workshop with highly skilled staff. Who can supplement the sort of railway organisations we have? We know from studying general transport matters- defence experts have given some support to this argument- that what is needed in Australia is a rebirth of the railway system. I would like to refer honourable senators to an article by Brigadier Greville. He talked about problems which arise with different States controlling railways and developing railways in their own style, according to their engineering specialities. This, of course, was of great interest to the Labor 
Government. We sought to have a new and coordinated policy. We developed a very firm federal policy. 
Looking at what ought to be done and at what the railways should do, I refer honourable senators to the August issue of the Railways of Australia bulletin  Network  in which the assistant general manager points out what is happening to the coal cargoes. It stated: 
ANR was now hauling over two million tonnes of coal a year to Port Augusta. By 1988 the coal needs of the Port Augusta stations would be more than four million tonnes. 
Standard ANR coal trains running the 165 km coal route from Leigh Creek to Stirling North, just outside Port Augusta, are currently of 80 wagons, each wagon carrying 50 tonnes of coal. 
To meet the increased demand,  Dr Williams  said that ANR would operate trains of 120 coal wagons in the immediate future. These trains will be up to two kilometres long and carry 6,000 tonnes of coal at a time. 
Trains of 160 cars grossing about 13,000 tonnes could eventually be used, with a possible development into 200 car unit trains. 
We all know when we see the huge freight trains today that the railways organisation certainly is becoming very efficient and no other system can supply the same service. So having regard for the general obligations and the need for coordination, the railway unions and many citizens have protested against what has been envisaged. We hope that the reports or surveys which are presently being carried out at the request of the Commonwealth Government will not be applied hastily. We have certainly had meetings with the Minister for Transport,  Mr Nixon.  The latest reaction to the representations of  Mr Wallis  and my Labor colleagues in respect to these matters was received in a letter dated 9 October. I will seek permission later to incorporate the whole of the letter in  Hansard.  In the letter to  Mr Wallis,  the Minister for Transport, stated: 
With regard to the future of the Peterborough to Quorn and Gladstone to Wilmington branch lines, I can assure you that there will be no closures while the railway is needed to transport the forthcoming harvest. Furthermore, there will be no closures without an adequate period of notice being given to the railway customers and unions affected. 
That is something that we asked him to do. The letter continues: 
The future of these and other South Australian branch lines beyond that time represent some of the many options put forward by ANR for achieving long-term improvements in the commercial position of the railways. 
We have asked the Minister to consider something more than that: Rather than just give advice to the unions, the customers and regional people where lines may be cut out, such proposals as are advanced should be circulated publicly so that there can be an adequate reaction from citizens and staff organisations in respect of them. That is not always done, but I am told by officers of the railways union that the management of ANR is quite easy to talk to and has certainly developed communications with them. 
A number of propositions have been floated about certain South Australian lines that are now in the hands of ANR, but they have not been discussed with the unions or the citizens. I ask the Minister at the table, the Minister for Administrative Services  (Senator Chaney)  to convey to the Minister what seems to me to be a very reasonable request: That there be an obligation, whenever plans or recommendations which come from the Austraiian National Railways Commission are endorsed by the Government, plenty of opportunity be given for those concerned to discuss them. 
On Wednesday, 15 November, I put to  Senator Chaney  in his capacity as Minister representing the Minister for Industry and Commerce a number of questions relating to Whyalla. My questions related in particular to the need for replies to the honourable senators and honourable members who had made representations about employment opportunities. I drew to the Minister's attention a report which appeared in the Adelaide  Advertiser  of Tuesday, 14 November. In replying to my question about that article,  Senator Chaney  repeated what appeared in the Press report. Perhaps I should read it quickly. I will not take too much time. I am trying to clear up some misunderstandings on the issue. The article in the  Advertiser  reads: 
The Labor MP for Whyalla,  Mr Max  Brown, said yesterday the town was experiencing severe social problems with unemployment the major concern. 
The article went on to say :   he believed the Community Welfare Department in Adelaide had encouraged and advised people to take advantage of the cheap Whyalla housing. 
In replying to me yesterday  Senator Chaney  quoted that article. I have been in touch with  Mr Max  Brown, MP. He states that he did not make those remarks. What he did say was that Whyalla was experiencing severe social problems with unemployment the major concern. Following my question and the reply given, I got in touch with  Mr Payne,  the Minister of Community Welfare in Adelaide. I have from him a longish reply to the matters raised in the Adelaide  Advertiser  and the matters we discussed in the Senate. I shall read two paragraphs from that statement and then ask that the document be incorporated in  Hansard.  It has been shown to the Minister for Administrative Services  (Senator Chaney).  The important pans of  Mr Payne  's reply to me are as follows: 
The Department for Community Welfare in Adelaide does not encourage people to move to Whyalla to take advantage of low rental housing. However, equally when people in contact with the Department list a lack of adequate housing as one of the problems facing them, the Department does not conceal the fact that housing may be available at fairly short notice at Whyalla through the Housing Trust. 
Social workers would also point out however that there was a serious unemployment situation in Whyalla and that people moving there might be separating themselves from contact with families and friends. 
It would be unrealistic to expect either DCW or the Housing Trust to discriminate actively against such people as deserted wives, widows and unemployed families and say: Oh, there's low rental housing available at Whyalla but you can't go there because there's too many of your type of people there already'. 

 Mr Payne then goes on to report on the activities dealing with the social problem. I seek leave to incorporate that statement in  Hansard. 
Leave granted. 

 The document read as follows- 

RESPONSES TO  ADVERTISER  ARTICLE ON SOCIAL PROBLEMS' IN WHYALLA 
The Department for Community Welfare in Adelaide does not encourage people to move to Whyalla to take advantage of low rental housing. However, equally when people in contact with the Department list a lack of adequate housing as one of the problems facing them, the Department does not conceal the fact that housing may be available at fairly short notice at Whyalla through the Housing Trust. 
Social workers would also point out however that there was a serious unemployment situation in Whyalla and that people moving there might be separating themselves from contact with families and friends. 
It would be unrealistic to expect either the Department of Community Welfare or the Housing Trust to discriminate actively against such people as deserted wives, widows and unemployed families and say: 'Oh, there's low rental housing available at Whyalla, but you can't go there because there 's too many of your type of people there already '. 
Obviously, people must make their own choices about where they want to live after considering the pros and cons. 
It cannot be denied however, that the number of people in the categories I have already mentioned is growing in Whyalla. Some of this increase is due undoubtedly to internal factors (due to marriage breakdown et cetera) but a substantial percentage is due to people moving into Whyalla. 
The most important issue then becomes the availability of support services within the city. 
As the  Advertiser  article pointed out, the Whyalla counselling service is among the agencies attempting to meet this need and this shows once again the value of voluntary welfare agencies and the contribution they make around the State. 
The Department of Community Welfare office at Whyalla has the highest staff ratio to population of any country district office in the State. The ratio is one staff member to each 3,900 population . . . compared with a ratio of 1 to 7,200 in the Adelaide metropolitan area generally. 
Certainly the workload is heavy but it is as well to remember that it was a Federal Government decision which led to the closure of the shipbuilding industry at Whyalla and it is from that act that the city's present problems stem. 
The  Advertiser  article also pointed out that the number of unemployed juveniles appearing before the courts had increased. I would have thought it was self evident that if the rale of unemployment among young people increased . . . then a greater percentage of the young people appearing before the courts would be unemployed. 
It is interesting to compare the juvenile offending figures in Whyalla during 1976-77 and those for the latest year, 1977-78. The 1976-77 figures showed that the appearance rate for Whyalla was considerably higher than for the State as a whole. However, in 1977-78 the number of appearances before juvenile aid panels was 108, a drop of 61 on the previous year. The number of appearances before juvenile courts also dropped from 1 74 in 1 976-77 to 1 50 last financial year. 
The offending rate for Whyalla last year was approximately the same as for the whole State. 
My question is directed to the Leader of the Government in the Senate and/or the Minister representing the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations. The Ministers will recall previous questions asked by me in which I have indicated that the Australian Council of Trade Unions has said in a number of statements that it would take part in a national conference on unemployment and that  Mr Hawke  has stated more recently that he and his associated authorities are quite prepared to sit down with the Government and confer about the state of the economy? I wonder whether either Minister can tell the Senate what consideration has been given to these matters in recent times. 
I wish to reply to something that I heard  Senator Jessop  say. I will not be too long. It concerns the argument about the Stuart Highway, which was debated in the Senate on 16 November. I want to make three points. The first is in regard to the motion I moved, which read: 
That the Committee is of the opinion that the Australian Government should provide special funding to enable a continuing program of construction of the Stuart Highway to be undertaken, as unanimously requested by the recent representative deputation to the Minister for Transport from South Australia and the Northern Territory. 
When I moved that motion, it was moved in the spirit of the deputation that met the Minister for Transport,  Mr Nixon.  The Minister reluctantly agreed to take before Cabinet a request from the deputation for an extra $2.3m for road works. That proves, of course, that the Minister in fact accepted the principle. Whilst that matter was hotly debated, he finally agreed to ask Cabinet to provide an extra $2. 3m. After that was done, of course, he wrote to say that the Cabinet had not agreed with the proposition. In a letter to which my attention has been drawn, the Minister suggests that the statement by the Minister for Primary Industry,  Mr Sinclair,  in the Primary Industry Media Release of 25 November 1977 does not mean what we read into it. The concluding paragraph of that statement, issued in Alice Springs by  Mr Sinclair,  the  Deputy  Leader of the National Country Party, states: 
This would mean, in addition to funds provided to the South Australian Government as part of the national program and for allocation at their direction, there would be a specific sum provided to upgrade the Stuart Highway over a period of years. 
I suggest that nobody can distort the meaning of that. It is clear that the Minister for Transport took it from the members of the deputation that what was intended was a request for special funds. In fact, that is reinforced by the Press statement made by  Senator Jessop  himself following the deputation. In fact, he received a very prominent place in the Adelaide  Advertiser.  We signed a common letter. A report in the  Advertiser of 26  May this year reads: 
In a letter to  Mr Nixon  last night,  Senator Jessop  urged the Cabinet to reimburse the South Australian Government $ 1 8.79m, which had been spent above the Commonwealth 's national highway allocation over the past four years. 
It was reasonable to expect this amount to be reimbursed provided it was spent on the Stuart Highway. 
It is felt that an urgent capital works program should be approved in order that this road, the only national highway remaining unsealed in the State, can be completed within eight years ',  Senator Jessop  said. 
That statement appeared in a number of newspapers. 
Yes. I think it is clear to everybody that, when we National Country Party, Labor Party and Liberal Party members and the other parties- the Mayor of Alice Springs, the Australian Road Transport Federation and some other interests- went to  Mr Nixon,  we put the proposition that was indicated in my motion. You,  Mr President,  and other honourable senators may remember that it was my intention to get as far as possible a united approach on that. I regret that that did not happen. Unfortunately it is clear that any other suggestion along the lines that  Senator Jessop  put forward that night was only a diversion away from the original representations. 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations. I have no doubt that the Minister will agree, having read the recent speech of  Mr Street  in which he forecast future unemployment, that the future for young people is not bright.  Mr Street  cited figures- I think they have since increased slightly- to the effect that about 80 per cent of young people aged between 15 and 19 years are unemployed. I refer also to questions in respect of the intake of apprentices and improvers by some of the statutory corporations which I put to the Minister and to which there has been no response. I ask the Minister: As the various support schemes are adding only a drop in the bucket to the employment prospects for young peoplealthough the number of schemes has increased the fact is that few young people are being employed- will the government consider the extension of those schemes to involve other categories of young workers? I have in mind not just people who are to be trained in skills but people for some semi-skilled training as well. Will he also review the staff ceilings which have been imposed on some statutory corporations in the face of those corporations saying that they could well employ many new young people for training and other positions? 
-I have mentioned before that many years ago South Australian senators in particular and sometimes South Australian members of the House of Representatives met together with the State Premier and other officials to consider what were exclusively South Australian propositions. Over the years all the South Austraiian members of the Senate and the House of Representatives usually went along with the requests of the State Government if they were well-founded. However, it is sad to relate that in recent years we have met and agreed upon a policy but it has never been carried through. In the past I have made mention, just in passing, of the circumstances in which such requests have not been carried through. For example, it happened only a few days ago in regard to the Stuart Highway. Some months earlier, an arrangement which we made in respect of the shipbuilding yard in Whyalla was broken. We joined together and framed a proposition to put to the Government and agreed to try to get it carried. Tonight we are talking about a situation in respect of which all the South Australian senators and members of the House of Representatives met in the office of the acting State Premier and agreed to do what we could to get the Government to remove the excise on Austraiian brandies. The honourable senators who have spoken tonight were present with me at the meeting. As I recall, various people spoke at the meeting including representatives of the brandy industry. An article appeared in the Adelaide  Advertiser  of 9 September 1978 following the meeting. This article was headed: 'Call to remove brandy excise', and stated: 
A meeting of Federal and State politicians and wine and brandy producers yesterday called for the removal of the excise on Australian brandy imposed in the Federal budget. 
The South Australian Leader of the Opposition,  Mr Tonkin,  at first said that he would not attend the meeting. He changed his mind and instructed his State members of Parliament to attend the meeting. When the South Australian member for Chaffey,  Mr Arnold,  attended the meeting, he raised no objections to the sorts of procedures which we endorsed. The report continues: 
Yesterday morning however, the party reversed its decision and  Mr Tonkin  issued a statement that the Member for Chaney,  Mr Arnold,  would attend the meeting. 
We met as a group. Some discussions took place on how we were to proceed but we finally decided that the statement to be issued should be a unanimous statement. It was issued by  Mr Kraehe  of Renmano Wines Co-operative Ltd. The article in the Adelaide  Advertiser  contained the statement issued by  Mr Kraehe  after the meeting. It reads: 
. it had been unanimously decided to support the Australian brandy industry 's case for a reduction in excise. 
The meeting had expressed particular concern at the impact on SA 's Riverland region. 
Overnight, because of a Budget decision, the industry is dramatically overstocked with producers not needing to take in stocks for brandy production for another two years. 
He said the meeting had prepared a submission to be sent to the Prime Minister,  Mr Fraser,  and the Treasurer- 
At that meeting we all agreed, after some two hours of discussion, that we would support the industry. Everybody presumed that when the matter came before the Parliament each member in turn would support the proposition and if the Government did not decide to remove the excise we would take some action. The Excise Tariff Amendment Bill has now been presented in the House of Representatives and the Senate. Motions have been moved to remove the excise. I am sad to say that all honourable senators opposite who have spoken on the issue have changed their minds. That is not good and it does not augur well for the future. If I were to quote what honourable senators have said in the debate tonight in relation to the excise their remarks would not be much different to what was said by  Mr Giles  in the other place. He gave basic support to what that meeting, under the chairmanship of  Mr Corcoran,  proposed to do.  Mr Giles  is recorded on page 3220  of Hansard  of 22 November as saying: 
Without any alteration few brandy grapes will be purchased for at least two years. That seems to be a reasonable assumption. This is an absurd situation in which to place a section of that Australian industry. It is equally absurd to leave grape growers in the position where some of our brandy grapes certainly will be unsalable at a time when many of their red grapes, and last season some of their white grapes, were already unsalable and were left on the vines. The lesson surely to governments of all colours is that this industry is complex. It is not as simple or as simplistic as governments seem to think. It has several parts to it. Many of them are interchangeable when there is a need to adjust. It is a vertically integrated industry wherein the growers, having no economic alternative source of production, are locked into the total health of the processing and the marketing sectors. 

 Mr Giles went on to say, as recorded at page 3221 of  Hansard. 
I recognise the need for revenue, but I have serious doubts that an increase in excise duty of 83.6 per cent for Australian brandy will in fact increase revenue as much as expected. In fact, early indications support that view because of the reduced volume of sales. Therefore, there seems to me to be a case for less drastic increase which could maximise revenue yields. 
A group of South Australian senators, who were concerned about an important industry and excited by the representations made on behalf of the industry, sat around a table for two hours and decided to do what we could do to remove this excise on brandy. I cannot understand why Government members are afraid to support removal of the excise. If they are not prepared to support it now we will get nowhere in the future. 
I have restated the issues as I see them. This is certainly not an indication that joint action is likely on matters affecting South Australia in the future. As I have said more than once in the past, the State of South Australia needs unity because of economic and geographical disabilities. These disabilities will not be overcome unless the members of the Federal Parliament join together to take a positive stand. I hope that even at this late hour the South Australian representatives on the Government side will join the Opposition in supporting the proposition which has been put forward by  Senator McLaren. 
-I present the following petition from 55 citizens of Australia: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate in Parliament assembled. The petition of the undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully showeth: 
That any downgrading or closures of Country Rail Services in South Australia would have grave consequences for the Railway Industry, Primary Industry, Individual Country Communities and the State as a whole and calls on the Parliament to ensure that the Federal Minister for Transport takes the necessary action to maintain all existing services. 
That continued and increased Public Subsidy is fully justified in the long term National Interest. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received and read- 
-by leave- I move: 
That the Senate take note of the paper. 
I want to add my support to  Senator George's  comments which have been responded to by the Leader of the Government  (Senator Carrick).  It is now about 18 months since the Joint Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence brought down its report. Unfortunately, it has been responded to in the late stages of this Parliament. Since the report was brought down there have been significant changes in the membership of that Committee. For instance,  Senator Hamer  no longer is the  chairman  of that Committee. I hope that an opportunity will be given to debate this matter at a later stage. I seek leave to continue my remarks at a later time. 
Leave granted; debate adjourned. 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Transport and refers to the recently negotiated excursion air fares for people travelling between Australia and the United Kingdom and between Australia and the United States of America. I think that the Minister will be aware that a number of representations have been made to the Minister for Transport,  Mr Nixon,  about the discrimination against South Australia in respect of travel to and from South Australia because presently Qantas Airways Ltd has to apply the ruling domestic fare for such travel. As  Senator 
Chaney knows, these arguments have been put to the Minister for Transport and have been supported by petitions and representations made as recently as January and, before that, by correspondence in October and December of last year with the responsible State Minister. Although the Minister for Transport has been sympathetic, the matter which is the subject of those representations is unresolved. Can the Minister give any indication as to whether the matter will be determined favourably? 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Post and Telecommunications, without notice, on 27 September 1978: 
I think the Minister for Post and Telecommunications would be aware by now of the substance of the representations that have been made by the Union of Postal Clerks and Telegraphists in connection generally with the very heavy increase in the cost of sending lettergrams and telegrams, which approximate a 300 per cent increase, and in particular with its concern about the future of the employment of its trained members in that occupation. Whilst the union has in mind the heavy losses incurred in providing this service, it has made representations to the Australian Telecommunications Commission asking for a review of what seem to be very heavy charges and for some added measures to be taken to publicise renewed services. I ask the Minister whether he would be good enough to request his colleague to consider the representations that have been made by the Union about whether some modest increase might be applied and whether some review of services could be made urgently. 
My question is directed to the Leader of the Government in the Senate. I, too, refer to  Mr Robinson's  resignation and later reappointment. I remind the Leader of the Government in the Senate, who also represents the Prime Minister, that no statement has yet been made to the Senate- to which it is entitled- of the great matters occasioning the resignation of  Mr Robinson  except a letter of explanation given to the House of Representatives today. The Prime Minister has not explained what happened to occasion the resignation of  Mr Robinson.  The event has been variously described by the Press - 
The DEPUTY PRESIDENT- I believe it is a responsible prelude to a question. 
-I think the Leader of the Government in the Senate will agree that surely it should be his province, as Minister representing the Prime Minister, to make a statement on the first occasion the Senate sits explaining these very important things because, as I was going to say, the matter has been variously described as a mystery and a demeaning matter. 
The  DEPUTY PRESIDENT-  I believe a prelude does have an ending and I ask  Senator Bishop  to come to that ending. 
In concluding the short prelude, I ask the Leader of the Government whether he intends to give the Senate all the facts concerning the resignation by  Mr Robinson  and the later arrangements which were made between him and the Prime Minister which have been described as a deal, in order that the Senate may be fully acquainted with all the information surrounding the matter, because a part of the information we have is the statement in the Press describing the Prime Minister, in the words of  Mr Robinson,  as a bastard. 
I agree entirely with the last few words of  Senator Davidson's  remarks. I think we ought to start by thinking about the things we should not do rather than by adding to the difficulty by putting forward a number of dangerous propositions which will not help to achieve peace. For example, I suggest that if one reads closely the statement of the Minister for Education  (Senator Carrick)  on behalf of the Minister for Foreign Affairs  (Mr Peacock)  one will construe it not as a peace-making statement but one which is critical of a number of countries and which to some extent can be read as encouraging military action. I start with the general notions about the strategic arms limitation talks and detente. Despite what is happening in Vietnam and despite the argument between the Soviet Union and China, we still have an acceptance by the United States and the Soviet Union that detente ought to be achieved and that the SALT discussions ought to be concluded. Apparently both super powers consider that progress is being made in that connection. However, if one reads the Minister's approach to these discussions one will see that he said: 
Third, the current instability coincides with what are widely assumed to be the final stages of the negotiations for SALT II. The Australian Government strongly  supports  the completion of SALT II as a crucial contribution to arms control over the next decade. It is precisely because we do so that it is necessary to point out that both in strategic and political terms what is currently happening in Africa, the Middle East and Asia endangers a new SALT agreement. Such agreements cannot rest on air. They cannot be divorced from the general strategic and political environment and to the extent that that environment deteriorates, their credibility as instruments of crisis management is diminished. 
He concluded: 
And if that trust is absent it is difficult to see how they can be concluded, let alone be made effective. 
If one couples that statement with the references to the Soviet Union in a later part of the statement one will see that it draws a number of observations which could impede what has been widely accepted as progress towards the completion of the SALT discussions and the continuation of detente as we understand it. To me that is not a good statement. It seems to me that we should say that, despite the troubles that are occurring in the Middle East and Vietnam, the Government is confident that the super powers will complete the SALT discussions and achieve detente. This is the advice that I think the experts have given to the back bench members of certain committees. One of the things that is absent from these parliamentary debates is thorough advice and information on this subject for all members of the Parliament. It is rather strange to see the Minister criticising the Opposition about its stand with respect to these matters. No parliamentary system can operate unless the Opposition takes an active and critical view about government policy. Today in the other place and in this place Opposition speakers are doing exactly what I am doing, that is, pointing to the facts which have not been put correctly in the statement and pointing to statements which to me verge almost on the point of being dangerous statements. In that regard I refer to the Minister's statement about the position of America concerning detente. He said: 
But there is one difference. Over the last few years, and for a variety of reasons, one of the super powers- the United States- has adopted a lower posture and a strategically less active policy towards the Third World. Many, inside the United States and outside it, have welcomed this. I will simply observe, as a matter of fact, that this restraint has not resulted in a greater insulation of the Third World from international power politics. On the contrary, it has coincided with the rapid rise of the situation we now face. 
That is a dirge comment. It is an encouragement for people to assume that one way or another the United States may well employ a military action, as it has done in the past. To me it is a badly phrased statement. It may have been unintended. When the Minister talked about the way to solve the China- Vietnam situation he made it almost a pre-condition. He said: 
The issue between China and Vietnam therefore is not likely to be resolved with any element of permanence by a settlement on the Vietnam-China border which leaves the situation in Kampuchea unchanged. 
Again, that is a fairly positive and firm statement that in the opinion of this Government the situation in Kampuchea, which was first destroyed by military operations, must be permanently connected with the China border incident. That is a bad approach to the situation. The statement goes further than the situation we are talking about- the issue of China versus Vietnam, with Soviet Union on the fringes- and talks about the situation in Iran. The Minister made some very dangerous observations about Iran which will be read by friend and foe alike as a threat. The Minister said: 
It will be vitally important that wrong conclusions are not drawn and that the temptation to exploit the situation in opportunistic fashion is resisted. This region is vital to Western interests, and it should be apparent that there are very distinct limits to what the West can tolerate in terms of external attempts to undermine its position. 
That is a glaring encouragement to people who want to take a military solution. The early part of the statement of the Minister for Foreign Affairs is strange in view of the Liberal Government's policies over the years on the question of not settling disputes by military means. He said: 
It was therefore doubly objectionable from our point of view first because it sought to settle a dispute within the region by military means of the most extreme kind. 
As has been pointed out by members of the Opposition with regard to the origins of trouble in this area, certainly the United States, Australia and other countries saw the Vietnam war as one which must have a military solution. We, the Opposition at the time, took strong exception to this as far back as 1964 when the first group of army advisers were sent to Vietnam. We cautioned the Government about their activities and argued that their presence would mean an adventure into a military situation; later that was so. In another 12 months we sent the first battalion which took an active interest in the affairs of Vietnam. 
At that time Prime Minister Holt and the many Liberal Foreign Affairs Ministers spoke of the need to continue and to escalate the war. We all know the American President's demands that the war had to be escalated and accentuated until the Vietnamese were beaten by military means. At the same time there were associated persuasions in border countries because the French-Indo group had always been somewhat interdependent. We knew of the actions of the then American Central Intelligence Agency in Cambodia. It challenged Sihanouk's attitude, his policy of neutrality and attempted on more than one occasion to have him assassinated. So the origins of this very bad situation are in the early adventures, trying to solve political situations such as that by other than political means. 
To hear the Minister for Foreign Affairs talking about this present Government's interest in such an approach is rather unusual when it was the Whitlam Government which, for the first time in the history of Australia, brought a new breeze into the international sphere. Prior to  Mr Whitlam  we had always been challenged at election time by the red threat from China. How many elections were fought on this issue? How many times did they say the real threat was China? How many times did they influence the Australian electorate that this was the cause of the whole trouble and to recognise China as we were the first to do, was a wrong decision? So it is extremely wrong for a Foreign Minister, it seems to me, to place into a document emphasis in the way that I mentioned which would encourage further military action. 
What we should be doing is using our greatest endeavours to ensure that there will be no operations of a military nature which can extend the war. We should be making sure that any encouragement of a settlement is, not on the limited basis that I have referred to, not on the basis where the Minister says that nothing can be done unless the Vietnamese get out of Kampuchea. We should be attempting to localise and minimise the conflict in any way we can. We should be assisting in reducing tensions and we certainly should make sure that the present encouraging relationship between the Soviet Union and the United States of America is preserved and pointed to. 
The best advice that we have from the experts is that presently the Soviet Union and the USA both expect detente, and that the SALT discussions should proceed satisfactorily. We have the encouragement of knowing that at the present stage the Soviet Union has not intervened in any way except by some sort of support operation. That is a good thing. It should be applauded. We should not write or say things which might encourage the reverse. It is rather unusual to find that a government which resisted in the first instance the recognition of Red China now accuses the Opposition of not being critical and sensible about the situation. But then, in respect to our whole position the Government has not given consideration to a basis for foreign affairs which might well be studied.  Senator Sibraa  and  Senator Kilgariff  pointed to the need to review some of the current defence situations which must be closely related to foreign affairs. The defence area as we all know has deteriorated alarmingly since Labor left office. 
Nothing has been done about recommendations from our own Joint Foreign Affairs and Defence Committee about the need to reorganise defence industrial support and many other recommendations which were made. I might mention some of them quickly. One which was in the report, which was not considered for 18 months and has now been dismissed was as follows: 
That decisions to purchase specific aircraft . . . must be contingent on firm assurances of adequate levels of suitable workload; that the local industry should be closely involved in decisions as to what is a suitable workload; that high technology engine and avionics work should form a substantial pan of that workload; and that the reciprocal purchase of Australian defence products should be actively pursued as a very effective form of offset. 
As  Senator Sibraa  pointed out earlier the sort of equipment which we are purchasing now was basically ordered by the Whitlam-Barnard Government. A national requirement as a basis for any stable or firm foreign policy must surely be a subtantial and adequate shipyard capacity. What has happened since the Fraser Government came to power? There has been the abandonment of a substantial part of our ship construction capacity at Whyalla and Newcastle because of Government policies. One of the recommendations of the joint committee stated: 
That the Government sets up an expert group comprising representatives of the Commonwealth, New South Wales and South Australian Governments, managements of the shipyards, the ACTU, to examine these proposals (contained in a six point 'package deal' . . .) as a matter of urgency and report on the cost and practicality of their implementation as an integrated package and whether the industry could then be reasonably expected to be economically acceptable. 
The Labor Party has an extremely good record in the defence area. No government can speak in the strong way that  Mr Peacock  has spoken unless it has a satisfactory defence basis. Not only do we not have the equipment; we are getting the equipment on long periods of loans and finance, but we have not got adequate workshop capacity within our own country to make essential equipment to keep the defence forces going. In relation to the Middle East and Iran a number of important recommendations were made by that very worthwhile report of the Foreign Affairs and Defence Committee on the Middle East- much welcomed 12 months ago. Presently there has been no consideration by the Government or any reaction to it. Many other recommendations, if they had been accepted, would have helped to provide a more peaceful situation in the Middle East. One of the recommendations that comes to mind straight away is recommendation 67 about Australia's representation in the Middle East. It stated: 
Australia should continue to expand its diplomatic representation in the Middle East to improve understanding and trade with the region. This should include Australian Services Attaches in Israel, Egypt, Syria and perhaps in Iran, Irak and Libya. Australia should not be dependent on other powers for information on the Middle East- politics, ideology, commerce, and military affairs require the accreditation of Australian diplomats who have a knowledge of Arabic. 
The report goes on to nominate a number of other matters in connection with developing better relationships not only with Israel but also with the Arab countries. Those matters have not had the support and reaction that they should have had from the Government. In addition, as we all know, when the Government came to power it abolished a number of posts overseas, and we criticise the Government for doing so. In the Whitlam era we extended diplomatic representation and the country was better represented than ever before. 
More recently, the Senate Standing Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence has drawn attention to the number of obstacles that are placed in the way of the Department of Foreign Affairs. One of the interesting contributions from that Committee appears on page 67, where it refers to the general question of security. This illustrates the point that is much argued now in the Senate about staff ceilings imperilling not only the ordinary routine departments but also the operation of the Department of Foreign Affairs and the change of staff from one post to another. The report states: 
There is a growing threat to the security of personnel and property of diplomatic missions throughout the world. Unfortunately this fact has been forcefully demonstrated with increasing frequency. Australian representatives overseas are not immune from these threats and the Committee has received information to illustrate that any complacency in relation to security is foolish. 
Within the Department of Foreign Affairs the Diplomatic Security Section deals with personnel, protective and technical security. The Committee has been briefed on the operations of this Section and its ability to deal with security matters. A number of factors emerged from the Committee's inquiry into security aspects which it feels constrain the Section 's operation. 
For example: staff ceilings throughout the Department have left the Section with some 25 per cent of its positions unfilled; financial constraints restrict the amount and type of work the Section sees as necessary; travel restrictions, within the Department's ceiling of permissible visits overseas, limit security surveys and inspections, as a result security checks of posts are less frequent; regulatory authorities are less inclined to accept that a threat exists unless it can be demonstrated, any assessment of a threat is countered by a request to demonstrate it. 
The report goes on in an extended way. In contrast to the very strong position taken up on the Minister's statement, there has been a general weakening of the basis of the country's defence and foreign affairs structure. When one looks closely at the statement and at the badly phrased sections about which I have spoken, it is apparent that the statement does nothing to provide a satisfactory approach on a peaceful basis to the very serious matters that involve the whole world, and our own country in particular. In respect of the Middle East situation, the Government is encouraging another power, a greater power, to take action when it considers that to be appropriate. None of these approaches are solutions in the long term. This country has to emphasise that in all these disputes the main thing is to work towards not a military solution but one that employs every device of negotiation and does not lay down pre-conditions that will prevent the parties from talking to each other. 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Transport. I refer to the figures which were revealed yesterday by  Mr Nixon,  as a result of a question asked by the Shadow Minister for Transport, indicating a very steep increase in near misses of aircraft- breaches of separation standards in the airline industry. The Minister will be aware that over the last 12 months a number of representations have been made to him by pilots, air traffic controllers and others in the industry. As this is a very serious matter concerning the industry itself, the operators and, in particular, the public, can the Minister tell us what action is contemplated to improve the situation? Is it a fact that it has been caused by a reduction in funding to the Department of Transport? 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Employment and Youth Affairs and refers to apprenticeships. The Minister will recall my previous questions directing his attention to the fact that a number of government departments and statutory authorities, in particular Telecom Australia and Australia Post, have staff ceilings which have inhibited the intake of apprentices. Has the Minister's attention been drawn to the fact that recently the Metal Trades Industry Association of Australia has said that there will be a shortage of about 2,000 skilled tradesmen in the foreseeable future? Knowing that the National Training Council is seeking information from overseas, I ask the Minister Will he direct the attention of the Minister for Employment and Youth Affairs to the need to lift those staff ceilings to ensure that where there is a staff requirement for extra apprentices they will be taken on by those authorities which I have mentioned as well as by the Royal Australian Air Force and the civilian area of the Department of Defence? 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Transport. It follows from previous questions about the possibility of lower add-on air fares within Australia following negotiations to provide low excursion international fares. The Minister will have noted the success of the airlines resulting from those negotiations. As it is now six weeks since deputations from Western Australia and South Australia met the Minister, and as the Minister has indicated his support for the low add-on domestic fares, can the Minister give the Senate any information about the progress of talks with the domestic carriers and when we might expect the new add-on fares to be announced? If the Minister cannot do that today, would he be good enough to give the information to the Senate as soon as possible? 
My question is supplementary to that which was put to the Leader of the Government in the Senate on the Malaysian Airline System controversy. Is it not a fact that at the conference with the Australian Council of Trade Unions and the unions themselves the Government agreed with both parties that the actions that had been taken in Malaysia had not received its support; further, that both the Minister for Industrial Relations and the Minister for Foreign Affairs understood the attitude of the International Transport Workers' Federation in making its protest? I simply want to make the point that although apparently the Government understood that view, the reply just given has taken no account of it. It would be useful in relation to both the question and the answer to give some consideration to that aspect. 
My question is directed to the Minister for Social Security. It refers to the Compensation (Commonwealth Government Employees) Act and the disparity between that Act and the compensation legislation of the States. Is the Minister aware that this Act has not been varied since September 1976 and that presently the rates are much behind those payable in most of the States? Three States provide rates equal to full pay. In the Commonwealth employees area the rates have declined from 84 per cent of the minimum wage in 1972 to 67 per cent at present. What is being done in respect of the representations made by the unions on this matter? When is the Act likely to be amended? 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Transport. I revert to the question of add-on fares, that is, the lowering of domestic fares in the same way as excursion international fares have been set by the Minister. Of course, the Minister will be making a statement today about the Association of South East Asian Nations and progress which has been reported in other areas. I ask the Minister whether he is aware that in his own State of Western Australia the Western Australian Minister for Tourism yesterday said that Western Australians have lost three-quarters of a million dollars in cancelled air fares because no lower domestic air fares have been announced in connection with the lower excursion fares. It is now two months since deputations from Western Australia and South Australia met the Minister- I was on a deputation- and asked the Minister to announce as soon as he could lower add-on fares. While we understand that the matter has been discussed by the domestic air lines and by Qantas Airways Ltd, as yet no statement on lower air fares has been announced. When is the Government likely to announce what is a necessary alteration to domestic fares commensurate with the new negotiations which have taken place? I hope that the Minister will be able to announce in the Senate soon what should be the necessary reductions in the States I have mentioned in particular because, as the Minister knows in respect of his own State, these delays are imposing great restrictions on the tourist industries within Western Australia and South Australia. 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Industrial Relations and refers to the now solved dispute concerning air traffic controllers. I ask the Minister whether his attention has been drawn to the very strong criticism by Public Service Arbitrator Watson of the actions of the Public Service Board in taking the dispute out of the hands of the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission and otherwise frustrating what he considered to be a very reasonable claim. In view of the fact that the controllers and the public have been much embarrassed by the continuing frustrations, and in view of the fact that generally people consider that disputes are caused by employees, will the Minister ask his colleague to review the developments in this case with a view to ensuring that in future the Public Service Board more logically determines its attitude to important disputes? 
My question is directed to the Minister for Social Security and refers to studies undertaken by the Government in relation to the introduction of a national superannuation scheme. Has the Minister noticed the growing interest in superannuation policies, particularly among trade union organisations which see the need for early retirement schemes because of the challenge of technological change, and also, most recently, the growing interest in other industrial matters, questions about which have been directed to the Minister? Have these factors been considered by the Minister or by the committee which, I understand, is presently engaged in studying proposals concerning the introduction of a national superannuation scheme? Can the Minister indicate to the Senate what special interest in society might be occasioned by those current ventures? 
My position is something like that taken by  Senator Harradine  insofar as I have only just received this very large document. It appears to me that the document deals largely with issues which have been current in the defence area, that is, the general criticism of maybe the Minister for Defence  (Mr Killen)  and the defence Services themselves. I think these criticisms have been generated not only by the recent Hamer remarks but also to some extent by the general situation of reduced activity in the industrial support area which was the subject of investigation by a subcommittee of the Joint Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence. As honourable senators might well remember, that most significant report was known as the Hamer report. It seems to me that this report which is generally valid and acceptable in the wide sense, must have stirred a number of sensitive souls in the defence area who did not acknowledge the competence of a group of parliamentarians to look into the question of defence. 
To me the sub-committee's conclusions were very pertinent. They have not yet been answered. You,  Mr Acting Deputy President,  might remember that one of the recommendations of that defence sub-committee - and the subcommittee's recommendations were later adopted by the full Joint Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence- dealt with the question of shipbuilding capacity within Australia. The committee was concerned about what it saw as the lack of defence support in the industrial area. It was not necessarily an argument about calculating to what extent strategic obligations and commitments might be seen to be different according to one's evaluations. It was mainly a general acceptance by both sides of the Parliament that there had to be stability within the country's industrial area so that the requirements of war could be provided in the event of an important threat to Australia. 
I well remember that you,  Mr Acting Deputy President,  and I got together with other members of the Senate, went to Whyalla and to Newcastle in New South Wales and told the people there that the sub-committee had recommended that a package deal might be offered to keep the shipyards going because the sub-committee saw that the capabilities of the shipyards were declining. The sub-committee saw the necessity to keep the Whyalla and Newcastle shipyards going. It said that what has been achieved already in other countries- a package deal- would be possible if the unions and the management were asked to get together to make an arrangement as to productivity gains, which gains have since been achieved in Newcastle, and that there was a basis for getting a defence capability together. We did all those things. We got the support of the local communities. We then reported back to the Parliament and to the Prime Minister and the recommendation was rejected. So there we have community groups which resent the action of a government in an area of defence capability which they consider important. 
Let me re' ate that to the general position. Let me put forward what is obviously a basis of complaint by those people who criticise various activities in the defence area. The second most important factor is the general view today of what we might call the defence industries. Not one defence industry in this country is satisfied with the works program that it is getting from the Government-that is, the amount of equipment which we are making in this country- or with the way in which the Department of Defence machinery and the Minister are arranging to supply the necessary weaponry for the country, either within Australia or outside it. I say that because I am, and have been for a long time, a member of a sub-committee which deals with this issue. I also say it quite seriously as a former Assistant Minister for Defence who knows something about the operations of the Department of Defence. 
I do not share the general discontent about the Secretary to the Department of Defence or about the method of reorganisation which the Labor Party introduced. I was the Minister who brought to the Senate the legislation which reorganised the three Services and which, for the first time in Australia, put them together into one workable organisation. That was the policy of the Labor Party and was certainly a great advance. In addition, the requirement, for the first time also, to set up a five-year rolling program was also a sensible decision. What I am saying is that now the debate is not about the important items of defence equipment that we have to buy, whether it be aircraft, ships or the style of weaponry for the Army, but about discontent within an industry which sees that throughout the country not enough work is being put into Australian factories, which work could and ought to be put into Australian factories. The Government ought to be planning to give that aspect more emphasis than it is giving to it. I mentioned earlier our commitments in respect of shipyards, but this can also relate to industry generally. The work force of the whole of industry, including the aircraft industry, has gone down until it is at almost a very basic requirement level. 
I had the opportunity of being the Minister who introduced into Cabinet the approval for the production of the second batch of 25 Nomad aircraft. Fortunately, since that time, despite differing ministerial viewpoints, the Government has had enough sense to keep the aircraft industry going on that minimal basis. That is a good thing. But, since the change of government, employees in the industry have been frustrated and insecure because they cannot see a stable future. I mention in that regard the scientific side of the industry- the Weapons Research Establishment in my State and Woomera- where the same position obtains. The staff of the WRE has been reduced by many thousands. Activity at Woomera has been almost minimal in that the place has been kept up on a care and maintenance basis. Some experiments have taken place and the Services have undertaken trials there, but generally speaking there is this wide feeling that our capabilities are not being used in the way they should be used. That has been exactly my interest in the matter over many years. 
Unfortunately our Service requirements are being met largely by equipment manufactured outside the country. Whenever we have embarked upon the sharing of the production of equipment, our share of that production has always been minimal. We have never set a mandatory quota. Largely because of agitation within this Parliament, over the years we have certainly achieved an increase in the amount of work which could be called defence work because our factories have been competent and active in getting such work. They have done a very good job, within the limits of the options available, in sharing the work that we have produced for them. But the Australian industry wants more and steady work and it wants to believe that the Department of Defence and the Government are on its side. At WRE we have very good capabilities. We have a group of scientists there. How long will they stay if we do not know whether the horizons for them will be better than they are at present? We have great capability not only in the aircraft manufacturing industry and the sophistications of this modern age of technology but also in optical work. I am not going to make a long speech on the matter, but I am sure that the general dissatisfaction with the position arises because of those matters 1 have mentioned and because the industry itself is greatly concerned about them. Without breaching any confidences I can say that what I said earlier is exactly the truth. Hardly any industries connected with defence in Australia are satisfied with the sorts of positions they are occupying in the defence basis of Australia at present. 
Coupled with that there is one of the last things I want to mention at this stage; that is, the general position regarding surveillance. Every day in the Press we read about the concern of people in relation to the surveillance of the north of Australia, not only with respect to drug trafficking or possible terrorism. We know, of course, that the substantial arguments in this statement about a strong force invading Australia are positive points of view, but in these times it is not impossible to accept that there could be raids of the sort mentioned by the Hamer sub-committee in its conclusions. If one reads what has been said by the scientists who attended a forensic science forum in Adelaide one can see that situation becomes more feasible today. When one reads their statements one understands the practicabilities of the situation and one can also understand the notions advanced by people who are not satisfied that the strategic assessments of the Department of Defence are adequate. 
Having not seen the statement for long but realising that governments and Ministers are prone to run for defence from all sorts of critics, I accept that the defence reorganisation was a very good thing. It was Labor Party policy. As honourable senators will remember, it was opposed by some members of the then Opposition but finally went through the Parliament. Since that time the basic organisation has proved to be successful, but it does not respond in those circumstances in which, year after year, governments make its planning difficult because budgetary considerations come into the requirements of the defence forces on every occasion. I would think that a department of defence has to be satisfied that within a long economic time frame allocations from the national purse have to be fairly substantial and consecutive and not interrupted by budgetary planning. We know that since the Fraser Government came into power every department has been upset by these financial cuts that come off the cuff and the Department of Defence is one of those departments. Funds have been cut off year by year. Economies have had to be made which should not have been made. 
I am satisfied that the recommendations of the Hamer Sub-committee represented substantial criticisms. They have not yet been answered. I am not talking about  Senator Hamer's  recent contributions or  Mr Killen  's recent contributions; I am talking about those basic points about which I and my party are concerned. The platform of the Australian Labor Party for many years has stated and affirmed that there must be a substantial competence within this country for defence production and defence capability. This capability has been allowed to run down in a most rapid way. I hope that when the debate on the statement takes place in the Senate we will have a greater opportunity to discuss the implications of the statement and perhaps to review in a more direct sense the views that the Minister for Defence has put to the Parliament for its guidance. 
My question, which concerns the Harrisburg nuclear plant and the general public concern about it expressed in most countries, is directed to two Ministers- the Minister for Science and the Environment, who of course would be concerned about this matter, and the Minister representing the Minister for National Development. I ask either of those Ministers whether they can state that the technology used in that plant is acceptable technology as far as the Australian Government is concerned. Can they also say to what extent the scientists or the specialists in both Departments have been watching those developments and whether they will be involved personally in an examination of that particular crisis? Further, when is information likely to be given to the Parliament? Presently the only information which members of the Parliament and the public have is coming from the national Press. Finally, to what extent will environmental matters which might concern the Ministers at present be reviewed, and when will information be given to the Parliament? 
My question, which is directed to the Minister for Science and the Environment, relates to project 'Storm Fury ' and a recent statement by the head of his Department that many advantages had been gained from the visit of the United States aircraft which took part in some experiments during a cyclonic situation in Australia. I ask the Minister To what extent have any of the procedures within his Department been changed  because  of that experience? What are the obvious advantages to the country? Is it intended that the Minister's Department and the Australian Government will take part in the 'Storm Fury' project? In short, what have we gained from that particular experience? 
I direct my question to the Minister representing the Minister for Transport. It follows other questions and debates in this place, as the Minister will recall, concerning shipbuilding capacity in Australia. Has the Minister had any opportunity to consider reports from Japan and Germany that their governments are supporting more heavily the construction of ships within those countries, and also this week's statement by Lloyds of London which cautioned the Western shipbuilders to reactivate their shipyards in view of the predominance of the shipping of the Eastern countries? I ask the Minister whether renewed consideration may be given to this aspect, and, in particular, to the request by Australian shipyards, especially at Whyalla and Newcastle, to see to what extent some extra assistance could be given in that direction. 
-I wish briefly to associate myself with the condolence motion and to state what I think most people know, namely, that I was a personal friend of Frank Stewart. Maybe I should say that I was a mate of Frank Stewart. When I say that I speak mostly of the old days when people in the Labor movement and elsewhere used to class their colleagues as mates, even though on many matters they did not agree, because when matters were in contest and we found ourselves challenged we had a mate to assist us and to take up the cudgels. We found Frank Stewart to be such a mate. 
As has been mentioned, in Cabinet we found Frank Stewart most courageous in putting forward those submissions which had to be put forward, not only from his own department but also, on behalf of the Treasurer, from the Treasury. He served as Minister Assisting the Treasurer under, I think, three important Treasurers. He had direct contact with some very important people, such as Fred Wheeler. He was very knowledgeable about Treasury matters. Often Treasury submissions were hotly contested and I can remember on more than one occasion saying to Frank Stewart: 'Frank, if you continue in this way you will have only two votes in this Cabinet and they will be yours and mine'. Nevertheless, he did what he believed he should do. He was a mate to a lot of us. 
I recall how I first met Frank Stewart. When I came into the Senate I was associated with him on a repatriation committee of our Party. He, Lance Barnard, Tom Uren, other members of the Party and I were the people who formulated what we should do for servicemen and soldiers if we became a government. Frank Stewart, being a man who had served in the Army in the Second Australian Imperial Force, was most dedicated to assisting those who served in the forces. I simply say that most of us- his personal friendswill miss him. We were greatly shocked by his passing. We will miss him today because we used to meet almost every day to confer and sometimes to contest. I, with other senators, express to Maureen, her son and her daughters my great sympathy on the death of a great friend. 
I direct my question to the Minister representing the Minister for Transport. The Minister will recall questions about international excursion fares and add-on domestic fares about which the Minister for Transport has made a number of announcements. Although I have received answers to questions that I asked earlier, inquiries of various airline companies and travel organisations indicate that as yet the date of application is not clear. Is the Minister able to advise the Senate of the date of application of those sectional discount arrangements? If he cannot do this, will he ask the Minister for Transport to respond fairly quickly to what has been a favourable arrangement? 
-My question to the Minister representing the Minister for Administrative Services follows other questions about the need for a Commonwealth office centre in Adelaide. The Minister will recall advising that, whilst a site is available, at present no project is proposed. I therefore ask: Is it a fact that at least two statutory authorities located in Aelaide are anxious to build new premises? If so, will the Minister consider whether the objectives of those two authorities might be merged into one proposal to build a new Commonwealth centre in Adelaide, which was certainly proposed and accepted by a Minister some years ago? I ask the Minister to ascertain what consideration can be given to that proposal. 
My question, which is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Productivity, refers to the hazards to health occasioned by working with or in close proximity to asbestos. The Minister will probably know, by way of a number of public reports, that asbestos is now acknowledged to be a serious problem. The figures in respect of people working in the industry are compiled only by State authorities and not by the Australian Government. A most recent case in Adelaide involving waterside workers handling asbestos indicates that asbestos is a health hazard also on the waterfront. To what extent is the Australian Government taking an active part in monitoring and preparing necessary statistics to ensure that there will be as much public awareness as possible of this matter and to produce whatever remedies are available after proper monitoring? 
My question, which is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry, follows other questions that have been asked concerning the draft report of the Industries Assistance Commission on the wine industry. Has the Minister seen the strong criticism that has been made of that draft report by the Victorian and South Australian Premiers? Does he recall that on 20 December of last year the Minister for Primary Industry,  Mr Sinclair,  attended a rally that was also attended by some of his party colleagues and promised those gathered there that there would be no tax on wine? Does that guarantee still stand? 
This afternoon I was pleased to hear  Senator Douglas  McClelland ask the Leader of the Government in the Senate  (Senator Carrick)  a question about the future of Trans-Australia Airlines. The Minister said without any uncertainty that the Government has no intention of disposing of TAA. Of course, this notion developed from what  Senator Rae  has had to say. It may well be true that the report of the Senate Standing Committee on Finance and Government Operations said nothing about these things. If it had,  Senator Rae's  argument about handing over TAA to a combination of staff and private shareholders and making it part of private industry would have been strengthened. Those of us in the Senate who have debated this subject over the years since TAA was formed know quite well that under the two-airline system TAA does not have the opportunity to develop in a competitive way. The two-airline policy was designed to strengthen and back up Ansett aviation, not only in terms of finance but also in terms of the choice of equipment. Liberal governments have always thrust upon TAA their thoughts about equipment and policy. 

 Senator Rae referred to the delay by statutory authorities in sending reports to the Senate, and I agree with what he said. But this criticism applies not only to TAA and Ansett; it applies also to many statutory authorities. We are still waiting for the report from the Australian National Railways Commission. 
That is correct. It is important that committees of the Senate draw attention to these delays and urge that something bc done about them. I have- taken an interest in TAA ever since I entered the Senate. TAA is an efficient airline, and I challenge anyone to prove otherwise. 1 am anxious to see that the government airline, which has often been hamstrung by government decisions to foster its private enterprise partner, should not feel any insecurity because of statements from the Government or Government senators. At this stage it is important that we ensure that TAA, as an efficient operator, will not be impeded by the suggestion that the Government will take certain action. The matter developed by Senate Rae certainly is related to the report of the Senate Standing Committee on Finance and Government Operations, but it is very clear from that report that nobody on the Committee was anxious that there be a takeover of TAA or any other authority. The Committee drew attention to the very important need to standardise procedures in respect of new authorities, and I agree completely with that recommendation. The following comment is made in paragraph 3.7 on page 49 of the report: 
The Committee considers that, in future, if an authority has to be created many of these anomalies could be overcome by adopting the standard practice of creating the authority by separate statute if it varies from the departmental structure in one or more of the following important characteristics: 
Freedom from Public Service Board control over starting. 
Incorporation. 
Freedom to raise or spend finance independently of the Commonwealth Government Budget. 
Relief from audit by the Auditor-General. 
I am prone to accept those recommendations because, in association with  Mr Lionel  Bowen, I was instrumental in setting up two commissions- the Postal Commission and the Telecommunications Commission. Nobody could say that they were not a great attribute for government. The Liberal-National Country Party Government was very fortunate as a result of those two organisations being set up as corporations. Nobody would suggest at this stage that anything should be done to impede them. In fact with regard to those two corporate bodies there are too many ministerial directions in relation to staff ceilings which impede not only the training of important staff but also their functions. That is an important matter. A matter which has cropped up amongst honourable senators and at committee meetings is the commissions' independence and their exclusion from ministerial control. I think that in the past most committees have felt to some extent that whilst the commissions should operate as business undertakings, in respect of their operations there ought to be more rapid response to ministerial directions and to Senate inquiries. 
By floating his plan it seemed that  Senator Rae  got the backing of the Standing Committee.  Senator Douglas  McClelland was not concerned so much about how he would appear to members of the Labor Party as a member of that Standing Committee. What he was concerned about and what I am concerned about is whether the Committee is the source of  Senator Rae's  ideas. We know now that that is not so. We know that the Committee might have had the opportunity to discuss these things. It certainly discussed some sunset provisions- there is nothing wrong with that- and the proposition that some authorities could be unwound. Nobody could say that because of all the obstruction by government over the years, TAA should be turned over at this stage to private enterprise, whatever the apportionment with respect to staff and the public might be. But one can say that the organisation should be given today a freer go in the air. 
In the United States of America and in other countries the practice is to open up the skies. We would be better off if the Government decided to allow clear competition to prevail between TAA and Ansett and if it forgot the two airline policy and all the ramifications that it guarantees. There may be an argument today that the safety and development needs were met many years ago. That was the reported intention when the two airline policy was set up. As honourable senators will remember, in this Senate on many occasions we have debated this matter and the suspicion of Labor Party Oppositions that TAA was not getting the go that it deserved. I am interested in what  Senator Rae  said, but it seems to me that he has drawn new strength from what has happened in the United Kingdom because in his article in the  Australian  of 1 8 May he said: 
It is interesting to note that in Britain, the new Prime Minister,  Mrs Thatcher,  has set about the de-nationalisation of many of the Government-owned industries, to place them back in the competitive private enterprise area, where most people believe they should be. 
Then he talked about nationalisation being an old fashioned socialist idea. He continued: 
In Australia, we have nearly 2S0 Commonwealth statutory authorities, many of them undertaking commercial activities which could be carried out by private enterprise. 
In coming to power, after the economically disastrous Whitlam-Hayden period, the Liberal coalition government promised to reduce big government and to promote a healthy private enterprise economy. 
OK then- why not de-nationalise TAA for starters? 
Under the present government the number of statutory authorities has, in fact, increased by approximately 30. To use a hackneyed phrase, 'it's time' to start reversing that trend. 
It is clear that  Senator Rae  was talking as a conservative. He was not talking in the context of worker participation. If he wants worker participation he could certainly start to develop and promote that concept amongst the many private and government industries that we have at present. As a matter of fact, only in the past month have the Federal Government and some of the State governments got together and issued the first paper on worker participation. As we know, when we in the Parliament have discussed industrial relations Bills most Government supporters have opposed such a notion. I cannot remember many - 
The honourable senator has got behind me. I said that only this month have  Mr Macphee  and the State Ministers put down the first paper on worker participation. Then I went on to talk about things that happened in this chamber when  Senator Watson  was not a member of this place and when we debated such a notion. I think that you,  Mr Deputy President,  will agree that there was general resistance from government supporters and that many private operators presently resist the idea of worker participation. I think that it is a conservative notion to put forward the selling to private enterprise of an efficient airline which is hamstrung by regulations and controls from a government which really does not believe in its operation. It may well be that the honourable senator can nobble the Minister because when he was trying to clear up the mistake, which we were all concerned about, the following was reported in an article in the  Sydney Morning Herald on  18 May: 

 Senator Rae said he would pursue the subject at a meeting of the coalition parties, possibly next week. 
He would also meet  Mr Nixon  next week to discuss his proposal and would present a formal paper on it to the Government. 
I am glad that this debate has taken place. I am glad also to be able to support my colleague,  Senator Douglas  McClelland, who is a member of the Standing Committee. I hope that the Press will clear up the position because in no way can one say that that Standing Committee supports the propositions which  Senator Rae  is putting forward on his own behalf. Of course, they have occasioned the debate in the public area. A report in the  Daily Mirror  of 21 May asked: 'Here are some plums; why do we not distribute them amongst the shareholders?' The article misquoted  Senator Rae  because it said that his Committee made the recommendation, but the writer of an article headed 'Politics Casts Pall on the Market 'wrote: 
The sharebrokers would like the job of floating some of the plums to the public, especially just now when there are no issues of any real significance in the pipeline and the market is desperate for a fresh supply of good quality scrip. 
I support what  Senator Douglas  McClelland said.  His  statement, which did not get very much publicity, indicates that none of the Labor members on that Committee at any time supported a proposal such as  Senator Rae  is putting forward now. I think that we ought to acknowledge that  Senator Rae's  proposition rests on its own merits. All I can say is that such a proposition would be strongly resisted by the Opposition. I am sure that it would be resisted, of course, by the staff of TAA. I am sure that the reports indicate to every member of the Senate that TAA is a most efficient organisation. What it needs to become more efficient and what we need to get better services- not the controlled services we have, I agree- is more competition. We need TAA to be free from the restrictions and inhibitions of the Government. We want it to be allowed to do what it thinks it should do. In that case what is partly needed is some modification of the general obligations of the two airline policy. In these days there is no reason that we should not have this. 
Peter Morris, the shadow Minister for Transport, reported after a very extensive overseas visit that the open skies policy is producing a more efficient service to the public and cheaper fares. If the situation gets more serious I hope that the matter will be brought back to the Senate. In the meantime, I hope that on any occasion when  Senator Rae  is asked whether his Committee supports the notion, he will attempt to make the position as clear as he has made it today. 
My question, which is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Transport, refers to the Stuart Highway. The Minister will be aware of conditions now prevailing and the consistent requests by local people that the highway should be surfaced. He will also be aware of recent requests by members of Parliament to the Minister for Transport,  Mr Nixon,  that funds should be provided from Federal sources. Of course, in addition, the Minister took part in a recent debate in the Senate about the matter. I ask: Does the Federal Government intend to honour its 1977 election promise to provide special funds for the sealing of the Stuart Highway in South Australia. If so, when might that happen? 
My question is directed to the Minister representing both the Minister for Veterans' Affairs and the Minister for Health. It refers to the herbicide 2,4,5-T. Whilst the Minister will, of course, be aware of  Mr Hunt's  statement about research into the herbicide- I understand that she will be making a statement about it today- has she seen the reports of claims by a large number of workers, particularly those working under Australian Workers Union awards, and by ex-servicemen, who have sought the assistance of the Returned Services League in claiming benefits under the Repatriation Act? Can the Minister say whether any specialised sections of the departments concerned- the Department of Health, the Department of Veterans' Affairs and the Department of Employment and Youth Affairs- are dealing with research or information related to the occupational hazards of working in the environment of that herbicide? Do they have sources of information from overseas, which apparently is available? If not, will the Minister recommend that such studies be made to assist in respect of those compensation claims? 
-I ask the Leader of the Government in the Senate: How does he explain away the general criticism of the Government and the general assertion by the media that the 
Government has lost all credibility in view of the fact that it has failed to honour its election promises made on two occasions? How does the Government justify the fact that the Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs has reported that there is a shortage of skilled labour while the Government itself, through its staff ceiling policy, refuses the intake of apprentices needed to train skilled workers? How does the Minister justify the difference in policy between the Minister for Employment and Youth Affairs and the Minister for Industrial Relations in respect of the calculation of the advantages of full employment? When does the Government intend to adopt policies to restore the economy and to encourage full employment? 
I want to add some comments to what  Senator Mulvihill  said with respect to the extent to which the new Industrial Relations Bureau is doing what we used to argue it should do, that is, to ensure the observance of awards. The Minister for Social Security  (Senator Guilfoyle)  will know that the new Bureau has been armed generally with punitive powers to which the Opposition objected. During the time that the matter was debated we argued that, over the years, the evidence showed that there were more actions against unions than there were against employers for breaches of awards. I do not think that that general claim has been answered yet. I ask the Minister whether at this stage or at a later date she can provide information about cases in which the Bureau has acted in the conventional way in which it was first charged to act, that is, for the Arbitration Inspectorate to make sure that arbitration awards are observed. 1 refer to page 5 of the first annual report of the Industrial Relations Bureau which, in paragraph 3.3, refers to complaints in relation to action by employers to the disadvantage of employers and to section 1 32A- offences in relation to independent contractors- which are related, I think, to breaches of award conditions or organisational breaches. Many of the paragraphs refer to action that was taken to recover payments under awards. The Minister will remember  Senator Mulvihills  long standing battle for people working at airports who were not paid and for whom it took 12 months or so to secure payment. I wonder whether any general statement can be made about the success of the Bureau in making sure that awards of the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission have been secured by the Arbitration Inspectorate. Is it a fact that the Arbitration Inspectorate is putting more time into taking punitive action against organisations than it used to put in with regard to breaches of awards? 
The second matter I raise concerns training skills. At Question Time this week, I mentioned that the Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs  (Mr MacKellar)  had said last week in a speech in Sydney that the availability of key occupational skills continues to be an important issue even in the current economic situation. He said that these cannot be made good from our own resources, at least in the short term, despite training and retraining programs in Australia. He pointed out the need to import skills into Australia. I think that the Minister will recall that in the Senate there have been numerous questions asked by honourable senators on both sides of the chamber, including me, about the need to change staff ceilings to make sure that there is the easiest recruitment of apprentices and skills in departments and particularly in statutory organisations. I pointed out previously that in the Postal Commission and the Telecommunications Commission there are opportunities to train people and to take on skilled people, but that because of the Government's policy on staff ceilings it was not possible for them to recruit staff. As we know, employer organisations and unions have said that in Australia we are short of 2,000 skilled employees. If that is so, it is clear that many skilled people today can be upgraded. I ask again: How is it that we are still placing staff ceilings on departments and statutory authorities which could provide a pool of skilled people to meet this demand, as has been mentioned by the Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs? 
I direct my question to the Minister representing the Minister for Transport. I refer again to the Stuart Highway. I ask the Minister whether his attention has been drawn to the editorial today in the Adelaide newspaper  The Advertiser,  which expresses the concern of the South Australian community about the state of the highway and the need for Federal assistance to complete its construction. After mentioning the over 25 per cent share put in by the South Australian Government, the editorial says, of the South Australian Government: 
But it claims, with some justice, that more help is needed from Canberra to enable the job to be completed within a reasonable period. 
I ask the Minister whether he knows also that last week the Minister for Transport had an obligation to meet residents of Coober Pedy and members of the Australian Road Transport Federation, but because of conditions was unable to keep that appointment. Does the Minister intend to keep that appointment? When is the Minister likely to confer again with his colleagues and the deputation that formally requested a special Federal grant for the purpose of constructing the road? 
-I wish to speak to the estimates for the Department of Immigration and Ethnic Affairs. No doubt the Minister for Social Security  (Senator Guilfoyle)  will recall questions not only from me but also from other honourable senators when the new NUMAS migration system was adopted. It was stated that there would be appropriate reviews of the system. I have the impression that, in relation to the cases upon which I have made representations to the Minister and/or the department there appears to be a general tightening up or restriction- more than was anticipated when the new system was adopted. It was acknowledged to be a new system of marking the qualities of the applicants for migration to Australia. After talking to my colleagues I find that they share this opinion. I accept all the reasons for the rigid guidelines being laid down in relation to occupational classifications. I deal with these matters frequently because I often take up representations made to State Ministers in relation to Commonwealth matters. I would be interested to know whether the Minister could tell us on behalf of the Department what has happened since the new system has started. Has a more restricted practice developed? For example, people who have come from the conventional migration countries and who nominate relatives to come to this country tell me that the situation is becoming more difficult. As honourable senators probably know when those applications are rejected the people concerned become very irate about the Government and sometimes about the Senate. I think that it is almost six months since the new system was adopted. I would like to know and I am sure that the Committee would like to know the general observations and views about it. 
Yes, it is called NUMAS. 
I want to add my support to the points which have been raised tonight by  Senator Georges  and  Senator Chipp.  Although honourable senators are becoming used to being told in the Senate and in Estimates Committees that reports are not available for one reason or another, there has to be some firm action by the Government and by Ministers in respect of these reports. As both honourable senators have pointed out, we received this document during the day. During the day senators have many obligations with regard to committees and have other work to do, and obviously they cannot always study information contained in the reports in the way it should be studied in order to be able to add some some sort of depth and criteria to the discussions in the chamber. 
I am more concerned that in this report there is no evidence and no comment on what took place about matters relating to plutonium, and the discussions which took place between scientists from the United Kingdom and Australia and government representatives. But these matters have been reported in the Press and have been the subject of many questions in the Senate. As honourable senators will recall, there has been a flow of information to honourable senators about this matter. This information is often late. Reports such as this should be added to by way of extra information relating to the current position on the particular question. It would seem to me that what is required, and I do not make this request by way of criticism of the Minister, is a firm policy of the Government that when reports are made they should contain the most up to date information about what could be a very complex situation. Already  Senator Georges  and  Senator Chipp  have drawn attention to defects in the report, a very complex report which laymen cannot be expected to comment upon without some deep consideration and advice. I am concerned also about the necessity to have in these reports, not only in this report but also in other reports which come before the Senate, the latest information available when the Parliament is talking about the necessary appropriations. It is very important, and it is a matter which the Government should consider very seriously. I hope that the Minister will take note of the comments made by honourable senators and make a suitable recommendation to the Department about these matters. 
I want to refer to divisions 655 and 662 in the estimates for the Department of Transport. Today I asked a further question about the Stuart Highway. Honourable senators will recall that who should fund the reconstruction of the Stuart Highway has been the subject of frequent questions in this place and of a debate during the consideration of Estimates in November last year. At that time I moved this motion: 
That the Committee is of the opinion that the Australian Government should provide special funding to enable a continuing program of construction of the Stuart Highway to be undertaken, as unanimously requested by the recent representative deputation to the Minister for Transport from South Australia and the Northern Territory. 
The persistence of other honourable senators and myself in raising this question arises from the lamentable absence of Federal Government support for the project, although on 25 November 1977, which was an election year, such special funding was promised by the Minister for Primary Industry,  Mr Sinclair.  Today in the Adelaide  Advertiser  there was again general support for Australian Government funding for the construction of the Stuart Highway. Over the years there has been a general acceptance by not only Opposition members of the Parliament but also some Government members that such special funding was necessary, logical and just. An editorial in today's Adelaide  Advertiser  to which I referred in a question this morning, brought these questions to a head. I asked when the Government was going to meet its commitment. I start by quoting again what was promised to the electorate in 1977. In a statement headed 'Stuart Highway' which was issued by the Minister for Primary Industry,  Mr Sinclair,  and which was dated 25 November it was stated: 
The communication needs of Alice Springs and in particular the reconstruction of the Stuart Highway are of prime importance in the Centre, the Minister for Primary Industry, the Rt Hon. Ian Sinclair said today. He said: 
The allocation of moneys expressly for national highway construction forms part of the regular Commonwealth contributions to State Governments. Priorities given by the South Australian Government, however, have meant that there has been little work done on upgrading the Stuart Highway. The Federal Minister for Transport,  Mr Peter  Nixon, has, however, firmly committed the Country-Liberal Party Government to commence work on the reconstruction of the Stuart Highway in 1 978. 
After discussing the issue with  Mr Sam  Calder, M.P., and  Senator Bernie  Kilgariff, I believe it necessary to identify a special fund allocation specifically for the reconstruction of the Stuart Highway. This would mean, in addition to funds provided to the South Australian Government as part of the national program and for allocation at their direction, there would be a specific sum provided to upgrade the Stuart Highway over a period of years. 
That notion has been given support by most honourable senators, not only Labor senators but also Government senators. Last year that support resulted in a deputation to  Mr Nixon  which consisted of the following people:  Mr Smith,  the Mayor of Alice Springs;  Mr Sam  Calder, M.P.;  Senator Kilgariff; Senator Robertson; Mr Roger  Steele, Cabinet Member for Transport in the Northern Territory; and from South Australia, Laurie Wallis; the  Hon.  Geoff Virgo, the South Australian Minister of Transport;  Senator Young; Senator Jessop;  and myself. We made a request to the Minister for that special funding. Following the meeting with the delegation  Senator Jessop,  who asked a question about this matter today, made a statement to the  Advertiser  supporting such a proposition. I raise this question not to gain political favour or to accentuate the political - 
I do not.  Senator Jessop  will recall that during the consideration of Appropriation Bill (No. 1 ) last November I made a very moderate approach to him to support the motion. Although he had committed himself to the main principles of the motion, when it came to a vote he decided not to support it. 
-No, you did not. Following our deputation  Senator Jessop  stated in the Adelaide  Advertiser  that he wanted this special grant. But when the matter was taken to a vote  Senator Jessop  did not vote for it. The  Journals of the Senate  show that the question was put that  Senator Bishop's  motion be agreed to and that the Committee divided. They show there were 23 ayes and 29 noes. Included in the ayes were Senators Bishop, Button, Cavanagh, McAuliffe, Douglas McClelland, McLaren, Chipp, Colston, Elstob, Evans, Georges, Gietzelt, Grimes, Harradine, Keeffe, Mcintosh, Wriedt, Tate, Sibraa, Ryan, Robertson, Primmer and Melzer. The noes included  Senator Jessop  and  Senator- 

 Honourable senators interjecting- 

I am sorry. I had forgotten that  Senator Jessop  walked out and did not vote. Rather than my arguing about what we tried to do, I would be glad if  Senator Jessop  tonight were to give support for what is a necessary request purely for South Australia. The Adelaide  Advertiser,  which is no supporter of the Labor Party, has said that there is great justice in the South Australian Government's claim.  Mr Virgo  has appropriated this year more than 25 per cent of the total appropriation of $ 16m for roads to the construction of the highway. It has been said by the Mayor of Alice Springs and by a representative of the Road Transport Federation that this road is a national obligation. I think most honourable senators would agree with that notion. The only way we can get Federal support for such a proposition is to seek the support of honourable senators opposite. All members of the deputation that I have mentioned, including the honourable senators from the Government side, told  Mr Nixon  that they considered that the road was a national road and should be specially funded. The matter is receiving a great deal of publicity in South Australia from the people who are affected by the state of the road. 
This is not purely a South Australian road but is a national road. Over a number of weeks, including weeks when there has been very heavy rain and communities have been disturbed by interruptions to transportation, the  Advertiser  has printed some very depressing stories and comments by people in the community who have asked to see the Minister and/or his representatives. So far he has not seen them. I am not saying that he will not see them. I know that he has not changed his mind, but I hope that as a result of the discussions in this chamber the Minister will change his mind. I hope that he will again go to Cabinet, as he told us he did previously.  Senator Jessop  may remember that the Minister was reluctant to say that there should be a special grant but finally agreed to put to Cabinet that there should be a grant of $2m. He told us later that that $2m was not available because his submission had been turned down. I am sorry to say that since that happened it would seem that some of the support we had formerly has diminished and that honourable senators who should be supporting what is purely a South Australian claim are not now doing so. 
I wish to quote from the Adelaide  Advertiser of  today's date. A special report headed 'Rain stops play . . . again 'states: 
Mixed together, the Stuart Highway, heavy rain and the Federal Minister for Transport,  Mr Nixon,  had all the ingredients of a good story. 

 Mr Nixon was to inspect the highway north and south of Coober Pedy then attend a public meeting with the locals. 
They wanted to discuss the infamous road which is said to have potholes big enough to swallow cars and corrugations similar to a good three-metre wave on the South Coast. 
The report goes on to relate that the Minister never arrived because he could not get there in his plane. However, he and some members of the party made journeys of inspection.  Mr Wally  Turner, the secretary of the Coober Pedy Progress and Miners Association, the local governing body, is reported to have said that he was most disappointed that  Mr Nixon  had not been able to see the road as it slowly deteriorated with more rain. The report continues: 
Miss  Faye Nayler,  the owner manager of the Opal Cave, a tourist centre, said the Stuart Highway was of growing importance to the town. 
 I think it is a disgrace, because of its condition and its continuing deterioration', she said. 
What the Government does not realise is that the amount of traffic using it to get to the centre of Australia is increasing, and so is its deterioration'. 
The previous day the  Advertiser  carried reports, received by telephone from local residents, that the Coober Pedy people were fed up to the back teeth with the road. One resident said that, regardless of the weather,  Mr Nixon  would be seeing one of the best parts of the highway, that the worst bit was near Kingoonya and Woomera and he would not even be seeing that. The newspaper went on to report that South Australia had made a handsome allocation from its funds for work on the highway. My information from the Department is that the major part of the highway is extremely bad, particularly the area around Woomera and Kingoonya; that is, it is no better than the area around Marla Bore, which is very bad. Marla Bore is situated on the borderline between Granite Downs Station and Welbourne Hill halfway between the Northern Territory border and Coober Pedy. 
Nearly six months ago we brought to the Senate a very moderate motion which simply expressed the view of the deputation which met the Minister. That deputation included a wide range of people, among them representatives of the Australian Road Transport Federation, and the Mayor of Alice Springs. At the time they all agreed that a special grant should be made by the Federal Government. That is obviously necessary to carry out such a commitment. At that time the work would probably have cost $80m. Today as much as $100m might be needed. 
If the work is left to the South Australian Government obviously that Government, with its other commitments, will not be able to do very much about it and the project will take perhaps 20 years to complete. There is a need for South Australian senators to act. I say that because I have been a senator for long enough to know that on most occasions South Australia's senators, irrespective of party, have supported their State Government. I was here when we fought with Tom Playford, the South Australian Premier, to get funds for the standardisation of railways. I expect South Australian senators from both sides to support what is a just claim. I hope that, as a result of these discussions tonight, those senators will again support us. 
My question, which is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Transport, refers to the Australian National Railways and the determination expressed in the last Federal Budget that a $60m cost-saving program should be instituted by the Australian National Railways Commission. The Minister will know, from questions asked, and statements made, in the Senate, that such cost savings have affected apprenticeship intake and railway service to country areas, and that Commission officers have consulted frequently community and other leaders in respect thereto. I ask: Is the Minister able to state to what extent those costsaving objectives, which have worsened services, may have been reviewed and reduced in effect, and whether the Minister taken action to moderate them? Also, can he review some of the matters, which are presently causing a great deal of industrial discontent among the unions? Will he say to what extent the recent determinations of the Treasurer in respect of expenditure cuts affecting transport are likely to add to that situation? 

 -Mr President, on behalf of the Joint Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence, I present the report on the Torres Strait Treaty. 
Ordered that the report be printed. 
-by leave-When the report of the Joint Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence on the Torres Strait boundary was presented in December 1976 it was stated that there would be many further developments in the area in the near future, for, at that time, Australia and Papua New Guinea were still continuing their negotiations on the question of a boundary- or border- between the two countries. The Sub-committee on Territorial Boundaries, with the approval ofthe main Committee, continue to monitor developments in the region. These activities were formalised as a reference: To monitor current developments on the issue of territorial borders between Australia and Papua New Guinea'. This report complies with that reference examining at some length the possible effects of the treaty's provisions on the people who will be most affected by it- namely the Torres Strait Islanders. The report is really a continuation of the Committee's earlier report. The Sub-committee on Territorial Boundaries will continue to monitor events in this region, including the long term effects of the treaty, once it is implemented. The treaty will probably not become fully effective until late in 1 979 or 1 980, since ratification cannot take place until legislation has been enacted by Australia, Papua New Guinea and Queensland. Some of the treaty's provisions, including arrangements for the sharing of the area's natural resources, will be the subject of continuing negotiations and cooperation between Australia and Papua New Guinea. 
In the course of this inquiry, the Subcommittee heard evidence from a number of departments, in particular, the Departments of Foreign Affairs, Immigration and Ethnic Affairs, Primary Industry and Health. In addition, the Sub-committee visited the area in July 1978 to gauge the reaction of the people living in the area to the proposed changes in the existing boundary- or border. The full text of the treaty is attached as Appendix I to the report. The Committee feels, however, that the more important matters covered by the treaty are: 
Retention of Australian sovereignty over all the islands with the exception of Kawa, Mata Kawa and Kussa- three uninhabited islands lying close to the coast of Papua New Guinea. The Government resolved the question of sovereignty over these islands- a matter which was discussed at length in the Committee's previous report on the Torres Strait Boundary- by concluding that the islands were never actually annexed by Queensland. A statement summarising the research which led to the Australian Government's conclusion in this matter is attached as Appendix II to the report. 
Delimitation of the seabed resources between Australia and Papua New Guinea. 
Establishment of a swimming fisheries resources boundary. 
Creation of a protected zone for the preservation of the unique environment of the Strait area. 
Confirmation of fishing rights in territorial waters for local inhabitants of the islands of Aubusi, Boigu, Dauan, Kaumag, Moimi and Saibai, which have been retained by Australia under the treaty. 
Guarantee of freedom of movement by Papua New Guineans and Torres Strait Islanders within the protected zone to engage in their traditional activities. 
When the Sub-committee visited the Torres Strait Islands in July 1978, the Islanders' representatives voiced vociferous objections to the terms of the then proposed treaty; they demanded 'border no change'. The Committee is satisfied that these objections have largely been overcome, mainly because, prior to the initialling of the treaty, the Government made a concerted effort to explain its terms, provisions and implications to the Islanders. The Committee's first recommendation is that the Government should also make every attempt to inform the Australian public of the treaty's terms and provisions. 
The Committee believes that the provisions of the treaty as finally negotiated are equitable to both countries, have regard to the interests of the parties most affected and are apparently supported by all interested parties. I would like to emphasise that the provisions of the treaty to a very large extent incorporate recommendations made by the Committee in its earlier report on the Torres Strait boundary, namely: That the Torres Strait Islands should remain part of Australia; that freedom of passage for Australians and Papua New Guineans should be guaranteed in the protected zone; that mining and drilling in the seabed should be prohibited until agreement is reached between all interested parties; and that new commercial ventures should not be permitted in the area unless they are compatible with the environment. The Committee cannot at this stage assess the long term effects of the treaty on the Torres Strait community. However, the Committee feels that the treaty, when ratified, will have a considerable positive effect on the life style ofthe Torres Strait 
Islanders. In particular, the concept and implementation of the protected zone, which encompasses all the reserve islands of the Torres Strait, will provide an opportunity for the indigenous culture of the Torres Strait Islanders to be preserved. 
In recent years rapid changes have been made to the Torres Strait culture, due to a massive population shift from the outer islands to Thursday Island. Large numbers of adult males have left the area on a semi-permanent basis to seek employment in Australia as a result of the lack of economic opportunities in the Torres Strait Islands. To a very large extent, the Islanders depend on fishing for their economic future. Fish stocks in the Torres Strait are not abundant and the main commercial fisheries- crayfish, prawns and the various swimming fisheries- already are fully exploited. The Committee therefore feels that commercial fishing is an activity which, when the treaty becomes fully effective, will require considerable attention to ensure that overexploitation of the limited resources does not occur. At the same time, the Committee recommends that, where possible, the Government should aid the Islanders to establish themselves commercially in one or more of the fisheriesmackerel is one- that has room to accommodate them. 
Again, should exploitation of hydrocarbon deposits discovered in the area become viable in the future, the Committee is concerned that the interests, both social and economic, of the Torres Strait community should be considered in any such development. These concerns have led the Committee to recommend that in implementing the treaty the Government should ensure that the spirit as well as the terms of the treaty are observed, with particular attention being paid to the application of the protected zone provisions and the preservation of the Torres Strait Islanders' culture. To this end, the Committee recommends, further, that the Torres Stait Joint Advisory Council provided for in Article 19 of the treaty should be appointed as soon as possible and that the nomination of the Torres Strait Islanders to serve on this body should be made a matter of priority so that the people of the area can see a tangible expression of the results of the treaty. 
Two of the Committee's recommendations are not related specifically to matters covered by the treaty, but to two quite serious problems which are beginning to affect the Torres Strait area and its community, namely, exotic animal and plant diseases and illegal immigration from Papua New Guinea. The problem of animal and plant diseases passing to Australia through the Torres Strait from Papua New Guinea is at present only potential, but in view of the prevalence of certain very serious animal pests in Papua New Guinea such as the screw worm fly, the Committee recommends that quarantine procedures in the area should be strengthened considerably. The Committee is pleased to report that already plans are being implemented by the Department of Health to increase animal quarantine activity in the Torres Strait area. In addition, the Committee would like to see the appointment of quarantine staff to the Islands and the initiation of a program to train indigenous people for surveillance purposes. 
Illegal immigration from Papua New Guinea to the Torres Strait Islands and eventually to mainland Australia is a well-known practice and one which poses a major risk of disease entering Australia through animals brought into Australian territory by Papua New Guineans. Since the Committee heard evidence from the Department of Immigration and Ethnic Affairs on this question last August, the Department has taken measures to identify Papua New Guineans living in Australia. As a result, almost 200 returned voluntarily to Papua New Guinea, and five were deported. Another 243 were granted permanent resident status after investigation of their cases. Whilst the Committee was pleased to hear recently that the Department is now confident that the situation is under control, it believes that this control must be continued and strengthened through expanding the number of immigration officers permanently stationed in the area. If practicable, local inhabitants should be employed for the purpose. Finally, as the Committee agrees that the treaty as signed is a satisfactory document and is in the best interests of all parties concerned, it expresses the hope that ratification will proceed as soon as possible. 
My question, which is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Defence and /or the Minister representing the Acting Minister for Social Security, refers to a report about unemployed citizens who join the Australian Army Reserve. The Minister will have seen recently a very useful advertisement, supported by the Minister for Defence,  Mr Killen,  and  Mr Hawke,  who advocated encouragement by government agencies and employers to young people to join the Reserve and pointed out the tax-free advantages. Has the Minister seen the report in today's  Canberra Times  indicating that, in contrast with what happens to public servants, these young unemployed citizens suffer a disadvantage when they are serving in continuous camps or undergoing periods of training. If the Minister has not seen the article, will he inquire into it and confer with the Minister for Defence and with  Senator Guilfoyle,  if necessary, to see what can be done to correct this position? 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Post and Telecommunications, lt refers to the death in Melbourne recently of a 32-year-old Telecom technician whose death was diagnosed by a United States agency as being due to legionnaires disease. I ask: Is it a fact that both Federal and State authorities investigating this complaint received an opinion from the United States agency that the disease was due in part to the air conditioning system in one of the Telecom exchanges in Australia spreading bacteria? If so, what action is being taken by the Australian Government in respect of the matter and what precautions are being taken in respect of any other air conditioning system which might present the same hazard as that featured by the United States agency's expert opinion? 
-by leave- It seems to me that it is not a very satisfactory arrangement to air arguments about procedures in the Senate in the way we are doing it at present. I suggest to the Leader of the Government in the Senate  (Senator Carrick)  and to my party that a suitable arrangement would be to proceed to deal with the Income Tax ( Rates and Assessments) Amendment Bill while the Leader of the Government and the Leader of the Opposition  (Senator Wriedt)  meet with the Whips to resolve this argument about an arrangement made earlier in the day. If that is not done we will talk all night to try to resolve what seem to be irreconcilable arrangements. I suggest that course to the Leader of the Government. The leaders should meet with the Whips to make sure that we reach a reasonable arrangement for the evening. 

 Senator CARRICK (New South WalesLeader of the Government in the Senate)- by leave- I now have the other part of the  Hansard  record. Nevertheless, what I have said before, I will adhere to. I said: 
What I am saying is purely this: I want to facilitate the opportunity for the Australian Labor Party to take the National Park and Wildlife Conservation Amendment Bill to its Caucus. Equally, I want to get that Bill through today so that it can go to the House of Representatives. I want by tonight at least to have placed before the Senate the Income Tax Bill and the National Park Bill, and I would hope to make substantial progress in relation to the other matters. With that understanding, I seek leave to withdraw my previous motion. 
I am willing to concede that  Senator Georges  may have misunderstood this. 

 Senator BISHOP (South Australia)-by leave- I do not know whether the Leader of the Government in the Senate  (Senator Carrick)  heard me make the suggestion which seemed to me to be very reasonable- that we proceed with the Income Tax (Rates and Assessments) Amendment Bill while he,  Senator Wriedt  and the two Whips consider whether the argument about the arrangement is valid. If he then takes the same stand, we have to battle out the situation. We should not be faced with this sort of nonsense in this Senate at this time of the night. Why cannot the leaders get together sensibly and make the arrangements, and finally report to the Senate? I again report to the Leader of the Opposition, and ask him to consider what I put forward whilst he was discussing across the chamber. Let us start the business of the Senate. In the meantime, let the leaders get together and work out what ought to be a reasonable solution. I hope that my request will be acceded to. 
-I present the official report of the Australian Parliamentary Delegation to Romania, the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics and Hungary, 1-24 July 1978. 
-by leave- I move: 
That the Senate take note of the paper. 
I seek leave to continue my remarks later. 
Leave granted; debate adjourned. 
My question, which is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Employment and Youth Affairs, refers to the report titled 'Employment prospects by industry and occupation' which he tabled yesterday and which was put out by the Manpower Programmes Section of the Department of Employment and Youth Affairs. I think that most people, including the Minister, will agree that it is a very good report and that it illustrates the difficulties in obtaining employment. In view of the very pessimistic report, will the Minister consider the frequent requests from staff organisations and from the Opposition that now is the time to reconsider the staff ceilings in the various departments and statutory authorities which, it has been pointed out to the Minister many times, inhibit the recruitment of a number of people, including apprentices and trainees, who could fill the vacancies for skilled workers which presently exist in industry? Does the Minister contemplate any such action by the Department? What will be the result of the inquiries into the report? When will it be considered on the basis of the propositions I have put before the Minister? 
My question, which is directed to the Minister for Social Security, refers to a ruling which we have been told comes from Canberra and affects the payment of family allowances to parents of handicapped children. I understand that one case has been sent to the Minister. Yesterday two cases were brought to my notice. In one case a parent who had put a child into an approved home for a holiday rest for 1 S days was told finally that she had lost both payments for the whole month. In the other case the period was just as brief. As this is a great injustice, I ask whether the Minister will reconsider what seems to be a most recent policy. If the children are in homes on the fourteenth or fifteenth of a month the parent loses both payments for the full month. 

 - Mr President, I want to speak to the motion - 
I want to speak in respect of a policy which concerns the statement and which has not been properly put to the Senate. In respect of the motion, it would seem - 

 - Mr President, I am speaking to the motion. I oppose it because the 
Government has put down a very important statement to which you,  Mr President,  would expect the Opposition to respond in a formal way. That response has not been made in a formal way. The honourable senator who spoke to the earlier motion is opposed to the statement and to the views of the Leader of the Australian Labor Party and the views of the Labor Party. 
-There is no doubt about it. I can easily quote to the honourable senator the speech of  Mr Hayden  last Thursday night. It appears on pages 580 and 581 of the House of Representatives  Hansard.  I did not intend to make a vigorous speech but rather to say that the Labor Party ought to be identified as supporting that part of the statement of the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  which concerns the proposals to bring all the front line states together. Zimbabwe-Rhodesia is supporting the British Prime Minister and other people in their efforts to see whether peace can be achieved across the conference table rather than by the use of the weapons of war. Last Thursday night- 23 August- our Leader,  Mr Hayden,  said: 
The Prime Minister went to the Lusaka conference with the good wishes of the Opposition. On 7 June 1 pointed out to the House that the Lusaka conference seemed to offer an opportunity for a positive and helpful contribution to be made towards a settlement of the Zimbabwe problem. My statement added, and I quote it for the record: 
Therefore, the Prime Minister goes with my good wishes. To the extent that he tries to achieve a settlement of the problem, he goes with my support and with the support of the Opposition. 

 Mr Hayden went on to say: 
It is appropriate to say now that to the extent that the Prime Minister can claim to have - 
I said earlier that I appreciate the lively speech that  Senator Wheeldon,  my colleague and friend, has made. But I think that the matter is important enough for this observation to be made by an honourable senator on this side of the Senate: The official party policy developed by the Leader of the Party is the one which I have mentioned.  Mr Hayden  said- I will be as brief as I can- as recorded at page 58 1 of  Hansard: 
It is appropriate to say now that to the extent that the Prime Minister can claim to have influenced the outcome of the Lusaka discussions, he deserves commendation - 
I want to say briefly that in my opinion, looking at the situation practically and even having in mind the historical facts which were mentioned by  Senator Wheeldon,  the situation has changed so that it has been possible for the Zimbabwe Government and the front line states- the Patriotic Front- to meet collectively with the support of the Commonwealth Heads of Government, including the British Prime Minister,  Mrs Thatcher,  who formerly had been quoted as supporting the Zimbabwe Government. However, as a result of the discussions with all the parties at the Heads of Government meeting, it was decided to call this conference. That is the change that ought to be welcomed by the Australian community. I suggest that the statement put forward by the Prime Minister needs to be discussed by the Senate. Therefore, I oppose the motion for the adjournment of the matter as proposed by the Minister for Science and the Environment  (Senator Webster). 
My question is directed to the Minister for Social Security, and refers to the policy announced by the Minister relating to twice-yearly indexation of pension benefits. I notice the word 'index' is used in the Minister's speeches, but my concern is about special beneficiaries. Is the Minister able to say whether the category of special beneficiaries, which comprises I think some 30,000 pensioners, will be treated as being entitled to the new system when the increases apply? Also, has consideration been given to treating these special beneficiaries in the same way as other pensioners in respect of supplementary assistance where it might otherwise be applicable? 
-I am sure that honourable senators, when they heard the wording of  Senator Young's  motion, would have thought that it was a very high sounding and high principled motion because it referred to the moral obligation of Australia. But what happened to his speech? After five minutes of skirmishing, talking about energy problems and uranium, he did what the Liberals in Tasmania did. They set out to attack the Australian Labor Party and to say that it would be controlled by the left wing.  Senator Young  paid some lip service to a very fine Premier whom he likes. I know that  Senator Young  likes  Mr Corcoran.  He gave some great support to Corcoran and Hudson. However,  Senator Young  did not deal with the moral obligations of the nation in respect of resources. I point out to the Senate and to the people who are listening that the debate today is purely a stunt to somehow divert the attention of the Australian people and the South Australian people in particular from the achievements of the State Labor Government. I remind the honourable senator that at lunch time today Des Corcoran, at a tremendous meeting in Adelaide, delivered his election policy speech. Last night the Liberal Party leader was a flop. I make a second point: It is rather strange in this place that when genuine State issues are raised the position is not like it was in the old days when I came here. In those days, every South Australian senator supported his State. 
-Of course they did. When Premier Playford said that the State wanted improvements in railways or something for the motor car industry, all South Australian senators joined forces and spoke for the State. But today in the Senate it is unfortunate that every time honourable senators on the Government side rise to speak, they play politics. I remind honourable senators of two recent issues. Let me tell them what happened in respect of the Whyalla shipyards. Only a few nights ago the Minister for Defence,  Mr Killen,  said that he had made arrangements with the Australian Council of Trade Unions and the shipbuilding unions for this new ship to be build for the Royal Australian Navy. He was satisfied that there would be a genuine attempt to build the ship. When the Senate 
Standing Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence put such a proposition to  Mr Fraser  our friend who sits on the other side of the chamberthe honourable senator who was in the Navysupported that proposition. Honourable senators from South Australia uniformly agreed that they would support such a proposition if it were put before the Federal Government. But when the proposal came before the Senate,' what did they do? They turned tail and let the motion lie. 
Let me remind honourable senators about other issues. Let us forget for a moment about the railways. I want to talk about the Stuart Highway. The senators from South Australia- I include  Senator Kilgariff, Senator Jessop  and  Senator Young-  all went to a meeting with  Mr Virgo.  We said to  Mr Nixon,  the Minister for Transport, that we wanted a federal grant towards the Stuart Highway because that was a normal, national aim and it would support South Australia. We petitioned the Parliament in trying to get support in this matter. I had forewarned the Liberal senators by asking them whether they would support us. I did not receive a clear answer but when the matter was raised in the Senate, what did they do? Some of them walked out. They did not support the motion. I am sorry to say, having observed the parliamentary scene for longer than the two honourable senators concerned - 

 - Senator Jessop said that he helped us because he walked out. He made the voting stronger. I am rather alarmed about what has happened at Whyalla. We had the support of a large group of Liberals and we knew that the trade union movement would support a new shipbuilding activity which  Mr Killen  has now accepted. Unfortunately, South Australian senators opposite let us down. 
What is the position in respect of Roxby Downs? It could be thought from what honourable senators opposite say that Roxby Downs is no longer a goer. But the fact is, as honourable senators well know, that nothing can be done. Already $50m has been invested by BP Australia Ltd and Western Mining Corporation Ltd for exploration over the next three years. We do not know whether it will ever be decided that the safeguards for the mining of uranium are satisfactory. The Labor Party's insistence on safeguards is an important and moral stand. It is supported by a large number of the Australian people. In particular, it has been supported by the South Australian electorate because is supported the Dunstan Government. Let me tell honourable senators about another strange thing. In 1977 in the South Australian House of Assembly a motion was floated. Every member of the State Opposition in 1977 supported the motion that as a matter of principle they should not mine or develop uranium in South Australia until it was safe to provide uranium to a customer country. 
-I support the Labor Party policy without any hesitation. I would rather talk about the moral obligations of this Government which should provide some remedies for the unemployment problem. There is no doubt that unemployment will increase. That has been stated in the Budget Papers. Yet honourable senators opposite do nothing about it. The Government opposes job creation policies. Is there not a moral obligation on the Australian Parliament in this area? What about the cuts the Government has made in the training of young people. These young people should be trained now for jobs in the future when these great mining projects are commenced. What has the Government done about those matters? The Government has cut expenditure in these areas. The National Employment and Training system has been cut and the total grants for apprenticeship training and other training have been cut by $27m. Is there not a moral obligation in this area? We have heard nothing about moral obligations to assist people. 
I am asked where I stand on the matter. Do honourable senators opposite want another Harrisburg incident? The Labor Party's policy has been reinforced by the recent visit overseas by then Premier Dunstan. Everybody expected that he had gone overseas to change Labor Party policy. People said that his trip was an excuse. Already  Senator Young  has cited some such nonsense. But what happened when  Mr Dunstan  came back to Australia? Let me quote some of the evidence that he gave to the South Australian Parliament which has never been answered. For example, what would honourable senators on the Government side do about the disposal of radioactive waste? No honourable senator opposite has stated what sorts of safeguards he would apply. Would honourable senators bring the waste back to Maralinga? Would they bury it near  Senator Kilgariff  's little humpy? Would they put it in the West? Would they pollute the streams? I was in New York in recent years. I went to see a great nuclear power station which was very near an important river. At that time- this was two years ago- it was stated that they had all the safeguards necessary to contain the residue from this power station. But what happened? A few months ago, of course, they had a leak. This leak might have threatened and polluted streams. The incident at Harrisburg came on top of that situation. The Labor Party has made its position clear. Its policy is strong and positive. It will continue to assess as much as possible all the information that it gets. 
I have told the honourable senator where I stand. I support the Labor Party's policies. I am sure that it is correct. I have seen more nuclear power stations than the honourable senator has. I have been to Iron Curtain countries and I have seen and heard their guff about protection and safety. Directly,  Senator Kilgariff  will get up and tell us about the uranium mines in Romania and how they are all safe. I tell honourable senators that no tests have been conducted under those conditions. No valuable information has yet been made available. When the Labor Party receives the information on which we know a decision can be made, we will certainly review our policy. 
Let us talk about some of the things we know for sure. I refer firstly to the Windscale inquiry in the United Kingdom. This is a very recent review. Although it started in 1977, as recently as January of this year the British Government accepted a report in which  Mr Justice  Parker stated: 
The disadvantages of disposal of spent fuel or indefinite storage of the fuel is that there is a wastage of energy but, in addition, it could escape from the disposal site back to the environment. 
He went on to say: 
On the question of the disposal of the solidified waste - 
That is, the vitrified waste when it has been put in that form and while it is still dangerous - 
Professor Tolstoy drew attention to a large number of points which showed that a final solution to the problems of disposal has not yet been found. 
In fact, this report recommended to the British Government that it should not proceed at that stage. In the United States of America, as recently as late last year, a committee of the House of Representatives recommended: 
Radioactive waste is a significant and growing problem. At least 3,000 metric tonnes of spent nuclear fuel are now being stored at commercial reactor sites and with an additional 17,000 metric tonnes expected to accumulate in the next decade. Yet there is still no demonstrated technology for permanently and safely disposing of this waste. 
Well, senator, committees of the United States Congress are very important. I suggest that the honourable senator listen to the recommendations of those committees. In addition, I want to refer to another publication. This publication, issued by the International Consultative Group on Nuclear Energy and published by the Rockefeller Foundation and the Royal Institute of International Affairs, is entitled 'International Custody of Plutonium Stocks: A First Step Towards an International Regime for Sensitive Nuclear Energy Activities'. One of its authors is Russell Fox. The report states: 
We conclude: 
The nuclear weapon proliferation problem relates to the security of every nation. 
The critical proliferation risk is the diversion, actual or feared, of weapons-usable materials. 
Assurances of supply of nuclear materials, services, equipment, and technology for civil nuclear purposes are dependent on the establishment of non-proliferation measures which are recognised as adequate. 
A number of nations do not regard existing treaties and international arrangements, embodied in the IAEA/NPT system and certain regional arrangements, as adequate to deal with the proliferation risks arising from the widespread use of civil nuclear power. 
Additional restraints ... are at best only a partial solution - 
It continued: 
Some suppliers insist on conditions which are more onerous than are required by others. The absence of uniformity not only tends to distort international trade patterns in nuclear materials, services and equipment, but also may subject nuclear enterprises in recipient countries to conflicting conditions . . . 
Generally, of course, that is so. People talk about scientists who have supported this development which is going on in the world today; but for every such scientist there is conflicting concern expressed not only by other scientists but also by other people throughout the world. I suggest that in our own country- and South Australia particularly- there is a large and representative body of people who will support the Labor Party's policy until they are satisfied, like the South Australian Government, that this necessary development can be carried out under proper safeguards and not under hazardous conditions. 

 Senator Young, in his own way, has given some credit to Premier Corcoran and to  Mr Hudson.  I think all of us would agree, leaving politics aside, that they are professional and conscientious Ministers. I refer particularly to  Mr Hudson  who is an expert. All of us have listened to  Mr Hudson  and have heard his recommendations on South Australian developments. A lot of us are trying to help, but I think - 
I would have been more mindful of the honourable senator's advice about moral obligations if he had talked today in the Senate about the urgent need for the Federal Government to provide more back-up for the Redcliff proposition. I think that  Senator Young, Senator Jessop  and I are convinced about that. Along with those honourable senators I have attended a meeting with  Mr Hudson.  I and most of the Liberal members of South Australia attended a meeting. At that gathering we all said we would support the activities at Redcliff because we were convinced that  Mr Hudson  was a competent Minister. 
I would have been more impressed with the debate today if  Senator Young  had not set about talking about what he considers to be the moral obligation of the need to provide more energy to a world which needs it. We all know that. I travelled recently through South East Asia and I am pleased to say that the governments of three of those countries were anxious to ensure they got some of the vast reserves of Australian coal. This is one way of coping with a very difficult situation. People have questioned me about whether I support the Labor Party policy. There is no doubt in my mind that what the Labor Party has said and what the conservationists are putting forward today constitutes good grounds for taking it easy, for slowing up. There is nothing better in this society, when we are not sure of developments, when we are not sure of the hazards, than just taking a short breathing space. The South Australian Labor Government is doing that. It is making sure, as everybody knows, that the technology that is so important - 
Yes, senator. The former Premier,  Mr Dunstan,  was criticised by a number of people for collecting as many scientific facts as possible. That is the proper attitude for a State government to adopt. I hope that when the Senate again debates the question we might leave aside the political emergency issues which have arisen today. I think I can say that after today's meeting held by the South Australian Premier, there is no doubt- despite the efforts of  Senator Young  and the efforts which  Senator Jessop  will make later to sabotage the victorythe Labor Government will be victorious in South Australia. 
My question is directed to the Leader of the Government in the Senate and refers to recent offers by  Mr Hawke,  the  President  of the Australian Council of Trade Unions, to confer with the Government about the economy, wages and jobs. The Minister will know that during the pre-Budget talks  Mr Hawke  offered to participate in such conferences. Also, yesterday at the ACTU conference he expressed his position even more directly when he said that the ACTU and its officers were available to discuss with the Government matters of importance to the economy, including unemployment and jobs, in the hope that some of the issues which confront Australia today might be solved. I ask: Does the Government intend to reject such an offer? Will it, before it introduces its promised restrictions to the Conciliation and Arbitration Act, discuss such matters with the ACTU? Also, does it intend again not to accept the offer from  Mr Hawke  in respect of the more important matters affecting the economy? 
-Has the Minister representing the Minister for Employment and Youth Affairs seen a document which was put out by the Catholic Commission for Justice and 
Peace and which, based on the statistics prepared in January by the Commonwealth Employment Service, shows the unemployment rate per job vacancy in various regions of Australia? Is he aware that the figures in the document, which I understand has been shown to the Government, demonstrate that in Hornsby in Sydney, for example, the unemployment rate per job vacancy is 1.69 percent, and in Mount Druitt the figure is 1 3.46 per cent; in Melbourne in the suburb of Waverley the figure is 2.45 per cent and in Sunshine is 9.37 per cent; in two Brisbane suburbs the figures are 12.63 per cent and 4.64 per cent; in Adelaide suburbs the figure for Elizabeth is 13.7 per cent and 5.3 per cent for Unley; and in Perth suburbs at Girrawheen the figure is 13.3 per cent and in Claremont the figure is 6.6 per cent? From those figures does the Minister agree that unemployment is distributed in various ways throughout the whole of Australia? Have these figures been considered along with the representation by the Catholic Commission for Justice and Peace that some increase in the unemployment benefit should be given? 
It is unusual to hear  Senator Young  talking about his concern for South Australia because in most recent times he has refused to support in the Senate logical South Australian claims which, in the early stages, were supported by him. I refer, of course, to the need again to start up the Whyalla shipyard, based upon a proposition which was put to the Government by the Joint Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence. It was recommended that consultation should take place with the Australian Council of Trade Unions and the trade unions concerned. All the Liberal and Labor senators in South Australia put their names to a request to the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  to carry out a recommendation from the Committee, whose  chairman,  a Liberal senator, is presently in the chamber. One of the people who voted against the proposition when it was brought into the Senate but who had signed the earlier document was  Senator Young.  He turned down the request. 
The request was a logical one which could have been carried out. Only in the last few days the Minister for Defence,  Mr Killen,  has reached an agreement with the ACTU and the trade unions concerned in respect of a request to build the new Royal Australian Navy ship in Australia. After discussions regarding the promotion of the most co-operative attitude from the unions concerned in the industry a target price was put forward which was less than that proposed by overseas companies. So a realistic proposition was put forward by concerned South Australians about an important district.  Senator Young  turned it down and would not vote for it.  Senator Jessop  and  Senator Kilgariff  walked out of the Senate. 
In addition, fairly recently a deputation saw the Minister for Transport  (Mr Nixon)  concerning the Stuart Highway. I remind  Senator Young,  who is in the chamber, that he accompanied that deputation. We all agreed- the Mayor of Alice Springs, representatives of the Country Party and other honourable senators- to request Federal funding for the Stuart Highway. We did not make much progress, but we brought the proposition to the Senate. We proposed that the Senate should affirm that principle so that it might be reinforced. What happened? Again  Senator Young  did not vote for what was logically a genuine State request which in the old days - 
The honourable senator makes reservations. When it came to a vote some of the Liberal senators walked out of the Senate. The fact is that in the old days when Premier Playford was in control in South Australia the Labor senators in this place always supported the State. They never griped- like honourable senators opposite are doing tonight- about what the State Government was doing. The result was that Playford, in the environment of a Labor Prime Minister, got a great deal for industry in South Australia. We supported that year after year, but the tide has turned. Nowadays if we want to get Liberal senators to support State matters the State concerned has to be under the regime of a Liberal Premier. 
Many paltry issues have been raised by  Senator Young.  He talked about waste in hospitals. What about the waste by the Prime Minister in purchasing the two Boeing aircraft? They will cost $40m, all because the Prime Minister wants to have an aircraft that is something like Air Force One, of the  President  of the United States of America. What about the advantage we gained from the establishment of the Land Commission?  Senator Young  had the cheek to talk about the Land Commission. It was a great Labor venture which made sure that purchasers of land in South Australia, by agreement with the State Labor Government, gained an advantage. They were saved from being ripped off by land dealers. This was the cheapest land in Australia, but the Liberals wanted to dump the scheme. Why? Because they represented the other people. For many months they have been criticising the Land Commission. Its establishment was one of the good things which the State Labor Government and the Federal Government did for South Australia. 
But the Liberals have done worse. They talk about their support for the veterans. What have they done with the defence homes land. What have they done with all the land that was acquired by Labor and Liberal governments in the past so that people who could not remain in the services could purchase a house at minimum cost because of the low price of land? The Liberals have sold it all off. In my State millions of dollars worth of land was sold by this Government because it wanted the money. This land was being held for the veterans.  Senator Young  talks about waste and about computers. Senate committees have already examined the position under Liberal governments of the waste involved in buying computers. That is a common failure of all governments. What paltry arguments will the Liberals put up next? 
The surprising thing about this place is that the Liberal members, who are supposed to represent the States, have supported one of the most outlandish things that has ever happened in a State. I am ashamed to think that I am a member of a parliament operating under the Westminster system when the elected government of my State cannot get a proper voice in the media. The Murdoch Press in South Australia, as everybody knows, has almost shut out the Labor Government, and the other newspaper is not much better. Every day in South Australia the Murdoch Press has attacked the Labor Government and talked about left wing control. What left wing control? Are Corcoran, Virgo and Hudson not accomplished and experienced people?  Mr Corcoran  is an experienced soldier, a commissioned officer. I have heard  Senator Messner  from South Australia refer to the Premier of South Australia, a man who has fought under very serious active service conditions, as Corporal Corcoran.  Senator Messner  has made some other irrelevant and disrespectful comments about the Premier of South Australia, a man who fought in Korea and who fought in Malaysia. Those comments were made by people who have never been a member of any service, not even of the Salvation Army. So what is the left wing influence? 
The Liberals talk about Duncan. They are still claiming that he is a possible future Premier of South Australia. Already it has been reported in the Press that the South Australian Labor Party has indicated that Duncan himself has said that he makes no claims on the premiership of South Australia. This has appeared in advertisements. Even if he did, how could he depose people such as Hudson and Corcoran? That would be impossible. Why do the Liberals attack people of such experience and such moderation and talk about the power of the left wing? It is just a stunt. It is the same sort of stunt that was used in Tasmania when members of the Liberal Party tried to describe every Labor Party member as a left wing member. 
On listening to honourable senators opposite one would think that this Government had never cut allocations for anything. Everybody knowsthe dogs are barking it- that this Government, since it has been in power, has cut back on almost every sector of the economy. Everybody knows that. Despite Fraser promising to do away with unemployment, it is still here and its rate is still growing. It is higher than when Fraser came to power. He was going to turn on the lights. Everybody knows- it is clear- that cuts have been made everywhere. So why do Liberal supporters still talk as if a State can survive under those conditions? South Australia is a producer. It produces motor cars, white goods including refrigerators, television sets et cetera. It is dependent upon the market- upon consumers. But if consumers in the other States do not have jobs, how can they buy the machines which are the products of South Australia. 
South Australia is dependent upon the total Australian economy. That is simple; any child could work that out. Everybody knows the position. Tom Playford helped Chifley to build the industries. They are there and they are good. Every honourable senator who belongs to the Liberal Party keeps knocking South Australia and the union movement. It is totally wrong and incorrect for them to do so. I will bet that tomorrow when we see the Press reports of the statements about South Australia which have been made in this place- by the way, we would not have made the comments we have about South Australia had we not been invited to so by honourable senators opposite and by members in the other place- we will find that the Press has not given a fair coverage of what has been said by Australian Labor Party senators as has happened up until now. I will bet that that will be the case even in respect of what  Senator Cavanagh  said concerning the slump in new industries being caused by changes to the registration requirements.  Senator Cavanagh  told us that, as proof of that claim,  Mr Hudson  is reported in today's Press as having said that there had been an increase in the value of approvals for new business premises in South Australia, yet  Mr Tonkin  said that there had been no increase. The Press report stated: 
There had been a strong rise in the value of approvals Tor new business premises in SA in the 1978-79 financial year, the  Deputy  Premier,  Mr Hudson,  said yesterday. 
The report stated further: 
Additionally, we are all aware of the trend that has taken place in recent years, which is Tor small businesses to be swallowed by big organisations, '  Mr Hudson  said. 
Although the facts were clear and the fall in registrations was because of a change in the registration requirements, a headline in the Adelaide  Advertiser  referred to a dispute about business approvals in South Australia. What chance do we have in South Australia? Look at the run  Senator Young  got in the Press last week when we debated this matter in this Parliament. The headline in the  Advertiser  read: 'Left Wing "forced" early SA election'. But the significant thing about South Australia is this: It is not the Liberal Party that is in the front line in South Australia; it is not  Dr Tonkin  because nobody knows where he is. It is hard to find him. They telephoned him. But Corcoran is always about organising. That ex-soldier, who is supposed to have arthritis in his knees or his hands, is out organising. Last night he attended a meeting with the Leader of the Opposition,  Mr Hayden.  In South Australia 200 people went to hear Corcoran and  Mr Hayden.  But what happened with the Press? Not a word about that meeting was reported in the South Australian Press, ls that not shocking? Is it not a disgraceful action by people who believe in the parliamentary system? I believe in the parliamentary system. I am a member of the Executive of the International Parliamentary Union. More than once in this place I have stressed the need to advocate that people should believe in the parliamentary system. But in my State the parliamentary system is not getting a go. 
It is common knowledge that in another State the leader of the great monopoly is saying: 'We will take away from Labor in this State some of the seats it holds'. It is not the Liberal Party which is doing the campaigning in South Australia. It is a small group of small businesses or an organisation of the bosses. The bosses in South Australia have had a wonderful go. I speak from experience. I was secretary of the Trades and Labour Council for many years. Being a modest man, I think I can say that my reputation for settling disputes was fairly good. In those days bosses got a good deal from the union movement, just as they are getting now. It shocks me to see all these business people combining to try to defeat the South Australian Labor Government. Of course, they are trying to do that because obviously the Liberal Party is not able to cope with the situation. The leader of the Liberal Party in South Australia, who I suppose is soon to be deposed, cannot face the music in the same way that our friend Corcoran can. Nor could the South Australian leader of the Liberal Party face the music when Dunstan was there. 
Everybody knows- it would be clear to any child- that the Australian Government sets the economic climate. If the Australian Government adopts a particular economic approach it affects the whole of Australia. The policies of the Fraser Government have affected every State. Let me speak about South Australia. As  Senator Young  said, if people left South Australia, where would they go? This morning 1 referred honourable senators to a report from the Catholic Commission for Justice and Peace to the Catholic bishops. Honourable senators can read that report for themselves. It contains an extract of figures prepared by the Commonwealth Employment Service, dated as recently as January 1979. The Minister for Employment and Youth 
Affairs  (Mr Viner)  went to South Australia. He was about the only Minister, other than the Treasurer  (Mr Howard),  who was game to go there. But when  Mr Howard  got to South Australia he said that he supported the State Labor Government's worker participation policies, despite anything else he said. 
If people left South Australia, where would they go?  Mr Viner  said that South Australia 's unemployment position was worse than that of any other State. From the facts and figures provided by the Commonwealth Employment Service and contained in the report prepared by the Catholic Commission for Justice and Peace, it is clear that  Mr Viner  's State has the highest percentage of unemployed in one area of anywhere in Australia. I repeat what I said this morning on this matter. I asked the Attorney-General,  Senator Durack:  ls he aware that the figures in the document, which I understand has been shown to the Government, demonstrate that in Hornsby in Sydney, for example, the unemployment rate per job vacancy is 1.69 percent, and in Mount Druitt the figure is 13.46 per cent: in Melbourne in the suburb of Waverley the figure is 2.45 per cent and in Sunshine is 9.37 per cent: in two Brisbane suburbs the figures are 12.63 per cent and 4.64 per cent: in Adelaide suburbs the figure for Elizabeth is 1 3.7 per cent and 5.3 per cent for Unley; and in Perth suburbs at Girrawheen the figure is 13.3 per cent and in Claremont the figure is 6.6 percent? 
We hear people talking about South Australia's unemployment problem. Of course South Australia has an unemployment problem, just as every other State has an unemployment problem. The facts are that until the state of the Australian economy is improved, until some of the restrictions imposed by the Federal Government are relieved, the unemployment situation will not improve. Let me talk about State matters. I refer firstly to funding for South Australia. Honourable senators will remember the criticism concerning funding which the State Premiers levelled at the Commonwealth Government earlier in the year when the State Premiers met. I have a copy of an article which appeared in the  Sydney Morning Herald  of 30 June 1 979 concerning discussions held in Canberra at that time. The article stated: 
State Governments will be forced to divert tax-sharing funds away from traditional areas to maintain capital works programs in 1979-80. 
The Premiers left Canberra last night faced with major reviews of programs in the areas where they have the greatest ability to create employment. 
That was because of cuts made in funds made available by the Commonwealth Government. This morning  Senator Wriedt  several times asked the Leader of the Government in the 
Senate  (Senator Carrick)  to answer this question: 
Is it not true that the Treasury documents show that this year South Australia will receive in capital payments $302m; that it received $375m four years ago under the Labor Government, and that this year the payments arc down in real terms by $246m under Fraser federalism? 
On two occasions  Senator Wriedt  asked the Leader of the Government to explain the position. What answer did he get? He got no answer because the situation was avoided. I would like to repeat what  Senator Cavanagh,  I think, referred to. 

 - Senator Cavanagh had the wisdom to quote from a report by a  Mr Jackson,  who is a prominent economist. As recently as February 1979 he talked about the position in South Australia and, after conducting a proper survey, he gave a position which is quite contrary to what has been stated by the Liberals. He said that in examining South Australia's recent economic performance it is noticeable that the downturn in the State between 1974 and 1977 was less severe than in Australia generally. For example, through 1975 and 1976 the unemployment rate in South Australia was below the national average. Motor vehicle registration levels were higher, as were new dwelling approvals, commencements and completions and also retail trade. More recently the same gentleman referred to this in a report in the  Australian Financial Review.  This shows again the advantage of having a logical discussion about things and not trying to make figures represent something which does not happen. The report in the  Australian Financial Review  of 28 August 1979 was headed: 'Government Projects Keep Building Industry Afloat in S A '. It stated: 
Figures produced last week by a prominent construction industry economist indicate the extent to which the South Australian building industry relies on government projects. 
According to an analysis of major building projects valued at more than $100,000 undertaken by the economist,  Mr John  Jackson of John Jackson and Associates, South Australia has been the only mainland State where the value of major government building projects has exceeded the value of private sector projects over recent years. 

 Mr Jackson argued that the high proportion of government expenditure on major building and construction projects in South Australia had probably produced one major advantage for the construction industry in that Stateexpenditures on major projects have been much more stable in South Australia than in all except one other State. 
Yet we have this combination of the bosses. I had never used to refer to them as 'the bosses', but I have become so sick of their propaganda in the last few weeks that I now identify them as bosses who cannot see the morality of assisting their State and of being fair in election campaigns. There is no doubt that they have spent a lot of their time complaining about the proposed amendment to the State's Conciliation and Arbitration Act. One of the complaints from the main organiser, a  Mr Rundle  who is no doubt a strong member of the Liberal Party, was that a large issue was the proposed amendment to the State's industrial laws which  Mr Rundle  said would allow industrial democracy in through the back door and would reduce the right of management to manage. The  Australian Financial Review  of 5 September 1979 stated: 
The State Government was confident that industrial democracy would not bc an issue in the election campaign . . . 
That was following the statement by the Federal Minister for Productivity,  Mr Macphee.  At about this time  Mr Macphee,  a young Minister, went to South Australia. He was asked: 'What do you think about that industrial democracy proposal which has been put up by Corcoran?'  Mr Macphee  said that he thought the proposal was similar to one proposed by the Liberal Government. Fortunately at or about the same time we have support for that from  Mr Howard.  A report in the  Australian Financial Review  of 6 September is headed: 'SA Industrial Democracy Plan supported by Howard '. It stated, in part: 
The Federal Treasurer,  Mr Howard,  yesterday defended endorsement by the Minister for Productivity,  Mr Macphee,  of the South Australian Government's industrial democracy proposals. 

 Mr Howard said that there was now 'more agreement between Federal and State government than a few years ago'. 
In addition to that,  Mr Corcoran,  in trying to be conciliatory proposed a meeting with all these bosses. They sat down and talked about these things. He reported to them, as they well knew, that the amendment had been withdrawn and that nothing would be done until there had been proper consultations with the bodies concerned. That did not satisfy these people and they are continuing their campaign to make sure that the State Labor Government is not going to get a fair go. Unfortunately, as I said earlier, some sections of the media are doing just the same sort of job in that they are denying to the Australian Labor Party proper reporting of the parliamentary contest. I turn to the position of industry in South Australia. As recently as a few days ago- 10 September-  Mr Hudson  reported on a survey done by W. D. Scott and Co. He was reported in the  News  of 1 0 September to have said: 
Australia's most reputable management consultants, W. D. Scott and Co. have issued projections showing that in the next five years SA will bc getting a better share of national investment than its population would justify . . . 
Everybody knows the Scott company. It has been commissioned by the Federal Government and by other governments.  Mr Hudson  said that the projections showed South Australia could expect $3,030m in new investment in the next five years, out of $29,430m for the whole of Australia. He said:  lt is unfortunate people choose to spread fear and gloom by producing figures which do not give a true picture. 
That is the trouble, of course, as  Senator Cavanagh  pointed out earlier- the use of statistics to suit one's own ends. It is a pity. In the few minutes I have left I want to talk about the views of the Prime Minister and of other people about the Whitlam Government's statement that inflation was being caused to a large extent by external forces. In those days  Mr Fraser, Mr Lynch  and others said: 'No, it is all domestic inflation, all caused by the Whitlam Government'. For up to two years they kept up this sort of nonsense by saying that inflation is always caused by domestic matters and that they were going to cure all this. They said they were going to cut inflation by this year to 4 per cent, instead of which it is 9 per cent, 10 per cent or 1 1 per cent. They were going to cure the unemployment problem, which they have not done. 
As recently as yesterday in the House of Representatives in attacking  Mr Hawke  the Prime Minister talked about the hostile external environment and the difficult international economic environment. So he is faced with the same external position. In fact we had it first, but he has a continuing situation and it is only now that the Fraser Government is giving any sort of consideration or support to what we were saying when we were in office. How the tide has turned ! How the lights have been dimmed! True it is that if the Labor Party in South Australia could identify those parts of the State's economy which are being affected by national policies, it should do so. The rundown in the whole economy has resulted in the sort of effect in South Australia that I have spoken about. Everybody knows that. A child knows it and everybody in this place knows it, yet honourable senators opposite who understand that still come out with the same old guff and get the headlines. Last week Harold Young got a great run from a very poor speech, if I may say so, and he is a friend of mine. I remember visiting a country town with him when 1 was Postmaster-General and unveiling a plaque on a post office. I shared the honours with  Senator Young  because we had been friends for a long time. I am sad to have to say that because of his contributions over the last few weeks I must reconsider my opinion of him. 
-Not only the  Advertiser  but also the  Mail  report nearly everything the other side says; but very little is printed about what the Labor Party says. If any Australian politician deserves a chance to establish his own premiership, his own government, it is Des Corcoran. Des Corcoran and his father are most admirable people, and their reputation more than compares with that of any other Australian politician. Des Corcoran is a strong man and a good man. Honourable senators opposite talk about the left wing. I ask honourable senators: How many Ministers would suspend bus operators because they had brought on a sharp strike and annoyed the public by an instantaneous stoppage in the pouring rain? Geoff Virgo did that last night. He has told the bus operators that unless they are prepared to play the game they will be suspended. That is strong action by a Labor Minister- a courageous man and a good Minister. We will miss him from the Australian scene, and I know that some Federal Ministers will miss him also. 
What about the whole to-do about  Mr Hawke  and wages policy? I know, and honourable senators opposite know, that for many months Bob Hawke has been saying that, if the Australian Government would agree, the Australian Council of Trade Unions, with its advisers and its economists, would sit around the table with the Government and discuss the economy, jobs and employment, and that they would be only too happy to do it. During the pre-Budget talks which the Labor Government had when it was in office, and since this Government came to power, Bob Hawke has submitted to the Federal Government that he would do this. He repeated that offer again on Monday when he said that the trade union movement is not satisfied with the loss of value in the wage packets of wage and salary earners, which has gone down by about 4 per cent since the Liberal Government came to power, and that it will seek to improve their lot and to make a productivity claim. The Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  has attacked  Mr Hawke  because the trade union movement intends to make a productivity claim. But is it not reasonable for the trade union movement and the workers to argue that if productivity rises their share in the profits of productivity should be increased, and that the claim be argued in the Arbitration Commission? 
My question, which concerns Trans-Australia Airlines, is directed to the Leader of the Government in the Senate because it is an important matter, although it concerns  Senator Chaney  as the Minister representing the Minister for Transport. I refer to continuing reports, including reports in the Press today, that there are strong moves in Government circles to sell TAA. I direct the Minister's attention to the statement in  Hansard  as recently as 29 August by the Minister for Transport,  Mr Nixon,  when he said that there was no truth in the reports and that discussions were proceeding with the two major operators with a view to revising the twoairline agreement covering a privately owned airline and a government owned airline. He said that the people who had been promoting the sale of TAA had been told of the Government's decision. Because this matter could destabilise the industry and because it concerns the government airline, I ask the Minister whether there is likely to be any reconsideration of the decision announced by  Mr Nixon? 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for National Development. Perhaps, as a preliminary, I should say that the bandage on my forehead was there before the South Australian election on Saturday. Has the Minister seen in a newspaper this morning a statement concerning Roxby Downs by  Mr Clark,  director of corporate affairs of the Western Mining Corporation? The article stated, in part: 
But  Mr Clark  added that the company still had a great deal of work to do on the project before it could proceed to the development phase. 
We announced a little while ago that we were starting an accelerated investigation of the prospect at a cost of $50 million,' he said. 
 But that could take all of two years, and what the end of it will be nobody knows. ' 
In the light of what he replied to  Senator Young  and as this statement is substantially the same as a statement which was made by  Mr Hudson,  the then responsible Minister in South Australia, does the Minister contest that estimate of development by the company? 
My question, which is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Transport, refers to yesterday's reports relating to fractures in a DC9 aircraft on a flight between Boston and Nova Scotia, the fact that there was certain corrosion in the tail section of the aircraft, and the grounding of some aircraft in Canada. Is the Minister able to state what consideration is being given by the Australian Department of Transport to this incident? Has the Department, or have representatives of the Australian Government in Canada, made inquiries in respect of this incident? Is it expected that it would affect in any way Australia's complement of DC9 aircraft? If the Minister is unable to supply the information at the present time, will he endeavour to do so later, in order to convince everybody that Australia's scrutiny of aircraft continues to be good? 
My question is addressed to the Minister for Social Security, who may recall that, on 2 1 August, I asked her a question in connection with the removal of the allowance paid to certain parents of handicapped children in South Australia who had placed their children temporarily- for less than a month- in a holiday rest home, the parents having been denied the payment for the full month. The Minister undertook to review the matter. I now ask whether she is in a position to state what change might be possible in respect of those cases? 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Transport and refers to the Australian produced Nomad aircraft. The Minister will recall questions asked in this Senate some months ago when the Government first announced that the Nomad aircraft would have no part in the proposed coastal surveillance services, although that statement was later modified. I now ask the Minister: Is it a fact that most of the contracts to cover this surveillance have been let and in no case does it appear that the Nomad aircraft has been incorporated in the proposed services by various organisations? Can the Minister indicate whether the promise that nine Nomad aircraft would be modified to fit the service is to be carried out? Can he advise when those nine Nomad aircraft will be brought into service? On what duties will they be occupied? 
My question is addressed to the Leader of the Government in the Senate and refers to the resignation by  Mr Sinclair.  As the Minister is well aware, almost all citizens in Australia today are talking about the Sinclair affair. The matter is well known outside Parliament in the public arena and, I suggest to the Minister, should be debated or discussed in this House. I ask the Minister whether he intends to tell the Senate the facts surrounding the acceptance by the Prime Minister of the resignation of  Mr Sinclair  and whether at any stage today there will be an opportunity for the Opposition to discuss these matters in the Senate? 
My question is directed either to the Leader of the Government in the Senate or to the Minister for Social Security and refers to the answer given by the Ministers in respect of unemployment of youths between the ages of 1 5 and 1 9 years. It is clear from the statement of the Leader of the Government in the Senate that he was echoing what  Mr Viner,  the Minister for Employment and Youth Affairs, had said at the National Youth Conference, namely, that there would be new training schemes. However, he used these words in his Press release: 
The family responsibility would extend to their maintenance and upkeep. 
Is it not clear from the statements made that in future the families of those persons who may be trained and who are presently maintained by unemployment benefit would have that responsibility transferred to them? I am referring to any new training scheme or to any scheme which might incorporate youths in the age group of 1 5 to 19 years? Because presently many benefits are available to young people under the various government support schemes, can the Minister indicate whether there is a substantial policy on this matter? 
The Minister representing the Minister for Transport will recall that some days ago  Senator O  'Byrne and I asked questions relating to the maintenance and security of DC9 aircraft operating in Australia. The Minister reassured us that that type of aircraft was free of any special need for scrutiny. Has the Minister seen a report in one of this morning's newspapers that authorities in the United States of America will now require that type of aircraft to be specially scrutinised? Can he inform the Senate as to whether that report is correct? What operations are being carried out in Australia to ensure that the standards set by the American authorities are met? 
My question is directed to the Attorney-General and refers to the amendments to the Conciliation and Arbitration Act, which I understand will be before the Senate tomorrow. I ask: What consultation did the Minister have with members of the judiciary on legislation affecting the role or status of the judiciary prior to the drafting of that legislation or its presentation to the Parliament? Does he agree that it is a sound principle to consult members of the judiciary before the form of any such legislation is finally settled? 

 -Mr President I seek leave to move a motion. I am motivated by the fact that the Commonwealth Conciliation and Arbitration Commission is presently considering the proposed amendments to the Conciliation and Arbitration Act which are before the Senate today. Although there has been partial consideration of the amendments by one of the judges of the Commission, in my opinion it is necessary for the Senate to postpone consideration of this matter to enable the report of the members of the Commission to come before the Senate. Because of those important considerations, I seek leave to move a motion. 
Leave granted. 
-I move: 
That consideration of Government Business, Order of the Day No. 2, relating to the Conciliation and Arbitration Amendment Bill 1979, be postponed until the  President,  judges and commissioners of the Commonwealth Conciliation and Arbitration Commission have reported upon the amendments and related matters in the Conciliation and Arbitration Act. 
I have put that proposition because more than ever before there is widespread resentment to the proposed amendments. The critics of those amendments include some most esteemed people who have been involved in industrial relations in the past. Included in that group is  Sir Richard  Kirby, a notable and distinguished Australian who was  President  of the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission for many years.  His  criticisms of the amendments have been reported but perhaps they should be repeated briefly at this stage. Not only does he think that those amendments are bad for the purposes of the Act, but also he feels that constitutionally they mct, ay be invalid. Recently he said that the Government was trying to tell the Commission how to conduct its business and that he was quite certain that the new measures would lead to greater industrial trouble. Speaking in an Australian Broadcasting Commission radio program, he said that the amendments would have a bad effect on industrial relations. He stated: 
Any legislation which requires the Commission to act in a particular way or prohibits it from acting in a particular way in the prevention or settlement of an industrial dispute is a very bad thing. 
This is because the Commission is the Australian medium for dealing with these matters, not the Government. That's the way the Constitution requires it and that's the way it's always worked. 
He is a person who should be respected as an authority in these matters. Honourable senators also know that one of the judges has conveyed to the Minister for Industrial Relations  (Mr Street),  by way of a report, his criticism of the amendments. I understand that that criticism is now supported by 24 other commissioners. The Senate has been told today that there is to be a meeting of the commissioners, judges and  President  to consider what are their views about this legislation. I do not know whether that meeting is to be a formal meeting of the Commission and can be accepted as such. It would be unfortunate indeed if the Senate were to consider and determine those matters without the expert views of the Commission. All honourable senators know that the commissioners have been appointed for their special abilities. We all know that the  President  of the Commission, whilst not being acceptable to some people in the community, is carrying out the objects of the Act. It would seem to the Opposition, and to many others, that the objects of the Act are not being preserved and that the Government is attempting to take away from the purposes of the Act that very important aspect of conciliation. I wish to read the pertinent section of the Conciliation and Arbitration Act 1904-76. Section 2 reads: 
The chief objects of this Act are- 
to promote goodwill in industry; 
to encourage, and provide means for, conciliation with a view to amicable agreement, thereby preventing and settling industrial disputes; 
to provide means for preventing and settling industrial disputes not resolved by amicable agreement, including threatened, impending and probable industrial disputes, with the maximum of expedition and the minimum of legal form and technicality; 
to provide for the observance and enforcement of agreements and awards made for the prevention or settlement of industrial disputes; 
to encourage the organization of representative bodies of employers and employees and their registration under this Act; and  (0  to encourage the democratic control of organizations so registered and the full participation by members of such an organization in the affairs of the Organization. 
It would seem from what has happened since the Fraser Government was elected that the advisers of the Government have decided that the laws relating to industrial relations ought to be tightened in respect to the trade union movement. There is no doubt that the proposals presently before the Senate are unprecedented. We had the occasion recently of the Government bringing before the Parliament and the Parliament passing, with opposition from the Labor Party, the Commonwealth Employees (Redeployment and Retirement) Bill whereby members of the Government's own staff- the 300,000 workers in the Commonwealth Public Service- could be stood down. That is most unprecedented. We had the decision to amend the Trade Practices Act to enable it to be applied against the trade union movement in cases of boycott. Severe restrictions have been placed on boycotts. 
There is no doubt that consideration was given to those matters in those cases and that they were opposed by the various groups affected. In respect of the proposals before the Senate today, there has been no expert advice. The Government has not asked the judges, commissioners or  President  of the Commonwealth Conciliation and Arbitration Commission, or any other experts, what their views are about the legislation. It decided the matter in the National Labour Consultative Council at a time when the Australian Council of Trade Unions and the Council of Australian Government Employee Organisations could not attend because they were then dealing with the other Bill to which I referred. In fact, no consideration has been given to the matter in the style of the previous Government. I remind the Senate that there has been a tradition in respect of industrial legislation in Australia for many years. I think back to the time of Prime Minister Holt, to Albert Monk, the  President  of the ACTU- I was a member of the ACTU in those days- and to Prime Ministers McMahon and Gorton, and always when important alterations to the Conciliation and Arbitration Act were contemplated there was consultation on a wide tripartite basis. Proposals such as these were always put before the parties for proper consideration. In the case of these proposed amendments there has been a very secretive arrangement. The people who have discussed it, including the back bench members of the Government parties, as far as I know have been bound to return copies of the proposals and no leaks of any consequence were made to people such as ourselves, who ought to be familiar with what is proposed. Nor did the Government wait until the ACTU and CAGEO were able to give consideration to these matters. 
For those important reasons, which I have discussed in a preliminary way, I suggest that it would be wise, in everyone's interest, for the Senate to adjourn this matter today. The Government has put its case, which is not agreed to by the Opposition or by those whom we call the experts in the field; nor is it agreed to by a number of commissioners, who have been specially selected by the Government, who take an oath of office, and who are bound by the procedures of the law about which I have just read. That is the law which is said to be challenged by the union movement. I wind up by saying that anybody can test what I am now going to say. I have said here a number of times that the major disputes affecting the Australian economy finally have been resolved by the ACTU and the ACTU  President.  That is the reason, of course, why Bob Hawke has such a popularity rating. Everybody sees him - 
-Everybody, including some of the honourable senator's Government Ministers, sees him as an important and necessary adjunct to the industrial scene. More often than not he is required to see what he can do to settle disputes, and he has done that. The vast resources and expertise and staff of the Government and the law often are unable to solve disputes, but the ACTU  President,  with his officers and in co-operation with employers and unions, is able to find solutions. How silly it is to think that at this stage that process can be changed, that we can set about allowing courts to be run along channelled lines, observing like robots, not being able to settle disputes on the basis of what the members know to be right but having to rely on a second person who knows nothing about a particular dispute and who does not know the industry, the panel or anything else.  Mr President,  in view of your courtesy in allowing me to move this motion, I trust that the Senate will give it due consideration. In the light of the economy and in the light of the issues before the Australian people and the union movement, it would be a good thing to adjourn this matter. The question of when the Senate again takes up the issue could be a matter for discussion between  Senator Wriedt,  the Leader of the Opposition, and the Attorney-General  (Senator Durack). 
-There has been an extraordinary turn of events in the Senate this afternoon. While  Senator Wriedt  was talking we received information about the  President  of the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission seeking consultations with the Government. I only hope that the AttorneyGeneral  (Senator Durack),  the Minister who is sitting on the other side, did not know about that request from the Commission. If he did it would seem to me that he was concealing an important fact from the Senate one which would have great significance in determining whether we should adjourn or pass the legislation. He has not yet offered the information. I invite him to indicate to the Senate whether, when we were debating this matter, he knew exactly what is now the big news. I would suggest that there will be a sensation in the sphere of industrial relations when it is known that the Commission requested an invitation from the Government to discuss legislation when it had not been invited so to do. 
When I spoke earlier on this matter I asked the Attorney-General whether he could tell us anything new about these things. I also asked: What is the urgency about this proposition? Was it, in the first place, because the Government expected to have an early Federal election and it thereby released the statement very secretly. We know now that it was a very secretive deal and that, honourable senators on the other side were not allowed to hold the copies of the amendments that were put before them and which they were asked to support. That situation was concealed. It is now public knowledge. Why is it that the Government at this late stage is turning away from all the recognised procedures that have been established over the years? I have previously referred to the procedure whereby the Government always consults with important bodies; in this case, the trade union movement, the employers and the Australian Conciliation and Arbitration Commission. We want to know why the Government has not done that in this case. Why is it that the statement from  Mr Justice 
Staples was so dealt with by Minister for Industrial Relations,  Mr Street.  Why is it that he has been shilly-shallying with the information he has given to the Parliament. Will  Senator Durack,  the Attorney-General, do the same as the Minister did? We now know, because the information has been revealed, that the Minister had a copy of the submission from  Mr Justice  Staples. Yesterday, in answer to a question asked in the House of Representatives by  Mr Lionel  Bowen,  Mr Street  at page 20 10 of  Hansard  stated:  . . I did not release the so-called Staples statement. 
At 3.23 p.m. yesterday in the House of Representatives during the discussion of a matter of public importance  Mr Street  said: 
I refer to a question asked of me at Question Time today by the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Hayden)  in which he asked whether any member of my staff made available copies of a statement by  Mr Justice  Staples dated 28 September 1979 concerning the amendments to the Conciliation and Arbitration Act that were then before the House. I have ascertained that subsequent- I stress that word subsequent'- to that document being made a matter of public record, specifically on the ABC radio program  PM  on the evening of 1 1 October, a member of my staff made copies available to several members of the Press Gallery. I point out that this was some hours after the comments were made public. The initial release of this document was not made by my office but by persons unknown to me or to any person in my office. 
The facts are that  PM  had sighted a document but it was not able to quote from it. The release of the document in that way was most unusual. One would have thought that the Minister for Industrial Relations, having had such an important document, would have instantly reported to the Parliament about it, criticised it, supported it or requested more consultations. Despite what  Senator Durack  has said, up till now there have not been any consultations. Of course, it is true that the views of important people have been put in the public arena and to the Government, but as to consultations, there have been none in the real sense of the word. It is a practice that of course has been observed by the Australian Council of Trade Unions which made it clear to the Government that at no time was it in fact invited to any consultations. 
They were invited to a meeting of the National Labour Consultative Council. The Attorney-General and  Senator Walters  well know the reason for that. At that time the ACTU was developing a campaign against the Commonwealth Employees (Redeployment) Bill which had been passed in this Parliament. The Government delayed with its proclamation. The ACTU decided- rightly so in my opinion- at that stage to withdraw from the 
Council. If the Government believes in the procedure which has been carried on by every Liberal Prime Minister since the war why did it not get around the table with the ACTU and the bosses and ask the courts what to do. The Government is carrying on in a very secretive way. This raises the question: Why is it that  Mr Street  is dodging the issue? What is his purpose in leaking the information on  Mr Justice  Staples' point of view? Would it not have been better in regard to industrial relations to have made some observations in the Parliament and in the public arena about the statement? We are confronted with extraordinary powers which are to be given to the Government. It is almost a conspiracy. 
We know- I think we know- from the information we have that this report was produced without consultation and contrary to the advice of the Department of Industrial Relations. I understand that in the other place my colleagues said that they had full confidence that  Mr Street  would not put forward the statement. It has come in a very secretive way. In the House of Representatives the debate on this matter has been gagged twice. In this place the debate on the matter has been gagged. If  Senator Durack  's argument against my proposition that we should await the report of the Commission was that he wanted more time, why did he not move that there should be a time limit placed upon an adjournment? Why did the Government not support  Senator Harradine  's reasonable proposition? Members of the Labor Party are certainly concerned about this matter. I will refer to the expressed concern about  Mr Street's  attitude by quoting a statement just issued by  Mr Lionel  Bowen, the  Deputy  Leader of the Labor Party. It is headed:  'Mr Street  and the Staples Letter'. He said: 
The Minister for Industrial Relations  Mr Street  has now misled the Parliament twice in two days over the circulation by his office staff to press gallery journalists of the Staples letter. 
After persistent evasion,  Mr Street  was finally forced today to admit that he knew at 9.00 p.m. on Thursday 1 1 October that his office staff were making the Staples letter available selectively to journalists. 
Yet he told the Parliament at Question Time yesterday: The first point that I make is that I did not release the socalled Staples statement '. 
The release of the private letter was clearly designed as part of a move to discredit  Mr Justice  Staples because of his strong professional criticism of the Government's latest industrial relations legislation. 
The morning after he circulated the letter, both  Mr Street  and the Prime Minister passed derogatory remarks about  Mr Justice  Staples ' background. 

 Mr Street has sought to j justify the letter 's release by saying it was revealed first on the ABC radio program PM. 
He said on PM last night and reiterated again in the Parliament today that he had received verification from someone connected with the program that they held  Mr Justice  Staples' letter. 
This claim is false. The Canberra reporter for the program was still trying to get a copy of the Staples' letter from  Mr Street  's own office late last Thursday night. 
It is clear thai  Mr Street  decided to release a private letter from a senior member of the Arbitration Commission after the PM report in order to embarrass its author. 
He went on with similar criticisms. I am concerned about the whole issue in this matter. I would have thought that in the circumstances of what has happened today the Attorney-General would have been up on his feet. I have a document in front of me which states: 
Sydney, 17 October. The  President  of the Federal Arbitration Commission,  Sir John  Moore, will seek talks with Federal Industrial Relations Minister,  Mr Tony  Street, about the Government's amendments to the Conciliation and Arbitration Act. 1 suggest that that is enough for Government senators to get up on their feet and adjourn this debate as a matter of urgency. After they have discussed the matter, which they can do quite easily this evening, they can take it up again tomorrow morning because, in addition to the trade union movement, the Labor Party and the experts to which 1 have referred, they should have the Commission 's submissions before them. The Government has taken action to turn the Australian Conciliation and Arbitration Commission into just an arbitration court and a missile of the Government. I shall continue with the information I have about what happened this afternoon. The telex from Sydney continues: 

 Sir John discussed the amendments today with a number of senior presidential members of the Commission and the Executive of the Commissioners ' Association. 
A statement released by  Sir John  late today described the talks as 'an informal discussion '. 
The statement said that as a result of these discussions it was agreed that the  President  should seek an opportunity to discuss the 'consultative' provisions of the legislation with the Minister. 
Why does the honourable senator not ask to adjourn the debate? The message continues: 
The amendments which came before the Senate today, have been condemned by a Commission  Deputy President, Mr Justice  James Staples, and criticised in telexes sent to the Government by all of the 25 Commissioners. 
Opposition senators- All of them! 
All of them; not just one, the lot. Should not that be enough for this Government to ask that the debate be now adjourned? It would get the appreciation, not only of the Parliament, but also of the people outside concerned about the future of workers, about employment and the role of arbitration in the Australian economy. I am surprised by the actions of  Mr Street  in other directions. Honourable senators know that I quoted earlier the objectives of the Act. Most people know them now. They know that an important part of the Act is not just arbitration. It is a question of conciliation, to settle by amicable arrangements after hearing evidence. The person who hears the evidence is highly qualified to hear it. He has to decide whether the dispute is an important one and how it should be resolved. When he makes that determination, no other person should intervene unless there is an appeal against the decision. He is the expert. He is the one who knows all about it. These are the objectives of the Arbitration Commission which have stood with us since the Act started. We should be very mindful of those objectives before we start making any alterations to the Act. I will quote from what  Mr Street  said on  PM  on 16 October 1979. He was asked by Geoff Duncan: 
Are you still going to persist with the legislation? 

 Mr Street said: 
Yes we will because for four reasons really. There 's a need to get the greatest degree of consistency internally in the commission and its wages decisions and the requirement for commissioners to consult. It doesn't take away their right to make an ultimate decision but is designed to get greater consistency. There's a need for the  president  to be able to take over a dispute at any time or any of the parties or the Minister to seek a Full Bench. That need has been demonstrated in recent days. Not having it made a great deal of industrial disruption and there's finally a need to protect the public interest where the safety health and welfare . . . 
Look at the great blanket, the ambit of this proposition of the community's involvement. He continued: 
So yes we intend to go ahead with it for all those reasons. 
Later  Mr Street  said: 
Yes of course it can because the institutions which are set up by the Parliament and the legislation that they operate under, are required to operate in accordance with the law and that applies to the range of institutions including this one. So long as the constitutional requirements are met and our advice is that they have been. 
We have not heard yet the answer from the Attorney-General,  Senator Durack,  as to the serious criticisms that were made by  Sir Richard  Kirby and  Mr Justice  Staples about whether the proposed amendments were constitutional. I suggest that he is required to answer those matters in the sense that the documents have now been made public. If there is something in the propositions which have been held by the Government, it should be told to the Senate. The Attorney-General is obliged to order that that should be done. 
Before I close my remarks for the suspension of the sitting, may I talk about the National Labour Consultative Council. As I mentioned earlier- this was told to the Government- the Autralian Council of Trade Unions told the Government that it was not only prepared to talk about this Bill, but prior to the Budget  Mr Hawke  told the Government that it was prepared to discuss anything affecting the economy and that he would go along to the Government. The Government was told that not only this year but also in previous years. As far as the ACTU is concerned, it has always been a body which has believed in tripartite discussions. As I have already said, I was myself involved with some of the people concerned. I can assure honourable senators that the former Prime Minister of this country was only too anxious to get the views of the ACTU and of the trade union movement in important matters because that is the way the main issues of the day were resolved. I will continue my remarks later. 
Sitting suspended from 6 to 8 p.m. 

 Senator DURACK (Western AustraliaAttorneyGeneral) Before the debate on the motion for the second reading of the Conciliation and Arbitration Amendment Bill resumes, I seek leave to make a short statement. 
Leave granted. 

 - Mr President, as you may recall, the Opposition has stated that the changes proposed by the Government will tend to undermine the role and position of the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission and will impede its statutory function. In particular, the changes proposed by the legislation include a requirement for consultation by commissioners, which is the subject that the Attorney-General  (Senator Durack)  has stated is to be considered by the Minister for Industrial Relations  (Mr Street)  and the  President  of the Commission, I presume tomorrow. Of course, that is one of the fundamental issues in the amendments. The Bill also deals with the question of the jurisdiction of the Commission regarding strike pay; the manner of dealing with stand-down applications; the question of references of matters to a Full Bench; the withdrawal of matters from a single member of the Commission where the  President  so decides; and, more importantly, the issue of the deregistration of unions, about which we are very much concerned. In the short time I have available may I mention some of the matters which concern us and which have been mentioned in other places. The basic question relates to proposed new section 22a in clause 3 of the Bill, which states: 
Where- 
a Commissioner proposes to make an award, or certify a memorandum of agreement, making provision for, or altering, the rates of wages or the conditions applicable in relation to employees in a particular industry or group of industries; and 
that industry or group of industries, as the case may be, has been assigned under sub-section (  1  ) of section 23 to a panel of members of the Commission, the Commissioner shall, before making the award or certifying the memorandum of agreement, whether or not he is a member of that panel, consult with the Presidential Member . . . 
That is a fundamental weakness in the proposed amendment, as we see it. As I said earlier, the commissioners are people specially selected from the community, people with expertise who take an oath of office and who usually are skilled in the industry to which they are assigned. Any proposition such as the one now proposed would simply prevent the proper settlement of disputes. 
I know from experience that in the settling of disputes or wages claims the parties usually want to know whether they can settle the matter in front of the commissioner to whom they are talking. If the commissioner or the person to whom the parties are talking had to go to somebody to relate these matters second hand, then in the opinion of the Opposition and, of course, of the ACTU that would be a bad thing. It would add to the difficulties and should be proposed. 
The next important alternation which concerns the Opposition is proposed new section 25a in clause 4 of the Bill, which deals with the limitation of powers of the Commission. The proposed new section states: 
The Commission is not empowered to make an award, certify a memorandum of agreement, make a recommendation or take any other action, whether by way of conciliation or arbitration, in respect of a claim for the making of a payment to employees in respect of a period during which those employees were engaged in industrial action. 
This is a very serious matter. It may be argued that while the court may consider that certain action constitutes industrial action, it is often action which concerns a question of safety or something of that type. This legislation would impose some restriction on the Commission. As to a reference to the Full Bench, under section 34 it has been stated here and elsewhere that it would be unfair and, I think, inconsistent with the ideas of industrial relations if a presidential member could pick up a matter from a commissioner and refer it to a Full Bench simply because this section had been put into the Act. Such a practice would certainly be unsatisfactory and should not be permitted. In dealing with section 25a and the question of industrial action, may I mention situations which come to mind in the building industry and in the railways industry in particular. There are occasions in the railways industry when, because of heavy rain or because of construction, it may be inopportune for members of the shunting staff to work. They could not work in flooded yards. If they decided to put a ban on work performance' and yet had to be available for other work, that could be action that would come under this section and they could be described as workers 'engaged in industrial action'. 
-Of course, and the honourable senator would know, being an exrailway employee. In the building industry and in the engineering and waterworks areas circumstances often arise where shuttering fails- that is the formwork keeping up walls where there are excavations- and the employees decide not to work in those conditions unless the boss makes some safety arrangements. These problems are usually caused by the employer not making adjustments, not taking reasonable safety precautions. However, in those circumstances it is possible that the workers would come under the general provisions of section 25a if they put a ban on the work and said: 'We will not work under those unsafe conditions but we will work somewhere else'. That is a very dangerous position. 
One of the worst sections is section 143A, under which it is possible for the Minister, when he thinks fit, to apply to the Commission and, if he succeeds, in fact to control the operations of the union members and of the organisations. Proposed new section 143a in clause 16 states: 
Where, on application by the Minister, a Full Bench is satisfied that- 
an organisation has been or is, or two or more members of an organization have been or are, engaged in industrial action; and 
the industrial action has had, is having, or is likely to have, a substantial adverse effect on the safety, health or welfare of the community or of a part of the community, the Full Bench shall make a declaration that it is so satisfied and cause the declaration to be recorded in writing. 
A Minister by his own action can march before the Full Bench, and the Full Bench obviously has to make the declaration if there is what is claimed to be a substantial adverse effect on the safety, health or welfare of the community, which could be anything. It could be isolated action in a rural area; it could be a Telecom strike; it could be a railway strike. As a result, there is overpowering control over the organisation, over the members of the organisation, and over the property and funds of the organisation. Proposed new section 143A (2) states: 
Where a declaration is made under sub-section (1) . . . the Governor-General may- 
at any time within the period of 6 months after the making of the declaration, by order in writing under his hand, direct the Registrar to cancel the registration of the organisation; 
Perhaps that would not be difficult for the union because it may say: 'We will go outside the arbitration machinery and set up our own organisation. ' But sub-paragraph ( b ) states: at any time, or from time to time, within the period of 6 months, by order in writing, exercise any one or more of the following powers: 
the power to suspend, to the extent specified in the order, any of the rights, privileges or capacities of the organization or of all or any of its members, as such members, under this Act or any other Act . . . 
This means that, as  Mr Cameron  in the other place has pointed out, a dispute which takes place in the north of Australia affecting a small group of people servicing a generator plant or something of that nature could well have a general effect on the whole of the membership of the union. In defence, it is argued by the Minister that there has to be a substantial adverse effect on the safety, health and welfare of the community. This is a very serious blanket provision which will result generally in overall control. In modern society no organisation will put up with that sort of control. In fact, as honourable senators will see, by vesting in the Minister the ability to apply immediately to a Full Bench, the Bill brings directly into the ambit of industrial relations action by the Executive, by the Minister, to do something to control a trade union. It will not only mean control of the trade union but also will make sure that the person involved can be inhibited from working, and their property and rights within the union controlled. 
If this sort of action is sustained workers will combine, as they did in the early days, and I remind honourable Senators of how the trade union movement in Australia first grew. It grew by combinations. Combination Acts were passed by State legislatures and master and servant Acts were passed to protect those combinations. In the legislation before us tonight certain proposals are made. I hope, from what we now know about the intervention of the Commission itself, that these matters will be altered. It is obvious that the Commission considers that the position of consultation imperils the rights and the effectiveness of a commissioner. I am certain that in the days when  Senator Cavanagh, Senator Mulvihill, Senator Gietzelt  and I were union officials and we operated in the industrial area we would not have put up with talking to a commissioner or  chairman  of a conciliation board unless we knew that he had the powers to settle a dispute. If the provision is changed the whole basis of what has happened in Australia in the past will be altered. It is a backward step. 1 agree with  Mr Justice  Staples who said that the proposed amendments are not reforms of the Conciliation and Arbitration Act. The Australian Council of Trade Unions has already agreed that a reform of the Act is needed. Some of the national newspapers have said that they think there is a need to consider changes to the Act. The ACTU would go along with that. But the changes have to be tested amongst people who work in the field. They have to be tested by experts. I suggest to the Government, in view of what has been said today and what has developed concerning the Commission, that it give very due and strong regard to having this matter adjourned some time tomorrow for a week or two until it is more clearly defined. 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Industrial Relations and refers to the amendments to the Conciliation and Arbitration Act and to the reports about a meeting between the Minister,  Mr Street,  and the  President  of the Commission, which has now taken place. I ask the Minister whether it is now the understanding that a report of the discussions will be a matter for a ministerial statement in the Senate today. 
I will not take long. I want to reinforce what has been said by my colleagues in respect to proposed new section 25A. This new prescription will simply mean that these actions will be taken outside the ambit of the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission. There have been very few cases of the Commission deciding to make awards in respect of this lost time and when it has they have been well justified. What will happen in the future will be that the unions will settle the disputes directly with the employer. The Bill is advocating industrial action outside the control, power and influence of the arbitration system. Consequently, it is a very bad move. It is placing the whole matter in the industrial jungle. 
I speak only briefly to advise the Minister for Science and the Environment  (Senator Webster)  that I think it is most irregular for him to tell the Committee that the Government will report progress when it decides to do so. The Minister has not informed the Opposition what is likely to happen about reporting progress this morning. He should do so as a matter of courtesy and also because that action would acknowledge the right of the Committee. I suggest to the Minister that in a parliamentary sense it is most irregular to treat us in this cavalier way. If the Government intends to be reasonable about this matter, the Minister, some other Minister or the Whip ought to advise the Committee at this time what the Government expects the Committee to do, whether it expects the Committee to proceed and conclude consideration or at what time progress might be reported. 
On behalf of the Opposition I make the strongest protest about the way in which this legislation has been pushed through the Parliament. This morning the Government thumbed its nose at the parliamentary system and at the so-called great advantage of there being a Senate. It has thumbed its nose at the experts in the community. It has denied the logic of people like  Sir Richard  Kirby who has given the Government and the people the advantages of his wisdom in respect of industrial legislation. What the Government has done tonight has not made industrial relations better in Australia. It talks with two tongues. Ministers are talking about employee participation. The Minister for Industrial Relations,  Mr Street,  is going out to the Liberal Party branches and talking about the need to have a new form in respect of industrial relations. Yet in this place, the Government is bringing in laws to make conditions worse. I hope that the people of Australia will realise the way in which the Senate parliamentary system is being dominated by numbers by the Government. 
I want as briefly as possible to deal with this clause. It is almost impossible to deal properly with any of the clauses at this stage. There are now 15 clauses which should be dealt with and which should be scrutinised properly by the Committee. It is a scandalous exercise of power. There is no justification for what has been done and I protest most strongly against the arrangements which have been made. Opposition members will of course oppose all the clauses. They have declared their opposition to them, for the reasons stated. Some very important issues are still to be discussed. I add my protest to the protest made by  Senator Douglas  McClelland in respect of the way in which this busines is being conducted this morning. 
-by leave- Such as it is, the statement made by the Attorney-General  (Senator Durack)  on behalf of the Minister for Industrial Relations  (Mr Street)  simply reinforces and strengthens the attitude put yesterday by the Opposition that the matter should be adjourned and reconsidered after the experts, including the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission, have made some sort of deliberate report about it. We have before us a statement by the Minister for Industrial Relations. As far as I am aware- the AttorneyGeneral might correct me- it is not a text which has been agreed upon by the  President  of the Commission and by the Minister. It is the Minister's own opinion. Is it an agreed text? 
-If it is an agreed text, it would seem to me to differ slightly from what the Minister said this morning in the other place. In answer to a question from  Mr Hayden,  he used the words: 'The  President  discussed the question of limiting section 22a'. That may be a small point. Nevertheless, initially the report raises the question that an understanding between the  President  of the Commission and a Minister of the Crown cannot affect the law if it is passed. It is still a question of the law; it is still a question of whether the objectives of the Conciliation and Arbitration Act are being observed in regard to an amendment which might be passed in the Senate and in regard to the prescription in the legislation. Whatever understanding there might be, even if there is agreement, it can have no reference at all in law. It may be that the Government has told the Commission that it wants consistency or that its view is that there should be consistency in relation to wage matters. We know that that is exactly what the Government has tried to do. It has tried to lean on statutory authorities and departments to achieve that aim. That may be the objective of the Government, but it can have no real meaning in regard to the Conciliation and Arbitration Act. 
As the Minister well knows, and he would be more competent to speak on it that I because I am not a lawyer, these provisions, if they are passed, will oblige the  President  in his own terms, in his own way, and at his own speed, to require a commissioner in particular circumstances to seek advice before he makes a determination. The Government wants that because it wants consistency. The Minister said in his statement, in reply to  Sir John  Moore:   . . I pointed out that the object of the consultative procedures was to get the maximum possible consistency in principle in the decision making of the Commission. 
That raises a very important point. It would seem that in the agreed text, if that is what it is,  Mr Street  deals with  Sir John's  concern about the consultative process impeding the Commission's independence and efficiency by saying: 
I assured  Sir John  that under the proposed legislation, Commissioners retained the right of final decision on a case they had heard. They would not be subject to direction by a  Deputy President. 
I hope that the pace at which we proceed will not be such as to conclude this matter tonight, and I put to the Government the same arguments that the Opposition has put before. As to the assignments of industries, at the present time each presidential member covers some 20 different industries and some cover 50 different industries. A commissioner, having heard a case and being obliged by the Act to settle the dispute, in every case would be obliged to go to the presidential member and report what he wants to do. That also raises the question of whether the principles of the Act in regard to conciliation and arbitration are being confounded. The last matter that is astounding is what the Minister says in the last paragraph: 

 Sir John asked when the legislation was expected to be passed through the Senate. 
That indicates to me that the commissioners collectively- the association- are still concerned about what might happen and when. For that reason, I trust that the debate might be adjourned or will proceed slowly to allow more consideration. There is also an extra point to consider. Obviously, apart from the question of principles, the Commission has raised the question of workloads. There seems to be implied a promise that the Government will appoint more commissioners. I do not know, but if I read the relevant paragraph honourable senators can draw their own conclusions. It reads: 
Finally,  Sir John  said that he would expect the consultative requirements would put an extra work load on the Commission. If the Commission were to carry out its work effectively, and with minimum delays to the parties before it, more people would be required on the Commission. 
Absolutely. It went on: 
I said that I could see the logic of this point and the Government would await advice from  Sir John  when he had had the opportunity to make an assessment of the situation. 
It is clear that  Sir John  is still to respond to what has been put. 
That may be. I am making the additional point that it must be clear to all of us that there is still to be a response from the  President,  or from the Commission collectively, to what took place last night. For that reason too it would be wise to proceed slowly and not to determine the matter. The final point I raise concerns what I have been told this morning, and I understand a question was raised in the House.  Mr Hawke,  the  President  of the Australian Council of Trade Unions, has repeated a call- or has made a fresh call, I am not sure whichasking the Government to consider the deregistration amendments proposed in this Bill. Because of the different position that has been taken up, I understand- I am not sure whether it is true- that the Minister has refused to accept it. At this stage he refuses to consult with the ACTU and the unions about the deregistration section, section 143a. For those reasons I hope the Minister will not be so foolish as to gag the debate and expect the legislation to be passed today. I am convinced that the Government is getting into a very woolly situation, that what is proposed is very loose. I trust only that, because of the words of the  President  of the Commission on the need to consult with him and the commissioners, there may be second thoughts about the legislation and possibly some modification of what is now proposed. 
-by leave- I am surprised that a few minutes after I, on behalf of the Opposition, had appealed for consideration of the amendments to the Conciliation and Arbitration Act to go ahead more slowly or to be stood over until next week because of the statement that  Senator Durack  made in this place and the other new matters that were put before us,  Senator Chaney  came out and said that the Government has to put the legislation through today. I would have thought that in those circumstances  Senator Durack  would consider my proposition and reply later in the day. I would have hoped that the Government would take a more realistic view of the arguments that the Opposition has put up and of my request to  Senator Durack.  I expected  Senator Durack  rather than  Senator Chaney  to reply to that request. Am I to understand from the words of  Senator Chaney  that no consideration has been given to the request from the Opposition that the gag should not be applied tonight in respect of the Conciliation and 
Arbitration Amendment Bill? Leaving aside the general question, what is the reason for the urgency in respect of that Bill? 

 Senator CHANEY (Western AustraliaMinister for Aboriginal Affairs)- by leave- I have nothing to add to the statement I put down a few minutes ago. The Government has indicated that it would like the legislation to be completed this evening and that is where the matter rests. 
I wish to speak about the comments made by the Attorney-General  (Senator Durack)  in his speech in reply on the second reading debate. It is clear from what he said that he has not recognised the basis of the general criticism of the amendments. He has not understood and does not recognise the comments made by the former  President  of the Conciliation and Arbitration 
Commission,  Sir Richard  Kirby, who only tonight continued his opposition to this legislation.  Sir Richard  criticised the basic clause, clause 3, which deals with the need for the commissioner to consult with the presidential member and generally restates the criticism made in this place that such a procedure, proposed in an attempt by the Government to have generally consistent standards applied, will breach the whole purpose of the Conciliation and Arbitration Act. That point has been definitely made in the speeches delivered by honourable senators on this side of the chamber. We have said that in our opinion the objectives of the Bill as it presently exists, are such as to ensure that the Commission will see that disputes are settled amicably. 
We received today the report of the Minister for Industrial Relations,  Mr Street.  It has been ventilated and argued here. No one who was reasonable could do other than accept it as to use the vernacular, a shandygaff report. Although it might have been, as the Attorney-General has said, a draft which was acceptable to the  President  and the Minister for Industrial Relations, it raises all of the questions that we have raised. It does nothing to dispel our fears. The issues are still there. If the Government pushes this Bill through the Parliament at this stage it will get, as other honourable senators have said, more reaction than it has witnessed today. 
It is strange to hear the Attorney-General arguing about the chances that the Australian Council of Trade Unions had to consult with the Government. We know that the legislation did not originate in the regular departments of the Government. Those who drew it up were bound to secrecy. No leaks occurred until  Mr Justice  Staples made his statement. Only today the Government rejected a call from the ACTU to discuss urgently new section 143 of the Bill. When I raised the matter, the Attorney-General said that the Government had no intention of discussing that section, which relates to the proposed deregistration procedures which allow the Executive to almost take control of a union. Therefore, it is extraordinary to hear the Minister talk about the Opposition not accepting the reforms in the Bill. It contains no reforms that improve the lot of the worker. Can it be said that the deregistration procedures will in any way help the unions? The minister has the power, under certain prescribed pro forma, to take control of the unions and to affect the rights of members. The only assurance that the AttorneyGeneral has given us tonight has been his statement that he has looked at these clauses and considers that they are consistent with the 
Constitution. But, as he has also said, that would have to be tested in the courts. No doubt it will be. The surprising thing is that, for some reason, although there appears to be no urgency, we are here tonight at nearly one o'clock in the morning because the Government, as the result of a whim or the decision of the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  who is determined to attack the unions and the worker movement, has decided that, this legislation has to go through. It is crazy. We all know that it is crazy. We should adjourn the debate to allow other aspects of the legislation to be debated next Tuesday. On that day we will meet at 3 o'clock, a half hour later than normal. But the Government cannot see its way clear to permit us to consider these matters at 2 p.m. or 2.30 p.m. 
What nonsense the Minister talks about safety questions. He referred to the situation of a shunter. I have been to a shunting yard at night in pouring rain where, if a man slips under an engine, he will lose his legs. Men have refused to work in those shunting yards under such conditions. The Minister says that if anything happens these men have their rights at common law. What sort of nonsense is that. 
-The Minister said that a moment ago. He wants to make it easier for employers to stand those people down. When people say: 'We will work in another place', the Minister wants to make sure that they cannot be employed. The same applies to men working on the excavation of a building site- we have all seen them and the engineering and waterworks department workers working in a trench. The shuttering may fall and they may say: 'We will not work there'. In the course of a year many men are killed in this way. The Minister says that if these men refuse to work in these conditions they should be stood down, they should have a new award or the Act should be changed. The provisions of this Bill are crazy. Is it any wonder they have been rejected by the trade union movement? Is it any wonder that important people such as  Sir Richard  Kirby- a man one would think had retired from the scene- decided to state publicly on  Nationwide  tonight that the proposals are wrong and should not be carried. That is just not rhetoric. I believe in what I am saying now and it is reinforced by my experience of trade union work over 30 or 40 years. Some honourable senators made shocking and most reactionary speeches tonight. Had they listened to what  Senator Missen  had to say, who reinforced bit by bit the points that were put by the Opposition, we would have had a different debate tonight. 
It is scandalous for honourable senators in our positions, sophisticated and intelligent people with a good knowledge of society and life, to be here arguing about a Bill which could wait until next week. If there is some reason why it should not wait until next week let the Minister tell us about it. We are shocked, and we will resist this legislation clause by clause because the procedure is wrong. This is a crazy action taken by crazy people. 
As had been indicated during the second reading debate, the Opposition in this place, like the Opposition in the other place, intends to oppose this provision. It does nothing to improve the lot of people covered by awards granted by the Australian Conciliation and Arbitration Commission. It has defects in that it requires a commissioner to consult with the presidential member before he makes an award. As I think has been pointed out very clearly to everybody, in that regard it diminishes the responsibility of the commissioner. Proposed new section 22a states: 22a. Where- 
a Commissioner proposes to make an award, or certify a memorandum of agreement, making provision for, or altering, the rates of wages or the conditions applicable in relation to employees in a particular industry or group of industries; and 
that industry or group of industries, as the case may be, has been assigned under sub-section ( 1 ) of section 23 to a panel of members of the Commission, the Commissioner shall, before making the award or certifying the memorandum of agreement, whether or not he is a member of that panel, consult with the Presidential Member who is a member of that panel. 
Everybody, including honourable senators, knows that that came under the scrutiny of not only the trade union movement but also of the employers and more particularly the  President  of the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission. As a result, yesterday morning the AttorneyGeneral  (Senator Durack)  made a statement which said that the Minister for Industrial Relations,  Mr Street,  had met  Sir John. Mr Street's  statement then says: 

 Sir John told me of concern within the Commission about the autonomy of the commissioners and asked specifically whether the consultative proposals in the legislation would enable a  deputy president  to direct a commissioner, or whether commissioners' decisions would require the approval of a  deputy president. 
I will not continue with the rest of that statement because it is well known. Of course, we now know that every other commissioner was concerned about that new provision. In his second reading speech the Minister claimed that these things are necessary to obtain some consistency. As  Sir Richard  Kirby has pointed out, whatever the Government wants to do in respect of wage rates, it must go through the processes. It cannot ask the Arbitration Commissioner to fix a general wage rate. The Minister stated: 
There is a complex range of awards and registered agreements operating in industries coming within the jurisdiction of the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission. This very fact demands consistency of principle in decision making within the Commission itself. 
The views of the trade union movement about this have been put to the Government, but I will put them again. Its views are that the requirement of consultation raises problems of a legal, industrial and constitutional nature. It refers to the legal problems which have been acknowledged by the Minister. Whatever assurances he has been able to give have not been very substantial; they have been fairly shaky. Its attitude in relation to the industrial problems is that the requirement to consult will tend to undermine the existing authority of the commissioners in the eyes of the parties appearing before them. That is almost the same sort of attitude that has been taken by  Sir Richard  Kirby, as I mentioned only this evening. The union movement also states that this will make it more difficult for commissioners to perform their work of conciliating and arbitrating; further, the knowledge that whatever decision a commissioner comes to is subject to the approval of a  deputy president  will tend to lower the confidence of parties in the conciliation and arbitration system. That point has been well taken by speakers on this side of the House and it has also been referred to by  Senator Missen. 
The final point is about work loads. That was mentioned in the statement made yesterday morning. The Australian Council of Trade Unions says that the requirement to consult will also fundamentally alter the existing relationships and work loads in the Commission and may promote disaffection amongst members especially since no clearly defined decision making process is provided for in proposed section 22A. Further, depending on how the requirements are consulted and interpreted, the requirement may place a heavy work load on presidential members as they would need to examine fully the arguments and information put before the commissioner in order to assess the proposed decisions. Obviously arising from those sorts of contentions- about which we have no precise information from the Commission- the AttorneyGeneral yesterday morning repeated what the Minister for Industrial Relations said. The Minister's statement read: 
Finally,  Sir John  said that he would expect the consultative requirements would put an extra work load on the Commission. 
I think at that stage it was  Senator Harradine  who pointed out that if the Commission put on more staff it would only add to the complexities. The statement continued: 
If the Commission were to carry out its work effectively, and with minimum delays to the parties before it, more people would be required on the Commission. I said that I could see the logic of this point and the Government would await advice from  Sir John  when he had had an opportunity to make an assessment of the situation. 
That document, as we now know, has been debated. There has been no clear answer to the concluding paragraph in the letter. At no time has the Minister tried to explain it away.  Mr Street  said: 

 Sir John asked when the legislation was expected to be passed through the Senate. I replied that the legislation would be dealt with in the normal way but that the actual timing was of course in the hands of the Senate. 
That is hypocrisy. The Bill is not in the hands of the Senate; it is in the hands of the Government. If the Senate had its way it would accede to what the Opposition has requested. 
-Of course it would. What sort of a parliament is it when the Government will not tell us when it is going to report progress and adjourn the debate. The Attorney-General  (Senator Durack)  who is in charge of the Bill walked out of the chamber earlier. In my experience that has never been done before. It was certainly not done during the reign of the Labor Government by Ministers, responsible for looking after Bills. The Attorney-General walked out of the chamber with the Whips. We had a Minister in the chamber who was only partly interested in the proceedings-- 
-He looked to be asleep. He did not respond to logical questions. I know that these matters have been debated. They are relevant. They have never been answered. For those reasons and for all the reasons put by honourable senators on this side of the chamber this legislation should not be approved by the Senate. It is a fatal weakness. I said earlier that this legislation is, in the vernacular, a shandygaff piece of legislation. It will be found to be wanting. As it starts to work, if it is ever proclaimed, it will be tested by a number of organisations. I hope that that is done very quickly. This legislation may well be like some other Bills which have gone through the Parliament. The Government has rushed them through as a matter of urgency and then decided not to proclaim them. What sort of a government have we when that sort of action takes place? We oppose the legislation. I am sure that my colleagues will add to the brief comments which I have made. 
My question, which is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Employment and Youth Affairs, refers to the abuse by some employers of the Special Youth Employment Training Program. The Minister will no doubt recall that recently he was advised by  Senator McClelland  that there had been 62 cases where it had been proven that the scheme had been abused and that there had been 62 cases where the Department had decided not to subsidise such employers in future. Will the Minister ask his Department to investigate a complaint, which I received today, that one of the largest employers of labour in Adelaide has recently retrenched a large number of senior people and has in turn recruited a number of younger people on the basis of the scheme to which I have referred and see to what extent his Department may be able to carry out a survey or give assistance in an attempt to reduce the incidence of this sort of abuse, if it is going on? 
The Senate is considering an amendment to the composition of the National Labour Consultative Council. The proposed changes are not objected to by the Opposition, but it might be well to spell out what is proposed. The Minister for Education  (Senator Carrick)  has advised the Senate that the changes are necessary because of the division of the old Department of Industrial Relations. The first amendment provides for the Minister for Employment and Youth Affairs and the Secretary to the Department becoming members of the National Labour Consultative Council. 
The second amendment provides for a name change in respect of the employer group, which will now be called the Confederation of Australian Industry, National Employers' Industrial 
Council. Although the Opposition does not oppose the amendments, it believes that the occasion might well have been taken by the Government to reconsider the representations that were made by the Australian Council of Salaried and Professional Associations in 1977, when the Council became a statutory body. At that time the Government decided that because of the arguments in respect of sanctions, ACSPA should not be represented on the general Council. The Council as such was derived from the earlier advisory bodies. The earlier advisory bodies were well supported by the Australian Council of Trade Unions. I suppose it is fair to say that in their early stages they brought about a number of important changes in the Australian industrial scene. That enabled the employers, the Government and the unions to get together on areas which were very contentious. When the Government decided to make the National Labour Consultative Council a statutory body in 1977, it set down the purpose of it in section 5 of the Act, which reads as follows: 
1 ) The purpose of the Council is to provide, in the public interest, a regular and organized means by which representatives of the Government of the Commonwealth, of employers and of employees may consult together on industrial relations matters, and manpower matters, of national concern. 
That section goes on to set out who should comprise the Council. There has been some criticism of the actions of the Council, particularly in the arguments which took place last week regarding the Conciliation and Arbitration Act. For a short time the ACTU decided to withdraw from the Council as a protest against the Commonwealth Employees (Redeployment Provisions) Bill. You,  Mr President,  will remember that at that time the Government felt that it should have been represented on the Council when these changes to the Conciliation and Arbitration Act were contemplated. Nevertheless, in the main, some important studies have been agreed to by the Council, in particular that in respect of manpower problems. I turn my mind to these matters because it seems to me that, in looking at the general question of unemployment in this country, the difficulties which the country is facing regarding the economy and the ability to make sure that people can be employed, it is important that the Government or, in fact, the Minister requires the Council to look into the question of employment generally in respect to the economy. 
Of course we know that unemployment is a very serious problem in the country. Whilst we have about 400,000 people out of work, and whilst of that number 144,000 are teenagers, we are still short of some 2,000 or 3,000 skilled workers in the work force. In addition, the various schemes which the Government is trying out, I suggest, are only a palliative. In respect of the special efforts which have been made regarding youth training, we have found that one of the schemes has been abused by the employers. The Attorney-General  (Senator Durack)  will recall that this morning I asked him a question in respect to the Special Youth Employment Training Program. It was revealed that over a period of 18 months 62 employers abused the scheme ar ' as a result had been refused further subsidies. A recent conference was held which was attended by  Mr Viner,  who took over general responsibility in relation to employment from  Mr Street.  In a recent report which he gave to that conference, he said some things which we can agree with. He talked about young people leaving school. He said that the problems for young people are very important when they leave school and try to find jobs. He went on to say: 
Traditionally, the pattern for most school leavers, especially early school leavers, was to try a number of jobs until they found one in which they could settle. The movement from school to work was thus accomplished by the very effective process of trial and error, learning by experience the kind of jobs and the work available. 
This option is no longer open to many young people. Many cannot find a first job for a long period of time, and others get caught in the switch from one job to the next. Unemployment levels are very high in those early age groups. 
In these circumstances, I believe the present situation where young school leavers can be faced with long periods of unemployment and inaction, is unsatisfactory. Especially as they are not allowed to receive training or education if they also receive the unemployment benefit. Unemployment benefit was not designed for this purpose but for support during comparatively short periods between jobs. 
The Government then developed another policy- it was one of a number of policies- which talked about the transitional need to train young people to equip them in a better way for jobs. The problem is that there are no jobs. However much we might train young people, there are no jobs. Something has to be done about that situation. When the Liberal Government came to power, it was expected that there would be a change in the situation. I remind honourable senators that in 1975  Mr Fraser  was elected because he promised the Australian people that only under a Liberal government would there be jobs for all who wanted to work. He said: 
We will introduce a number of new measures to expand investment, create jobs and increase revenue; measures which are essential if we are to get rid of the deficit. In addition, a growth rate of 6 or 7 per cent in inflation is possible. 
In November 1977 the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  said: 
Because of our job assistance strategy, because of the growth and development our policies made possible, unemployment will fall from February and keep falling. Our training and job assistance schemes are getting the unemployed into real jobs, productive jobs, jobs that they can keep. 
In September 1 978, just before the Department of Employment and Industrial Relations was split into two departments, the Prime Minister said to Willesee on the  Willesee at Seven  program that the Government's training schemes, together with increasing profitability in industry, would mean that anybody who wanted to work would have the opportunity to do so. Shortly after the Prime Minister made that statement- I am recounting what were the expectations; people expected the economy to improve- the Minister who then had responsibility for the whole sector of employment and industrial relations,  Mr Street,  said in the House of Representatives on 14 September 1978 that there were no signs of an immediate significant improvement in the employment situation. He said: 
On present indications it seems likely that a new peak will be reached in January- February 1 979. 
He went on to say: 
Unemployment is a social as well as an economic problem. Some 1 6 per cent of the labour force aged between 1 3 and 1 9 years of age is unemployed. The periods of unemployment are lengthening noticeably and the percentage next year of unemployed in this age bracket could be even higher. By the early 1980s the situation could be one where, in addition to the problem of IS to 19 year olds being unemployed, there will be a growing proportion of people in their early 20s who will have little work experience or prospects of employment. In other words, the social problem could significantly increase. 
We know that that has happened. As a result of that we concluded, and the Opposition has said, that it was necessary in the Government's interests in some way to relieve  Mr Street  of the responsibility of giving the real position in the economy and to hand over to another Minister,  Mr Viner,  who had had some success in public relations in the Aboriginal field, a new obligation. As a result of that change  Mr Viner  has been very active in all sorts of public relations exercises. I suggest that those public relations exercises have done nothing to encourage young people to think that they are going to have a job in the work force. The real problem is the economy. We know that during the setting up of the two new departments and at the time when  Mr Viner  took over responsibility for unemployment he had to oversee and to supervise the cuts which were applied to departmental training programs. Whilst there have been general changes in respect of training programs, generally they have been cut. 
One of the things which concerns me is the abuse of the Special Youth Employment Training Program which I referred to earlier and in relation to which I asked a question this morning at Question Time. I am appalled to think that such a program could be used by employers to reduce the workforce by dismissing older employees. We know that that has been done elsewhere. I was told today that in South Australia at least one large employer of labour has tried to do the same. He in fact sacked or retrenched people with nine or 10 years service, and has taken on in their place a lot of young people. As a result, such an employer can apply for the subsidy. That sort of practice has to be vetted. It has to be surveyed by the Government. Certainly, we do not want that situation to develop. Otherwise it will spoil whatever chances there are of training schemes to equip people for jobs even in circumstances where no jobs are available at present. 
As we all know, an additional factor is involved. In the Senate and during estimates committees, questions have been asked about statutory authorities and departments in which there has not been general acceptance of apprenticeships and trainee schemes as there has been in the past. The Opposition puts forward the argument that departments and statutory authorities should be allowed to take more apprentices and trainees than their present quotas permit, so that a group of skilled workers will be available at a time when the economy recovers. We know that ultimately the economy will recover, even by its own actions. I have previously pointed out to the Minister for Industrial Relations,  Mr Street,  cases in which statutory authorities have been prevented, because of government staff ceiling policies, from taking on the skilled trainees whom they need and want. That is a fault in the present policy. It should be changed. The Government should now be considering what might be an extension of the present schemes to provide jobs so that people may get training on the job. No substitute exists for training on the job. I contend- and I think honourable senators will find that the people with some experience in industry will support the idea- that it is better to have a young man in any occupation in which he can learn the industry, the management policies of the industry and the style of employment and management at any level and thus equip himself for training at a later stage, than to try to enforce upon him the training for a job that he may never get. 
At this stage, I suppose I am most precisely and strongly supporting the argument that we now have an opportunity to make some progress with this important body the value of which has been tested over the years. I can remember when it was first set up in the time of Albert Monk and tested in the waterside workers' industry. Many goods things came from its establishment. I know that on occasions unions will reject in some respect, recommendations which are adopted. But I feel that at this stage an important task for the Government is to consider to what extent the Council might embark upon a tripartite study on the question of employment generally within the community. We are all concerned about the future of employment of young people, particularly young people with no prospects at all, even when trained and even when we have exhausted all the presently available schemes to equip them for a new society. Unless there are jobs available, nothing can be done to ensure the security and stability of the economy. 
I hope that in this discussion the points which the Opposition has made, while not opposing the changes proposed by the Government, might be considered; and the question whether the Council might take upon itself such a program will be considered. I think that is possible. It would probably be in an arena where one would have more fruitful discussion than one would have in a direct confrontation with the Government. It might be possible to reach agreement on programs. We would then make great progress in the restoration of the Australian economy. 
These amendments are what could be called machinery proposals. They flow generally from agreements with the Government of New South Wales which have followed from the time when  Mr Justice  Gallagher was the Coal Industry Tribunal, and later was appointed to the Australian Conciliation and Arbitration Commission. The objectives are, firstly, to enable that person constituting the Coal Industry Tribunal also to be appointed to the Australian Conciliation and Arbitration Commission, also to the Industrial Commission of New South Wales. Secondly, provision is to be made for leave of absence entitlements of the Tribunal to be in accordance with an arrangement entered into with the Government of New South Wales, in the same way as the Tribunal's salary is now specified in arrangement. 
An important note by the Minister for Education  (Senator Carrick)  was that there was no intention presently to appoint the present Tribunal,  Mr David  Duncan, either to the Australian Conciliation and Arbitration Commission or to the New South Wales Industrial Commission. The legislation will ensure that those appointments would not in any way invalidate his actions where he served elsewhere. There was also an arrangement, an understanding with the Government, that the Tribunal should have the same leave entitlements as an officer of the Australian Public Service. Since there have been some subsequent proposals relating to these amendments, there is no reason why the Opposition should oppose them. Accordingly we support the amendments. 
-The Minister for Social Security will recall that on 28 August I asked a question in relation to special benefits and supplementary assistance, which was followed by a question from  Senator Colston.  In her answer the Minister stated that the question involved some legal considerations in respect of section 125 and section 1 12A of the Social Services Act and that she was having the position examined. I ask the Minister whether she is in a position to give any more information in respect of the matters raised by both  Senator Colston  and me. 
-I think the discussion on the Social Services Amendment Bill 1 979 this afternoon has demonstrated, as did the discussion on conciliation and arbitration legislation which was before the Senate last week, that the principle being applied by the Government is most reactionary. It probably is inconsistent with the recommendations and conventions of the International Labour Organisation. It makes almost impossible the normal activities of a trade union movement. I suppose that one of the best examples was that given by me about industrial action as outlined in proposed new section 107(7). Other examples have been given also. I refer to industrial action which comes within the definition of the application of a safety program by workers. I instance cases in South Australia of men being injured when digging engineering trenches or shoring up walls on construction sites. 
I refer also to the railways industry, to which  Senator Mulvihill  and I have drawn attention. Signalmen, shunters and locomotive drivers may be marshalling long lines of trains in a yard which is not in good condition. Because of rain, it may be under water. These train men and shunters may decide that some urgent action is needed and may put a ban on part of the yard. If they do they will be liable to be stood down under the provisions of the Conciliation and Arbitration Act and then will become ineligible for social security benefit because of this Bill. 
As  Senator Grimes  has pointed out, proposed new sub-section (8) closes off every escape hole concerning branches of unions. Proposed new sub-section (8) (c) states:  if a trade union is divided into branches (whether or not the branches are themselves trade unions), the persons who are members of the respective branches shall all be deemed to be members of the first-mentioned trade union. 
So there are related provisions which flow closely into what we criticised in the Conciliation and Arbitration Act. A few people at an outpost can decide whether workers are to be deregistered or not. Having been deregistered, put out of work and classified as one taking part in an industrial action, these people not only lose their rights in the community but also are deprived of their rights to sustenance under the Social Services Act. 
Proposed new sub-section (8)(b) covers up minute loopholes in people 's rights. It provides: 
A reference to industrial action shall be read as including a reference to a course of conduct consisting of a series of industrial actions; 
So bit by bit whatever rights men had as free men under the concept that is applicable to Western society- the right to organise into trade unions; all the things that have been treasured in the past- are being closed down. 
I think  Senator Grimes  put his finger on the matter. This Bill will be passed even though the Opposition and other members on this side oppose it. Certainly there must be an obligation on the Government to provide some sort of arrangement whereby people who know the industrial field can hold discussions with the DirectorGeneral of Social Services. The Minister for Social Security  (Senator Guilfoyle)  knows that this question of discretion by the DirectorGeneral is almost a constant irritant in cases which concern payment of pensions and entitlements. Frequently throughout the year members of parliament, other people and organisations talk to their local directors and to the Minister in respect of many cases. So there is a continual irritation to the point where individuals have to solve something which should be solved on the basis of a formula. I support in particular what  Senator Grimes  put forward in the way of criticism. I would like to see a formula which will allow the proper examination of these clauses. The Director-General could be guided by a committee representing industry and unions. The Director-General, in cases such as this, has to rely- as  Senator Grimes  said- on the information he can obtain from trade union organisations. The Director-General can use the powers of the Act to enforce his requirements. To what extent is he required to lean on the Government's industrial relations bodies? To what extent do the Director-General and those bodies work together? The Parliament should be informed- this is stipulated in respect of vital matters relating to other legislation- of what the Director-General has done in respect of large industrial troubles where thousands of workers are affected. If the Government provided a guarantee that these matters would be reported to the Parliament we might be able to discuss the matter in a calm way. 
I just want to put on the record something which was hinted at by, I think,  Senator Elstob,  that is, the change in organisations which will result from this legislation because it is allied with the Commonwealth Conciliation and Arbitration Act. I give this example. Some years ago we used to talk in this place about the number of organisations which were registered with the then Commonwealth Arbitration Court. Over the years we have found a great reduction in the number of organisations registered, and this has been acceptable to all parties. In the old days many of them were organised on a craft basis. Everybody agreed that whenever there was a dispute it was better to talk to a big union than to 20 small unions. For example, in Queensland at present there still exist small railway unions such as the fettlers' union, what is called the permanent way employees' union, the Queensland Railway Sta.tionmasters Union and the carpenters' union. If in Queensland there was a strike over a hazard or safety matter and the members of, say, the fettlers' union decided not to work on a part of a job which was declared to be unsafe, the people punished as a result under the Conciliation and Arbitration Act and under this legislation would be the members of a small group of unions. 
If a member of the Australian Railways Union, which covers the same sort of work, did the same thing, all members of that union would be affected by the Conciliation and Arbitration Act and by this legislation. That is just silly; it is nonsense. We know that over the years the small unions registered with State industrial commissions have amalgamated bit by bit and generally gone to the federal sphere. Legislation such as this will simply create changes whereby workers will change their affiliations to the Commonwealth Commission. There is no doubt in my mind that the old system will apply and that, unless the law is changed, more unions will be created. In that way union members will be protected. This is allied with what  Senator Watson  has said, that is, we will have a silly position whereby people will be penalised because they are members of a bigger union, which is better for governments and for arbitration, instead of being in a smaller union and not being affected. 
I direct my question to the Minister representing the Minister for Industrial Relations. It refers to breaches of industrial awards by employers. I ask the Minister whether he has seen a statement in this morning's Press by the Director of the Industrial Relations Bureau,  Mr Linehan,  stating: 
What can be said is that from the Bureau experience there would appear to be a very high incidence of breaches and maybe employee rights are not as secure as may be thought. 
Has the Minister noted that the figures indicate a continuing situation where many breaches of awards by employers are not being effectively prosecuted? The Minister will know that from discussions we have had in this place. I ask the Minister: How can the Government justify this continuing situation while it brings into the Parliament very drastic regulations and provisions in relation to the Conciliation and Arbitration Act which restrict the rights of employees? What does the Government propose to do about this report? 
-I want to add my support to what  Senator McLaren  said and to request the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs  (Senator Chaney)  to ask the Minister for Transport  (Mr Nixon)  at this stage to do something which he promised to do. In respect of the imminent closure of lines policy he said that he would, at an appropriate stage, confer with community interests and other interests about lines to be closed. The burden imposed on the Australian National Railways of cuts of $60m in this financial year has caused very heavy rationalisation policies. In addition to the matter which  Senator McLaren  mentioned there have been some very drastic reductions in the metropolitan services. I have in mind services to the Christie Downs area which is generally a profitable area for passengers, and the Port Pirie services. But more particularly, there is one case I would mention in the industrial area of Port Adelaide. 
The Australian National Railways administration has announced that it intends to almost cut out the activities of the Port Adelaide freight station which presently employs about 50 skilled workers. They are not required to accept, from November until February, the usual goods which would be accepted at that station. Finally the staff will be transferred to Mile End. The business people of Port Adelaide, the union, the railway staff and the community generally have protested about the cutting down of the Port Adelaide freight section. This resembles a case where a railway line might have to be closed. Upon that basis the Minister, in a deputation at which I was present, said he agreed that he has to consider community representations. I think that in those circumstances the Minister might well consider an appropriate meeting with the South Australian Minister for Transport and with the community and the railway unions. 
I think the Government's rationalisation policies, the policies to secure that saving which might be desirable, are imposing very heavy burdens on the railways administration. I can see a great merit in leaving the Port Adelaide freight section as it has always been as it serves a busy industrial centre, and caters for goods traffic which is generally profitable. Because of possible savings it might be transferred to a location 12 miles away at the Mile End station. If it is finally closed down the local Port Adelaide people will not have a facility. In addition the railway staff to keep their jobs will have to travel out of their district to an Adelaide metropolitan site some 12 miles away. I do not think the answers which have been given by the Minister previously really answer the questions we are putting up. It was agreed, of course, that with the transfer such problems would arise. But it has also been agreed by the Minister for Transport,  Mr Nixon,  that if there are community interests he will consider them. I suggest that it is also a matter for the State Minister for Transport. In those circumstances I support what  Senator McLaren  asked for, that at this stage the Minister might well consider a stay in the virtual closure of many lines and in the cutting out of passenger goods services, a step which might be avoided with better planning. 
I direct my question to the Minister representing the Minister for Defence. I refer to the announcement that the United Kingdom will retract from its arrangements with Australia in respect of testing at the Woomera range. The Minister no doubt will recall that in recent months the Minister for Defence,  Mr Killen,  in answers to questions stated that experimental service trials involving personnel and equipment would be held at Woomera with the idea of enhancing and increasing the usage of the area. In view of the fact that some of these trials have taken place, is the Minister in a position to state to what extent the range might be used for these sorts of experiments? Taking into account the general world situation, will the Minister pay strong regard to ensuring maximum maintenance at Woomera? 
My question is directed to the Attorney-General. It follows other questions in respect of the social services fraud case. Has he at any time had conversations with his colleagues the Minister for Administrative Services, who is responsible for the Australian Federal Police, and the Minister for Post and Telecommunications, with respect to the report and information which is now freely available and given today in the Senate in respect of telephone tapping? Does he propose in these circumstances to take any further action in respect of those allegations? 
by leave- I move: 
That the Senate take note of the papers. 
I seek leave to continue my remarks later. 
Leave granted; debate adjourned. 
-The Attorney-General will recall that last Wednesday, following other questions on the alleged social security frauds case,  Senator Cavanagh  and I directed questions to him in respect of possible breaches of the Telephonic Communications (Interception) Act and the by-laws governing Telecom Australia. Is the Minister now in a position to decide whether there have been breaches of this Act and the bylaws? If so, can he advise the Senate as to what directions he has given or what opinion he has reached in respect of the matter? 
-by leave- I move: 
That the Senate take note of the paper. 
I seek leave to continue my remarks later. 
Leave granted; debate adjourned. 
-by leave- The Joint Committee has decided on two new references for investigation. The first new reference is:  . . to monitor the political, economic and strategic situation in the Middle East and peripheral countries, and report on any significant events and their possible effects on Australia. 
The Middle East is a focal point of conflict of interests, with a potential for war and for upsetting the balance between the great powers. The region holds the major portion of the world 's oil reserves that fuel the industries of Western industrial countries and Japan- Australia's major trading partner. The Arab oil states are also a major source of new investment in the Western world. That oil wealth is an additional means of diplomatic pressure and economic influence. 
The current situation in Iran is a particular source of tension. The Middle East situation, which is always fragile, makes special demands on the United States' diplomatic, military aid and financial resources. Therefore, Australia's strategic environment is influenced to Australia 's disadvantage by any deterioration in the Middle East, with its uncertain effects on superpower competition in many areas of the world. The consequences of further serious conflict in the Middle East are almost unthinkable in their potential magnitude. The other new reference is:  the changing power structure in Indo-China since 1975 and its effects on Australia and the region. 
The Indo-China region is a major area of concern at the moment in that the situation may lead to further conflict between China and Vietnam and in turn may further involve the Soviet Union in this area. The repercussions of such an eventuality could be immense for the region and the world. The changing power structure in IndoChina, and more recently serious conflict in Kampuchea, has been accompanied by an appalling refugee situation. This has made special demands on neighbouring states and has at last attracted world-wide attention for the plight of the refugees. 
Both those new references cover regions of the world which are delicately poised and have seen a rapid change in events in the past few years. With those references the Joint Committee, and through it the Parliament, will be kept abreast of changes in those volatile areas, and how those changes may affect Australia. The Joint Committee is continuing with its work on two other references on southern Africa and on defence. As a matter of fact, on Thursday a report entitled Australian Defence Procurement' will be tabled. 
That is not an answer to the question I asked. What requirements has the Department of Defence set forward as being necessary to house servicemen? I am prepared to accept an answer tomorrow regarding this matter. As I have said before, there has been a delay in settling the requirements. We ought to know what are the requirements of the Department of Defence and we ought to be able to be told to what extent that target has been achieved. 
My question is directed to the Attorney-General and concerns also the Minister representing the Minister for Administrative Services, who is responsible for the Australian Federal Police. I draw the attention of the Attorney-General to the fact that it is now more than a week since what seemed to be straightforward questions seeking information were directed to him about apparent breaches of the Telephonic Communications (Interception) Act and of the telecommunications by-laws. Has the Attorney-General now considered those questions? Can a reply be given to the Senate at this stage? 
The fact has been known for many years that housing for servicemen has been bad. There has been a great lag in accommodation. The requirements of servicemen have not been met. I wonder whether the Minister for Science and the Environment  (Senator Webster)  can inform us what is the anticipated target by the Defence Service for new homes and to what extent that target has been met. I think everyone knows that the Department of Defence has reported to its successive Minister for many years that accommodation has been of a low standard and has not met the requirements and needs of servicemen. To what extent has that been accomplished in the present expenditure program? 
I have two matters to raise. One concerns the Stuart Highway and the other the requirement put forward by Trans Australia Airlines about the Airbus aircraft. Before I raise those matters I want to support what  Senator Douglas  McClelland said. It seems to me that what is happening tonight is extraordinary in regard to the history of this Senate. I cannot remember a time when we have been required to deal with matters such as these in the early hours of the morning and in the way in which we are dealing with them. I think it is improper. I can remember the days when under various leaders of the government we dealt with these matters over a number of days in daylight hours. That was more satisfactory. We had more occasion to examine and test the appropriations and expenditure of the government. In my opinion it is time for the Opposition to examine whether it now supports the Estimates committees. Over the years I have been a supporter of the program of Estimates committees despite the fact that many of my colleagues strongly oppose it. 
Yes;  Senator Cavanagh  has been one of those people in the Labor Party opposition who has opposed the propositions that have been advanced.  Senator Murphy,  other people and I have said that the Estimates committees have provided an avenue by which members can more satisfactorily examine the expenditure of the Government and the efficiency of the departments. But after tonight I have reached the opinion that the Opposition ought to re-examine its attitude towards the Estimates committees. I know that the Leader of the Opposition  (Senator Wriedt)  tonight is also most disturbed with the position we are reaching. It is most unsatisfactory for us to try to examine important matters in circumstances such as these which occasion the sorts of things which have happened tonight. In my opinion it is contrary to the best efforts of the parliamentary system. I think many honourable senators agree with me. 
As honourable senators on the other side know,  Mr Nixon,  the Minister for Transport, recently visited Coober Pedy and reported on a new position regarding the Stuart Highway. Honourable senators recall that in this place we have debated whether there should be a special funding to make sure that the Stuart Highway is completed within a reasonable time. That proposition was supported by all parties in the Parliament. It was supported by a transport organisation in South Australia, the previous South Australian Government and also by the local authorities in Alice Springs. We could not at any stage get agreement for special funding. Honourable senators will recall that in this place I moved a motion proposing that there be special funding. Since then  Mr Nixon,  with the present State Government, has now decided on a target to complete the sealing of the Stuart Highway within seven years. I suppose that is a good accomplishment. Senators Jessop and Kilgariff and I attended a meeting at Coober Pedy at which that accomplishment was reported to the people. I suppose that is an important reform. 
In my opinion it was not made clear in the Minister's speech whether he would at any stage provide special funds. There has been no statement in the Parliament but there has been a statement issued publicly by the Minister and a statement made in our presence at Coober Pedy but there has been no report to the Parliament by  Mr Nixon  as to what the agreement was between  Mr Wilson,  the Minister of Transport in South Australia, and  Mr Nixon.  I think that a report ought to be made. Before the Parliament rises I hope that a statement will be made in the Parliament by the Minister as to the substance of the agreement between  Mr Nixon  and  Mr Wilson.  I interpreted  Mr Nixon's  statement at the meeting at Coober Pedy to indicate that at some stage it may be possible to get special funding. We all now know that the estimate for roadworks was $66m, but it was stated during many of the inquiries we made that the job would cost $80m. Important statements have been made by the previous State Government, the present State Government and the Minister. A news release by  Mr Nixon  dated 1 1 November states: 
. while they were anxious for the Highway to be completed as soon as possible, there were constraints on the rate at which work could proceed. 
Because of the arid and isolated nature of the Highway corridor, construction and logistic problems, such as poor soil, drainage, and the availability of water and suitable materials, have to be overcome. 
It is expected that whilst progress will be expedited, and it may well be that the road to Coober Pedy may be good within three years, the road will not be satisfactory from the tourists' point of view.  Senator Chaney  is waving something he has with him. 
-The White Paper. I hope that he will be able to explain these things to this chamber so that the explanation will be in the record of this chamber. The second thing to which I want to refer, which comes into this area and also into the area of productivity, is the intention by Trans-Australia Airlines, which I understand has been approved by the Minister, to place some options on the purchase of the Airbus, as a result of which the Boeing people have come to Australia and in my opinion have threatened that they will withdraw a number of co-partnerships which are presently being performed by the various Government factories and the Hawker-Siddeley factories in Australia, projects which are currently worth between $10m and $20m. I understand those to be statements which represent a threat towards TAA, that if it purchases the Airbus, Boeing will withdraw the present projects, the Australian industry participation projects at the Government factory and another private factory associated with transport and defence. 
There have been some qualifications and they have said that they would review it. But my point tonight is that it is time for the Government to indicate to what extent Boeing has told the Government about these things and whether or not there is a threat. As  Senator Kilgariff  knows, the Joint Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence is anxious to see that there should be a continuing work support for the defence factories and for the private factories which do that work. It would be sad to think that an outside company now decided to withdraw some of that work and reduce the work load, and I hope that the Government is able to make some announcements about those matters. I hope that the Minister might possibly elucidate tonight some of the questions I have raised. 

 - Senator Webster will recall that during the hearings of Estimates Committee D I raised the question of the current position in respect of the backlog of building houses for servicemen. I think most honourable senators know that for many years there has been a dearth of housing for servicemen. The houses that have been available have not been of satisfactory standard. Some progress has been made in respect of expenditure but what is the present position in respect of the Defence Department's attempts to improve the standard of housing and to meet the needs of servicemen. It was suggested by  Senator Webster  that I should ask the question when we are considering the estimates of Group F, so I ask the Minister for whatever information is available. 
To  Senator Carrick.  I am not referring to the condition of  Senator Webster,  although I raise the matter during his presence. If it is impossible to get a reply tonight, I would like to get the information tomorrow. 
-by leave- I move: 
That the Senate take note of the paper. 
I seek leave to continue my remarks later. 
Leave granted; debate adjourned. 
-by leave- I move: 
That the Senate take note of the paper. 
I seek leave to continue my remarks later. 
Leave granted; debate adjourned. 
-by leave- I move: 
That the Senate take note of the paper. 
I seek leave to continue my remarks later. 
Leave granted; debate adjourned. 
-I present the report and transcript of evidence from the Joint Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence on its inquiry into Australian defence procurement. 
Ordered that the report be printed. 

 Senator BISHOP ( 12.8)- by leave-I move: 
That the Senate take note of the report. 
I inform the Senate that a separate report is in preparation on that part of the terms of reference related to the capacity of the three Services to meet requests for assistance by the civil authorities such as for coastal surveillance. The precise terms of reference for the present report were: 
The implementation and effectiveness of Australia's announced defence programs, with particular reference to procurement policy. 
This reference was received on 12 April 1978 and sub-committee C of the Joint Committee commenced hearings on 20 June 1978. The last formal evidence was presented in October 1 979. In the intervening 1 8 months we took over 2,300 pages of written and oral evidence from a very wide range of sources. 
The report is not a lengthy document, but I put it to the Senate that it may be one of the most significant papers to emerge from the parliamentary committee system. It represents a year and a half of concentrated work and detailed examination of evidence in a very complex field and has been exhaustively considered before being agreed to. This report takes procurement in its widest sense. It examines the procurement process from the initial strategic analysis right through to the acquisition of equipment for the defence forces. We have expressed our agreement with the strategic assessment as set out in the 1 976 Defence White Paper and subsequently updated and restated by the Minister for Defence  (Mr Killen).  It is most unlikely that Australia will become the target of a major direct attack inside the next five years. At the same time, we allude to the Sino-Vietnamese conflict and developments in Iran, not in any alarmist way but to point out the continuing potential for sudden and unforeseeable changes. 
I wish to acquaint the Senate with our major recommendations. Honourable senators will appreciate that in a statement of this type brevity is essential. I commend a study of the report to those who wish a full outline of the Committee 's views on the subjects I mention. We have certain reservations concerning what is known as the core force' concept. These centre around our concern for the capacity of the Defence Force to expand rapidly enough to meet some contingencies. Our concern is sufficient to prompt us to recommend that a high-level inquiry into the expansion capability of the Defence Force be undertaken. There is a need for an interdepartmental or national approach to such an inquiry, which should determine the industrial and manpower support which could be available to the force-in-being. 
This Committee reported two years ago on Australian defence industry, and we have followed that matter up in the present report. We maintain our view that our defence industry base is not as good as it might be, and that we should develop it to make Australia as free as possible from dependence on foreign suppliers. We suggest that this can be achieved through the provision of stable work loads; acceptance of apparent cost disadvantages where these are not excessive; improved communication between industry and the Department of Defence; and, importantly, the Government and the Department sticking to decisions previously announced. 
The Committee, while concurring with the view that our strategic outlook is favourable, wishes to make the point that we should use this time to advantage. We consider that it would be unwise to wait for some threat to emerge before acting to enhance preparedness and further increase our self-reliance. We do not suggest in detail how this might be done, or how much money should be allocated. We recommend that the Government should act to determine several matters: The most effective security strategy; capabilities needed to execute that strategy; deficiencies in our present capabilities and what is required to make good any deficiencies. We recommend that these capabilities be introduced over a 10-year period and make the point that this will require a bipartisan approach to defence. Some form of supplemental equipment acquisition budgeting may also be required. Such funding would provide for supplemental 10-year budgeting packages to cover the development, production and entry into service of specific equipment systems. This funding would be separate from the annual defence budget. 
The Committee received convincing evidence that there is a problem in procedures which apply to the purchase of defence equipment in Australia. We are persuaded that these procedures act as a deterrent to Australian industry and to the Department of Defence. We have recommended improvements, and suggested principles on which these might be based. We have made an exhaustive study of the decisionmaking system of the Department of Defence. A major point arising from this study is the length of time it can take to acquire a piece of major equipment for the forces. According to standard Department of Defence procedures, it can take up to eight years from the issuance of a major equipment proposal and rarely takes less than three or four years. These lead times exceed likely periods of warning for some defence contingencies we may have to face. The Committee has therefore recommended that, if it is not possible to reduce the contribution of decisionmaking to lead times, key major equipment should be acquired earlier. 
Our examination of the organisation of defence procurement revealed that for several reasons aspects of this function have been dispersed between various departments or agencies. The Committee considers that this dispersal can lead to inefficiencies or lack of flexibility. For this reason, we have recommended that functions related to the procurement of major military equipment now with the Department of Administrative Services should be transferred to the Department of Defence. 
Each member of the Sub-committee was completely objective in his approach to our responsibilities and I commend members for their continued interest and the serious manner in which they examined and evaluated the evidence and finally formulated the recommendations. I thank Malcolm Hills for his intense dedication to his work and express the regrets of the Subcommittee that continued illness has deprived the Committee of his services. Robert King has done a splendid job under a great number of difficulties. When  Mr Hills  was not available  Mr King  was there to take over and the Subcommittee is grateful to him. Our two consultants, Commodore Ken Gray and Gary Brown of the Parliamentary Library, justified the reputation they both have for their knowledge and understanding of the defence scene. The vast and valuable experience of Ken Gray and the observations and monitoring of defence activities here and abroad by Gary Brown combined to provide most valuable assistance to the Sub-committee. 
Finally, the Sub-committee is immensely grateful to all who were prepared to appear before it and to assist with their submissions. The Minister for Defence, the  Hon.  Jim Killen, and the Minister assisting him, the  Hon.  John McLeay, never hesitated to make every possible facility available to the Sub-committee to assist our inquiries and, as a result of  Mr Killen  's cooperation, Department of Defence witnesses of the highest possible calibre appeared before the Sub-committee. 
Having said that I must point out that, as the Senate is well aware, the inquiry which has produced this report has on occasion been very controversial. On one or two occasions the controversy has reached the Parliament. I have to inform the Senate that the sub-committee expresses concern about remarks made in the House of Representatives on 26 October 1 978 by the Minister Assisting the Minister for Defence and on 8 March 1979 by the Minister for Defence. We consider that the Minister Assisting the Minister for Defence over-reacted to criticisms which had been levelled at the Department of Defence by witnesses who appeared before the Sub-committee at public hearings and which, in some cases, had received Press publicity. The Sub-committee considers that, to a lesser degree, the Minister for Defence also overreacted to such criticisms. At the time the criticisms were levelled at the Sub-committee, evidence favourable to and critical of the Department had been presented and further evidence was still to come. All this evidence had yet to be evaluated by the Sub-committee and, accordingly, any criticisms of the Sub-committee for its handling of the evidence were premature and ill-founded. 
The Sub-committee emphasises that the inquiry was carried out in accordance with the established procedures of the committee system of the Parliament and its Standing Orders. We therefore reject the criticisms that were levelled at the Sub-committee, though we appreciate that the Ministers were understandably sensitive to some of the Press coverage of evidence given at public sessions of the Sub-committee. We are pleased to note that, as further evidence was received and evaluated, a far better understanding obtained between the Minister for Defence and the Department of Defence, on the one hand, and the Sub-committee on the other. 
I have also to inform the Senate that certain allegations have been made regarding the alleged intimidation of some witnesses before the Subcommittee. Those allegations are under examination. The Minister for Defence responded in detail to the previous report of the Committee in this chamber in November 1978 on defence industry. This mark of attention by the Government was most welcome. I commend this report to the Senate, and consider it essential that the report be debated after honourable senators have had time to consider it. The first responsibility of government is to provide the nation with security from armed attack and from the constraints on independent decisions imposed by the threat of such attack. I look forward to comment by the Minister for Defence in debate in the Parliament after he has had an opportunity to consider the matters raised in the report. 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Health. It refers to accidents in the nuclear industry. The question may also involve the Minister representing the Minister for National Development and the Minister representing the Minister for Defence. It relates to reports which I received yesterday that at least four Commonwealth security officers have died of cancer following their involvement in testing at Woomera and Maralinga in South Australia. The Minister will know, of course, that recently a residue of radioactive material was shipped to the United Kingdom. I have also heard reports that a further Commonwealth police officer has died of the same complaint. I ask: Has the Minister any records of the circumstances surrounding this matter or has her attention been drawn to it? If not, will she cause an investigation to be conducted of the records of the staff I have mentioned who performed duties at Maralinga or Woomera during that period in order to determine whether their deaths can be related to their security duties at the time? 
