[12.5] - For the information of honourable senators I present the Agreement between the Government of the Commonwealth of Australia and the Government of the Socialist Federal Republic of Yugoslavia on the residence and employment of Yugoslav citizens in this country. I ask for leave to make a statement in connection with the Agreement. 
The  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Bull)  - There being no objection, leave is granted. 
I wish to inform the Senate that a formal agreement has been completed between the Government of Australia and the Government of the Socialist Federal Republic of 
Yugoslavia on the residence and employment of Yugoslav citizens in this country. The agreement was signed in Canberra on the 12th February by  Mr Anton  Polajnar  President  of the Federal Council of Labour of the Federal Executive Council of Yugoslavia, on behalf of the Yugoslav Government and by my colleague the Minister for Immigration  (Mr Lynch)  on behalf of the Australian Government. The Agreement will enter into force when the Australian Government has been notified by the Yugoslav Government that the requirements of that Government's legislation for the implementation of the agreement have been fulfilled and the Australian Government acknowledges receipt of such notification. My colleague the Minister for Immigration has been assured by the Yugoslav delegation that these formalities will be put in hand immediately and that migration under the agreement should commence shortly thereafter. The agreement will continue in force unless either Government shall have received notice from the other Government of its desire to terminate the agreement, in which case 180 days after such notification by either Government the agreement shall no longer have force. 
Cabinet approved the opening of discussions with the Government of Yugoslavia in 1967. Preliminary discussions leading up to the agreement were held in Canberra and Belgrade between representatives of the two governments, including a thorough discussion on main principles by my colleague, the Minister for Labour and National Service  (Mr Snedden),  when as Minister for Immigration, he visited Belgrade in December 1968. In November 1969 a Yugoslav delegation visited Australia for detailed negotiations with an Australian delegation. The Australian delegation comprised representatives of the Department of Immigration, Department of External Affairs, Attorney-General's Department, Department of Labour and National Service and the Department of Social Services. The advise of the Department of Treasury, Department of Health and Department of Education and Science was also taken by the Australian delegation. In accordance with the usual practice on agreements affecting immigration the text of the Agreement was referred to all six State governments and each signified that it had no objection to the signature of the agreement as proposed. 
Finally, of course, the agreement was approved by the Governor-General in Council. 
Yugoslav migrants are no strangers to us. There has been a long history of  succesful  Yugoslav settlement in Australia since the early part of the century. In the 1920s there was a substantial inflow, mainly to Western Australia. Over recent years migration from Yugoslavia has steadily increased - last year nearly 13,000 Yugoslavs settled in Australia. They are now a major element in the migration programme, ranking third after Great Britain and Italy. Yugoslavia represents an area from which suitable migrants can be obtained in great numbers. Many are skilled workers and they are a particularly important source of highly trained metal workers who have little difficulty in fitting into the local industrial situation. 
There are now more than 100,000 Yugoslavs in Australia to which must be added their Australian born children. They have proved themselves to be excellent settlers, industrious, well-qualified in their occupations and, except for a very small fractional minority, have been very law abiding. Between 1945 and 1969 nearly 46.000 Yugoslavs then eligible to apply for citizen.This represents approximately 74% of the Yugoslavs then  elgible to apply for citizenship. Yugoslavs are now working in a wide variety of jobs throughout Australia, notably in the steel and motor industries, on development schemes, in the brown coal industry of the Latrobe Valley and in the Queensland canefields 
The agreement which I table today formalises migration from Yugoslavia and places it on a stable and continuing basis. No actual numbers have been specified in the Agreement but provision exists in the procedural arrangements associated with it for the Yugoslav Government to be informed annually of Australia's requirements. The aim will be to maintain a reasonable balance between skilled, semi-skilled and unskilled. Under the terms of Article 22 of the Agreement assisted passages to Australia will now be available to selected migrants from Yugoslavia. Persons 19 years of age and over will contribute 8A25 towards the cost of their transport to Australia; the balance of the fare will be met by the Australian 
Government. Persons under 19 years of age will not be required to make any personal contribution towards their travel. This places Yugoslav assisted migrants on the same basis as migrants from all other countries. The extension of assisted passages to residents of Yugoslavia will place migration to Australia within the financial reach of a larger section of people. It will facilitate family reunion as, in the past, for financial reasons, some Yugoslavs preceded their families here. It will avoid the social consequences of separated families in future migration and, by easing the financial strain of migration, will strengthen and speed successful settlement in Australia. 
The Agreement which honourable senators have before them describes the facilities for settlement of Yugoslav citizens. It records the rights they enjoy and the obligations they undertake in common with Australian citizens and other migrants. It affirms their eligibility for social service benefits and to share in official accommodation and housing schemes. It provides also for advice to Yugoslav migrants on the acceptance of vocational qualifications in Australia and records that the Australian Government will endeavour to advance the acceptance of Yugoslav qualifications within the framework of Australian laws, regulations and practices. As in other migration agreements the rights of Yugoslav settlers as residents and as workers are set out. Australia undertakes to extend to Yugoslav workers and their families the facilities available in Australia for migrants to learn English. 
The procedural arrangements agreed upon between the two governments in pursuance of article 22 of the Agreement provide that the Australian Government will select migrants for Australia in accordance with its requirements. It has always been basic to Australia's post-war immigration policy that the right to determine who may be admitted to Australia for permanent settlement rests with Australia. In this Agreement the procedural arrangements preserve this right. The selection procedures will provide for an assessment  by  Australian officers of the general suitability, health, character and the potential of the individual to conform to Australia's concepts of political and social behaviour. 
As with all countries from which migrants are taken, Yugoslavia has a legitimate and reasonable interest in the number and occupational categories of those moving to immigration countries. To safeguard this interest the Government of Yugoslavia, again in common with other governments with which we have migration agreements, requires a co-operative part in the actual processes of emigration and in the decision whether a person may be accepted. The final decision on whether a migrant is to be accepted for Australia will however rest with the Australian Government. This bilateral approach to selection is not exclusive to Yugoslav migration. In one form or another it exists in all countries with which we deal; even in Britain the Government can insist on joint approval of persons receiving assisted passages. 
There has been some public comment about the implications of article 20 of the agreement, which deals with a Yugoslav settler's liability for military service in Australia. The position is that Yugoslavs, like all persons ordinarily resident in Australia, whether British or of any other nationality, are required to register for national service in the same way as are Australians. However, in accordance with section 35a of the National Service Act 1951-68, men who have rendered continuous full-time service in the permanent forces of Australia or in the naval, military or air force of a country other than Australia are granted recognition of such service in determining their national service liability. The new Agreement merely gives expression to this provision of the National Service Act. It provides no preferential status for Yugoslavs. This is not unique to the Yugoslav Agreement, and in any event the benefits of this provision of the National Service Act are applicable to migrants from all countries irrespective of a migration agreement. This is the first migration agreement signed with a Communist government. 
As I have said, migration from Yugoslavia has been a fact for many years. Through it we have benefited greatly by an infusion of migrants of excellent personal quality who are sought after by employers because of their industry and aptitudes. This Agreement is intended to confirm Yugoslavia as a continuing source of such migrants in the future. Australia's increasing need for a young, virile, adaptable and skilled work force requires that we look beyond the more traditional sources, some of which are providing fewer settlers than formerly. 
There are differences in the basic concepts of government between the two contracting parties. The migration agreement just signed does not alter this fact though it is an illustration that these differences need not affect useful co-operation in various fields. It is both rational and civilised that an important association between countries which results in the movement of people from one to the other should be dignified by a formal agreement. 
[ 1 1 .  1 1 ] -  Senator Mulvihill  has tonight raised in the Senate an individual case. It is right and proper that he should do so, but I think it is also right thatI should take that case to the Minister for Immigration  (Mr Lynch).  As I understand the honourable senator's final point as to the general thinking, he was speaking in support of an independent tribunal to which persons who are refused naturalisation could appeal. We have discussed this point previously, either in a debate on the adjournment of the Senate or during debates on immigration matters. Probably the honourable senator has also been told in correspondence from the Minister that the Government has considered this question previously but has decided not to change the present arrangements. 
As we know, the grant of citizenship has been regarded as a privilege and not as a right and it has been properly a matter within the discretionary power of the Executive, answerable to Parliament. It has always been felt that it would not be appropriate that policies and decisions in matters of this kind should be made by an independent body not answerable to Parliament. As I said earlier, I will ensure that the points raised by the honourable senator are placed before the Minister for Immigration. I will certainly convey to the honourable senator any reply that I receive. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
by leave - The Senate will recall that on 26th September 1969 the  Hon.  W. C. Wentworth, Minister-in-Charge of Aboriginal Affairs, announced the Government's intention to set up an Aboriginal Aged Persons Homes Trust. The necessary formalities have now been completed, and I now lay a copy of the trust deed on the table. 
Under the Aged Persons Homes Act, the Government contributes $2 for every $1 subscribed from non-governmental sources for the provision of non-profit homes for aged persons. Aboriginals are eligible for this on the same basis as anybody else, but they may not always have the same ability to provide or attract their one-third of the cost. This Trust is designed to fill the gap. The Trust is set up to receive gifts of money from the public, and to use these gifts for the payment of the one-third contribution on behalf of Aboriginals who take the Benefit of the Act. The Government will provide the other two-thirds. 1 am delighted to confirm that three very distinguished persons have consented to act as Trustees. They are:  His  Grace the Primate of Australia, Archbishop P. N. W. Strong, C.M.G.;  His  Eminence Cardinal  Sir Norman  Gilroy, Archbishop of Sydney; and  Mr B.  B. Callaghan, C.B.E., the Managing Director of the Commonwealth Banking Corporation. These three Trustees will have a board of advice, consisting of six Aboriginal Members, namely,  Mrs Eileen  Lester of New South Wales,  Mr James  Berg of Victoria,  Mrs Kath  Walker of Queensland,  Mr N.  T. Bonner of Queensland,  Mrs Maude  Tongerie of South Australia, and  Mr George  Harwood of Western Australia. I would like to express my appreciation of the willingness of these prominent people to act. It is hoped that an Aboriginal from the Northern Territory will shortly join the Board. 
The deed sets out the object of the Trust as follows: 
The object of the charity is to solicit and receive gifts of money from members of the public and in accordance with the provisions of this deed, to distribute them for any or all of the following purposes: 
to eligible organisations towards the cost of approved homes to be used wholly or mainly for persons of the Aboriginal race; 
to provide donations for persons of the Aboriginal race; or 
such other similar charitable purposes for the Aboriginal race as the Minister from time to time approves. 
I should like to make it clear that the funds can be used either to provide any necessary donation for an Aboriginal who has been accepted for entrance into a normal aged persons home or alternatively for the setting up of aged persons homes devoted wholly or mainly to persons of Aboriginal origin. Naturally the decision will depend upon existing circumstances. What well may be the best practice for Sydney or Melbourne may be inappropriate for northern Queensland. The great objective is to make Aboriginals comfortable and secure in their old age, and in this their own preference and established ways of life must be considered. We would not want old people to be unsettled and unhappy in surroundings to which they are unaccustomed. 
The trust deed provides: 
The Trustees shall distribute the moneys received for the charity in accordance with this Deed. In deciding the manner and amounts in which the funds of the charity are to be distributed, the Trustees shall have regard to the recommendations of the Board. 
This means, in effect, that the day to day decisions as to how the money is to be spent will be made on the recommendations of the Aboriginal Board. This expresses our principle of involving Aboriginals to the greatest possible extent in the decisions affecting Aboriginal life. The income of the Trust will be exempt from taxation, and there will be no stamp duty in the Australian Capital Territory. The Office of Aboriginal Affairs will provide the necessary office service to the Trust free of charge. In consequence, virtually all moneys received as donations will be devoted to providing housing for aged Aboriginals, and every $1 donated will be matched by 2 Government dollars, so that each Si will provide $3 worth of accommodation. 
The scope of the Trust will be determined by public donations. There are many people who say they want to do something practical to help Aboriginals. Here is their chance. Donations are deductible for income tax purposes, and should be sent to - 
Aboriginal Aged Persons  Trust  Account, 
Commonwealth Savings  Bank, 
[5.39] - I rise to support the motion that the Address-in-Reply which was moved by my colleague  Senator Rae  and seconded by  Senator Maunsell  and which declares our loyalty to  Her  Majesty the Queen be agreed to. I would like to congratulate the mover and the seconder of this motion on the speeches they made. I also congratulate the two new members of the Senate who made their maiden speeches. We have just listened to a maiden speech made by the senator who has replaced the late  Senator Cohen  and we congratulate him on his speech. We may not always agree with what the honourable senator says but we recognise that he will speak in this chamber on matters about which he has great concern. 
We are pleased to join with the GovernorGeneral in looking forward to the visit of Her Majesty Queen Elizabeth, His Royal Highness the Duke of Edinburgh, the Prince of Wales and Princess Anne. I know that every Australian will welcome the occasion when, for the first time in our history, the Queen and her husband and family will be with us for a visit, which we hope they will enjoy. Australia is a young country and this year we celebrate the bi-centenary of the landing of Captain Cook. Australia is a country that has been built up by people who have come from various parts of the world and who, by their faith, their courage and their hard work have made it the nation that it is today. When we look at the Speech of the Governor-General, which sets out to the people of Australia the programme of the Government, we see a continuing policy of development and growth in a growing and developing nation. 
If I have time I shall refer to a number of points in the Speech. First of all, 1 would like to refer to matters which were raised yesterday afternoon by  Senator Fitzgerald  because they are matters which concern my Department.  Senator Fitzgerald  spoke about housing. He said that he believes that more than 60,000 Australian families are living in sub-standard accommodation. I believe that he obtained this idea from Press reports of a publication issued by the Housing Industry Association. I want to speak for a moment or two on this subject. First of all, I should like to contratulate the Housing Industry Association on the report that it recently published entitled Finance for Housing in Australia'. Constructive and valuable points have been made in this publication. However, I believe that a few of the assertions seem to be largely unsupported by factual evidence. I refer particularly to the point which was put forward by  Senator Fitzgerald  that there is a stock of perhaps 100,000 unsatisfied home seekers of whom 60% live in unsatisfactory homes. I believe that this statement has been twisted, not I might say - and I emphasise the word 'not' - by the Housing Industry Association but by some of those who have commented upon it, into an assertion that there are 60,000 unfit houses in Australia. The report did not say this and it could not have reasonably done so because there is no evidence that the committee which produced the report undertook a survey of the housing conditions under which people are living in this country. 
The last thing that I want to claim is that Australia is a Utopia totally free of housing problems. One of my main concerns, as Minister for Housing, is to identify these problems and to take steps to solve them. But people forget the enormous strides that have been taken in recent years towards improving the Australian housing situation and the real improvements that have occurred as a consequence. In respect of the key statistics of the total number of houses built and the extent of home ownership, Australia stands right at the top of the nations. Our annual home construction is 11 per 1,000 persons as compared with 9 per 1,000 in Canada, 8 per 1,000 in the United States of America and 7 per 1,000 in the United Kingdom. Our home ownership rate is not surpassed by any other country. I believe that these are matters which we as Australians should be pleased to be able to report. The current rate of construction is about 140,000 dwellings per annum. The real improvement in the housing of our people is shown by the fact that between the 1947 and 1966 census dates the stock of occupied dwellings rose from 247 per 1,000 to 273 per 1,000; shared houses fell from 106,000 to 26,000; and the number of occupied sheds, huts and tents fell from 49,000 to 31,000. 1 draw the attention of the Senate to the fact that this latter figure includes a number of occupied holiday caravans. 
Sitting suspended from 5.46 to 8 p.m. 
 Mr Deputy President,  you will recall that, when the sitting was  suspended,  I was speaking of the great strides that had been taken in recent years to improve the Australian housing situation. I had spoken of the key statistics relating to the total number of houses built in Australia and the extent of home ownership here. I had compared our figures with those of Canada, the United States of America and the United Kingdom and shown how we were at the top of all nations. I had said also that the ratio of home ownership in Australia was not surpassed by any other country. I wish to continue on from that point because I think that it is important that we remember these things. 
All that I have outlined amounts to a marked improvement in the standard of housing in Australia. But I would never say, of course, that this means that everything is perfect. However, it is important, I believe, to keep a sense of proportion. The present fortunate housing situation in this country, due to our high prosperity, causes a large number of people to have expanded expectations. In Australia no significant general housing shortage exists. It is true that some of our houses are old and unsatisfactory by today's standards. But many of them are either being renovated or being replaced. There is also some shortage of housing for certain disadvantaged groups. 
So, as I see the tasks of the Government, they are to set the general social and economic conditions which will make possible the building of sufficient good quality homes to satisfy the needs of most families and, as the report of the Housing Industry Association Committee very rightly said, I believe, to provide housing for the lower income earners and the underprivileged. So, tonight I would invite the attention of honourable senators to the extent to which the Government is carrying out these tasks. 
The volume of housing finance available is running at a record level. The average housing loan is now a higher proportion of the value of the home than it was before we established the Housing Loans Insurance Corporation, a Corporation brought into being by this Government because of the assistance that it would give in this area. Our advances under the CommonwealthState Housing Agreement at a concessional rate of interest are close now to SI 40m per year. We are finding $55m this year for the war service homes scheme. I hope that time will permit me to refer later on in more detail to this scheme. The Government is providing two-thirds of the cost of building homes for aged persons in a tremendously successful partnership, which is recognised by everybody in the Senate, with church and charitable organisations. 
Realising that there was still a great need to assist our needy aged and particularly single aged pensioners, we added last year another S25m by way of grants over 5 years to State housing authorities to build homes for these really needy single aged pensioners. Also, S5m is being provided this year through the Commonwealth and State Governments for Aboriginal housing, another area in which we saw a need. Altogether, the Commonwealth is providing about S265m a year for housing, a large part of it directly going to the disadvantaged and the economically or physically weak in our community. I believe it is right that these areas should be receiving this attention. 
I wish to refer again to the report that was recently made by the Housing Industry Association Committee. The Committee speaks of a shortage of housing finance in Australia. I would say that I am convinced, as I have said earlier, that there is no general shortage. Both the number and value of loans are at record levels. Shortages of finance exist in regard to certain economically weaker groups. I refer to those families on relatively low wages who find it difficult to save a deposit, some newly arrived migrants, couples who have married very young, and widows and deserted wives with dependent children. These are areas to which we have also directed our attention. 
I hardly need to remind the Senate of the homes savings grant scheme which was introduced by this Government to assist young people to save for their own homes. We have been spending $13m a year on homes savings grants for young people. We may not have solved the problem of home ownership for people who are marginally able to purchase a home. Nor do I think that there is a sufficient supply of good, cheap rental housing for those who, for various reasons, are unable to buy a home. Whilst we still wish to encourage home ownership by those who can afford it, there also must be a continuing concern for those meriting special thought - the new migrant, the old, the sick, the Aboriginal and the less well off. 
In a few months time, we shall be conferring with the States on the form of our assistance to them after the present CommonwealthState Housing Agreement concludes in June next year. I can assure the Senate that these matters of which I have spoken are the matters on which I shall be putting my emphasis. 
Another point which was raised by the report of the Housing Industry Association Committee was the rising cost of land and the severe problem that this is; not, if I may say so, that the Committee was Colombus in this respect. We have all been worrying about the matter for a good while. The rising cost of residential land is a worldwide phenomenon due principally to the growing world population and the growing size of cities. In Australia, it is accentuated by the desire of so many to live in settled areas. The rise has not been so significant in the outlying areas of cities or in country towns. Some State governments have been doing quite a bit by making land available at reasonable prices, but I believe that there is still more consideration to be given to this problem. 
I would say that those who are making general assertions that a tremendous housing problem exists in Australia and that vast quantities of additional resources must be deployed in the housing field are doing the nation a disservice. Although manpower available for home building is now close to being occupied fully, the number of dwellings being commenced continues to rise although probably at a slower rate than in the past year or two. Building costs have risen slightly more than many other costs. We wish to see this recent upward movement replaced by a period of cost and price stability. I think, as I said earlier, that we recognise areas where we still have problems. These are matters that will continue to receive our attention. 
Before mentioning one or two other matters in the Governor-General's Speech, 1 wish to reply to another point that was made last night by  Senator Fitzgerald.  The honourable senator used the expression, as I recall it, that the war service homes scheme is petering out. I wish to contradict very strongly that statement because it is quite false and it is quite unfair to those people with war service homes or those people who are eligible for a loan from the War Service Homes Division for anyone to give the idea that this scheme which has done so much is not continuing. I wish to explain the position and to give some figures which I think show the applications which are still coming in. 
As honourable senators know, the war service homes scheme has been in operation for over 50 years. The 50th anniversary of this wonderful piece of legislation was celebrated last year. Honourable senators will appreciate that for a period after a major war the number of applications increases. Then the demand for war service homes decreases and levels out. The present number of applications is of course well below the level that obtained in the decade after World War II, but that is only to be expected, bearing in mind the large number of applications that has been satisfied. Even so, considerable numbers of applications are being received. Some honourable senators seem to seek to give the impression that the war service homes scheme is being wound up. For their benefit particularly I point out that 10,824 applications were received last financial year, compared with 9,754 applications in 1967-68. Present indications are that the number of applications received in this financial year will exceed 11,500. Surely those figures answer the point raised by  Senator Fitzgerald.  . 1 would also like to point out that while many of the applications at present being received are from ex-servicemen of World War 11, increasing numbers are being received under the eligibility provisions which began to operate in 1963 for persons who served in Vietnam. More than 35,000 persons are eligible for war service homes assistance under the special conditions introduced in 1963. In order to meet the increased demand the Government has provided this year for war service homes $55m as against last year's provision of $50m. I think that answers very strongly comments made by honourable senators opposite and in another place and at various places by the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam).  Those statements are flatly contradicted by the facts. 
The outstanding feature of the GovernorGeneral's Speech is that it gives, as it were, a programme of legislation which shows a very real appreciation of the needs of the country and of its people. As the GovernorGeneral said in his Speech, the Government will follow policies aimed at broadening the economy and further developing the Australian nation. The Speech shows that Australia will be strongly defended; will bs given every opportunity for development; and that its people will receive a wider range of benefits than they have had before. Continuing assistance is to be given to our young people in the field of education and to the aged and ill in the community. 
I grew up near the Bundaberg region. I want to say how pleased I am that the Government has allocated $12. 8m towards the cost of an irrigation project in that region out of the sum of Si 00m set aside for national water development resources programmes. I have travelled through the Bundaberg and nearby district in time of drought and have seen the devastation brought about in the area. I know how successful development can be there, and seeing the devastation wrought by drought brought home to me the need for this assistance. 
I am sure that  Senator Georges  is pleased that the people in that region are to receive assistance. I do not understand why he, as a Queenslander, should interject and pretend that he is not pleased. When the Government takes action that is for the benefit of the people it is rather sad to hear honourable senators opposite attempt to belittle that aid. It is of no use  Senator Georges  attempting to start an argument because I do not intend to argue with him. We would only be wasting our time. I am sure I am right in what I am saying. 
I spoke in this debate before the suspension of the sitting and have continued my remarks tonight. The Address-in-Reply debate gives us a great opportunity to speak on matters of particular interest to us all. It also gives us an opportunity to appreciate the future legislative programme and the matters which are to come before the Senate to be considered by us not only as senators from a particular State but also as Australians who believe in the growth and development of our nation. Australia is only 200 years old. It will continue to play its part amongst the nations of the world and amongst free people. All of us should help to carry out the course mapped out by our founders. At present we are celebrating the founding of this nation. I hope that by our deeds we will make Australia such a great country that in another 100 or 200 years when celebrations are being held the people who are celebrating can look back to today and say: 'This is a great and a free country because of the legislation and of those people who were the legislators and worked for the future of Australia'. I support the motion and reject the amendment. 
[8.6] - I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
In his policy speech prior to the last elections the Prime Minister  (Mr Gorton)  said: 
We shall pay pensions at standard rates instead of at married rates to aged couples who lose the economies of living together by reason of failing health - for example, if one or both of them is in a nursing home. 
The Bill provides the legislative measure to give effect to that undertaking. One of the Government's social services aims has been to seek out areas of special need and to bring to the Parliament measures to meet those needs. 
For some years now it has been recognised by the Government and, I think, by honourable senators, all of whom are personally aware of the situation of many pensioners, that a single person needs more than half the combined income of a married couple to maintain an equivalent standard of living. The Senate may recall that in recognition of this situation the Government introduced supplementary assistance in 1938 for single pensioners who had little or no means beyond the pension and were paying rent. 
Later, in 1963, a higher rate of pension for single pensioners - the so-called standard rate - became part of the social service pension structure. The innovation brought Australian practice into line with that of most other countries where differential rates for single and married persons are accepted as an essential feature of a modern pensions system. The changes I have just outlined were a major departure from the previous Australian common rate pension pattern and they have been fully supported  by  people interested in, and conversant with, the problems of pensioners. 
The Senate may be interested in comparative figures showing the Australian position in this regard as compared with the position in certain other countries. This can be measured by expressing the single pension as a percentage of the pensions received by a married couple. This is set out in the following table which, with the concurrence of honourable senators, I incorporate in Hansard. 
-0721/70 -  S  - (141 

<graphic href="943232197003176_32_2.jpg"></graphic>

I think that it should be pointed out that in the above table supplementary assistance is excluded from the Australian figures. If supplementary assistance were taken into account the Australian proportion would be 64.2% . However, it must be recognised that the economic situation of some married couples who, through illness or infirmity, must give up ordinary domestic living and be cared for in a nursing home or in some other similar way, is often much the same as that of single pensioners. 
The Bill recognises the special needs of such married couples by providing that, where either or both of a married couple, because of illness or infirmity, are obliged to leave their matrimonial home and the situation is likely to be permanent, the Director-General of Social Services may, if he is satisfied that their living expenses are greater than they would otherwise be, give a direction that each shall receive the rate applicable to single pensioners. Where, under the provisions of the Bill, married couples become eligible for pension at the single rate they may also - subject to means - each become eligible for supplementary assistance. Thus on the passage of the Bill, couples may each receive an increase of SI. 75 a week in their pension plus grant of $2 a week supplementary assistance, giving them a combined increase of $7.50 a week. 
An increase in the pension rate for these married couples will raise the income and property limits beyond which no pension is payable. For married persons the present income limit is $70 a week and the property limit $37,200. These limits will now become $77 a week and $40,840 respectively. Under other new provisions which were introduced by this Government in 1968 the survivor, on the death of one member of a married pensioner couple receives, for six fortnightly instalments, the equivalent of the two pensions that would otherwise have been payable. The payment of this 'double pension' entitlement will, on the passage of the Bill, continue on the basis of the married rate. 
In conformity with the usual practice it is proposed that the increase in pensions provided by the Bill will come into operation on the pay day following the royal assent, lt is proposed to write to the authorities of aged persons homes, nursing homes and benevolent homes asking them to bring the provisions to the notice of married pensioner inmates so that their claims can be considered.  Mr President,  the new provisions which I have just outlined mark a further step in the Government's concerted programme of assisting those with special needs. I commend the Bill to the Senate. 
Debate (on motion by  Senator O'Byrne)  adjourned. 
[4.51] - This afternoon we have listened to two very interesting points of view put by Senators Keeffe and Cant. All of us recognise the need to interest ourselves in the welfare of our Aboriginal people. Many honourable senators, as I did, grew up among Aboriginals, knew them, had them as friends, saw them develop and wished them well in the future that lay ahead of them. I must reply to some of the points made by the honourable senators.  Senator Keeffe  spoke of assimilation. He mentioned the definition of assimilation at page 1143 of the Commonwealth Year Book. I do not know the Year Book to which he referred, as the definition he quoted was superseded in 1965. 
What I said was based on information that I was given by my advisers. I am interested in the point made by  Senator Cant.  I am glad that he mentioned that. I thank him. I will make some further inquiries concerning that.  Senator Keeffe  also raised matters concerning the Queensland Act and regulations. I think that  Senator Sir Magnus  Cormack partially answered  Senator Keeffe  when he referred to the recent conference of State Ministers and the Commonwealth Minister-in-Charge of Aboriginal Affairs  (Mr Wentworth)  in Sydney last Friday, I think, when assimilation was discussed. The conference resolved that unilateral discussions between the Commonwealth and any State regarding its legislation may be held. Further discussions are to be held in the near future. I think that the point raised by  Senator Keeffe  is covered by the comments of the Ministers who conferred and, more importantly, by the statement that the Ministers have decided that further discussions will be held in the future. 
I strongly reject  Senator Keeffe's  assertion that Aboriginals over 50 years of age are beyond help. I do not think that this assertion can be accepted. The Government is doing a great deal to improve the health of Aboriginals. I shall refer to this later if time permits. These older people are being given a great deal of assistance. They are being cared for in a variety of ways. To say that people over 50 years of age are beyond help is quite an unjust statement. 
I am sorry if I have misconstrued what the honourable senator said. I did not do so intentionally. I apologise to  Senator Keeffe  if I have misconstrued his statement. I am pleased that he did not say what I thought he said. Most of us in this chamber are around 50 years of age. I do not think that any of us would be pleased with the thought that we will be beyond help at this age. 
Happily I turn to another aspect which I know  Senator Keeffe  and other honourable senators will recognise as being of great assistance to Aboriginals. I refer to the assistance which was brought to our notice only last week when, on behalf of the Minister-in-Charge of Aboriginal Affairs, 
I announced the Government's intention to set up the Aboriginal Aged Persons Homes Trust. I believe that the establishment of such a body is another step forward. I hope that the homes built under this scheme will be built in the areas in which the Aboriginals live and have their friends, so that in their later years of life they will have the companionship of their close associates. Of course, the biggest task facing the Government is in relation to the group below the age to which I understood  Senator Keeffe  to be referring. Included in this area are the very important fields of health, housing, education and employment. Over $9m has been spent in this area in the last 2 years. 
I would like to refer to one or two points that have been made in relation to this area of assistance. Honourable senators will recall that when the Senate debated the States Grants (Aboriginal Advancement) Bill 1969 I incorporated in Hansard a brief statement setting out details of the expenditure by the States of the funds made available in 1968-69. I think it is good to look back at the details of some of this expenditure. Although  Senator Sir Magnus  Cormack referred to the amounts of money which were allocated to particular areas I think it is worthwhile to repeat some of the details. Grants totalling $5,410,000 will be made to the States in 1969-70 to support State activities in the fields of housing, education, health, employment and vocational training. This figure compares more than favourably with the grant of $3,650,000 in 1968-69. I should remind the Senate of some of the items on which expenditure was incurred. It was incurred in the education field on such items as the grants-in-aid scheme for secondary school students and payment for the mentally handicapped Aboriginal children in existing special schools; the construction of an additional wing at Kirinari hostel, which is run by the Aboriginal Children's Advancement Society; adult education courses, renovations to Tranby hostel, which is run by the Co-operative for Aborigines Ltd; assistance with the cost of school buses; work in the pre-school area; renovations to preschool buildings; assistance to church and charitable bodies, including the construction of a hall for the Daughters of Charity primarily for follow-up work on former preschool children; and a grant to the Save the Children Fund for pre-schools. That is a very excellent fund which does so much work in this field. The expenditure I am mentioning on these items occurred only in one State, but if one looks at the statement to which I have referred one will see that the same areas of assistance occur in the various States. 
In the field of health, subsidies were given to the Far West Children's Health Scheme. I am sure that my colleagues from Queensland have often seen pictures of children coming down from the far west on holidays and have particularly noticed the happy faces of the Aboriginal children among them. These children are provided with the best dental and health care. The document to which I am referring shows that a subsidy of $7,000 was provided to the Far West Childrens Health Scheme in New South Wales. Assistance is given also in other areas of health, such as to the Bush Nursing Association and the Western Shires Dental Scheme. I have extracted only one or two of the items of expenditure in one State, but it is the pattern throughout every State. 
Lel us examine the programme for 1969-70. On 11th September 1969 the Minister in Charge of Aboriginal Affairs submitted details to the Parliament of grants to the States for 1969-70. An amount of $5.4m is being made available for housing, health, education and employment. In relation to the employment programme a number of new projects have been organised to supplement the work of the Department of Labour and National Service in regard to increasing the employment opportunities for the Aboriginal work force. This is another step forward. I believe that if Aboriginals are assisted in obtaining the type of work which they enjoy doing it will be of benefit to them. 
I have some details in front of me concerning the Secondary Grants Scheme for Aboriginals. I think this scheme will be of great assistance to the young people of today, who will be the leaders of tomorrow. Secondary level students of Aboriginal descent will be eligible to apply for a secondary grant, which will be tenable from the beginning of the school year in which the student reaches the school leaving age and will continue for the remainder of the secondary schooling, subject to satisfactory conduct, progress and attendance. The secondary grants, which will be available from the beginning of the 1970 school year, will be awarded by the Commonwealth Minister for Education and Science who, in considering the applications to him, will take into account the extent to which the applicants are regarded as capable of benefiting from further secondary school studies. 
Honourable senators are no doubt appreciative of some of the benefits which will be offered under this scheme. An amount of S200 per annum will be paid to the parents for the purchase of school clothing, books and other essentials where the child lives at home. An amount of S240 to $300 per annum will be paid as a living allowance to the families of children living away from home, lt is designed to cover the full boarding costs and the payment of tuition and other compulsory fees to the school. I think all honourable senators will agree with me that it is the most practical way to assist these young people to gain an education. I am sure all honourable senators will agree that education is the real answer to so many of the problems of our Aboriginal people. Although it is still early in the year, 1,000 applications have already been received and it is expected that a considerable number will be received later. 

 Senator Keeffe also referred to the Office of Aboriginal Affairs. He referred to it as the Department of Aboriginal Affairs which is incorrect, because it is not a Commonwealth department. The Office of Aboriginal Affairs comes within the Prime Minister's Department No doubt the wrong title he used has been corrected by Hansard in the official report. 
It may be argued that I am splitting straws, but I believe that the correct title should be used. 
I think Santa Claus has been very active in that the Aboriginals have benefited greatly from the assistance provided. 
Yes. I think the Government has played Santa Claus to many people and it will continue to do so. I thank  Senator Keeffe  for reminding me of that fact. It was helpful of him to do so. The honourable senator suggested that a gag had been applied to employees of the Office of Aboriginal Affairs. I heard that with some concern. I would say to him that if he means that employed public servants are not allowed to make public Press statements then, I suppose, that is correct. But I do not quite know what he means. 
The next thing he asserted, as I understood him, was that the Government has attempted to smash Aboriginal organisations and leaders. I cannot agree with that because $200,000 and more has been made directly available by the Commonwealth Government to Aboriginal organisations in each State to further their good work. I think this surely shows that the Government has been assisting these organisations. We have seen how Aboriginal organisations are doing so much more work for their own people. 
The details of the allocation of the carry-over from 30th June 1969 should be no mystery to the honourable senator because what, in fact, happened was that the amount was added to the Budget appropriations for 1969-70. I am informed that this amount is being expended at this very minute. It has just been taken over into the appropriations for the next year. I also want to mention a little about the work with which my own Department is associated; I refer to the work being done in Aboriginal housing through the Office of Aboriginal Affairs.  Senator Keeffe  raised particular and individual cases. It is rather difficult to give an answer in the Senate chamber on an individual case, but I appreciate the point which was made by the honourable senator. 
You are going to write to me? All right. When I spoke during the Address-in-Reply debate last week I mentioned Aboriginal housing. Of the $5.4m being provided by the Commonwealth to the States for Aboriginal welfare during 1969-70 under the 
States Grants (Aboriginal Advancement) Act, $2.7m had been allocated for the provision of additional housing. In the previous year $2.3m was granted to the States for this purpose. I want to make it quite clear that these moneys, of course, are additional to the moneys being spent in the Northern Territory by the Commonwealth Government. Since December 1968 when the grants were first made available some 700 houses have been constructed or bought, or are in the course of construction. From the outset the Commonwealth Government has been concerned that as much as practicable of the Commonwealth grant should be spent on housing located within the general community where work opportunities are available. I think that when we have previously discussed some of these points in this chamber this has been a point on which we have all agreed; that is that the houses should be as close as possible to the work opportunities. It was for this reason that, the Commonwealth stipulated as a condition of the grant that at least 40% of the grant must be spent on houses located within city or town limits. It has been very pleasing to note that this minimum figure has been exceeded by all States and that all States are endeavouring to assist in this field. The bulk of the housing now being provided is within city or town limits. 
From the information provided by the States and from inspections carried out by Commonwealth officers I can say that a great deal of care has been given not only to the quality of the homes themselves but also to their location in the community and to the provision of welfare support for their occupants. We have not yet obtained all the information we would like on the special housing needs of the Aboriginal people. How this information could be obtained was one of the matters discussed at the special conference, to which I have already referred, which was held in Sydney last week between the State Ministers and the Commonwealth Minister. It was agreed that a survey of existing and future Aboriginal housing needs should be conducted by my Department in co-operation with the States. I believe this survey will be tremendously valuable in assisting in this field. I know my Queensland colleagues will have seen, as I have, what I believe were very well planned houses and very suitable houses in parts of northern Queensland. 
I will just continue, if 1 may,  Senator. After  all, it is my turn. You have had yours. I believe that when we have this survey we will obtain a better idea of the areas of further need on which we can concentrate. 

 Senator Keeffe raised the case of the Mona Mona Co-operative and said that he could not find out where the money had gone as no-one seemed to know anything about it. 1 think he also referred to this Co-operative as being a matter concerning  Senator Georges,  if I appreciated the comments during the crossfire. I am pleased to be able to inform both those honourable senators and other honourable senators present that the loan for the Mona Mona Co-operative was approved in November 1969 subject to the Co-operative raising $1,800 towards the project. The Office of Aboriginal Affairs heard no further from the Co-operative until February this year, despite several reminders. 
Well, it may have done, but if you just listen to me you will hear a bit too. In February the society did write and say that it had raised $1,600. The Minister-in-Charge of Aboriginal Affairs considered the matter further and approved the loan. I think that if  Senator Georges  had something to do with approaching the Office on this he should feel very pleased that the matter was approved and these people given assistance. I know this part of Queensland very well and I am very pleased that they have been given this assistance. lt is a strange thing, but I have never known why when a government does something which helps people those on the Opposition side want to belittle it. Why not be glad and appreciate that these people have been helped? Why not stand up for the thing that Opposition senators themselves have advocated? They are always saying that something must be done for the Aboriginals, but the minute something is done honourable senators opposite try to belittle it and pull it to pieces. This is not the way to help people. The Opposition should either be sincere in what it is doing or refrain from moving an urgency motion. 
If lt moves an urgency motion, then it should be sincere and say it wants these people helped, and it should listen to what we are doing. We are helping. 
I am not too certain when the cheque was signed. I do not think I have that information, but I think I will be able to get it for you. But I can tell you that the society was advised of the approval on 9th March. That is the important date. Before the money is advanced to the Co-operative it will have to provide evidence that it is a corporate body. I hope the approved loan will be paid to it in the very near future. I think that answers the point. It is necessary for co-operation to be forthcoming from the people involved before the loan can finally be approved. Is not this the whole thing we believe in. helping these people to assist themselves and working together in this venture? 
It certainly does stand up. Let me continue. I turn to the next point raised by  Senator Keeffe,  when he referred to the recent Australian Council of Aboriginal Affairs meeting held in Sydney. The Senate is aware that, as I have already mentioned, the Council is made up of Ministers in charge of Aboriginal affairs in each State and the Minister for the Interior because, of course, the Northern Territory is under the control of his Department, and also the Minister-in-Charge of Aboriginal Affairs. No report on this Council has yet been made to either House. After all, the conference is only a matter of a few days old. As the senator noted, the Press reports were indeed - I believe he used the term sparse' and perhaps they were sparse. I think the reports contained very important information, some of which was given to the Senate by the previous  speaker. Senator Sir Magnus  Cormack. Of course, I am going to give some more information. A debate on a matter of urgency is always interesting because it gives us an opportunity to record what has been done and to speak to those things which are to be done. I think that the Press statement which  Senator Keeffe  referred to earlier as being sparse contains some very important points. The Ministers reviewed developments over the past year which affected Aboriginal Australians. They also discussed possible programmes for action in the coming financial year. 
There is nothing secret about this. In reviewing the activities in 1969-70 the Ministers considered that significant progress towards a goal of real Aboriginal equality with other Australians had resulted because of the considerable funds made available by the States with increased supporting funds from the Commonwealth. After discussing these matters they continued their planning for the future in the field of housing, in the field of education and in the field of health, all of which I believe are tremendously important for the future of the Aboriginal people. 
Because of the limitation of time one can touch only on a few of the things that are being done, but as you go round the community, as you see these young people attending school, as you see them taking part in sports, as you see them taking part in the life of the community, as you see them growing and developing and as you see them planning their future in a variety of ways you must recognise that the work which is being done by the State governments with the assistance of the Commonwealth is doing a tremendous amount for them and for the future of the Aboriginal people of this country. 
There is only one other matter to which I feel I must refer.  Senator Cant  mentioned the Aborigines Benefits Trust Fund, which has some $480,000 in hand. He wanted to know whether any of the money had been used to assist Aboriginals in any project in which they were interested. The information that 1 was able to receive is to the effect that a loan has been made to construct a kiosk and restaurant to the west of Alice Springs. The money already has been made available from the Aborigines Benefits Trust Fund which I understand is the Fund to which the honourable senator referred when he asked whether the money which was paid in was being used to assist Aboriginals. This kiosk and restaurant will make available to Aboriginals a very pleasant and interesting occupation. In addition it provides evidence of the new areas in which things like this can be done. 

 Senator Cant referred also to sacred tribal lands, as did other honourable senators. 1 direct their attention to the comments of the Minister-in-Charge of Aboriginal Affairs in trie House of Representatives because sufficient time is not available to me to read them. There is a real appreciation by the Government of these problems and everything that can be done to assist them to keep these sacred areas is being done. The Minister has assured the Parliament that he will give whatever help he can.  His  statement in the House last week - it would take longer to read than the half minute remaining to me - answers the questions raised by the honourable senator. 
Today we have touched on only a few points. We stand at a point in time where a great deal has been achieved. We look to the future when we will continue to give an increasing degree of assistance to these our Aboriginal people. 
[12.14] - in reply - I thank honourable senators who have spoken in this debate for the support they have given to these measures. The interesting points that have been raised will be conveyed to the Minister for Social Services  (Mr Wentworth).  I wish to reply lo one or two queries that have been raised.  Senator Poyser  expressed very real concern, which I appreciate, about publicity for social service benefits. I think it is very important that adequate publicity be given to the benefits available. I understood the honourable senator to say that he believed information on this legislation should be made available to aged persons homes and nursing homes. I would like to read to  Senator Poyser  a letter sent by the Minister for Social Services to nursing homes, and aged persons homes. It states: 5 March 1970 
Dear  Sir, 
I am enclosing for your information a copy of a speech I delivered in the Parliament yesterday on a Bill to amend the Social Services Act. 
The purpose of the proposed legislation is lo provide additional pension assistance to certain married persons whose living expenses increase because, through failing health, they leave the matrimonial home for accommodation specially suited to their particular needs. The legislation will do this by providing authority under which the pension rate applicable to single pensioners may be paid to each of a married couple. In addition, persons to whom the new provisions apply may qualify for supplementary assistance if they pay rent and are otherwise eligible. 
Married persons most likely to benefit will generally be residents of aged persons homes, nursing homes and the like. In view of this I would very much appreciate any action you could take to acquaint married residents with the provisions of the proposed legislation. People who feel they may benefit should write to the nearest office  of the Department of Social Services, or the Repatriation Department if a service pension is in payment. A check will then be made to ensure that the maximum pension entitlement is being paid, including any increase which may become available under the new legislation. 
It will be understood that no pension increases can be paid until after the proposals have  been  made law, which I would hope would be before the end of this month. 
Yours sincerely, 
C. WENTWORTH 
This letter will have answered part of the question raised by the honourable senator.  Senator Poyser  also mentioned he had been given different interpretations on questions raised with departmental officers about pension benefits. I cannot answer his question in this regard, but I shall bring the matter to the notice of the Minister. Perhaps there is some misunderstanding in this case. If the honourable senator would like clarification on any point on which I can get information for him I shall be pleased to help. 
The main point raised by  Senator Marriott,  who supported the legislation, was that it will achieve great results in assisting people who would suffer a great disadvantage through being separated and confined to a nursing home. 'Treatment of married people as single people' in the past, has meant that they have lost the advantage of the halving of income and property; under the Bill the halving of income and property will be continued although the parties each receive the single rate.  Senator Little  asked what was meant by the term 'indefinitely' in connection with this legislation. My reply is that 'indefinitely' means other than a short or temporary period. In the short term a married couple does not lose the economies of living together. In effect the expression means a period other than one which is clearly short term or likely to be short term. I believe firmly that this provision will he considered most sympathetically by the Department. I should mention also while referring to points raised by  Senator Little  that a patient in a public hospital who is eligible for the pensioner medical service receives free treatment and does not have to meet the ordinary living expenses while he is in hospital. In fact he may show a profit while he is in hospital. Hence there is no justification for paying the single rate pension in these circumstances. The situation is different in the case of a pensioner in a nursing home because most pensioners in nursing homes are there for an indefinite period. The single rate pension is to be paid in those circumstances. I remind the honourable senator that in addition the Commonwealth pays nursing home benefits in respect of pensioners in nursing homes. 

 Senator Fitzgerald raised a point in connection with the 6 instalments. This was very much the point made by  Senator Poyser  in connection with publicity and the importance of people having all information available to them. I agree with the honourable senator. I believe that the Minister and the Department are doing more and more to ensure that information is made available. The, 6 instalments to which reference has been made are to be paid by the Department, without an application being required, after the death of a spouse. They are paid to the surviving pensioner each fortnight and are added to the single pension. The honourable senator was concerned that a pensioner may feel that he had received an overpayment and would be required to repay the amount, but I do not think this has occurred. I am sure that the points concerning publicity will be noted by the Department. I believe that something is being done about this, but if it is not done and a problem arises I shall see what can be done so that the pensioners do not have this concern. 
I think they would know. If there is any possibility of their not being aware of it, a good point has been raised. I am sure the Department would see what could be done. I believe that I have answered the main points raised by honourable senators. I appreciate the support given by the Senate to the passage of the Bill. I thank honourable senators for their comments and the interest that they have shown. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time, and passed through its remaining stages without amendment or debate. 
The Minister-in-Charge of Aboriginal Affairs has furnished the following reply: 
$1,341,479. 
For a variety of reasons. Now there is a slight delay in one area, for people seeking assistance for existing homes. 
 - I could not tell the honourable senator the number here, but I can- 
-Not for 6 months at all. We go over this same thing again and again. Whether I say it at 3 o'clock in the afternoon or at 8 o'clock or 1 1 o'clock at night, the situation remains that there is a slight delay in one area of lending; that is for existing homes. The normal processing time is 4 months. 
I am not saying that there has been only one, I am speaking of one young man who was able to get both forms of assistance. But there is no distinction between Aboriginals and other eligible persons if they can fulfil the requirements of the Act. 
There are other places in Australia, I say with great respect, but the honourable senator and I as Queenslanders- hate to admit it. 
Of course, Aboriginal ex-service people have received assistance under the War Service Homes Act. 
Leave me out of this. I will deal with that later. First of all, I answer the honourable senator by saying that he is charging men and women dedicated in the service of this Department who work untiringly to do their best for ex-service people. 
Not at all. It was increased to the amount provided in the Budget. 
Because there has been a greater number of applications than we estimated. 
The Minister for Immigration has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
Applications for passports are confidential between the applicants and the Department and it is not considered appropriate that names, or circumstances of refusal, be disclosed. 
The Minister for Immigration has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 

 Mr Vorstman's application has been carefully considered on previous occasions but it has been decided that Australian citizenship by naturalisation should not be granted to him. 
It is a longstanding rule to disclose the reason for the deferment or refusal of an application for citizenship only where the applicant is unable to show that he has an adequate knowledge of the English language or of the responsibilities and privileges of citizenship, or where he is unable to comply with the residential requirements of the Citizenship Act. 
As  Mr Vorstman's  case does not come within these categories the grounds on which his application for citizenship has been refused cannot be disclosed. 
The Minister for Immigration has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
Yes. 
Yes. 
An Australian passport was issued on 10th January 1967 to an Anne Marie Bondy who is recorded as having left Australia on 27lh June 1969. 
The Minister for Health has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
The number of dogs imported from Britain and Ireland during each of the three years prior to the ban being imposed was: 
The Minister for Health has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
yes. 
Appropriate action has been taken by referring the matter to the National Health and Medical Research Council which is undertaking a review of all toxicological information available on the use of DDVP pest strips. 
(Queensland Minister for Housing) [10.36] - I rise to reply to two honourable senators who have spoken tonight concerning the War Service Homes Division. First of all, I want to contradict  Senator Keeffe  firmly and flatly. There is no scandal in the War Service Homes Division and I object very much to any honourable senator under the privilege of this Senate casting aspersions on any officer of the War Service Homes Division. If he says that there is a scandal then he is charging men and women- 
 - I have listened to the honourable senator and I will listen to him again but I would ask him to listen to me for a moment because I object strongly to charges made against the War Service Homes Division and those who serve within it. But I am also a little amused at some of the comments both  Senator Keeffe  and  Senator McClelland  have made tonight for I have listened in public places and I have contradicted those statements in the Press and on the radio in which their Leader in another place,  Mr Whitlam,  said that the War Service Homes Division was winding up, that it was petering out. 
It was said in this chamber that it was coming to an end. Surely this answers more effectively those charges than any words I have ever uttered before. Of course, the War Service Homes Division is not winding up. This is a country which has the greatest record in the world for this kind of housing. There is no other country that has given to its ex-service people over this long period, for whatever war they have served in since the inception of this legislation over 50 years ago, such service and splendid assistance in housing loans. 
The honourable senator will have another chance to speak. There is still another day. We have contradicted the statements of your leader in another place and now the honourable senator changes his tune and comes in on the other side of the picture. I will reply to  Senator Keeffe  first but  Senator McClelland  need not worry that I will not answer his questions.  Senator Keeffe  spoke as though there is in my Department a distinction between our Aboriginal people and other ex-service people. I contradict this flatly because, of course, Aboriginal people who have qualified- 
But there are other parts of Queensland, too, and, of course, any Aboriginal person who is eligible and who can fulfil the usual conditions on which loans are provided may obtain a loan. Of course, many of them cannot fulfil the lending conditions. Perhaps they do not have the required deposit, perhaps they are not able to meet the repayments; but I can assure the honourable senator that there are Aboriginal people who have received assistance through the War Service Homes Division. I remember feeling very delighted on one occasion when I heard of one who not only received a war service homes loan but also received a homes savings grant. 
Has the honourable senator finished his conversation, because I thought I would go on with mine?  Senator Keeffe  also commented on the amount of money which is repaid on loans. I think it is an interesting point and one that it is good to discuss tonight, but we have to get it into the right perspective. This money does not come back to the War Service Homes Division to be used again, lt goes, of course, to Consolidated Revenue. But let me give honourable senators the amounts of money that have come back. The amount received in respect of capital and interest payments relates to loans granted over the whole period since the scheme has been in operation. Now, one is inclined to take repayments in a year as relating to advances for that year but this amount that comes back is in respect of loans over the whole period of the scheme's operations and in this connection it should be noted that on 28th February 1970 capital expenditure on war service homes was $1,353,104,754. 
It covers the period from the commencement of the scheme. The amount received by way of capital repayments and interest during that period was $890,000,957. This shows, of course, that over this long period the amount of money that is coming in is related to the long term period of the loan. It is a very different story when one sees the amount that has been spent on war service homes and the amount received in capital repayments and interest during the same period. One of the other points raised by honourable senators concerned the allocation made in the Budget introduced last year and in the previous Budget. In one Budget speech the then Treasurer quite correctly said that if an increase were needed it would be made available. This was because the allocation had been reduced that year. This year the allocation was increased. 
I always find it easier if I do not have a chorus to speak to. I find it very difficult to pick up the points that are being made. I cannot hear the honourable senator. This allocation is made on the estimate by the Department of what is required for war service homes. This year there has been greater increase in applications than was estimated. Although this has necessitated a slight delay we should be pleased that these young people are coming forward and will receive loans from the War Service Homes Division. Tonight  Senator McClelland  commented on the question he addressed to me the other day. I say to him now exactly what I said then. He referred to the freezing of funds. I still do not understand why he says I did not answer his question.  Senator McClelland,  I am speaking to you. I do not know whether you are interested. 
That is good. I would like you to take note of this point. IfI was not answering you correctly at that time, you had an opportunity to interject.I said then that I presumed the term 'freezing' meant that there would not be any loans. You did not interject to say: 'No, that is not what I mean.'' You did not do anything about that, so I presumed that that was what you meant and I answered you correctly on that basis.I resent the charge you make that I was not tryingto answer your question. 
-The normal processing time is 4 months. A slight delay of 2 months is added. It may not be quite that. It is from 6to 8 weeks. This is the point I am making. I explained this to the honourable senator and I again state that I did not incorrectly answer his question. An honourable senator said this afternoon that a delay in granting war service homes loans is a new development. Unfortunately, on many occasions over long periods of time there have been long delays in granting war service homes loans - and very long delays. 
We are not broke at all. There is a delay in one area.I make again the pointI made this afternoon, that even with the slight delay in respect of the purchase of existing homes, applicants for war service home loans are in a much better position to become home owners than other members of the community. The war service homes loan is for $8,000 over a period of 45 years at an interest rate of 3%. No other housing loan in Australia can compare with it. So that even allowing for the slight delay in one area, war service homes applicants are still in a better position than other people endeavouring to purchase homes. We are glad that this is so. We believe that ail eligible ex-service people should have this benefit if they wish to. 
I wish to make it quite clear thatI have given straightforward replies to honourable senators opposite.I have answered in a straightforward manner the points raised tonight. I do not think I have left anything unsaid. If I have neglected any point,I regret it. It may have occurred because I have not made an appropriate note.I reiterate that in this year's Budget the allocation for war service homes was increased by $5m. Despite the forebodings and warnings of the Opposition and the depressing statements by honourable senators opposite that the war services homes scheme would be winding up, the numbers of applications have increased. Because of this development there is a slight delay in granting loans for existing homes. That delay is from 6 to 8 weeks.I believe I have answered the points raised by honourable senators opposite. 
May 
I reply again? 
An appropriation was made in proportion to the number of applications expected for the year. Applications have exceeded the allocation and I am asking: Why are servicemen in 1970 not entitled to the benefits the Government was prepared to give them in the 1967-68 Budget? Why was the Government prepared to furnish supplementary assistance if necessary in 1967-68 but is not prepared to grant it now? This refusal establishes a precedent. If greater numbers of applications are received in future, we do not know what the financial position will be and what period will be taken to satisfy the number of applications. 
I think it is entirely out of character for the Minister for Housing  (Senator Dame Annabelle Rankin)  tonight to try to put on a brave front. She is making an effort to evade the issue. We have become accustomed to the tears in her voice and the ready sympathy she has for aged persons seeking homes; for homeless and home hungry people; for people seeking social service benefits; and for returned servicemen. 1 am not influenced by that attitude, knowing the urgency of the situation and knowing of the promises made to men who have accepted their responsibility to this country. The position is now that we cannot immediately fulfil on the return of servicemen to this country the promises that were made to them. The Minister would let it rest there, if she had the complete say in the matter. The fact is that on this occasion the Treasurer is not prepared to make a grant. Because of his desire to stop this burning inflation he is not prepared to make additional money available for home building in Australia today. But the ones who are being sacrificed are those who are dependent on a Division which has exhausted its allocation. Unfortunately this Division caters for a section of the community to whom we owe so much. 
We find that these people, ex-servicemen, are being put on a par with other sections of the community to whom we do not owe so much, people who are in a much better position than others to own their own homes. This is a repudiation of our offer of preferential treatment to men whom we asked to fight for us. We have now a clear declaration that there is a delay of 2 months in granting war service loans due to a shortage of money. This may not be important to some people, but the person referred to by  Senator McClelland  will have to seek a mortgage at 12i% - and for how long? It has been suggested that the delay will be 2 months, but it will take 4 months to process the application and then a delay of 2 months because of lack of finance, with the possibility then that the delay may be even longer. I do not know whether the Minister for Housing would repudiate what was said by the  Deputy  Director of War Service Homes in Chifley Square, Sydney, who wrote: 
While it is expected that it will be possible to proceed to settlement in July 1970 this cannot be regarded as a firm commitment as conditions may change in the meantime. You will be advised when your client's turn for settlement is reached. 
Even now the Deputy Director of War Service Homes in New South Wales cannot assure this applicant that he will receive finance in July, although the applicant has been accepted by the War Service Homes Division. This is not the treatment that we promised for ex-servicemen, nor is it the way in which the Minister for Housing would treat ex-servicemen, if she had her way. But it has become a matter of the Minister covering up for another department which refuses to make money available for this purpose. This is a repudiation of every promise that we have given to those kids whom we sent to face the fortunes of Vietnam. I am not saying that a scandal is developing in the Division;I am saying that within the Division is a scandal that needs immediate rectification. 

 Senator Keeffe has made some serious accusations of racial discrimination against the Division, which the Minister has denied. The Minister would help greatly by refuting the allegations - not merely saying that they are not true, but by giving us, at some time in the future, figures to show how many Aboriginal people have been supplied with homes under the War Service Homes Act. 
-(Queensland) - Minister for Housing) [9.51]  - I move: 
That the Bill be now read  a  second time. 
With this Bill we will see the implementation of the proposal, outlined by the Prime Minister  (Mr Gorton)  in his policy speech before the last election, to make available a subsidy of $1 for each ten meals served by organisations engaged in the Meals on Wheels activities. This measure represents a further step in the programme which has been instituted by the Government of providing assistance to the aged, but it is not confined to the aged. The subsidy will be available to organisations which are providing a meal service wholly or mainly for aged or invalid persons or for both. Nor is the subsidy to be limited to any segment of the aged and invalid group. There will be no form of means test. The Government recognises that persons in all walks of life can face problems, in both the short and the long-term, in caring for themselves. The assistance to be provided under this Bill will therefore be available to any approved eligible organisation engaged in the provision of meals wholly or mainly for aged or invalid persons, and the delivery of those meals from the place where they are prepared to their homes, or to some other convenient place. 
I have said that only eligible organisations will qualify for the subsidy. Honourable senators will be familiar with the definition of eligible organisation' contained in the Aged Persons' Homes Act, A similar definition will apply for the purposes of this legislation, that is, an eligible organisation will be a non-profit religious, charitable or benevolent organisation or a local governing body. This measure represents an important expansion of the Government's home care programme, which is designed to provide housekeeping, home nursing and other services to the aged with a view to maintaining them in their own homes for as long as possible. It will also provide another opportunity for the participation of voluntary organisations and other bodies in the programme of caring for people in need of community support. Community response to the home care programme has so far been encouraging in spite of some delays in the completion of arrangements by State Governments; however, there is ample scope for the development still further of the type of service which community effort can best provide. The legislation is aimed at assisting in the establishment, expansion, improvement or maintenance of the Meals on Wheels type of service. In order to qualify for the subsidy of one dollar for every ten meals delivered during the preceding calendar year, an organisation will be expected to supply satisfactory evidence of the number of meals in respect of which subsidy is claimed. Furthermore an organisation may also be required to provide full information about the meal services being provided before the next year's grant is made available. For example, an organisation might be required to provide details of the way in which the preceding year's subsidy was used before payment in respect of the current claim is authorised. 
At this point it is pertinent for me to mention that, provided its action is consistent with the object of the legislation, an organisation receiving, or entitled to receive, a grant could donate all or part of the grant to another eligible organisation. To encourage participation from bodies which may have taken over, or may be contemplating taking over, the delivery of meals on wheels from an organisation which has ceased, or will shortly cease, to exist, the legislation also embodies provision for meals previously delivered by an organisation which has ceased to operate to be credited to another organisation or organisations for subsidy purposes. 
At present the annual number of meals on wheels delivered in Australia is of the order of 2 million. The cost, therefore, at an amount of subsidy of 10c for each meal would be approximately $200,000 for the first year. Something like 5 million delivered meals per year may be necessary before the situation is reached where the needs of those requiring this service are being adequately met. On this basis it could be expected that annual costs would gradually rise to $500,000 a year, but this figure seems unlikely to be achieved for several years. As is fitting with this welfare legislation, payments made in accordance with its provisions will be debited to the National Welfare Fund. The first payments will be made in respect of meals delivered during the calendar year 1969. 
I am confident that all honourable senators will recognise that the measure proposed represents an important corollary to the Government's home care programme which is designed to render necessary assistance to people who. because of advancing years and frailty, are unable to continue to live in their own homes without some help. It is a humanitarian measure with which I am sure all honourable senators will wish to be associated, and as such I commend the Bill to the Senate. 
Debate (on motion by  Senator Mulvihill)  adjourned. 
[1J.2IJ - In reply to  Senator Keeffe,  I think the best suggestion I would make concerning the points he has raised would be that I would discuss this matter with the Minister in charge of Aboriginal Affairs  (Mr Wentworth)  who, I know, is always particularly concerned about tribal lands. 1 think, from the opening remarks made by the honourable senator, 2 Ministers were involved - the M'inister-in-Charge of Aboriginal Affairs and also the Minister for National Development. 
I will take the points up with the MinisterinCharge of Aboriginal Affairs and obtain whatever information 1 can for you. If there is other information required from the Minister for National Development  (Mr Swartz)  this will be obtained, I know, by my colleague who represents him in this House. 
[5.19] - I. appreciate the difficulty which has faced  Senator Keeffe  in that the time for which he could speak was shortened. 
No, I. am not closing the debate. Today we have before us a matter of urgency which refers to the Government's reintroduction of a waiting period for war service homes finance. We need to look at this very clearly because a number of rather exaggerated statements have been made. First of all,  Senator McClelland  referred to questions without notice which he has asked and he inferred that he did not get replies and had to drag out information. On a quick tally I note that something like 16 questions without notice have been asked of me since 3rd March, which was the beginning of this sessional period and I have answered these. I gave the honourable senator the information which I believed was what he required. I have done what I can to give the very clearest information on the points which he has raised. This is quite factual. 
As all honourable senators know, every ear at Budget lime there are discussions on the amount of money to be made available for the variety of measures which will come before the Senate in the form of the Budget Estimates, which will, of course, show the amount of money to be expended in these avenues during the year. Last year an estimate of requirements was made and this was placed before Cabinet. As a result, the amount of the vote for the War Service Homes Division was increased to $55m, being an increase of $5m over the previous year. One of the interesting things in all this is that over the 5-year period 1963-64 to 1967-68 there was a decrease in applications which averaged about 8% reduction for each year. This trend was reversed in 1968-69 and the vote for 1969-70 was increased. As the year has gone on the number of applications has shown a further increase. I think the figures which I am about to give the Senate bear out what I say. The following are the number of applications received for the past 2 financial years: 1967-68, 9,754; 1968-69, 10,827. We now estimate that this year the number would be well over 11,000. This is a very big increase over a period of 3 years and so we find that as we come to this period the applications have been greater than we estimated. 
I have told honourable senators right from the first question which was asked early in this sessional period that it would be necessary to delay the settlement of some applications, notably applications in respect of existing properties which ordinarily would be settled in May or June, and that it would be necessary to carry these applications over for settlement in July, 1970. New applicants for finance to purchase existing buildings are being advised that there will be a waiting time of approximately 6 months from the date of their applications before settlement may be expected. This period of 6 months covers the average processing time of 4 months plus 2 months waiting time. Loans for building and other purposes are not affected by the change in arrangements. This information was given in an answer which I concluded by saying again that there had been no freezing of loans, which have been suggested, as I understood it, by  Senator McClelland. Senator McClelland  has, in his comments this afternoon, referred to some individual cases. I cannot answer the detail of an individual case, of course, without seeing it and the honourable senator would understand that. I can only answer on the full pattern of administration at present. 
It is a question of when the application was made. Without seeing the case I do not know when the application was made. I do not have the details of the case but no waiting time has been applied to applicants whose applications have been approved, except those due for settlement in May or June and these are being carried over for settlement in July. There is a waiting period for those who have lodged applications which were being processed but not approved when the waiting period was introduced. This waiting period is 6 months from the date of application or, if the applicant is ineligible at the date of application, 6 months from the date on which he becomes eligible. We again have the 4 months for processing plus the 2 months delay. 
This is the normal average time the applicant takes to meet the requirements of the Act. 
For a variety of reasons it takes this long. Eligibility and the suitability of the property have to be established. There are sometimes title defects to be overcome and a variety of other requirements to be met. This is the average time. 
I would not agree with the honourable senator there at all.  Senator McClelland  has complained that he has not had the facts and I have been giving them for days. I am giving them again. I repeat that that is the average period. We need to look at this in the true perspective of what has been done in the field of war service homes. I absolutely contradict any honourable senator who says that the War Service Homes 
Division has not done an excellent job for ex-service people, and I contradict strongly those who would say that service is not being given to eligible persons. Since the commencement of this scheme SO years ago 304,000 people have been assisted and all over Australia there are people today who are grateful for the benefits available through the War Service Homes Division. 
 Senator Cavanagh  asked me this yesterday and he asked me again today. 1 believe that he is a very good parliamentary member. 
If I could just continue, I think that in this case the honourable senator understands. Prior to the presentation of the Budget an estimation is made of the amount of money required by a Minister. This is then put before Cabinet. 1 do not come into the Senate and tell honourable senators what I intend to put before Cabinet. I put forward an amount which, from the estimates I am given I believe to be a correct amount. When Cabinet decides on an amount this is incorporated in the Budget and then discussed in this place. 1 do not believe that it would be proper for me to discuss in this chamber the estimate which I put before Cabinet in any Budget representation I make for the future requirements of the War Service Homes Division. I think that it would be improper. 1 think that this answers the honourable senators question. 
The Leader referred to whether or not it was policy. 1 am taking this to the point that decisions made when estimates are put before Cabinet are part of Government policy at Budget time. I will return to the subject I was discussing as I have, I believe, given a fair answer to the point raised by  Senator Cavanagh.  Irrespective of whether we agree on the answer I have given, I think we respect each other sufficiently as parliamentarians to understand the position. 
That is what you say. I am saying what 1 believe is proper and that is fair enough. I believe that the housing of ex-service people is tremendously important and have always believed so. It is quite true, as  Senator McClelland  has said, that during the Address-in-Reply debate I said that we are finding $55m for war service homes this year. 1 did not say further than that.  Senator McClelland  implied that I had said that that sum was all that was needed. That was his implication. 
1 said that we are finding $55m this year for the war service homes scheme. 
lt seems unnecessary, but I will oblige the honourable senator. I referred to the Commonwealth and State Housing Agreement provision of $140m; and then to the provision of $55m for the war service homes scheme. I said that 1 hoped time would permit me later to refer in more detail to the scheme. 1 then said that the Government is providing two-thirds of the cost of building homes for aged persons in a tremendously successful partnership with church and charitable organisations. There is no other reference in that paragraph to war service homes. I would be appreciative if any honourable senator could indicate where I have again referred in that paragraph to war service homes because 1 cannot find it now while I am on my feet. The only reference I can see at the moment is the statement, which is correct, that we have made available this year $5Sm for war service homes. 1 would like to remind honourable senators of the history of the war service homes scheme. Out of a total expenditure of approximately $1.3 billion on the war service homes scheme since its inception, Liberal and Country Party governments - and I am a member of one of them - have  provided Si. 2 billion. Putting it another way, of the total funds made available for the war service homes scheme, about 92% has been provided by Liberal and Country Party governments since the first of them came to office. That is a jolly good record, but honourable senators opposite seek to belittle it. They say that we are not doing the job, that we believe it is not worthwhile and that we do not accept responsibility. They say that we do not care. What nonsense that is in the light of the fact that Liberal and Country Party governments have provided 92% of the total expenditure on the scheme. Surely it is not necessary for me to deal further with that aspect. 
I want to be fair in dealing with the points raised by previous speakers in this debate. It is true that a slight delay will occur before some applicants will receive their loans, but even so they will be better placed in acquiring homes than are other members of the community, because the war service home loan is of $8,000 for a period of 45 years at 31%. 
Why is  Senator Georges  shaking his head at that statement? 
It is a long term loan with a beneficial interest rate. It is the best possible housing loan that anyone can receive in Australia. I will turn now to some of the fears in  Senator McClelland's  mind. No application by an ex-serviceman is being refused on the ground that funds are not available. In some cases it will be necessary to defer settlement for periods varying from 1 week to 8 weeks. I can remember, perhaps much better than some honourable senators who have recently been elected to the Senate, when the time taken to obtain a war service home loan was from 20 months to 30 months. It is easy to forget that, but it is good to remember what has been achieved since those days. 
Deferment of the settlement date will be necessary for only a relatively small proportion of applications, notably applications in respect of existing properties. Such applications would ordinarily be settled in May or June. These applications will be carried over for settlement in July. As a delay of from only 1 week to 8 weeks is involved it is expected that most applicants affected will be able to make arrangements with vendors to defer settlement. However, it will be open to those applicants to complete the transactions with temporary finance should they so desire. Some applicants may decide to obtain temporary finance in the belief that it is worthwhile because of the saving in rent and the benefit of obtaining a home earlier. 1 believe that even if some applicants are obliged to obtain temporary finance - and I am sorry about that - because of the benefits of the war service home loan their situation is still better than that of people who obtain any other kind of housing loan. 
I have pointed out what has been achieved by Liberal and Country Party governments. Surely that contradicts the claim by honourable senators opposite that we have been disinterested and have not cared. I said earlier to  Senator McClelland  that I could find only one reference in my speech in the Address-in-Reply debate to the war service homes scheme.  Senator Rae  has been kind enough to indicate to me another reference. I am glad that  Senator McClelland  raised this point because  Senator Rae  has indicated to me a passage where I was strongly contradicting the nonsense spoken by honourable senators opposite. I am jolly glad that  Senator McClelland  reminded me of this point. At page 214 of Hansard of 11th March I replied to a statement by  Senator Fitzgerald  that the war service homes scheme is petering out. What nonsense that is, in view of the fact that this year more applications have been received than were estimated. On more than one occasion in this chamber  Senator Fitzgerald  has claimed that the war service homes scheme was winding up, petering out, coming to an end, or- whatever expression he chose to use. How little honourable senators opposite know. How bad have been their estimates. How little they appreciate the true story behind the increased number of applications being received. 
The care of people in war service homes  is of very real concern to my Department. Those people are always given the greatest possible consideration.  Senator Fitzgerald  is trying to distract me from the passage most kindly drawn to my attention by  Senator Rae. 
I have pointed out the amount of money that has been made available by Liberal and Country Party governments in the period that they have been in office since 1949 and that that amount represents 92% of the funds made available to the scheme in the 50 years of its operation. Over that period over 304,000 homes have been made available to ex-service people. Relief has been given in a variety of ways. I remind honourable senators of the benefits extended to widows and such cases where there has been real need. In all the circumstances 1 believe that the urgency motion moved by the Opposition today is extraordinary. As I understand the position, the Opposition has never shown for ex-service people the concern displayed by Liberal and Country Party governments as reflected in the amounts of money made available to the war service homes scheme by those governments. 
Silting suspended from 5.45 to 8 p.m. 
At the suspension of the sitting I was discussing the matter of urgency moved by the Opposition concerning finance for war service homes. 1 had discussed various aspects of the work of the War Service Homes Division and had mentioned the tremendous assistance which has been given to thousands of Australian ex-servicemen through loans for war service homes. I mentioned also the assistance that they had received as persons eligible for the loan through the offices of the Division. When 1 speak of these things it is good to remember not only all that has been done by the Government in the field of war service homes but also that Australia leads in this field and is in fact the only country which continues war service assistance in this way so many years after the eligible persons have served in c war. While other countries place a time limit on the operation of their schemes, we are still going on assisting diggers from the 1914-18 war. 
I am reminded of the honourable senator's service which was similar to the fine service rendered by other honourable senators. For 50 years the War Service Homes Division has continued to assist eligible persons. The Division celebrated its jubilee last year. As many as 3 generations have been assisted under this very fine scheme. I think it is right and proper that when people have left this country to serve overseas and by so doing have not been able to buy a home on their return they should be given assistance. This has been the purpose of the war service homes legislation - to assist ex-servicemen to get a home of their own. 
When speaking earlier in the debate I mentioned the increased number of applications for loans in this financial year. I said that this contradicted the comments made by honourable senators opposite within the last year or so to the effect that the War Service Homes Division was being wound up. I mentioned also that it contradicted the idea that assistance was not now being given. Because we have had more applications this year than we estimated that we would have, we have now, as has been mentioned today, the occasion of a delay of 6 to 8 weeks in one area of lending. I propose to repeat some points which I believe are very important. No application by an ex-serviceman for a loan is being refused on the ground that funds are not available. As I have said today and on previous occasions in answer to questions, in some cases it will be necessary to defer settlements for periods varying from 1 to 8 weeks, but a deferment of the settlement date will be necessary for only a relatively small proportion of applications, notably, applications for loans in respect of existing properties. These are properties in respect of which ordinarily settlement would have been in May or June but for which settlement will be carried over until July. This answers the point made by  Senator McClelland  during question time today and again when he spoke in this debate. With a delay of only 1 to 8 weeks it is expected that most applicants who are affected will be able to make arrangements with the vendor to defer the settlement. It will be open to the applicants concerned to complete the transaction with temporary finance, should they so desire. Some may decide to obtain temporary finance feeling that it is worth it in order to save on rent and to be in their home earlier. 
Australia is a country of home lovers. In Australia we have ihe greatest percentage of home ownership of any country, and the war service homes scheme has assisted in no small measure to achieve this. A scheme of this kind is tremendously important for the rehabilitation of ex-servicemen and for the development and growth of the country. 1 contradict those speakers who have said that we have not been interested in or concerned with ex-servicemen when I remind the Senate that of a total expenditure of approximately Si. 3 billion for war service homes since the inception of this great scheme 50 years ago the Liberal and Country Party Government has provided $1.2 billion since it came to office in 1949. This is a very large sum of money which has helped a great many people, it has provided security for a great many people in the field of housing. Of the total amount of finance provided for war service homes. 92% has been provided by the Liberal and Country Party Government since it came to office in 1949. These figures answer more eloquently than any words that 1 could use the suggestions, inferences and statements by honourable senators opposite concerning the work of the War Service Homes Division and its interest in helping people. 
I remind the Senate also of the assistance given to widows through housing and other relief and the continuing concern that we have shown through the years for rehabilitating people who have served this country so magnificently in time of war. Honourable senators opposite might be happy to forget their record in the field of housing for exservicemen when they were in office, but I can assure the Senate that that is not the case with the present Government which has every reason to be proud of its record of achievement in providing $.1.2 billion for war service homes since it has been sn office. That figure represents a tremendous effort. 
1 have answered this point already. 
I have answered this point and I have told the Senate that if any honourable senator has an individual case to present I will always consider it. The honourable senator is well aware that I have always looked at any individual case that anyone has seen fit to bring to me. 1 repeat the point that I made earlier today, that the record of the War Service Homes Division is one of the finest records of housing that could ever be stated in Australia and, compared with other countries, it is a record which is unsurpassed. Although there might be a slight delay before loans can be provided in some cases, applicants for assistance from the War Service Homes Division are in a much better position than other members of the community to become home owners, especially when we consider the benefits under this legislation which enable ex-servicemen to borrow $8,000, repayable over the long period of 45 years at 3-3 %. 
[5.49] - I rise  to  answer a question which I thought  Senator Webster  intended  to  ask me. I expected him to ask it in the Committee stage. Apparently there was a little misunderstanding. I draw the honourable senator's attention to the clause in the Bill which defines a delivered meal service, li reads:  delivered meal service' means a service for the provision, wholly or mainly for aged persons or invalid persons or both, of meals that are delivered from the place at which they are prepared to the bornes of the persons for whom they are intended or to other places at which it is convenient for those persons to consume them: 
That clause makes it possible to bring into the area of assistance senior citizens clubs and centres where meals are available to senior citizens. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a third time. 
[11 . 0] - I have noted the points which  Senator McClelland  and  Senator McManus  have raised concerning matters which come within the administration of the PostmasterGeneral  (Mr Hulme).  I will ensure that they are placed before him, and any information which I receive I will pass on to the honourable senators. 
[5.38] - in reply - I thank all those honourable senators who have spoken on this Bill. We all meet on the same ground, with a very real desire to assist the aged or infirm people who, under this legislation, will benefit through the very fine Meals on Wheels organisation. This is one more part of the care that this Government is endeavouring, through its home care programme, to give these people who are able to continue to live in the familiar and happy surroundings of their own homes and to bring into their own homes the special care which makes all the difference in their living and maintaining a good standard of health- I have had a long association with this kind of work and with the people who have done this work both in this country and overseas. 
As honourable senators were speaking here this afternoon, I recalled the words of the late Marjorie Warren, the great geriatrician, who said that one thing that was tremendously important in the care of aged people was that they should remain in their own homes as long as possible and that one of the greatest ways of helping them to do that was to ensure that a good nutritious meal was brought into the home daily. She said that the importing thing was not only the meal but also the cheer that came with the person who brought it. This has been mentioned here today. I believe that it is something which cannot be measured in money values or in reports that we see but which is tremendously important because of the assistance that it gives to these people. I believe that this legislation is a very important part of the association of government with church and charitable bodies in assisting people who need care. 
A number of points have been raised. I will answer them as well as I can. Perhaps I should start by replying to  Senator Webster,  who was the last  speaker,  so that one earlier  speaker  may have time to return to the chamber if he wants to hear my reply.  Senator Webster  spoke about the need for publicity. I have been informed that there will be special publicity concerning this assistance as soon as the Bill is passed. This is a very good point. But I have found that ever since the policy speech was delivered reference to this scheme has been observed very well by all the people who are interested in it. They are awaiting this legislation. So, I believe that the publicity has really started, but it will be added to after the Bill is passed. 

 Senator Webster also asked whether assistance could be given to people who wanted meals but were not in their own homes to receive them; in other words, if they had the meals somewhere else. I inform him that meals at senior citizen centres are covered by this legislation. That shows that assistance is being given to the aged in this way, whether the meal is taken to the home or provided at a senior citizen centre. Was that the point the honourable senator raised? 
The definition of 'delivered meal service' in clause 3 of the Bill reads:  delivered meal service' means a service for the provision, wholly or mainly for aged persons or invalid persons or both, of meals that are delivered from the place at which they are prepared to the homes of the persons for whom they are intended or to other places at which it is convenient for those persons to consume them. 
It might be easier to deal with the question at the Committee stage. I am not trying to brush the honourable senator off; I just think it might be easier. He also referred to the eligibility of government organisations. Local governing bodies are one group of eligible organisations. 
I think it was  Senator O'Byrne  who used the term 'means test'. I want to make it very clear that the only requirement in order to be assisted in this way is the requirement of need. This assistance will be given to people who need it because, for one reason or another, they cannot prepare a meal themselves or go out for a meal.  Senator O'Byrne  also spoke about the cost of meals. He said quite rightly that in a number of instances the meals are provided by hospitals. When the organisations buy the meals from hospitals the average cost to the organisations is in the region of 25c a meal.  Senator O'Byrne  and other honourable senators including  Senator Mulvihill  spoke about the expansion of facilities. I remind them that the capital costs of establishment are already subsidised under the home care programme for which, as honourable senators will recall, the Senate passed the necessary legislation some time last year, I think it was.  Senator Laucke  said that the first payment is to be made in respect of meals delivered in 1969- I remind the Senate that the Minister for Social Services  (Mr Wentworth)  informed the other place that reasonable evidence of the number of meals served in 1969 will be accepted. Honourable senators will realise that this is new legislation and that the records of some organisations may not be as detailed as they will be in future when they know what is required. Reasonable evidence of the number of meals served in 1969 will be accepted. This will assist many of the voluntary organisations in the first year of operation of the legislation. 

 Senator Mulvihill raised a number of points. He asked for a definition of an eligible organisation. An organisation is required to be approved before it can receive a subsidy. Approval will not be given without full knowledge of the aims and activities of such an organisation. Where an organisation seeks approval as a charitable or benevolent organisation, the State authorities are consulted. Clause 4 of the Bill states: 
The purpose of this Act is to assist in the establishment, expansion, improvement and maintenance of delivered meal services. 
Expansion is one of the purposes of the legislation. That answers not only  Senator Mulvihill  but also  Senator O'Byrne  who spoke about the desire to have the services expanded.  Senator Mulvihill  spoke of the need for consultation with the State authorities. Although grants under this Bill are made direct to organisations, contributions towards capital cost of establishment of services for home care, as I mentioned in reply to earlier questions, are made under the States Grants (Home Care) Act. The Bill adds one more section to the Government's very important home care programme.  Senator Mulvihill  asked where we obtained the survey figures for the number of meals.  Senator Laucke  rather assisted me by giving a reply to that in his speech. Estimates of meals required were based on a survey in South Australia where MealsonWheels Incorporated provides service to most parts of the community in Adelaide. It was on these figures that the overall estimate was made. With perhaps the exception of one point on which  Senator Webster  is not yet quite clear, and about which I will endeavour to supply further information if he asks the question in the Committee stage, I think I have answered all questions. I thank all honourable senators who have indicated that they will support the legislation. I believe it is one more step in a very fine programme in helping the aged and infirmed. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time, and reported from Committee without amendment or debate. 
[9.16] -I move: 
That the Bill be now read  a secondtime. 
The purpose of this. Bill is to amend the Homes Savings Grant Act 1964-1967 in a number of ways. As was promised by the Prime Minister  (Mr Gorton)  in his policy speech last October, the limit on the value of a home that may attract a grant will be raised from $15,000 to $17,500. Other amendments will widen the forms of savings that are acceptable for purposes of the scheme, and extend the classes of persons who may become eligible for a grant. 
The major purpose of the scheme is to encourage young people to save steadily for a period of years for the first home they own after marriage. Since the inception of the scheme in 1964, some 168,000 homes savings grants totalling about. $72m have been paid to assist young couples, and widowed persons with dependent children, to own and establish their homes. The amendments now proposed will permit more young people to qualify for a grant, and allow others to receive larger grants by making some presently excluded savings acceptable for purposes of the scheme.I propose now to draw to the attention of honourable senators the significant proposed changes in the scope and application of the scheme, and to give the reasons for these changes. Notes explaining the purpose of each clause and sub-clause of the amending Bill are being made available to honourable senators. The value of a home, including the value of the land, in respect of which a grant may be paid will be raised from $15,000 to $17,500. As we all know, the cost of many homes has been rising. The most significant reason for this has been the widespread upward movement in the value of developed residential land in many cities and towns. Another reason is that the average cottage being erected today for young families is much belter equipped, and is therefore a better home than it was a few years ago. The increase in the limit on the value of a home by $2,500 approximates the rise that has occurred in the cost of the average home acquired in Australia since the limit was last raised. The cost of some homes has, of course, risen by more than this amount, but the cost of many others has risen by much less. 
Another amendment will extend the forms of saving acceptable for purposes of the scheme to include moneys held in savings bank accounts and on fixed deposit with trading banks that have not been designated as home savings accounts. The great majority of young people who apply for a grant have held their savings in a designated bank account or in one of the other acceptable forms for the required period of 3 years. But there are some who, even though they have been deliberately saving to obtain their own homes and have been depositing their savings in a bank account, have either not requested the bank to designate their accounts as home savings accounts, or have failed to have had this done for the minimum period of 3 years before taking steps to acquire their homes. Under the existing provisions these young people, who have been saving for home ownership for the minimum 3-year period and have deposited their savings with a lending institution that makes sizeable and long term loans for housing, are ineligible to receive a grant. Amongst their number are many newcomers to Australia who, possibly because of language difficulties, have been unaware of the acceptable forms of saving until it was too late for them to become eligible for a grant. 
Our decision to abolish the statutory requirement that acceptable savings with banks must be in accounts that have been designated as home savings accounts does not mean that we no longer wish young people to put their savings into a home savings account. In our future publicity about the scheme we will continue to urge young people to open home savings accounts, because a passbook so designated is a continuing reminder to them of the desirability of saving to own a home. On average, applicants who designated their accounts when they commenced to save have saved more than those who failed to designate, or delayed designating, their accounts. 
A further amendment will extend eligibility for a grant to divorced persons aged less than 36 years with 1 or more dependent children. The eligibility and other provisions relating to these persons will be broadly similar to those applying to young widowed persons with dependent children who were admitted to the scheme in November 1966. There will also be a transition period, in this case up to 31st December 1970, during which the acceptable savings of eligible divorced persons may be held in a wide variety of forms. 
One difference concerns the treatment of savings held at times prior to the dissolution of the marriage. In the case of a widowed person, savings held at times before the death of the spouse are acceptable where those savings were held in the name of the widowed person or the deceased spouse, or in their joint names. However, both parties to a divorce may later become applicants for grants either in respect of a home acquired on remarriage, or of a home for the accommodation of the divorced person and the dependent children. In the case of divorced persons, the treatment of savings held before the dissolution of the marriage will be the same as that which applies in the cases of married applicants, that is to say, savings that were held in the name of the divorced husband will be regarded as his savings, those held in the name of the divorced wife will be regarded as her savings and those held in their joint names will be regarded as having been held in equal shares by the then husband and wife. 
Under the existing provisions, where savings were held jointly with a person other than the present spouse, no part of these joint savings is acceptable. It is proposed that this provision be amended to permit the acceptance of one-half of savings that were held by a person jointly with a former spouse. This amendment will have effect whether the person is applying for a grant as a divorced person caring for dependent children, or as a remarried person with or without dependent children. All the amendments so far referred to will apply to young people whose prescribed dates were on or after 27th October 1969, the first day of business after the recent general election. An applicant's prescribed date is the date on which he or she entered into a contract to buy or build a home or, as an owner-builder, commenced its construction, lt marks the close of a person's savings period for purposes of the scheme. 
Another amendment will permit the Secretary, in exceptional circumstances, to determine that an applicant's prescribed date was a date other than that on which construction of the dwelling was commenced. In some cases, an applicant obtains approval from the local government authority to build a small section of the dwelling, such as a single room or the garage, for use as a temporary home until he is in a position, some time later, to proceed with construction of the remainder of the dwelling. At present the applicant's savings period ends on the date on which construction of the room or garage commenced. The proposed amendment will permit the Secretary to determine that the date on which meaningful construction of the dwelling commenced bc regarded as the applicant's prescribed date in these cases. 
The Australian Federation of Credit Union Leagues has recently renewed its request that savings with credit unions be acceptable for purposes ot the home savings grant scheme. Lending by credit unions is still predominantly by way of loans of less than $1,000 for such purposes as the purchase of furniture, household equipment and motor vehicles and meeting the cost of medical and educational expenses and home repairs. However, a few credit unions are making loans of $4,000 or more over periods of up to 10 years or even longer to their members to assist them to acquire a home of their own. 
Our offer of a home savings grant has always been regarded as being made for two main purposes. These are to encourage young people to save to acquire their own homes after marriage and to hold their savings with the major institutions that make relatively high ratio and long term loans for the acquisition of a home, and thus increase the volume of savings available for lending for home ownership. And we see no reason to alter these purposes. Acceptable savings for purposes of the scheme should be savings deposited with institutions that make large and long term loans at a reasonable rate of interest in connection with the acquisition of a home. Consistent with this, we have so far made no provision - other than in respect of the initial transitional period that ended on 31st December 1964 - to accept savings with a credit union, because no credit union was close to being able to do this. included in the Bill now before the Senate are a number of amendments that will permit savings with a credit union to become acceptable, provided the union can satisfy a number of conditions. These conditions are set out in clause 5 of the Bil). Broadly, they are that a credit unio.i regularly makes a significant number of loans for the construction or purchase of bornes, and that these loans are comparable in size, interest terms and repayment periods wilh loans made for these purposes by banks and building societies. The Bill will permit a credit union to be 'approved for purposes of the home savings grant scheme. The conditions of approval include that at least 20% of ils total lending in its most recent financial year was Icnt to assist its members to own their own homes, that a minimum of $50,000 was lent for these purposes and that these loans were made at an effective interest rale of nol more than 71% per annum on a reducing balance basis. 
As applicants for the grant are required to hold their savings .with institutions that make relatively large and long term loans for the acquisition of a home, it is reasonable that a credit union, wishing to have savings with it accepted, should have made in its most recent financial year a significant number of such loans. One condition of approval of a credit union will therefore be that at least 15% of its total lending in its most recent financial year, that is to say, about three-quarters of the 20% of its lending that must be in loans for the construction or purchase of a home, shall be loans of nol less than $7,000 and be repayable over a period of not less than 12 years. Needless to say, a credit union seeking approval will be asked lo give an undertaking that it will continue to meet these conditions during each subsequent financial year. Failure to meet these continuing conditions will make a credit union liable to have its approval withdrawn. The Bill permits approval to be withdrawn, but only after 6 months notice. 
The Bill also provides that savings held by an eligible applicant .for a home savings grant with an approved credit union shall be acceptable for purposes of the scheme where his prescribed date was not earlier than the first day of the financial year during which the credit union met the conditions necessary for approval. To assist honourable senators let me give an example. Suppose a credit union meets the necessary conditions during the financial year which ends on 30th June 1970 and that the Secretary of the Department of Housing is satisfied shortly after the end of the year that it has met those conditions in its 1969-70 financial year. Savings held with this credit union by an eligible applicant for a grant where the applicant's prescribed date was as far back as 1st July 1969, that is to say, the beginning of the financial year in which the credit union met the conditions for approval, would be acceptable not only at his prescribed date but also at his earlier savings dates. 
These are the conditions on which the Government is willing to accept savings with credit unions for purposes of the home savings grant scheme. It is appreciated that very few, if any, credit unions are as yet in a position to meet these conditions. But, once these amendments are approved by Parliament, the door will be open for savings with a credit union to become acceptable if it wishes to make a reasonable effort in lending to its members for the acquisition of homes. The amendments proposed in this Bill will, 1 am sure, be welcomed by the many thousands of young people who are acquiring their first matrimonial homes or who are saving for that purpose. I commend the Bill to honourable senators. 
Debate (on motion by  Senator Poke)  adjourned. 
[3.41] - On behalf of the Leader of the Government in the Senate  (Senator Anderson)  I move: 
That the matter of the extension of the powers of the Printing Committee be referred to the Standing Orders Committee with a request that the Committee recommend an amendment  to  standing order 36 to give effect to recommendation 67 of the Joint Select Committee on Parliamentary and Government Publications. 

 Mr President, the Joint Select Committee on Parliamentary and Government Publications recommended in its report, presented to the Senate in May 1964, that there should be a continuing parliamentary review of Commonwealth printing and publishing. It pointed out that the existing Printing Committees of both Houses could not undertake the task as they were severely restricted in their powers, ft went on to recommend, therefore, that a joint committee should be appointed with power not only to review the printing and publication of both parliamentary and government publications but also to undertake the function of the existing Printing Committees. 
On 26th November 1968, on behalf of the then Treasurer, in a statement on Government publishing policy  Senator Anderson  announced in the Senate that the Government had accepted this recommendation and that the Treasurer proposed to seek the views of the Presiding Officers in connection with its implementation. The Presiding Officers have since advised that the proposed committee could be established in any one of 3 ways: (1) By legislation, as in the case of the Public Works or Public Accounts Committees; (2) by resolution of both Houses at the commencement of each Parliament, as in the case of the Australian Capital Territory and Foreign Affairs Committees; or (3) by amendment of the Standing Orders of both Houses which at present provide for the appointment of the existing Printing Committees. 
Both  Mr Speaker  and you,  Mr President,  have indicated that you believe the most appropriate way to give effect to the proposal is by amendment of the Standing Orders. You have suggested that the new Standing Order for each House might be framed in such a way as to enable each House, independently, through its Committee, to continue to exercise the existing Printing Committee function of considering which petitions and papers presented to that House should be printed whilst providing that when sitting together as a joint committee, the intended additional responsibilities and powers may be exercised. The Presiding Officers suggested to the Government that the matter should be referred to the Standing Orders Committee of each House for a recommendation of an appropriate amendment to the Standing Orders.  Mr President,  I commend the motion to honourable senators. 
[3.48] - 1 move: 
That the Bill be now read a  second time. 
By this Bill it is proposed to amend the Estate Duty Assessment Act to provide reliefs from duty on estates of deceased primary producers. It is also proposed - in relation to estates generally - to remove some limitations on the powers of the Commissioner of Taxation to allow extended time for the payment of duty. The amendments will give effect to proposals announced in the i 969-70 Budget Speech and explained more fully in a statement made in this chamber on 25th September 1969. Under the terms of the Bill, dutiable estates resulting from deaths on or after 25th September 1969 may be eligible for the proposed reliefs if the deceased person was domiciled in Australia at the time of his death. 
The Bill proposes two basic tests to determine the eligibility of an estate for the reliefs. Staled broadly, an estate will qualify for the reliefs where the rural property in the estate has a gross value in excess of one-half of the gross value of the estate as a whole and more than onehalf of the deceased person's gross income in a 5-year period preceding his death was derived from a primary production business carried on by him. In this connection, gross value means the value of property disregarding debts and encumbrances. Assets qualifying as rural property will include land used in a business of primary production, improvements on such land, live stock, farm produce, farm plant and interests in these kinds of property. One of the proposed reliefs is a 20% increase in the level of exemption from duty, commonly known as the statutory exemption, for estates which satisfy the 2 basic tests. The other relief will take the form of a rebate of part of the duty attributable to rural property in an estate which meets both the tests. 
An outright exemption for eligible estates which pass wholly to the widow, children or grandchildren of the deceased person will apply where the value of the estate is $24,000 or less. For eligible estates which do not pass to such relatives, outright exemption will apply up to a value of $12,000. The present statutory exemptions are $20,000 and $10,000 respectively. For eligible estates of a value in excess of $24,000 passing wholly to the close relatives I have already mentioned, the statutory exemption is to be reduced by $2 for each $8 by which the value is greater than $24,000, and thus will cut out completely at a value of $120,000. For eligible estates which do not pass to close relatives, and which are of a value greater than $12,000, the statutory exemption will be reduced on the same basis and will shade out completely ai a value of $60,000. I mention that, under the present law, the statutory exemptions diminish at the same rates as proposed by this Bill and cut out at values of $100,000 and $50,000 respectively. 
The other relief - by way of a rebate of duty - will be available where the value of an eligible estate is less than $250,000, after the allowance of all deductions except any statutory exemption. If this value is not greater than $140,000 the rebate will be equal to 50% of the part of the duty that, by a process of direct apportionment, is attributable to rural property included in the estate. Where the value of an estate is greater than $140,000 the basic 50% rate of rebate will be reduced by one-tenth of 1% for each $220 by which the value of the estate exceeds $140,000. 
The Bill also contains provisions under which estates of deceased persons who had carried on their primary production activities through proprietary family companies may qualify for the relief. The allowance of the reliefs for these estates will be conditional upon the capital of the company being beneficially owned wholly, or to the extent of at least 95% by the estate of the deceased person and his relatives. Where a deceased person's estate includes shares in such a company, and the value of the rural property of the company at the time of death was greater than the value of its other property, the part of the value of the shares attributable to the company's rural property may, if the administrator so elects, be treated as rural property of the estate. A consequence of such an election will, however, be that the shares will be valued on an assets backing basis for all duty purposes, including the valuation of the property in the estate and the assessment of duty in accordance with this valuation. The assets backing value will, in broad terms, represent the amount that would be received in respect of the shares in the event of a voluntary liquidation of the company, without any allowance for costs of liquidation. In requiring that shares which are the subject of an election be valued by reference to their assets backing value, the objective of the Bill is to place estates of shareholders in family companies in a position that broadly corresponds with the situation which would have existed if the property represented by the shares had been owned by the deceased persons themselves instead of by their companies. This is also a feature of the probate duty rebate scheme of the State of Victoria. Its purpose is to provide an equitable basis for the rebate as between primary producers who have conducted their businesses personally and those who have conducted them through companies. 
The provisions of the Bill relating to family companies will also enable estates in which shares in these companies are included to meet what I might refer to as the 'income eligibility' test; that is, the requirement that, for a deceased person's estate to be eligible for the rebate, the major part of his income for the 5 years before his death must have been derived from a business of primary production carried on by him. I should mention at this point that the 5-year period for this test will be the 5 complete income tax years before the person's death or, at the option of the administrator, the 4 complete tax years plus the part year up to the date of death. For the purposes of the income eligibility test the Bill provides that income in the form of dividends,  salary.  wages, bonuses or director's fees received by a shareholder from a company may be treated as having been derived from the carrying on by him of a primary production business. For the income to be so treated, it will be necessary, firstly, for the company to have been a family company throughout the year in which the deceased person derived the income and, secondly, for the company's own income for that year to have been derived principally from a business of primary production carried on by it. These provisions of the Bill are designed to avoid the situation in which an estate containing rural assets would be ineligible for the reliefs because income from a primary production business in which the deceased person had an interest was derived by him through a family company rather than directly through personal ownership. 
With the same broad purpose in view, the Bill also provides that, where a primary production business has been conducted by the trustee of  an  estate in which the deceased person was  a  beneficiary, a share of the income received by that person will - to the extent that it was paid out of primary production income of the trust - be regarded as income from a business of primary production carried on by him. Under the Bill, the rights of administrators to contest decisions of the Commissioner of Taxation before a board of review, a valuation board or a court, where the decisions affect the liability of the estate for duty, will be available in relation to the proposed rebate of duty. 
As to the provisions of the Bill dealing with extensions of time for payment of duty, the proposal is to change the existing law so that the Commissioner will no longer be required to obtain security before allowing extra time for payment in appropriate circumstances. The statutory obligation that estate duty must be paid within 2 years from the date of service of notices of assessment will also be removed. The amended provisions of the law will enable the Commissioner to grant extensions of time appropriate to the particular circumstances of individual cases. As I explained at the outset, the provisions relating to extensions of time for payment are to apply to estates in general - not only to the estates of primary producers. The estate duty payable on smaller rural estates will be significantly reduced as a result of the amendments proposed by the Bill. The Government believes that its proposals will do much to assist in maintaining economic farm units intact. A memorandum explaining the provisions of the Bill in some detail is being circulated for the information of honourable senators. I commend the Bill to the Senate. 
Debate (on motion by  Senator Wilkinson)  adjourned. 
[10.48] - It is quite true that yesterday  Senator Brown  asked me a question. As he read the question to the Senate 1 will not repeat it. If he asked me exactly the same question 1 would give him exactly the same answer because it is the correct answer.I suggested to him that if he had an individual case he would like me to look at, I would look at it. But he did not bring a case to me. He preferred to raise it in the chamber this evening for discussion. I would like to set out for him some details regarding applications and the areas they fall into which 1 think will clear up the point he has raised. Applications for war service homes loans fall into the following broad categories: 
Applications for assistance to build a home with an advance under the Act. 
Applications to purchase a home. 
Applications to discharge a mortgage. 
Applications for an additional loan to enlarge  a  home or to install certain utility services such as a hot water service, sewerage, etc. 
Applications for assistance to build are cases in which the applicant requires an advance to be made available by way of progress payments as construction of the home proceeds. The progress payments are based on the value of the work completed at the date of our inspection. As I stressed, these are applications for assistance to build. An application for assistance to purchase a home may relate to a home which has been built for some years, or it may be a new home or it may be a home still under construction. However, the war service homes advance is not made available until the home is completed and all such cases are treated as the financing of an existing property. This comes back to the point 1 made. Applications for assistance to discharge a mortgage relate to homes which have been built or purchased by the applicant with private finance secured by a private mortgage. Our advance is made available to discharge the private mortgage. There are 2 types of applications to discharge private mortgages - cases in which the application is lodged before the mortgage is arranged and cases in which the mortgage is not pre-arranged but assistance to discharge a mortgage is granted because of the existence of special circumstances such as in the case of a widow. Applications for assistance to discharge an existing mortgage are also treated as the financing of an existing property because the war service homes advance is made available only in respect of an existing or completed home. 
In my replies to the questions which honourable senators have asked 1 have indicated that only applications in respect of existing properties which would ordinarily be settled in May or June are being deferred for settlement in July. 1 have already told that to the honourable senator in answers to the questions to which he has referred. The applications which have been deferred for settlement in July are those which would ordinarily be settled in May or June where assistance is required to purchase a home or to discharge a mortgage on an existing home. As in all of these cases our finance is not made available to build but to finance an existing property, the statement that I made to the Senate in my reply to the honourable senator's question yesterday is correct. SoI have explained the position in relation to existing properties. If the honourable senator had read the annual report of the Director of War Service Homes for 1967-68  -  this is not the latest report but the situation in relation to existing properties financed applies - he would have seen listed details relating to new homes financed which covers homes erected with temporary finance under pre-arranged discharge of mortgage method and homes purchased, and details relating to old homes financed, which covers mortgages discharged and homes purchased. The section of the report to which I have referred relates to existing dwellings. 
-I have already given that information. I have made the situation clear in my replies to questions asked by  Senator Brown  and other honourable senators. Let me now state the position where an applicant has built a home with temporary finance ana is seeking an advance to discharge the temporary finance. 
I think the honourable senator would be better off if he listened to me.I will try to continue. I should like  Senator Brown  to hear this because it is right that he should. In the case where an applicant has built a home with temporary finance and is seeking an advance to discharge the temporary finance, the application must be lodged before building of the home is commenced. Construction is carried out with temporary finance. Upon completion of construction the property is inspected and, if satisfactory, an advance is made available to discharge the temporary finance. As I have indicated, the homes having been built, these applications are dealt with as applications for assistance in respect of existing properties. I remind honourable senators of my reference to the annual report of the Director of War Service Homes. As I have stated by way of answers to questions, some of these applications have been deferred for settlement in July. The information I have given to the Senate indicates the delay - regrettably there is a delay and I am sorry about it - in this one area of existing dwellings. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
[10.43] - I have listened with great attention to the points that the honourable senator has raised relating to matters which are the concern of the Postmaster-General  (Mr Hulme)  and the Minister for Immigration  (Mr Lynch)  whom I represent. I will place those points before them. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
[11.52]  - in reply - First I should like to thank those honourable senators who have entered this debate on the homes savings grant scheme and to express my appreciation at their agreeing so readily to the excellent amendments proposed in the Bill. I believe that since this legislation was brought in it has done a very great deal for the young people of Australia by assisting young married couples to get their first matrimonial home. I hope the scheme will enable us to carry on this splendid work in assisting our young Australians. However, I must reply lo several points which have been brought forward during the debate. 
This debate has been rather interesting because during it we have seen quite a change of character. When the Opposition opened the debate on my motion that the Bill be read a second time,  Senator Poke  moved an amendment which, in effect, welcomed the extended scope for grants offered by the Bill; but also the honourable senator asked the Senate to accept, among other things, the Opposition view that the clauses of the Bill relating to credit unions be redrafted to give savings with credit unions complete and unconditional recognition. Honourable senators will recall that the amendment was moved on Tuesday and that when the debate was resumed yesterday  Senator Poke  sought and obtained leave to amend his amendment, but only after he had heard the views on the admission of savings with credit unions as enunciated by representatives of other parties. What  1  find to be absolutely amazing is that  Senator Poke  should seek leave to amend his amendment and to have second or third thoughts on this matter. To me this is a very amazing thing. 
After the Bill was first brought into the Senate it took the Opposition  15  days to prepare its views on the measure, but I am amazed that these views have been changed in the way that we saw yesterday. I believe in  Senator Poke's  sincerity and in his interest in this subject, but surely one would have expected the first amendment put before the Senate to have expressed the fully considered views of the Opposition. Why have he and evidently his colleagues had second thoughts? Why was there another consideration? Why was it decided by the Opposition only yesterday that there should be some limit on a prescribed housing loan and that this limit should be  $3,000  repayable over not less than  5  years? This is entirely different from the original proposition that all savings with credit unions be given complete and unconditional recognition for the purposes of the home savings grant scheme. Why was it proposed by the Opposition only yesterday that credit unions should perhaps - it does not seem very certain - be required to make loans for the acquisition of a home up to some minimum annual amount before savings with them may be approved? Is it that  Senator Poke  and his colleagues are coming round to agreeing with the Government that a credit union should be making some sizeable long term housing loans before savings with it will be acceptable for the purposes of the scheme? He is coming round to our view on this. But let me say that I cannot believe that the Australian public can have a great deal of faith in a political party which cannot make up its mind on a matter when it has had time to consider it, having had the legislation for  2  weeks and knowing what the proposals were. 
It amazes me that when I say something that  Senator Keeffe  does not like he decides that we will debate the National Health Bill. This is complete nonsense, of course. I am very interested to know why the Opposition changed its views and why there should be an amendment to an amendment. Why is there a second line of thinking at this stage after such a short space of time? 
1  agreed that you should have an amendment, but I did not make the amendment. The honourable senator flatters me. I have never assisted the Opposition to amend their amendment. I agreed only that the Opposition might submit its amended amendment to the Senate. 
Of course I did, because I thought it was so very interesting. I wonder whether the honourable senator's views have been influenced by the views which have been expressed by other honourable senators or whether they have been altered under some outside influence. This is very interesting. I come back to the point that it seems to me thai Opposition senators have not known their own minds on this and so have needed 1 amendment and then another amendment. But I shall come now to the amendments. The original amendment raised 3 separate questions. The first, as I mentioned, relates to the unconditional recognition of savings with credit unions. As 1 go on a little later I shall speak to the further amended section of it. It has been made perfectly clear from the outset that the homes savings grant legislation has 2 principal purposes. This was made clear in this chamber when the legislation was first introduced by  Sir William  Spooner and it was made clear also by  Mr Bury  when he was Minister for Housing. I have reiterated the principles on more than 1 occasion when a Bill to amend this legislation has been before the Senate. The 2 purposes of the scheme remain. These purposes, which were expressed very clearly yesterday by  Senator Little,  are to encourage young people to save purposefully and consistently for the first home that they own after marriage and to promote savings with the major institutions which make relatively high ratio long term loans for the acquisition of homes. 
The Government has on a number of occasions carefully considered the representations which have been made to it that credit union savings be acceptable for the purposes of this scheme. It will be recalled that the Government gave consideration to this aspect when similar legislation was previously before the Senate. But the Government is faced with the fact that credit unions make few, if any, large and long term loans for the acquisition of homes. We always come back to this point. I wish to make it quite clear that the Government does not question the fact that a significant proportion of the loans made by some of the larger credit unions is for purposes associated with housing. However until recently a majority of the loans made by credit unions for housing purposes were of relatively small amounts and for relatively short periods. In the main the loans were for subsidiary housing purposes, such as extensions and repairs to homes. However, a number of credit unions have recently been making larger loans for longer periods. In order to assist the credit union movement the Government has set out clearly the conditions under which savings with a credit union may be acceptable for the purposes of the scheme. By making this provision in the Bill which is now before the Senate the Government is making it practicable for savings with a credit union to be acceptable if the credit union is willing to make a reasonable effort to lend money to its members to acquire homes. 1 refer now to the second part of  Senator Poke's  original amendment, which has not been altered in any way since he moved it. The second part of his amendment deals wilh the commencing date of the proposal to remove the requirement that savings bank accounts and fixed deposits with trading banks must be designated as home savings accounts if the moneys in these accounts are to be accepted for the purposes of the scheme. I am sure all honourable senators are aware that the Government proposes that the new conditions will apply to applicants who contracted to buy or build a home on or after 27th October 1969, which is, of course, the operative date for the new limit of $17,500 on the value of a house and land which may attract a grant. The limit will be increased from $15,000 to $17,500 under this Bill. This is the new value of a home which may attract a grant. 
The Government would not wish an applicant who acquired his home on or after 27th October 1969, and who stands to benefit from the proposed increase in the limit on the value of the home, to continue to be ineligible for the grant because of the fact that the other amendment to the principal Act from which he stood to benefit had not yet come into effect. For this and other reasons it was decided that both amendments to the principal Act - the increase in the permissible value of house and the land to $17,500 and the amendment concerning designated accounts - should become effective from the same date. As the non-designation provision might reasonably have applied from the date on which the legislation would have received the royal assent, the Government's proposal to make it operative from an earlier date - a date even earlier than that of its announcement - is, I believe, a most generous concession indeed. It will help many people. It will help to eliminate possible confusion about the dates of commencement of operation of the 2 new provisions of this legislation which, I believe, arc so very important. These provisions must be of help to many young prospective home buyers. 
The third part of the amendment which was moved by  Senator Poke  on behalf of the Opposition concerns the right of applicants to have their homes valued by the Commonwealth Taxation Office. The Government does not think it is necessary to obtain a second valuation in every case in which an applicant contests the valuation of his home by the Department of Housing. In many cases it is quite clear that the value of the home is beyond the statutory limit. Therefore, a further valuation would be obviously a waste of time and money. There have been instances where, for example, the Department has valued a home at $19,000 and the applicant has insisted that its value is not more than $ 1 4,000. I am quite certain that if the home were up for sale the applicant would think differently about claiming for it a value of $14,000. In the few cases where the Department's valuation has been slightly in excess of the permissible value it. has sought and obtained a check valuation by the Taxation Office. In such cases the applicant is invited by the Department to submit any additional relevant information he has in his possession. I can assure  Senator Poke  and other honourable senators that this practice will continue. The Government believes that it is a fair, just and proper practice. 
Of course, there are a number of other channels, both formal and informalthrough which an applicant can seek a review of a departmental decision. I remind honourable senators that there is a statutory right of appeal, under section 1 1 of the principal Act, to the Secretary of the Department of Housing against any decision of an officer of the Department concerning an applicant's entitlement to a grant. An applicant can also seek a review of a decision of the Department by having representations made by an honourable senator. We all know that this happens sometimes and it is right that it should happen. 1 also draw the attention of honourable senators to the fact that each notice of determination which is sent to unsuccessful applicants concludes with the words: 'If you feel that we have misunderstood the position or that there are additional factors of which we are unaware which would affect the situation we would, of course, review the matter'. 
The Government believes that the present system is working satisfactorily and that it contains adequate safeguards against the unjust treatment of applicants. 1 believe that if the amendment moved by  Senator Poke  is adopted a time consuming and costly procedure will be superimposed on the present system, and nobody could be satisfied that it would result in the making of a grant to an additional applicant who would not otherwise have received 1. This is, of course, an opportunity for this sort of thing to be done within the ambit of the present scheme. For these reasons the Government is unwilling to accept  Senator Poke's  amendment. 
I would like to refer now to the remarks which were made by  Senator Devitt.  With great respect to him - and I do not say this unkindly - I feel that  Senator Devitt  was making a number of suggestions off the cuff. I wish to discuss them in some depth and at some length during my remarks.  Senator Devitt  suggested that I should have a discretionary power to make a grant in respect of a dwelling which exceeds by only a few hundred dollars the ceiling value approved by the Parliament. He also suggested - perhaps before giving the matter thorough attention - that the number of dwellings which are being commenced in Australia should be increased. The value of a dwelling which attracts a grant is covered in the legislation. We all know the provisions of the legislation. In relation to  Senator Devitt's  suggestion that the number of dwellings which are being commenced in Australia at present should be increased, I ask: From where are the manpower resources to come? This would have drastic inflationary effects on the prices of homes in the future. Surely we must accept some responsibility for preventing inflation of this nature. It is non.sence to suggest - as the honourable senator has done - that the tenants of some housing commission homes are frightened to ask for necessary repairs to be carried out because they may be evicted from their homes. 
That was how 1 understood the point when I look a note of it last night. If the honourable senator says that he did not say that. I apologise, but I was very concerned about it. However. I shall take it no further. 
During the course of the debate a number of references have been made by honourable senators - as I recall it.  Senator Buttfield  spoke along this line - to the recent increases in interest rates on housing loans and to the possible effects on home building of these increases and of other aspects of overall monetary restraint. So because I believe this matter is important and because it was touched on. 1 think, by every honourable senator who has spoken in the debate, I propose to put to the Senate the facts about (he housing situation in Australia today and what our aims are regarding housing. I think I can say that the comments made by all speakers in the debate impose on me a responsibility to make these comments. 1 want honourable senators to look at the picture of home building in Australia. The position is that home building activity in Austrafia has been expanding at a very rapid rate. 
I think these figures are important to all of us. In 1967 a then record number of 118,000 new dwellings was commenced. In 1968 the number commenced was 131,600 In 1 969 the number rose further to 1 44,500. In other words, the number of dwellings commenced rose by 22% in the past 2 years. In the last half of last year, expenditure at current prices on new dwelling construction was 19% higher than in the corresponding period of 1968, although between these 2 half years the gross national product had risen by only 9%. I think these are important figures, lt is very difficult to find a satisfactory definition of housing needs. I think that  Senator Devitt,  in his comments last night, spoke a little along this line. But estimates may be made of needs, based on population increases - including migration - marriage trends, the growing demand for single persons' homes and holiday cottages, and the increasing number of homes being demolished. These factors indicate that the current rate of completions could be slightly in excess of needs, as calculated on that basis. 
I shall now refer to a point that I made in passing a couple of moments ago. In recent months labour has become scarcer and wages and other costs have been rising rapidly. The labour position is extremely tight. Less than 1% of our total work force in unemployed, and there are virtually no untapped sources of manpower. In the skilled building and construction trades there were 1,640 registered vacancies in March of this year, but only 1,260 registered unemployed. I turn to the point which  Senator Buttfield  made by interjection, it is true that the situation Ls uneven between the States but, by and large, there is a relative scarcity of building labour and widespread industrial unrest. In general, the production of building materials has kept up with the increasing demand. There may be a shortage of a few materials, especially, I am informed, of clay products in some places. But it appears that further expansion of home building is not being restrained to any significant extent by the shortage of materials. 
Wages and the prices of material have been rising at an uncomfortably high rate. Investigation officers of the Commonwealth Department of Housing estimate that in the March quarter of this year costs and prices in most States were rising at an annual rate of at least 5%. In New South Wales Ihe rate of increase would appear to have been even higher. Sooner or later, these increasing costs must be reflected in the prices of new homes. This is happening. We certainly do not wish to see homes costing more than is necessary. I believe that everybody would agree with that. In recent weeks the Commonwealth Treasurer  (Mr Bury)  has referred to the need for some easing of the inflationary pressures building up throughout the economy. Some factors are already working in this direction. 
The 1969-70 Budget was framed to produce a cash surplus. During the last half of 1969 the Government was spending in excess of its cash receipts, but in the current half veur its cash inflow is in excess of expenditure. This has the effect of reducing the supply of money available in the community. There has been some decline in overseas capital inflow. All these factors tend to make money scarcer and to push up its price. This, of course, has been reflected, as honourable senators have mentioned, in a rise in interest rates. As the Treasurer has said, policy is being directed to curbing a tendency for spending to run to excess and to bringing about an increase in saving, lt is hoped to encourage an increase in saving and, indeed, to discourage the running down of savings, by the offer of higher interest rates. If these moves in the market have the effects that are intended, there will be a return to a more sustainable level of overall spending, including expenditure on new dwellings. There are already signs that this is beginning to happen in the home building industry. 
I  want to make one point very strongly in reply to a question which was asked a day or so ago. This monetary restraint is not being directed largely or mainly at home building. The housing industry has not been singled out as a principal target, although it cannot expect to be unaffected by the overall monetary measures now in operation. During the latter half of  1969,  expenditure on dwelling construction in Australia rose to a very high rate of  5%  or more of the gross national product. Any industry which represents such a significant proportion of total community expenditure cannot escape the effects of overall monetary restraint. 
Several honourable senators have referred to the higher interest rates on housing loans. As many private lenders and public authorities are now compelled to offer higher interest rates in order to attract needed savings, they must raise their interest charges on loans they make so as to cover the increased costs to them of the funds they lend. This is one of the facts of economic life. A rise in the interest rate charged on a housing loan does, of course, increase the cost of a home to the home seeker. Over the period of the loan the borrower pays more to the lender. But I think this is the point which we, as honourable senators must consider: Which is preferable - known additional interest charge on homes selling at relatively stable prices, or unknown additional charges for interest and repayments on larger and still larger loans as the prices of homes spiral up? I believe that this would surely happen if the inflationary pressures were unrestrained. I believe honourable senators would agree that a known additional interest payment is preferable and the burden of this is eased when the lender extends the period of repayment. 
The interest charge on most savings banks' housing loans has risen by about three-quarters of  1%  per annum. On an average loan of  $8,500  repayable over  20  years, an increase of three-quarters of  1%  per annum in the interest charge will cost the borrower no more than  $1  per week. During the past year average earnings per employed male rose by more than  S6  per week. An increasing proportion of wage and salary earners have shown - and I think every honourable senator is aware of this - an inclination and a willingness to spend a higher proportion of their income on improved housing. We have seen this. This has led to improved housing. The increased interest charge, while unwelcome, is clearly within the capacity of most wage and salary earners to pay for the home of their choice. 
That is all right.  1  am putting my point.  1  am dealing with the points the honourable senator raised. I think it is fair that  1  should reply to them in the Senate.  Senator Devitt  spoke about Housing Commission homes. I wish to comment on the long term Commonwealth bond rate which now has risen to  7%.  New advances to the Slate housing authorities under the housing agreements will bear interest at  6%  per annum. With finance costing  6%,  the economic rent for an authority house and land costing  $10,000  is more than  SI 7  a week. I am well aware that such  a  rent exceeds  20%  and could even be as much as  25%  of the current incomes of some families who receive at least the minimum wage but considerably less than the average weekly male eanrings. These families include those in need of housing assistance, as  Senator Devitt  mentioned. The extent of future Commonwealth assistance in this field is a matter to which I am currently giving consideration. All these points are tied up with the matters that the honourable senator raised about the overall housing picture. 
As most people who buy or build a house borrow for that purpose, changes in the availability and cost of housing loans have an effect on the level of home building activity. In recent months, when spending has been rising at a pretty rapid rate, deposits with major institutions which lend for housing have failed to increase as rapidly as in corresponding periods in recent years. The savings banks are disappointed at the slower rate of increase in the balances of depositors. The net inflow of funds to permanent building societies recently slackened substantially. The reduced inflow and restricted number of loans being made by these societies are causes of genuine concern to many home builders and home seekers. It is easy to exaggerate the effect of what is largely a seasonal slackening. The savings banks are continuing to enter into new housing loan commitments of a value not much lower than they were approving during the last 6 months of 1969. Each year from March to June there is a customary increased rate of withdrawal of funds from permanent building societies. This year the rate of withdrawals rose a little earlier than usual. This probably was because depositors withdrew their funds to make other purchases. More recently the seasonal inflow of funds to the Commonwealth reduced the capacity of the permanent building societies to enter into new loan commitments. The present is a difficult period for these societies, but their leaders are hopeful that the rate of lending will show the usual seasonal rise during the second half of 1970. This is very much a seasonal situation. 
On a deseasonalised basis, the recent March quarter approvals for new dwellings was more than 8% higher than the approvals in the corresponding quarter last year but were at a reduced rate in comparison with the preceding December quarter. Commencements fell from the seasonally adjusted figure of 36,400 in the December 1969 quarter to 35,000 on a seasonably adjusted basis for the March quarter. Although the 4% decline in the level of commencements occurred largely in the public sector, more recent indications of some tightening in the availability of housing finance and advices received from a number of the larger builders suggest that some easing in the rate of home building activity could be under way. Our hope - and I am sure everybody would agree with this - is that any decline in dwelling construction from the present exceptionally high level will be no more than a brief pause  *o  gather breath during the long term upward trend in home building activity in this country. In that regard honourable senators should bear in mind the figures which I gave earlier. 
Whilst wishing to maintain the highest possible rate of growth in our economy, the Government feels that it must ease the inflationary pressures currently at work even if this means that some new construction must be deferred for a little while. More houses are needed to permit growth to take place. The last thing the Government wishes to see is an insufficient number of homes being built. But we are worried by the rate of increase in home building costs, as are some leaders in the industry. Some steadying down in the over rapid rate of increase in housing construction will be in the interests of the industry. Honourable senators, home seekers and builders may rest assured that the Government will watch very carefully developments in this situation in the period ahead. I believe we have a responsibility to do so. I also believe that it is important that the matters which were referred to during the debate should be answered in my reply. 
Last night  Senator Little  spoke about marriage loans and of the importance that he placed on such loans. I believe that what we are doing through the homes savings grant scheme is assisting young people tremendously to acquire their first matrimonial home. I cannot agree with all the comments that he made, but I do agree entirely that the first priority of housing authorities in allocating dwellings at reasonable rentals should be given to those families, including widows and deserted wives with dependent children, who are most in need of housing assistance. I have commented on a number of remarks that were made by honourable senators. I have commented on the amendments moved by the Opposition. The Government cannot possibly accept the amendments which have been moved. We are quite unwilling to accept the amended amendment of the Opposition that the limit on prescribed housing loans be only S3, 000 repayable over 5 years. I ask  Senator Poke  how many young peole seeking to borrow to obtain a home of their own would have their substantial borrowing requirements met by a loan of only S3, 000. The minimum amount of the prescribed housing loan certainly must be higher than his figure of 3,000. 
I do not believe that the requirement that a credit union must be lending $50,000 a year for purposes in connection with the acquisition of homes is too strict a condition. A society has only to make 5 or 6 loans of $7,000 and a number of smaller loans for this purpose to be lending $50,000 a year.  Senator Little  said that he would like to see 5% or more of the credit unions approved in the near future. For the very good reasons which I have given it is quite impossible for us to accept the amendments which have been moved. But I refer again to my second reading speech in which I showed that I agree with  Senator Little  in that I would like in the future to see credit unions complying with the proposed conditions and becoming approved. I thank all honourable senators who have supported this Bill. I trust that it will be passed through the Senate with all of the amendments which the Government has proposed, because I believe that the acceptance of these amendments will benefit our young people by helping them to get their first matrimonial home and will extend the areas of acceptance and the areas of assistance. This, I believe, is something which every honourable senator desires. So 1 do ask that the Senate defeat the amendment moved by the Opposition and support the Bill in its entirety. 
[5.33] - 1 move: 
Thai the Bill be now read a second lime. 
The purpose of this Bill is to appropriate $221,757,000 for certain expenditures to carry on the necessary services of the Government for the first 5 months of 1970-71. The total amount sought comprises: 

<graphic href="044232197005135_38_1.jpg"></graphic>

The amount for capital works and services is required in general for the orderly continuation of works programmes, but includes a $5m repayable advance to the Papua and New Guinea Administration for construction of the township at Arawa in connection with the Bougainville copper project. The amount of $20m is sought to enable the Treasurer to make advances which will be recovered within the financial year, and to make moneys available to meet expenditure on services of the Government, particulars of which will afterwards be submitted to Parliament. I commend the Bill to honourable senators. 
Debate (on motion by  Senator Willesee)  adjourned. 
[5.35] - I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 

 Mr President, on 26th September last year, the Prime Minister  (Mr Gorton)  announced that the Commonwealth Government was prepared to provide a loan of up to $80m to the Queensland Government to help the State finance the construction of a proposed large scale power station at Gladstone in central Queensland which would provide low cost power and, through it, attract a viable export-oriented industrial complex to central Queensland. The offer was conditional on the State being able to satisfy the Commonwealth that it could attract such special industrial development to the region. Since that announcement, negotiations have progressed between the State and organisations likely to establish industries in the central Queensland region, and also between the Queensland Government and the Commonwealth. The result of these negotiations is that the Queensland Government has satisfied the Commonwealth that major export oriented industries are likely to be attracted to central Queensland through the provision of the low-cost power; and the Commonwealth and Queensland governments have reached agreement on the terms and conditions of a Commonwealth loan to the State to assist with the necessary works. On 8th April, an agreement between the 2 governments was signed by the Prime Minister and the Premier of Queensland. The purpose of this Bill is to seek the approval of the Senate for the agreement to come into effect, and for the provision of the financial assistance specified in the agreement. 
The estimated cost of the proposed power station together with local reticulation at Gladstone, at 1968 prices, is$1 55m. It will have an approximate total installed generating capacity of 1,100 megawatts, of which about 600 megawatts will be reserved by the State for special industrial purposes in central Queensland. For the purpose of the agreement, the Queensland Government shall produce evidence satisfactory to the Minister for National Development that the State has entered into or proposes to enter into agreements, arrangements and options for the consumption of electrical power by industrial organisations which will export a substantial proportion of their products or which will produce goods of a kind whichwill be supplied to industries producing goods predominantly for export. 
As in other similar arrangements, provision is made in the agreement for the approval by the Minister for National Development of the letting of major contracts - in this instance those for the performance of works to a value in excess of $1m. The actual amount of the Commonwealth financial assistance will depend on the cost of construction of the power station and local reticulation. The agreement provides for a variation in the amount of financial assistance above or below$80m according to any variation which occurs in the total cost above or below$1 55m. Thus the amount of financial assistance may be expressed arithmetically as 80/ 1 55ths of the total cost of the project. Commonwealth financial assistance will be available towards expenditure by the State on the project during the period commencing on the date of the Prime Minister's announcement, 26th September 1969, and ending on 30th June 1977. The assistance will be in the form of an interest bearing loan repayable over a period of 30 years commencing when the power station is completed. The loan will carry interest at the rate of 6.4% per annum to accrue and to be capitalised during the construction of the project. There is, however, provision for the State to make payments of interest, instead of allowing the interest to be capitalised, once integral components of the station are commissioned and producing power. There is also provision for interest charges not to be payable during the early stages of construction of the project, thus reducing the overall interest cost to somewhat below 6.4%. 
Honourable senators no doubt will be interested in an outline of the background to this important project. Prior to its consideration of a major power station at 
Gladstone, the State had already envisaged the construction of a thermal power station in the region as part of its programme for a general expansion to meet normal growth in the demand for electricity. The initial planning involved inter-connection of the supply networks located in southern and central Queensland. A number of studies of the prospects for development of central Queensland, including a study by the Department of National Development in conjunction with the State Department of Industrial Development, have pointed to the imposing array of natural resources which exist in the region. These resources have been shown to be outstanding in both variety and magnitude, yet still relatively under-developed. The official studies and various industry inquiries have indicated that these resources could well be a base for the establishment of large scale export oriented industries. 
In saying this, it should be remembered too that impressive developments have already been taking place in the region. For example, large coal mining and export operations have become established, the ports of Gladstone and Port Alma have been considerably developed, and a large scale alumina project established at Gladstone is entering a further major expansionary stage. The region possesses very large resources of steaming coal, considerable quantities of which are mined and produced together with coking coal by companies principally engaged in the production and export of coking coal. This steaming coal will be regularly available to the State at low cost. 
Against this background of resources and potential the Premier of Queensland in September 1968 raised with the Prime Minister the possibility of the Commonwealth assisting the State with capital in order that a power station could be built at Gladstone to provide the high load factor and low cost supply required to attract major export-oriented industries to central Queensland. At that time negotiations had commenced between Queensland Ministers and officials and several companies interested in major industrial development in the region. Since then the proposals put forward by the Queensland Government have been closely examined by the Commonwealth. I would mention that, in the course of these investigations, the Snowy 
Mountains Authority was engaged as a consultant. The Commonwealth, as a result of these investigations, is greatly impressed with the potential of the power station project, both for attracting major industries to central Queensland and for bringing about a substantial lift in exports. 
Naturally the negotiations between the Queensland Government and the companies concerned are confidential. I can say that the Commonwealth is satisfied from the evidence presented to it that major export oriented industries will be establishing in central Queensland. In fact, the Government believes, as the Governor-General said in his speech on 3rd March, that the power station will result in the construction of an aluminium smelter, possibly the biggest in the Southern Hemisphere, and in other industrial development. The Government is confident, along with the Queensland Government, that the power station will attract a major chemical industry using the extensive salt resources in the area and high hopes are held that operations in this field may commence in 2 or 3 years time. There is indeed a whole range of industries which could be attracted to central Queensland by the power station. To the best of my knowledge these have not been brought to finality, but it is fully expected that that will happen. The Government believes that its support of this project, besides encouraging new industrial development and a lift in exports, will prove to be a concrete example of decentralisation. 
There is one further matter which [ should bring to the attention of honourable senators. The Queensland Government has also asked that the Commonwealth give consideration to further financial assistance at a later date should the demand for power from the special export oriented industries to be established in the region increase to such a pronounced degree that further enlargement of the power station would then be required. While the Government cannot at this stage give any commitment in relation to decisions that will have to be taken by a future government in the circumstances existing then, the Government has informed the Queensland Government that the Commonwealth would approach the matter sympathetically when it arrives. 1 would like to give to the Senate an example of the kind of development to which this project might lead. If the aluminium smelter to which 1 have referred should be established in this region it is likely that at its first stage of production it could be producing 240,000 tons of aluminium a year at a value on present day prices of about $126m. At a later stage, should all go well, it could be producing 320,000 tons of aluminium at an export value of $165m. The taxation revenue alone from such a development, should it come to fruition, would make this indeed a proper business proposition. But this is not only a business proposition. It is, as I have said, a concrete example of decentralisation and it may well prove to be the greatest step yet taken to awaken in that area of Queensland - a State which has been called a sleeping giant' - really significant industrial development, a real increase in population, a real benefit to the State and, through its exports, a real benefit to the nation. I commend the Bill to the Senate. 
Debate (on motion by  Senator Georges)  adjourned. 
[5.45] - I move: 
That the Bill  be  now  read  a second time. 
This Bill proposes several amendments to the Export Payments Insurance Corporation Act 1956-1966. The first of theseand one which was announced in October last year - will give to the Export Payments Insurance Corporation an important broadening of its authority by enabling it to offer payments insurance on, and guarantees relating to, exports from Australia to the external Territories of the Commonwealth. The other amendments of major substance will authorise an increase of $100m in the maximum contingent liability which EPIC may accept under contracts of payments insurance and under guarantees; and an increase of $60m in the maximum contingent liability which EPIC may accept under contracts of insurance on Australian investments abroad. 
The first of the amendments relates to the extension of EPIC's facilities to Australian exports to the external Territories. In actual fact, such an extension of EPIC facilities would have no practical significance for exports to Australian territories other than Papua and New Guinea. The customs tariff applicable to imports into Papua and New Guinea accords no preference to Australian products. In the competitive sense, therefore, exporting to Papua and New Guinea is no different for Australian exporters than selling to a foreign country. They face the full force of international competition, as to both price and credit terms, and what is more they have to compete with overseas suppliers who enjoy all the facilities and backing of credit insurance organisations in their own countries. 
Hitherto, this disability has not had serious practical effects on our exports to Papua and New Guinea because these have comprised mainly products sold for cash or on very short term credit. Recent important developments in Papua and New Guinea, however, have opened up very substantial export opportunities with characteristics new to Australian trade with the Territory. These opportunities largely revolve around the huge $300m copper mining project on Bougainville. Developers of large projects like this do not normally obtain their requirements of infrastructure development, housing and heavy capital equipment on a cash basis or on short term credit. The payment period for these bigvalue items normally extends for periods in excess of 5 years and, in the case of Bougainville, the credit term for much of the purchases will be considerably more than 5 years. 
Last year Australian industry put it to the Government that, over a large area of Bougainville requirements, they felt themselves well able to meet international competition in respect of price, quality and performance. However, they pointed out that without the availability of long term finance they would be at an extreme disadvantage in bidding for Bougainville business, because they would be unable to match their overseas competitors' offers of credit. 
Moreover, they demonstrated that, unless the credit standing of companies seeking Bougainville contracts were strengthened in some way, they would either not secure the finance they needed or, if they did obtain it and successfully tendered for a Bougainville contract, they would find their fundraising capacity for future business, at home or abroad, seriously inhibited for a long period. That was the position of industry. 
The banking system moved as far as possible within its capacity to help meet the problem. The banks agreed, in principle, to make the finance available - and the Australian Banks' Export Re-Finance Corporation acted with remarkable speed to amend its charter to enable it to refinance loans on exports to the external Territories. However, the banks, too, had noted the problems which companies faced in raising sufficient security for loans. Their position was that, in very many cases, only EPIC payments insurance and guarantees would provide companies with the necessary security for the long term financial accommodation they would need to be able to tender for Bougainville contracts on competitive terms. In other words, the banks regarded EPIC cover as a fundamental prerequisite before they would provide the credit needed by Australian exporters. 
I mentioned earlier that the facilities of EPIC have no present significance for Australian trade with the other external Territories - Norfolk Island, Christmas Island and Cocos Island. However, should major economic developments occur in these Territories, Australian exporters would face competition equal to that now experienced in Papua and New Guinea, lt is for this reason that the Bill proposes that all the external Territories be included within the scope of the proposals. 
The next amendment included in the Bill, apart from a minor drafting change, is an administrative one. At present the Corporation must obtain the specific authority of the Minister for Trade and Industry to determine staff salaries at a level exceeding $7,000 per annum. This figure was set in 1964 and is now out of line with current levels. The Bill would insert into the Act a more realistic figure and would provide that future adjustments be made by way of regulation. 
I turn now to the remaining amendments to the EPIC Act proposed in the Bill. These relate to the maximum contingent liability which the Corporation may accept under export payments insurance and guarantee, and under the overseas investment insurance facility. EPIC's contingent liability on export payments insurance, and under guarantee, is a direct reflection of the amount of business it writes. As the aggregate face value of its policies of insurance and its guarantees increases, so does the contingent liability. Consequently, adjustment of the maximum contingent liability is necessary, from time to time, to allow the Corporation to meet the increasing demands of exporters for EPIC facilities and so to facilitate further expansion of Australian trade. 
The contingent liability under current contracts totals SI 92m. The contingent liability ceiling under the payments insurance and guarantee facilities was last set at $200m in 1965. With continuing growth in business and the consequent increase in accepted liability this ceiling will be reached within a very short time. The Bill therefore provides for an increase in the statutory maximum from $200m to $300m. The Government proposes also to increase the maximum contingent liability which EPIC may accept under policies of overseas investment insurance. This facility was introduced in 1965 to provide insurance cover for direct Australian investments overseas in desirable types of ventures, particularly those of a joint venture nature in the developing countries. The facility offers protection against the expropriation of the investment, inability to transfer money to Australia, and damage or destruction by a warlike operation. 
The actual contingent liability under the scheme currently stands at S17m. Should contracts be taken out in respect of recent approvals this figure will increase to over $29m. Taking into account applications currently under examination and new applications expected to flow from the increasing awareness of the benefits to be derived from overseas investment, it is expected that the contingent liability will, during this year, reach $40m, which is the present maximum allowable under the Act. It is therefore proposed to raise the maximum contingent liability for insurance on Australian investments abroad to S i 00m. 
It would be appropriate, at this stage, to tell honourable senators a little of the experience and operations of EPIC in order to provide a background to consideration of the Bill. In fact, the amendments included in the Bill stem directly from the success, growth and widespread acceptability of the Corporation. The impressive record of achievement since EPIC commenced business in 1957 speaks for itself. In the first year EPIC insured $22m worth of exports. Five years later it unsured nearly $90m. 
Last year 1968-69 the Corporation insured exports to the value of some S300m. Overall, since its inception EPIC has provided insurance cover for exports amounting to $ 1,064m. 
Tn the 10 years to December 1969 the number of policies in force with EPIC has grown from 91, with a face value of $42m, to 780, with a face value of some S330m. The number of countries to which EPIC insured exports have gone has grown, in the same period, to over 150. Over the period it has steadily enlarged the range of risks which it is prepared to insure. It now offers comprehensive cover, acceptable to banks as collateral, for a wide range of risks starting from the time of the exporters' or manufacturers' acquiring raw material in connection with the export contracts and extending to risks arising from failure of a buyer to accept goods, risks arising from warehousing overseas, from investing overseas, from commercial default after delivery, from exchange blockages caused by foreign government action, from war risks - cargo in the ships locked in the Suez Canal was, to an important extent, insured with EPIC - and a number of others. During its operation, the Corporation has substantially reduced its average premium rates, especially on short-term credit transactions which constitute . the larger part of its business. Even so EPIC's premium income and earnings from capital have not only enabled it to meet all operating costs and all claims made upon it but also have permitted a build-up of reserves of almost $2m. 
This record of achievement underlines the important role EPIC is playing in promoting the policy objectives of export expansion and diversification. This role has been accepted by all sectors of private industry and commerce as a useful, indeed essential, complement to existing private institutions such as the banks and the finance houses. EPIC has become an indispensable element in the growth of our export trade. Exporters frequently have been able to export only because there is this facility. Banks frequently have been able to extend finance to exporters only against the collateral which an EPIC insurance cover provides. The banks regard EPIC cover as an essential prerequisite to them providing finance for many export transactions. 
In short, EPIC is accepted by business as an absolutely essential facility, lt is accepted and understood that EPIC was designed to do - and has done - what no other institutions, in fact, are designed to do. It provides a facility which fills an important gap in Australia's export trading arrangements. I am now reminded that the Government has announced another new facility - another Corporation - to complement the existing facilities and institutions which operate to encourage industrial development, exports and Australian ownership. 
Like the Export Payments Insurance Corporation, the proposed Industry Development Corporation is designed not to compete with existing institutions, but to fill a gap - to do something which no other institution is charged to do. That is, to have as its prime purpose making it possible for large Australian industry ventures able to make a major contribution to development and export to remain to a greater extent under Australian ownership. No other institution, government or private, exists for this prime purpose or is capable within itself of doing what it will be proposed the IDC should do. All other financial institutions exist around the issue of profit making, either for themselves or for those to which they lend, and mostly this is done irrespective of where the ownership of the enterprise lies or the particular contribution it will make to industry development or exports. I am supremely confident that it will be accepted that the new Corporation will be just as successful and fill an even more important role than EPIC. I commend the Bill to Honourable Senators. 
Debate (on motion by  Senator O'Byrne)  adjourned. 
Sitting suspended from  6  to  8  p.m. 
[8.35] - The Committee has agreed that the Bill be taken as a whole but I wish now to refer to clause 5. It relates to the conditions under which individual credit unions may seek and obtain approval for the purposes of the homes savings grant scheme. One of the conditions is that in a credit union's most recently concluded financial year not less than 15% of the total amount lent by it shall be in the form of prescribed housing loans. A prescribed housing loan is one of not less than $7,000 repayable over a period of not less than 12 years. This is intended by the Government to be a positive and not a restrictive measure. Its purpose is to help credit unions while not losing sight of one of the basic objectives of the homes savings grant scheme, namely, to help to increase the volume of savings available for lending for home ownership. 
The attitude of the Government to the conditions for acceptance of the savings of credit unions set out in the amending Bill now before the Committee has not been entirely inflexible. I have listened with interest to arguments put on behalf of the credit unions for an easing of the proposed requirement.  Senator Little  in particular referred to the possibility of a reduction of the requirement of $7,000 in order, to use his term, to open the door a little wider. Later he brought to see me a deputation of credit union officials. I therefore have given further consideration to this matter and I see merit in some of the views that have been put to me. In particular I have been impressed by the thought that the objective of adding to the volume of savings for home ownership could in fact be advanced by setting a minimum amount for the prescribed housing loan which is perhaps more readily attainable by credit unions. I am pleased,  Mr Chairman,  to inform the Committee that the Government proposes a further amendment that will reduce from $7,000 to $5,000 the proposed minimum amount for a prescribed housing loan. The definition of 'prescribed housing loan' in proposed section 4b. (1.) reads:  prescribed housing loan' means a housing loan of un amount of not less than Seven thousand dollars repayable over a period of nol less than twelve years: 
As an amendment 1 move: 
That the House of Representatives be requested to make the following amendment: Leave out Seven', insert 'Five'. 
[4.45] - I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
With the concurrence of honourable senators, I incorporate my second reading speech in Hansard. It reads: 
The Bill before the Senate is to authorise the Commonwealth Serum Laboratories Commission to import and sell to the Commonwealth, for the purpose of immunisation campaigns, those vaccines referred to in section 9b of the National Health Act. At present that Act refers to poliomyelitis and measles vaccines and included in the amendments to that Act which are before the Senate is one which contains a proposal to include rubella - German measles - vaccine in section 9b. 
The Serum Laboratories have for a number of years been purchasing from overseas poliomyelitis vaccine, and more recently measles - morbilli - vaccine on behalf of the Commonwealth, which makes the vaccine available free of chargeto State and Territory authorities for mass immunisation campaigns. Once the vaccine is cleared for issue in Australia the Commonwealth Department of Health, on receipt of requests from the States and Territories, asks the Commission to forward the appropriate quantities of the vaccine to the States and Territories. The Commission then claims reimbursement from the Department of Health for the vaccine supplied in accordance with a price that has been determined by the Minister under section 22 of the Commonwealth Serum Laboratories Act. 
It was during consideration of making rubella vaccine available for immunisation campaigns that doubt was expressed whether the Commonwealth Serum Laboratories Act 1961-1966 authorised the Commissionto import vaccine and sell it to the Commonwealth. Legal advice is that the Act as it stands docs not authorise the Commission to import vaccine for the purpose proposed. It is for this reason that it is proposed to amendthe Commonwealth Serum Laboratories Act. I commend the Bill to honourable senators. 
Debate (on morion by  Senator Drury)  adjourned. 
[4.47] - I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
With the concurrence of honourable senators, I incorporate my second reading speech in Hansard. It reads: On 4th March last, the Minister for Health  (Dr Forbes)  announced the details of the Government's decision to implement its new health benefits plan. This decision was influenced to a very large degree by the recommendations of the Commonwealth Committee of Enquiry into Health Insurance - the Nimmo Committee - and the plan will bring into effect the major recommendations made by that Committee relating to medical benefits and the administration of the voluntary health insurance organisations. The advances made possible by the National Health Bill now before us, in conjunction with the other improvements introduced by this Government in 1968 and 1969, will bring financial protection against the costs of medical and hospital treatment within the reach of every person in the community. At the same time the new health benefits plan will retain the basic principles which the Government believes are essential in any national welfare measure. 
The Bill provides the machinery for the payment of higher rates of. Commonwealth and fund medical benefits, introduces new measures concerned with the administration of registered medical and hospital benefits organisations and provides assistance on a wider scale towards the cost of health insurance for families on low incomes. The new medical benefits plan is founded on the lists of most common fees that have been established throughout the whole range of medical services. These fees were determined by the Australian Medical Association on the basis of factual information regarding actual fees charged as shown in doctors' accounts submitted to medical benefits organisations. This information was supplemented by surveys carried out by the Australian Medical Association. 
There are 7 schedules in the Bill. The First Schedule sets out the new rates of Commonwealth benefit payable for each medical service and replaces the Schedule of Commonwealth benefits contained in the present National Health Act. Supplementing this First Schedule are 6 associated schedules - one for each State. These supplementary schedules list the fund benefit payable in each State for each medical service and the amount that is to be met by the patient when the doctor charges the common fee. The legal phrase used in the Bill for the portion of the common fee to be met by the patient is 'specified excess'. The common fees that have been determined reflect existing charging patterns of the medical profession in the various States, and vary from State to State. It follows that if contributors are to receive adequate benefit rebates, then the benefits to which they are entitled must also vary as between States. The Bill provides for the fund benefits payable by organisations to vary from State to State and consequently it will be necessary for the contribution rates charged by organisations also to differ accordingly. In accordance with the practice since the medical benefits scheme was first introduced, Commonwealth benefits payable will be the same throughout Australia. 
The First Schedule in this Bill is different from the Schedule to the present Act in one important aspect, in that it provides for differential rates of Commonwealth benefits to be payable for 340 selected medical services depending on whether the service is rendered by a general practitioner or a specialist in the practice of his specialty. The fixing of differential benefits in this way will ensure that patients receive adequate rebates against the costs of medical treatment when the treatment provided includes the services of a specialist. The higher benefit rebates will be payable only where the services are provided by a specialist in the practice of his specialty and the patient has been referred to him by another medical practitioner or. in certain circumstances, an optometrist or dentist. It will be noted that clause 48 of the Bill provides authority for the manner of referral to be prescribed by regulation. 
The identification of specialists for the purposes of the health benefits plan has also received the Government's attention. The registration of medical practitioners including specialists is, of course, a State government responsibility. However, not all States have implemented legislation providing for the registration of specialists and because of this the Bill provides machinery for the recognition of specialists for the purposes of the National Health Act. The machinery will revolve around specialist recognition advisory committees which will be set up in each State. The members of these committees will be appropriately qualified medical practitioners appointed by the Minister from panels nominated by the Australian Medical Association and the various royal colleges within the medical profession. 
Provision has been made in the Bill for adjustments to the schedules to be prescribed by regulation. Such adjustments may be necessary as more comprehensive data, collected over a longer period, comes to hand regarding fees commonly charged by doctors; mainly in regard to medical procedures infrequently carried out. Also appropriate amounts for new medical procedures introduced from time to time will be fixed initially by regulation. However, it is proposed that the amounts fixed in this way will be ratified by amendments to the Act. 
The Bill makes provision for the patient's share of the cost of an operation and the services directly associated with the operation not to exceed $5 where the doctors concerned charge the common fee. This principle will also be applied in the situation where a patient undergoes 2 or more operations on the one occasion. Clause 10, providing as it does the machinery for paying an additional Commonwealth benefit, achieves this objective. The cost to the Commonwealth of increasing Commonwealth medical benefits payable is estimated to be $29.5m in a full year. 
The new definition of 'professional service' in the Bill recognises for benefit purposes services rendered by oral surgeons in operating theatres of approved hospitals. The services to be recognised under this provision will be prescribed by regulation. In future there will be only one table of fund medical benefits available to contributors in each State. This means that within each State all registered organisations will pay the same rates of benefits for medical services. Rates of ancillary benefits payable by organisations may vary as they do now. 
Eligibility of individual contributors for the higher benefits authorised by this Bill will be dependent on contributions being made to the new table of fund benefits fixed for the State in which the fund is operating. Arrangements are being made for registered medical benefits organisations to have the new tables of fund benefits introduced by the date of commencement of the new plan. It is expected that a majority of contributors will have transferred to the new tables with effect from the date of commencement of the new arrangements. At the same time, however, it is recognised that in some cases delays may occur before contributors make arrangements to transfer to the new table and a transitional period of 3 months will be allowed to enable arrangements to be made in all cases. This period may be extended where a contributor has paid his contributions in advance for a period extending beyond the 3 months. Registered organisations will, of course, if the contributor wishes, adjust contributions paid in advance so that he may become a contributor to the new table without delay. 
I should like to refer now to the provisions of the Bill relating to the administration of the registered medical and hospital benefits organisations. The main provisions in the Bill concern the new requirements that the organisations will have to observe if they are to participate in the plan. All organisations will be required to obtain specific registration by the Minister in respect of each State in which they wish to carry on business. For the purposes of separate Slate registration, the Northern Territory is deemed to be a State but the Australian Capital Territory is deemed to be part of New South Wales. Open organisations - those in which membership is open to the public - will be required to establish and operate a separate fund in each State in which they are registered to carry on business and to maintain and submit separate financial statements each year in respect of each fund. This will enable the separate identification and assessment of the financial experience of the organisation's operations in each State. Approval for an open fund to operate in a particular State will not be continued unless it is shown that economic and efficient operations in that State can be expected. It will be practicable for this course to be taken without undue interference with the fund or funds operated by the organisations in other States. 
So that new conditions of registration may be uniformly applied at the one time, and existing conditions of registration reviewed, the Bill requires that each organisation shall apply for re-registration before 1st October 1970. In applying for a new registration, an open organisation operating in more than one State will, iri accordance with clause 53, be required to submit a scheme for establishing separate funds in each State in which it wishes to operate. In the event of the Minister deciding to cancel the separate State registration of an organisation or the total registration of an organisation, such cancellation may not be finalised until all the contributors involved have been given the opportunity to transfer to some other fund conducted by a registered organisation of their choice without any loss of benefit rate or entitlements. 
Restricted membership organisations will not be required to maintain separate funds in the various States in respect of which they are registered and will not be required to submit separate financial returns in respect of each State. Of course, restricted membership organisations will, as now, be expected to operate efficiently and economically overall. In future a report, comprising the financial returns submitted by registered medical and hospital benefits organisations, will be tabled in both Houses of Parliament. For this purpose, organisations will be required to submit returns each year in respect of the year ending on 30th June. The first report tabled will be in respect of the year ending 30th June 197 1 . 1 wish to turn now to the position of low income families under the new health benefits plan. In October 1969 the National Health Act was amended to provide free health insurance for persons receiving unemployment and sickness benefits, for families with weekly incomes not exceeding $39 and for migrants during their first 2 months in Australia. As a result of the increase in the Commonwealth minimum weekly wage in December 1969, it is proposed to increase the eligibility level for full health insurance for low income families to $42.50 per week. The Bill also provides for graduated assistance toward the costs of contributing for health insurance to families wilh weekly incomes not exceeding $48.50. 
In future, families with incomes of up to $42.50 per week will be entitled to full medical benefits and also to hospital benefits equal to the cost of public .ward treatment without any payment of contributions. Families with incomes between $42.50 per week and $45.50 per week will be eligible for the same benefits on payment of contributions at one-third the usual rates, while families with incomes between $45.50 and $48.50 per week will be eligible for the benefits on payment of contributions at twothirds the usual rate. It is estimated that some 84,000 families and 271,000 persons will be eligible for assistance, because of the extension of the assistance, and that the additional cost in a full year will be $3m. Families eligible for this assistance may secure insurance cover higher than that needed to meet public ward hospital charges by paying the extra contributions involved. 
Finally, I would like to mention the amendment to section 9b of the National Health Act authorising the provision of rubella vaccine for mass immunisation campaigns. Because of the developments in rubella vaccine research and the grave consequences to the unborn child of a mother's infection with rubella, the Government has decided that the safe and effective rubella vaccine now available should be made available free of cost. The vaccine which has been chosen is manufactured in Belgium from the Cendehill strain and it will be imported and distributed on behalf of the Commonwealth by the Commonwealth Serum Laboratories. 
A Bill to amend the Commonwealth Serum Laboratories Act to authorise the Laboratories to undertake the importation of and sale to the Commonwealth of any vaccine that the Commonwealth may wish to make available for immunisation campaigns is also proposed. The rubella vaccine will be made available on similar terms as for poliomyelitis and measles vaccine, namely, the Commonwealth will provide the vaccine free of charge and the States will be responsible for their campaigns, including planning, administration and the maintenance of the necessary records. I commend the Bill to honourable senators. 
Debate (on motion by  Senator McClelland)  adjourned. 
[10.51] I rise to speak in reply to a number of points which have been raised during the debate tonight. We all appreciate that this is a very important piece of legislation. I believe it is a very important occasion when we debate it in this chamber for this legislation is to carry out the promise made by the Prime Minister  (Mr Gorton)  in his policy speech before the last election. It is also important, as we have all recognised, because it is to benefit people who have financial problems during illness, lt is very important that they should be given the very greatest assistance that we can give. This, of course, bears out the point which Government senators have stressed and which the Minister in another place has stressed, namely, the importance of getting this legislation through so that it can commence operation as soon as possible.  r  would like, first of all, to speak to the amendment moved by  Senator McClelland  and I wish to inform the Senate that I reject that amendment. It is, 1 believe, based on a substitution of the Opposition's health plan for that of the Government which this Bill so adequately expands. [ do not want to go into detail on the health scheme that the Opposition favours but wish to direct my comments to one aspect of the scheme which  Senator McClelland  supports. This is the claim that the scheme could be financed by a 14% levy on taxable incomes plus a Commonwealth subsidy which would replace the Commonwealth benefit component of the Government's scheme. Despite statements to the contrary, 1 do not believe that the Opposition's scheme could bc financed from this 1.4% levy which, incidentally, equates to an 8% increase in the level of income tax because the essential cost control factors in the scheme worked out by the original architects, Deeble and Scotton, who are well known university economic researchers, were removed by the Opposition to make it appear publicly more popular. Perhaps the original scheme could have been financed by the so-called 14% levy but without, the controls proposed by those who were the architects of it, such as the disincentives against small claims, it would not work. The limit on the amount to be levied of $100 for each taxpayer was altered by the Opposition, as honourable senators will recall, to $100 for both man and wife when both were working. 1 do not think there is any doubt that it would cost much more to finance than the Opposition would have us believe. I want to make it quite clear that the Government opposes the amendment moved by  Senator McClelland. 
I will speak a Utile later concerning the amendment which has been moved by the Democratic Labor Party but before I get on to that 1 want to refer to some individual points which were raised by honourable senators. In his opening remarks  Senator McClelland  referred to the fact that payments by registered health insurance organisations meet only 13% of the total cost of health services in Australia of $1,1 00m per annum. I believe that this 
Statement  gives a very distorted picture of the role of the registered organisations and the Commonwealth in the financing of health services. Voluntary insurance only attempts to cover the provision of care in approved hospitals and medical treatment by doctors, as would also be the case  with  the Labor Party's scheme. When these two aspects of total health care - which, it must be remembered, cover among other things medicine and public health services - are looked at it is found that the fund benefits meet some 38% of the fees charged for treatment in approved hospitals while the Commonwealth meets a further 38%. With regard to medical treatment, fund benefits meet 26% and the Commonwealth 37%. Thus the health scheme meets some 76% of patients' fees in approved hospitals and 63% of the cost of medical treatment by doctors. Overall the percentage is 69%. 

 Senator Mulvihill referred to one or two matters and I said I would get him the information concerning them as he requested. One referred to the entry in the annual report of the Hospitals Contribution Fund of Australia which shows an item of $500,000 as a loan. He asked what were the details of this loan transaction and also what was the rate of interest prevailing. The Hospitals Contribution Fund o'f Australia has furnished the following details of the public hospital loan of $500,000 shown in the balance sheet for 30th June 1969: The Benevolent Society of New South Wales in respect of the Hospital for Women, Paddington, New South Wales, $294,000; St Vincent's Hospital, Lismore, $106,000 and the Mater Misericordiae Hospital, Waratah, $100,000. The loans are in accordance with section 37 of the New South Wales Public Hospitals Act 1929, as amended, and are for a period of 15 years from 8th January 1969. They are repayable by equal instalments of principal and interest on a halfyearly basis. The interest rate is 51%. 
This also brings to mind a question which was asked by  Senator Milliner  which is question No. 86 on the notice paper. He asked if I could get an answer for this straightaway. He placed me in a difficult situation because of the rules of the Senate. As it happens, he will be receiving an answer to "that question tomorrow. It has already been received by my office from the Minister for Health  (Dr Forbes)  but I think it would be irregular for me to give it in reply in this debate as it is a question on notice. It is in the pipeline to be given to him tomorrow at the appropriate time so I know that he will receive the answer then. We have only 1 or 2 minutes left before the Senate adjourns and there are still a number of questions which I must answer. I want to speak much more fully to the amendment moved by the Democratic Labor Party but in these last 2 minutes I want to stress that I believe that in this Bill we have legislation which is of the utmost benefit to the people of Australia, legislation which is carrying out one more promise made by the Prime Minister during the last election campaign. I believe it is tremendously important that we ensure that there is no delay in this legislation because the sooner it is in operation the sooner it will confer benefits on people which every one of us is most anxious they should receive. Therefore I cannot stress strongly enough the importance of this legislation not being delayed so that we may continue tomorrow with the matters which will be before us and 1 will reply in considerable detail to a number of questions which have been asked. I shall give full reasons why I oppose the amendment of the Democratic Labor Party and I have some very detailed points which I want to make because I think it is important that the whole Senate should know them. But I do assure the Senate that I want it to give the speedy passage of this legislation very real consideration because it is important that it is passed without delay so that the benefits may be made available. I ask for leave to continue my remarks. 
Leave granted; debate adjourned. 
[8.27] -  Senator Turnbull  said that the doctors want an assurance.I have already informed the Senate that the Government has given an undertaking that it will pursue this matter of reviewing the common fees on which the benefits are based. This review will be made at regular intervals. I believe that the Government has given an important assurance. I oppose the amendment. I believe that, for the benefit of the legislation, we should proceed to the next clause. 
Question put: 
That the words proposed to be inserted  (Senator McClelland's amendment)  be inserted. 
[11.8] - I listened with great interest to  Senator Keeffe  and  Senator Georges  who both come from Queensland and who raised points concerning the islanders. I shall certainly take the ' matter up with the appropriate Minister and see what information I can obtain for them. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Senate adjourned at 11.9 p.m. 
[12.44] - When the Senate rose last night 1 was replying during the  second reading debate  on this National Health Bill. 1 said the Government opposed the amendment which had been moved by the Australian Labor Party. I spoke to that amendment. I also said the Government opposed the amendment which had been moved by  Senator McManus  on behalf of the Australian Democratic Labor Party, that I had quite an amount of information to give regarding that amendment but that I would give it when the Senate met this morning. I refer to the points which were raised in that amendment. In his proposed amendment  Senator McManus  moved to delay the debate to enable further negotiation to take place with the medical profession.  Senator McManus  has specifically proposed deferment of debate until after the Australian Medical Association has met on the 1st, 2nd and 3rd of June. He said that deferment would allow the Australian Medical Association to present a more complete view of the profession's attitude towards certain aspects of the Government's proposals. This in turn would allow the Government to make a more thorough examination of the profession's attitude. I point out that this meeting of the AMA is the usual annual meeting, ft is not a special meeting as was implied last night. The Bill has already been deferred twice because of the differences of opinion that have come forward from the medical profession. 
As recently as 8th May 1970 the Minister for Heal th  (Dr Forbes)  met representatives of the Australian Medical Association, the 
Royal Australian College of General Practitioners, the Australian Council of the Royal College of Obstetricians and Gynaecologists, the Royal Australasian College of Surgeons, the Royal Australasian College of Physicians and the Society of General Practitioners, in an endeavour to solve the conflicting opinions within the medical profession on aspects of the health benefits plan and explore the possibility of adjustment to the plan based on agreement between various sections of the medical profession. The Minister advised these representatives that the Government was prepared to consider adjustments to the health benefits plan and within a framework  -  I stress that - which preserved the full interests of patients and the intention of the plan to provide both general practitioner and specialist treatment according to medical needs on the basis of the most financial help to the patient when it was most needed. I think that has surely been the whole point in which we have been interested. 
Let me refer to some notes which 1 have been given by the Minister concerning the Australian Medical Association. This Association comprises about 14,000 members and it is a body representative of the whole of the profession. Us constitution and procedures are framed in such a way as to ensure the broadest possible consensus within the profession as a basis of Association polciy. The policy making body is the Association's assembly which meets at least annually, lt is the parliament of the profession and comprises representatives of al) State branches and affiliated bodies. The federal executive and the federal council are obliged to conduct the Association's affairs within the policy laid down by me assembly. The federal council is empowered to conduct a plebiscite of members whenever it feels that a matter on which the assembly has passed a resolution ought to be referred to the members for confirmation or variation. From 1965 until April 1970 the Association's policy was that the rebates for services carried out " by specialists in the practice of their specialty should be higher than rebates for such services when provided by general practitioners. This is the policy incorporated in. the Bill as it now stands. The AMA says that the basic objective of the policy so far as it was concerned was to ensure wider contributor satisfaction with the voluntary insurance scheme so that voluntary insurance would have a better chance of surviving political demands for a compulsory scheme. 
When differential specialist and general practitioner common fees were announced by the AMA on 5th February 1970, and the acceptance of the differential benefits plan was announced by the Government on 4th March 1970, there was such a strong reaction from general practitioner groups that the federal council arranged a special assembly on 11th April 1970 to re-examine the Association's policy. The outcome of this assembly was that the policy was modified to the extent that the AM A now supports differential rebate only in relation to the services provided predominantly by specialists, and furthermore on the basis that, where there is a differential, the patient's share of the fee should be higher in the case of specialist services than in the case of general practitioner services. The federal council decided that the altered policy determined at the April 1970 assembly should be put to the membership by plebiscite. Members were asked to vote yes or no or refrain from voting. They were asked to do this on 5 questions, the one most relevant to this discussion being: 
A higher schedule of benefits for services to referred patients by registered specialists should be introduced, so far as it applies to consultations, and those services and procedures which are predominantly performed by a specialist in the practice of his specialty.  1 would like to give the Senate some very interesting figures on this because up until now over 50% of the membership of the AMA has voted with the following results: 

<graphic href="044232197005216_30_0.jpg"></graphic>

1 think these are important figures which should be noted. Having regard to the steps taken within the Association to determine a new policy, the federal executive is bound to refuse to agree to propositions being urged by the Royal College of General Practitioners and the General Practitioners Society that the differential rebates be eliminated from the Bill altogether. In this situation it is clear that there is no value in delay to allow a new examination of policy by the AMA. These are important points which I make to the Senate in replying to the amendment which was moved last night and which the Government opposes. There were some other questions which were asked last night to which I would like to reply.  Senator Mulvihill  asked me a question, as did  Senator Lillico. Senator Mulvihill  referred to the excess reserves which were held by some organisations. I did asnwer one of his questions last night. 
But this is another one that the honourable senator asked to which I would like to reply. I would like to refer to the Minister's statement of 4th March when he said: 
The contribution rales payable under the new scheme will be determined for each fund having regard to its particular financial position, and on the basis that the reserves which some funds hold in excess of their requirements for financial stability will be gradually absorbed. Thus all funds in a particular State will pay medical benefits at the same rate but contribution rales may vary between funds. 
This was re-affirmed by the Minister's second reading speech when he said: 
Under the new plan, contribution rates may vary as between organisations. The contribution rale to be charged by a particular fund will depend on an assessment of its future financial experience and the level of its reserves. A policy will be applied under which larger funds 'free' reserves - that is, reserves in excess of amounts held against unpresented claims and contributions paid in advance - will generally be limited to the equivalent of 3 months contribution income. 
This approach, 1 believe, is very much along the lines put forward by the Senate Select Committee on Medical and Hospital Costs in its report. Before getting on to the questions raised by  Senator Lillico  I would like to answer a question which was raised by  Senator Turnbull. 
I have indeed, but 1 am sure that the honourable senator has interpreted it himself. He referred to clause 8(5.), which reads: 
Where a medical service rendered to a person includes a medical procedure that would, but for this sub-section, itself be a medical service, that procedure shall, in respect of that person, be deemed not lo be  a  medical service. 
If the honourable senator then turns to page 70 of the Bill I draw his attention to example item No. 5577 which includes a medical procedure that is itself covered by another item number, for example. 5573. If he looks at 5573 he will see that there are a number of matters attended to there whichI will not try to pronounce in front of such a knowledgable and learned person. The benefit payable in respect of item 5573 is included in the benefit paid for item 5577. The clause provides that where a patient receives the medical services covered by item 5577, the Commonwealth and fund benefits for that item are payable and item 5573 does not apply. 
I think it is very necessary because there are 2 items and 2 benefits. It covers cases in which there is one service and also where there are a number of procedures included in the service. It is a very complex matter as one will see on looking at the details.  Senator Dittmer  said that the Government appeared to be giving little attention to hospital care or to the various ancillary services. This is not so. That is certainly not the position. The Nimmo report contained a number of recommendations directed to hospital services and hospital benefits. The States have significant responsibilities in the provision of hospital services. Accordingly, negotiations with the States arc being pursued actively. I am confident that the Government will be able to bring forward reforms in the area as significant and as far reaching as those that the Bill provides in respect of medical benefits. The Government is proceeding with an examination of arrangements for ancillary services within the framework of the overall scheme. 

 Senator Webster raised a point about examinations by general practitioners. In reply, I point out that it is a long standing practice in the medical profession that examination by a general practitioner should precede attention by a specialist. As every honourable senator will recognise, there are sound medical reasons for this. It is a sound medical practice. The referral conditions of the Bill will ensure its continuance. He also raised a point about separate registration of organisations in the various States in which organisations wish to operate. This is a new concept. During the course of my second reading speech I made a comment concerning this. It will enable the separate identification and assessment of an organisation's experience in each State. I point out to honourable senators that all present organisations must apply for re-registration by 1st October this year if they wish to continue in the scheme. However, to clarify the point raised by  Senator Webster,  it is not intended that an organisation's registration will be terminated abruptly. In fact, this Bill provides otherwise. I believe this is the relevant point: A particular fund will not be allowed to continue under the scheme if it cannot operate efficiently and economically. 1 think that comment would answer many questions raised by honourable senators on both sides at one time or another. Other points have been raised. I assure honourable senators who raised them that if I am unable to obtain replies for them during the Committee stage 1 shall endeavour to get them from the Minister and let them have them as soon as possible. Other points raised would be answered more correctly in the Committee stage. I thank honourable senators for the interest that they have taken in the debate. I repeat that the Government opposes both amendments. I urge that the remainder of the Bill be given as speedy a passage as possible. I believe it is imperative that the Bill be passed as soon as possible so that its benefits may be given to those Australians who I believe will benefit so greatly from it. 
Sitting suspended from 1. to 2 p.m. 
Question put: 
That the words proposed to be left out of  Senator McClelland's  amendment  (Senator McManus's amendment)  be left out. 
[2.25] - I have noted all the points that honourable senators have made about the introduction of this legislation.  I  feel I must answer  Senator Turnbull's  comments because he was answering me.I want to make it very clear that the point I made was that the meeting which is being held in June by the Australian Medical Association is not a special meeting.  A  special meeting was held in April. The meeting to be held in June will be the annual general meeting and the date for it was fixed last October. 1 think it is very important that the record be set right on that point. 
Clause agreed to. 
Clauses 2 to 4 agreed to. 
Clause 5. 
Section 4 of the Principal Act is amended - 
. . . 
by adding at the end of sub-section (1.) the following definitions:  "the Northern Territory" means the Northern Territory of Australia; "the proclaimed date" means the dale fixed by Proclamation under sub-section 3.) of section two of the National Health Act 1970'. 

 Senator MCCLELLAND (New South Wales) [2.26J- On behalf of the Opposition I move the following request for an amendment to clause 5: 
At the end of the clause add the following paragraph: 
by omitting from sub-section (4.) the words ", other than an attendance at which an examination of the patient's eyes is made in consequence of which spectacle lenses are prescribed" '. 
The purpose of the request for an amendment is to remove the existing discrimination against patients who use the services of ophthalmologists when those services require the use of or the prescription of spectacles. In this legislation the extraordinary situation arises that a patient may be referred by an optometrist to a specialist - that is an ophthalmologist - and if the ophthalmologist decides that part of the treatment to be provided is the prescribing of spectacles, no Commonwealth benefit will accrue to the patient. We believe that this is an absurd situation. A patient who in the first instance goes to a general practitioner and is referred by him to an eye specialist has to pay  51.50  for the referral. Where a patient is referred to an eye specialist and spectacles are prescribed as part of the consultation, the patient will then have to pay $5.75. A patient who goes to an eye specialist without being referred to him by a general practitioner will have to pay a total of $8.90, 
[2.57] - I  wish to reply io some of the honourable senators who have spoken in the debate.  I  indicate to  Senator Prowse  that in doing so  I  am not closing the debate on this amendment. 1 wish to make  2  points. Firstly,  I  feel that  Senator McClelland  is under a misapprehension in regard to fund benefits. He was not sure whether they are paid at present, but he said that he understood that they will not be paid in the future.  I  have just checked on this aspect with the officers assisting me. lt is quite correct that- 
No, it is not. for spectacles. This is in relation to consultations. 
The honourable senator did not say that at the time. That is why 1 queried it with him. However, the honourable senator may have meant it that way. The honourable senator was quite correct when he said that the Minister for Health  (Dr Forbes)  received a deputation from the ophthalmologists. I believe that it was on 13th May. The members of the Ophthalmological Society submitted new information to him on the very question which is now under discussion. The Minister undertook to consider it. He advised them that if the new information results in a change in the present situation, which has proved to be a problem to the Government over many years, he will seek Government approval for the sponsoring of an appropriate amendment to the National Health Act when it is next amended. This is the point which the Minister made. The Minister advised that the period allowed for the passage of the present Bill did not provide sufficient time for the new information to be analysed and properly assessed. 1 think that is a very fair statement.  I  have nothing further to add to the statement that the Minister made at the time. He has given a positive undertaking to give further consideration to the matter.  I  believe it is a very important fact that he has given this undertaking to give further consideration and, if necessary, to seek the approval of the Government for the sponsoring of an appropriate amendment to the National Health Act when it is next amended. 
[4.49] - If I might, I would like to speak to the point because I think I might be able to clarify it. We seem to have been having a little chit chat back and forth which I do not think was getting us too far. One point on which I comment is that since the inception of the scheme Commonwealth medical benefits have been limited to payments for services rendered by medical practitioners, lt is not considered that any payment of Commonwealth benefit for physiotherapy services can be considered in isolation. One has to look at all the other paramedical services such as home nursing and the provision of spectacles which may also be recommended by a medical practitioner. As the Minister for Health  (Dr Forbes)  staled on 4th March, a general examination of arrangements for ancillary benefits is being made. I understand that in the course of this examination of the whole field of paramedical services consideration will be given to the question of benefits for physiotherapy. These matters have been brought before the Minister and are being given constant attention. I suggest that we get on with the legislation as it is today. 
[5.44] - In opposing this amendment on behalf of the Government I use the same reasons which were used by the Minister for Health  (Dr Forbes)  in another place when he discussed this point. The Minister said, very rightly I believe, that it is desirable for an arrangement to be negotiated with the Austraiian Medical Association for a review of the common fees on which the Medical benefits are based. A further point of considerable importance is that a 'schedule of tees" does not appear anywhere in the principal Act or in the amending Bill but the Bill does provide for schedules of Commonwealth and fund benefits and 'specified excesses'. These in turn are based on the common fees for the various medical services. Of course, there is no schedule of fees proposed to be included in the legislation. 
The Government has given an undertaking - I think 1 should stress this point - that it will pursue the matter of reviewing the common fees on which the benefits are based to the point where there is an agreed method of arriving at a review of fees at regular intervals. The Australian Medical Association has put a particular proposal to the Government as to the way in which this should be done. The Government has not yet made a decision on that proposal but it is considering it and hopes to give a decision shortly. After the Government has made its decision there will be, inevitably, negotiation with the Australian Medical Association. I think that this is a very satisfactory way of working on an agreement for this revision. I have no doubt that a satisfactory method of updating common fees will be agreed upon, but it is not felt by the Government that this amendment should be accepted. Instead it believes that its proposal to review this matter with the Australian Medical Association is a better way of approaching the matter. 
[9.58]  -  The Government opposes this amendment. I think we ought to look at it rather carefully. Tt is quite true, as  Senator McClelland  said, that the effect of the amendment would be to remove the 2 months waiting period. Although the amendment would mean that Commonwealth benefits would become payable immediately a person joined the fund, the fund benefits would still be subject to the 2 months waiting period. Notwithstanding this difference, the change would reduce the incentive, we believe, for persons to preserve the continuity of their membership of medical benefit funds. It would encourage people to wait until illness actually occurred or an operation was pending before joining a fund. I do not think that would be in favour of the contributor. 
The amendment could have a disastrous effect on the medical insurance system. To the extent that it dissuaded people from maintaining a continuous membership, it would have a serious effect on individuals because they would lose approximately half the total benefits to which a person remaining in insurance is entitled. I think these points should bc considered before any vote is taken upon this amendment. 
It is worth mentioning that persons uninsured at present could become eligible for Commonwealth benefits, immediately they joined the fund. The amendment could have an effect on the appropriation, which is another matter to be considered in connection with the amendment to the Bill. I think the point that we should bear most in mind is the importance that we place on people getting both benefits from funds. We should ensure their continuing insurance in the funds for their own benefit. I repeat, after having listened to the points raised by the honourable senator, that the Government cannot accept the amendment. 
[10.18] - I have listened to the honourable senator concerning this proposed amendment. Honourable senators will appreciate that the amendment proposes the repeal of section 19 of the principal Act. The effect of this would be to make Commonwealth benefits generally payable for medical services received at public hospitals. I inform the Committee that section 19 of the Act was introduced for the protection of patients. Many services have traditionally been provided by public hospitals without charge to patients or provided at a nominal charge. It would have been to the disadvantage of patients if the medical benefits scheme had caused this situation to change. If benefits had been generally payable for services given at public hospitals it is probable that hospitals would have introduced charges somewhat comparable with those applied by private doctors. Such a development would no doubt assist hospital finances, but certainly it would not have assisted the patients for whose benefit the scheme was introduced. It was to benefit the patients that this section was put into the Act. 
I am aware that the Senate Select Committee on Medical and Hospital Costs recommended that out-patient and in-patient services at public hospitals be incorporated in the health insurance system with payment of appropriate Commonwealth and fund medical benefits. The Nimmo Commonwealth Committee of Inquiry on Health Insurance made a similar recommendation. The general question is one of several that are presently being discussed between Commonwealth and State officers as a preliminary to their being considered by the Government. So I believe it is very important that the amendment be opposed at this time and deferred for consideration when the Commonwealth and State negotiations have been completed. I repeat that the Government could not at this time accept the amendment moved by the Opposition. 
[10.42] - I ask for leave of the Committee to have clause 9 reconsidered in order to restate the question on  Senator McClelland's  amendment. 
[11.13] - I am endeavouring to get a reply to one or two points which have been raised, but I have not yet been able to do so. At this point of time, as  Senator McClelland  said, the Bill provides that where a contributor has established his right to receive a payment by way of compensation or damages the Commonwealth medical benefit is payable only to the extent that the compensation payment is less than the combined Commonwealth and fund benefits for the services. However, section 21 (3.), to which the proposed amendment 8 (b) relates, gives the Director-General the power to make a provisional payment of Commonwealth benefit in those cases where it is possible that there will be, although the contributor has not established his entitlement to, payment of compensation in third party insurance or workers compensation cases. The sub-section provides that, if the compensation actually received is high enough to reduce the amount of Commonwealth benefit that should be paid, below the amount paid provisionally, the difference must be repaid to the Commonwealth. 
The effect of the amendment would be to force the payment of Commonwealth benefit in all possible compensation cases where the contributor lodges a claim before the case has been settled. When the Minister commented on this in another place he pointed out that the present Act allows the Director-General to investigate and to make an assessment of the situation. It permits him to use 'his judgment as to whether payment of compensation is probable as to the amount that will be probably be paid. This achives much greater accuracy in the amount of the benefits provisionally paid. If the Commonwealth benefit was paid in all cases as proposed, there would be difficulty in recovering the amount overpaid to the contributor, not to mention the inconvenience also caused  to  the contributor. 
I am quite certain it would be difficult to recover the amount overpaid to the contributor. 
He would be entitled to the particular benefits. But I think we go further. Paragraph (c) refers to the power of the Minister for Health to determine how much of a payment made in settlement of a cl'aim under workers' compensation or third party insurance is attributable to medical expenses. I think this is a very important point, for the amendment proposes an appeal to the court that either heard the case or would have heard the case if it had not been settled out of court. The practice of the various courts varies. In some cases the amount attributable to medical expenses is specified, whereas in other cases a lump sum is awarded. In other cases, of course, as is recognised, there is settlement out of court. I believe that the effect of this amendment would be indirectly to force the courts to make an assessment of medical expenses in each case heard and, if the contributor decided, also for those cases which are settled out of court. The Government feels that the amendment really would serve little purpose and that it is not acceptable because of this, as the court could use only the same criteria which the Minister would use in making his determination. We believe that as the Act stands, this is the way in which the particular benefit can best be assessed. 
[11.46] - As  Senator McClelland  said, this amendment would make Commonwealth benefits available to everyone in the community, whether insured with a registered organisation or* not. The honourable senator says very rightly that the amendment is in line with the Labor Party's philosophy. I say quite strongly that it is completely at variance with the Government's philosophy on which the national health scheme is based. That philosophy is that in the scheme there should be an incentive to encourage people to help themselves by insuring against the cost of illness. We believe that it is important that people be encouraged to insure themselves. This is the philosophy of our Party, as opposed to the philosophy of the Australian Labor Party which has been enunciated by the Opposition. So, this amendment is completely unacceptable to the Government. I hope that the Committee, in considering it, will appreciate the 2 philosophies, which are at variance here. 
[2.12] -  Senator Greenwood  referred to the use of the term 'during the Minister's pleasure'. I am informed that this is purely a drafting phrase and that it appears in other pieces of legislation. There' is no sinister idea or motive at all. It is a phrase very commonly used in legislation. 
I will endeavour to obtain that information. I was asked about the DirectorGeneral acting on advice. I inform  Senator Greenwood  that the advice is not binding to the Director-General, but he usually acts on the advice. that is given to him. 

 Senator Greenwood also referred to proposed section 29f.- I am informed that if this provision was not included there would not be the authority for the Minister to pay these fees. This provision gives him the authority to pay the fees to the people concerned.  Senator McClelland  raised a point about the common fee. The common fee for specialists collectively was a question of fact as ascertained by the Australian Medical Association. Psychiatrists form  a  small section of the overall number of specialists. Psychiatrists may charge more that the common fee; but proportionately they are small in number and therefore do not affect the common fee. 
 I ask for leave to make a statement concerning the distribution of explanatory notes. 
[9.32] - If I am in order I move: 
That paragraph (h) in the Bill - 'Such other information as the Minister requires to be included" - be included. 
That paragraph (h) - 'Such other information as the Minister requires to be included' - as in the original Bill, be included. 
[5.50] - 1 inform the Senate that the Government is opposed to the amendment that has been moved. The first part of it relates to the approval or refusal of an application by an organisation for registration. The amendment proposes that the Minister shalL give his decision on the application by regulation. lt is felt that such a step is quite unnecessary. Provision exists in section 80 of the Act for an appeal to a State Supreme Court against any decision by the Minister not to grant registration. Also, the registration of organisations is part of the normal administrative process and, in the view of the Government, in this case legislative processes are not appropriate. The processes associated with the making of regulations could delay unnecessarily the approval of an organisation which applies for registration. 
The proposed amendment to sub-section (4.) of section 73 of the principal Act would make the register of organisations, which is presently open only to persons authorised in writing by the Minister, open for public inspection. The effect of the proposed amendment would be to make public knowledge the terms and conditions under which the registration was granted to an organisation. We believe that this would serve no useful purpose as there is a requirement in the Act that particulars of registered organisations will be gazetted each year in accordance with section 81. Proposed new section 76a, which is contained in clause 27 of the Bill, provides for the tabling of an annual report setting out details of the financial operations of each individual fund. 
The same comments apply to those parts of the amendment which relate to the registration of organisations, lt is, in the view of the Government, cumbersome and pointless to require the use o,f the legislative process to implement a purely administrative decision to revoke or vary any or all of the terms and conditions under which registration is granted to an organisation. Let me add that the Minister cannot do anything by regulation. The GovernorGeneral, of course, makes regulations. A grant is made by a person and cannot be made by a regulation. A grant is a particular executive act, whilst a regulation is a general law. I believe that those points bear out the statement that I made at the beginning, namely, that the Government opposes the amendment. 
[8.56] - The amendment moved by the Opposition is directed to the new section 76a. contained in clause 27. That section provides for the Minister to table each year in each House of Parliament a report of the Director-General on the operations of registered organisations. The new subsection (2.) lists 7 heads of information that are to be included in the report of the Director-General. The list is not an exhaustive one. Paragraph (h) enables the Minister to require additional information to be included, lt. follows that the Government contemplates that, if it appears desirable in the light of experience, the Minister will require additional information, it is made possible by the extra head in this section. In considering this amendment it is relevant, I believe, to keep in mind the various types of organisations that are registered under the National Health Act. Numerically, the main group of organisations is those registered under State law as friendly societies. The second important group includes the larger organisations registered under State law as guaranteed companies. Other State law exists, such as legislation applicable to co-operative societies, charities and benefit associations, which applies to organisations which are not friendly societies or guaranteed companies. lt follows that the majority of organisations, and certainly all the larger ones, are to a greater or lesser extent subject to dual control, that is, by both the Commonwealth under the National Health Act and a particular State or States under the appropriate State legislation. It is felt that the legal provisions relating to all those organisations are adequate for the general control and the protection of the contributors. At the same time it is realised that the Commonwealth's interest in the activities of these organisations is a vita! one. lt is for this reason that the Bill provides additional measures directed to activities of organisations. From what I have said, it is apparent that the amendment would probably not have application to all organisations but only to the larger funds - the guaranteed companies under State law. For instance, the information sought in the amendment would not appear to be relevant in respect of friendly societies whose financial transactions, reserve investments, etc., are closely supervised under the powers conferred by State friendly societies legislation. 
I reply to the mover of the amendment and to the Opposition that at this point of time the Government would prefer not to commit itself to the additional information that is sought to be included in the report to be tabled in Parliament. Some of the information sought in the proposed amendment could be relevant in an examination of an individual organisation's affairs, but unlit the Government has had an opportunity to consider the overall effects of including such information as is sought by the amendment in the report, the Government would prefer to have the Bill not made more specific at this stage. On these grounds, although not rejecting the objectives sought by the amendment, the Government cannot accept the proposed amendment which has been placed before the Senate. In view of the purpose of the Bill 1 believe the reasons which have been set out are very sensible and I support the Minister in rejecting the proposed amendment. 
[9.45] - These amendments are directed to the regulation making power in regard to the level of management expenses and would require regulations to be made prescribing the limits of management expenses and require the Minister to deduct from Commonwealth benefit reimbursements management expenses in excess of the prescribed level. The requirement that open organisations shall seek separate registration in each State will enable the separate identification and assessment of the financial experience of the organisation's operations in each State. Approval for an open fund to operate in a particular State will not be continued unless it is shown that economic and efficient operations in that State can be expected. This should result in the management expenses of all funds being reduced to the desirably satisfactory level already achieved by the majority of organisations. Also, the economies which will be associated with the single medical table will assist all the funds to reduce their management expenses to the level of economic and efficient operation. 
The fact that contribution rates payable under the new scheme will be determined for each fund having regard to its particular financial position will enable contribution rates to vary as between funds. This in itself provides an incentive for funds to achieve economic and efficient operation, as it is in this manner that they will be able to reduce their contribution rates and compete effectively against other organisations. At this stage the Government is of the view that the measures I have outlined will be sufficient. However, if these measures are not effective in reducing management expenses and do not achieve the desired result, the time will then be appropriate to employ the regulation making power of clause 30. I believe that the points that I have mentioned show the view of the Government on this occasion. 
Question put: 
That the amendments  (Senator McClelland's)  be agreed to. 
[10.1] -  Senator McClelland  has referred to section 82q of the principal Act and and has told us how it relates specifically to the manner of assessing the eligibility of low income families for assistance with the costs of health insurance. To understand sub-section (2.) of section 82q it is necessary to appreciate that the Social Services Act provides for certain forms of income to be exempt income when calculating the means as assessed of a person for pension purposes. 
Paragraph (e) to which the honourable senator has referred provides that certain forms of income are not to be excluded when calculating means as assessed of low income families for the purpose of assistance with the costs, of health insurance. The forms of income which are not to be excluded are sheltered employment assistance paid under Part VIIA of the Social Services Act, rehabilitation allowances paid under Part VIII of the Social Services Act, tuberculosis allowances paid under section 9 of the Tuberculosis Act, service pensions paid under the Repatriation Act and age or invalid pensions. The policy behind paragraph (e) is to provide that the various categories of eligible persons generally receive assistance from only one welfare source. The assistance with health insurance for low income families is directed to those groups in the community which are not otherwise assisted by way of pensions or allowances under the Social Services Act, the Repatriation Act or the Tuberculosis Act and by virtue of the payment of those pensions or allowances are usually eligible for medical, hospital and pharmaceutical care under the pensioner medical service. 
In assessing the eligibility of low income families for assistance it is necessary to place the applicants on the same relative basis. If the income falling within the categories I have mentioned was excluded when assessing eligibility, then it would place the recipients of the income in an advantageous position as compared to other families and this would give rise to anomalies. Therefore the amendment could not be accepted by the Government. 
[4.32] - I am reminded that before the Senate rose last night the Committee was dealing with a proposed amendment closely associated in our discussions with the proposals we are now debating. I wish to remind the 
Committee of the comments I made at that time. By subsidising benefits in full for unemployment and sickness beneficiaries the Government has placed them in the same position as other contributors to the medical benefits scheme, withcott their having to pay any contributions to funds. The only payments that they will have to make towards their medical and hospital care are the relatively small amounts they will have to pay for medical services. These will not exceed $5 even for the most serious operation and the services directly associated with it. when the doctors charge th,? common fee. 
The Government is of the opinion that so far as the relationship of the patient to the doctor is concerned, these persons should be treated in the same way as anyone else. It is a basic concept of voluntary health insurance - I think it is necessary for me to stress this point - that the patient should make some small payment towards meeting the cost of the medical services he receives. However, it should be kept in mind that the fee for a medical service is a matter to bo settled between the doctor and the patient. As I have said, doctors are not bound to charge the most common fee and in the case of unemployment and sickness beneficiaries and low income families it is most likely that most of them will relate their fees to the benefit rather than the most common fee. 
It has been the practice of the medical profession in the past to vary fees in accordance with a patient's means and I can see no reason why this should not be done in future. As I said to the Committee last night, the abolition of the old rule limiting benefits to 90% of the charge will enable them to charge patients uo more than the benefits payable for the service. J reply, as 1 did in connection with the previous amendment, that because of the considerations which J have mentioned the Government cannot accept the amendment. 
[12.2 a.m.]- Items 7921, 7925. 7929 and 8037 are medical services carried out by medical practitioners and patients receive accounts, lt cannot be assumed that all services are purely cosmetic as suggested by  Senator Turnbull.  We do not support the proposed amendment. 

 Senator TURNBULL (Tasmania) f 1 2.2 a.m.] - That is balderdash. I used the wrong word, I. think, for the wrong area. Would the Minister ascertain from her advisers how many cases of face lifting are done for medical reasons? Now, just give me one. Of course they are done by medical practitioners. Who else could do it? That  is  a stupid answer to be given. Perhaps the Minister could give us a definition of melonoplasty because I do not think she is quite right. While she is getting that may I point out that items 7921, 7925 and 7929 deal with a reduction or repositioning in a mammaplasty or an augmentation or prosthetic device. 

 Senator Dame ANNABELLE RANKIN (Queensland - Minister for Housing) [12.3 a.m.] - The comment to which 1 rose to reply concerned the repair of faces.  Senator Turnbull  discussed operations on faces - face lifts or whatever they might be - and 1 would just inform him that a proportion of these services are plastic repairs and also are done as a psychiatric medical service. I do not think there is anything funny about this. If people have been in very bad accidents or have had very serious damage done to their faces they would want to have a damaged and scarred face repaired in some way. This is the way in which it has been interpreted. 
by leave - Since  Senator Wood  tabled a motion for the disallowance of me Customs (Prohibited Imports) Regulations contained in Statutory Rules 1970. No. 8, officers of the Department of Health have had discussions with members of the Senate Standing Committee on Regulations and Ordinances and amendments to these regulations have been made in Statutory Rules 1970. No. 72, to meet the Committee's wishes. I understand that the Committee has agreed with the regulations as amended. 
The DEPUTY PRESIDENT- ls leave granted? There being no objection, leave is granted. 
[11.9]  - I  move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
With the concurrence of honourable senators  I  incorporate my second reading speech in Hansard: 
The Prime Minister  (Mr Gorton)  in his policy speech last October, said: 
We shall give capital assistance on a 2 for 1 basis to approved institutions which give training for the various kinds of handicapped children - the blind, the deaf, the spastic, the crippled and the mentally retarded. 
This Bill will give effect to that promise. Although the Commonwealth bears a large share of the responsibility for looking after handicapped adults - through invalid pensions, its own rehabilitation service, its subsidies to sheltered workshops and in other ways - child welfare, broadly speaking, has been a matter for the States and the many admirable voluntary organisations that have so successfully pioneered and carried on their humanitarian work in this field. The Commonwealth Government of course provides a subsidy of $1.50 per day in respect of the accommodation away from home of certain handicapped children. 
The role the States have played both directly and by assisting the voluntary organisations to continue and extend their activities is readily acknowledged. They have borne the major burden. This measure will not only provide a direct source of assistance to the voluntary organisation but it will also indirectly assist the States by freeing them from the need to provide capital subsidies to voluntary bodies or at least greatly reduce the need for them to do so. Insofar as this occurs, it will allow them to devote greater funds towards assisting handicapped children in other ways, lt will, of course, still be possible for a qualified body which receives a capital or maintenance subsidy from the Stats, to receive the Commonwealth subsidy in addition. 
Because of the Commonwealth's continuing interest in the welfare of the. disabled it is important that it should ensure that all possible help is given to handicapped people as early as possible because a child - even an infant - is easier to train than an adult. Spastics, dyslectics, autistics, the profoundly deaf, the blind, the mentally retarded - with all these and other groups, the essential thing is to start remedial action while they are still, young. To delay assistance has the effect of leaving them helpless for longer, of consuming greater resources in their rehabilitation, and of militating against the effectiveness of later training. While the measures proposed in the Bill  are designed specifically to assist  in  providing facilities for the training of handicapped children, from pre-school onwards, it is not only the children who will benefit.  Most honourable  senators will know something of the problems that confront the parents of the handicapped child.  Frequently  the whole pattern of their lives - social activities,  holidays,  employment as  well  as ordinary  domestic  duties - have to be  adjusted to meet  the needs of the  son  or  daughter who  cannot become part  of  the  normal  family group.  lt is also on these parents that much of the responsibility rests to establish many of the special schools, training centres and hostels that these children need to enable them to live as normal a life as possible. Fortunately they are assisted in this work by many good people who see these causes as the most deserving charity to which they can devote their time and energy. These people, I am sure, have earned the admiration and respect of all honourable senators. No Government could hope to duplicate the type of service that is provided by parents and those who dedicate themselves to supplying the needs of these children because no Government service could supply the love and sympathy and understanding that is every bit as necessary as the classrooms, the play areas and the special equipment that these children require. Nevertheless the measures proposed in the Bill will materially help some handicapped children to take their place in the work-force and to join fully in the life of the community; it will help others to enter sheltered employment or al least to become more a part of our society. 
Many of the organisations that have already made good use of Commonwealth assistance for their sheltered workshops will no doubt bc claiming assistance under the new legislation for the benefit of the younger people for whom they care, including the provision of residential accommodation.  Mr Deputy President,  this Bill is a practical measure, lt takes the Commonwealth into a new area of welfare work but it will enable voluntary and religious organisations to improve and expand a service which they have been providing for many years, lt provides Ibr a $2 Federal subsidy for every $1 subscribed from private or local government funds for capital expert- diture on training centres, training equipment and hostels for handicapped children. 
It contains the following provisions: Eligible organisations are non-profit bodies defined in virtually the same way as eligible organisations under the Aged Persons Homes Act and the Sheltered Employment (Assistance) Act. Expenditure which can be subsidised includes land, training centres, building additions, and alterations, specialised equipment and fixtures, and residential accommodation. 'Children' includes both handicapped children under 21 years of age and those who, although over 21 years of age, have received continuous training since childhood. Disabilities accepted include both physical and mental disabilities. Subsidy is payable in respect of buildings, etc. completed after 27th October 1969 - it may also, under certain circumstances, apply to land purchased before that date. 
I can assure honourable senators that, in the administration of the Act, the Department of Social Services will employ the greatest flexibility, with the aim of providing effective help as soon as possible, while seeing that our resources are genuinely directed to the real needs of these children. Training, for example, will be regarded as including instruction in the activities of daily living as well as remedial, pre-vocational or vocational tuition. Where special facilities are required for general education they will also be included. 
It is clear enough that there is still much to be done. There are, we estimate, some 50,000 handicapped children under 16 years of age in Australia, including both those who have some physical handicap and those who are mentally retarded. Probably under half of these are adequately catered for by existing facilities. Voluntary organisations and religious bodies want to provide a better service for handicapped children and the Commonwealth wants to help them achieve that worthy objective. State Governments too want to improve their services and to the extent that this Bill will reduce the burden of the State Governments as regards capital expenditure it will enable them to apply their resources more effectively towards other work in this area. I commend the Bill to the Senate. 
Debate (on motion by  Senator Fitzgerald)  adjourned. 
[4.8] - I think that this matter was discussed in connection with a Bill which was before us yesterday. 
I believe that is so. The same matters have been raised and the same suggestions have been put forward in this case, and I can only reply as the Leader of the Government in the Senate  (Senator Anderson)  did yesterday. I think that the best way to deal with this is to put it to the vote now. 
For the information of honourable senators 1 lay on the table a copy of the tentative uniform home building code. 1 ask for leave to make a statement. 
The DEPUTY PRESIDENT- ls leave granted? There being no objection, leave is granted. 
In 1964 the 6 State Ministers for Local Government set up an Interstate Standing Committee on Uniform Building Regulations wilh the purpose of drafting a building code which it is hoped will be adopted by ail governmental authorities. The Committee expected that it would be several years before it would be considering uniform minimum standards for cottage construction. My Department, with the concurrence of the Committee, therefore undertook in 1967 to draft a uniform home building code whose minimum standards would incorporate up to date scientific and technical thinking as to safe and economical housing, and at the same time conform to modern Australian living requirements. 
House building forms a large proportion of all building in Australia and we hope that this home building code, the first in Australia, will make a major contribution towards the establishment of uniform constructional requirements for housing throughout the nation. The adoption of uniform national building regulations would result in economies in building costs. Manufacturers would no longer need to produce a wide variety of fittings for houses to  comply with differing State regulations. Regulations which require building materials of greater strength and dimension than is necessary would be eliminated, resulting in constructional economies. 
As for the wider advantages, I shall give one example. A certain Australian firm which is now geared to produce prefabricated houses on production line methods, and has had success in selling its products overseas, is unable to gain full economies of scale in Australia because it cannot produce for stock in slack periods. Because plumbing requirements differ from State to State, it cannot complete its houses until it knows their destination. This is only one case in which savings can be made. The code incorporates the work of many authorities, spread over years, to produce reduced usage of materials combined with safety and lasting qualities. 
I believe that standardisation of building regulations will result in reductions in the price of homes. But before the draft code can come into effect it must be generally acceptable, and I now call on all interested parties to examine it and make such suggestions as they think may further this desirable enterprise. 
The DEPUTY PRESIDENT- ls leave granted? There being no objection, leave is granted. 
[3.54] - in reply - First, I thank the Senate for giving this Bill a speedy passage at its second reading stage. The Commonwealth Serum Laboratories Bill 1970 means a great deal in the field of health. This fact is recognised by the points which have been raised by honourable senators and the way in which they have been raised. This Bill authorises the Commonwealth Scrum Laboratories Commission to import and to sell lo the Commonwealth, vaccines for the purpose of immunisation campaigns. These vaccines are referred to in section 9b of the National Health Act. I refer to poliomyelitis and measles vaccines. Among the amendments to the National Health Act which were before the Senate earlier in the National Health Bill 1970 was a proposal to include rubella - german measles - vaccine in section 9b. So, it is in regard to these matters that this legislation is important. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. 
The ACTING  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Laucke)  - Is leave granted? There being no objection, leave is granted. 
[11.12]  - I  move: 
That the requests be not pressed. 
[11.0] -  Mr Presient.  I wish to make some general comments regarding the 7 requests for amendments to the Bill that were considered in the other place yesterday and the 12 amendments to the Bill made by this Committee which are yet to be considered by the other place. As honourable senators are well aware, the parliamentary procedures for dealing wilh requests and amendments made by the Senate to a single Bill - as is the case with the National Health Bill - provide for the requests only to be d:a!1 with by the other place as a first step. The amendments are dealt with at a later stage. Because of this procedure, which prevents the requests and the amendments being dealt wilh in the one stage, it is important to advise a: this point of rime of the altitude overall of the Government to the total of 1.9 requests and amendments that are involved. 
The first point 1 wish to stress is the need to have these requests and amendments viewed in their proper perspective, lt could be inferred that the relatively large number involved is a reflection of the unacceptability of the Bill - and therefore the new health benefits plan. However this is by no means the case. Firstly, the basic principles of the health benefits plan as framed bv the Government and as contained in the Bill have remained unchanged. These include the legislative provisions for the common fee approach as a means of ensuring adequate benefit returns to patients, the proposals for differential benefits as between specialist and general practitioner services and the major changes in the Commonwealth's relationship to the insurance organisations. No amendments have been accepted in these areas. This must be taken as an indication that these fundamental principles are regarded as being sound and of course the Government is gratified to find that this is so. 
The second point I wish to make regarding the requests and amendments is that only 7 of the total number of 19 are directed to the Bil! itself. The remaining 12  -  and I repeat 12 out of 19  -  are directed not. to the Bill but to the Principal Act. One of the most important requests made by the Senate is for an amendment to the Act to provide the Commonwealth benefit of $2 a day for all patients, whether or not the individual patient is insured. As honourable senators are aware, the Bill is aimed basically a! authorising the new medical benefits plan and vouches on hospital benefits in only a consequential way. As the Minister for Health  (Dr Forbes)  has already advised in the other place, the recommendations of the Nimmo Committee regarding hospital benefits had implications of such a far reaching nature that the Government is not in a position to make decisions on them at. this stage and will not be able to until the States' attitudes have been clarified. The Minister advised at that time that negotiations with the States would be actively pursued. Despite the vigorous pursuit of these negotiations, they have not reached a stage where the Government can formulate and bring forward its proposals in the hospital benefits area. Notwithstanding this, the Government is agreeable to dealing with the matter which is the subject of the amendment to which 1 have referred - to pay the Commonwealth hospital benefit of 2 a day for al! patients - in advance of a number of related matters. 
Briefly the request - No. 5 in the schedule of requests - is to substitute the word person' for the word 'contributor' in section 46 of the principal Act with the intention of making every patient in hospital automatically eligible for the Commonwealth hospital benefit of $2 a clay. Membership of a hospital benefits fund would no longer' be a requirement. Speakers to this amendment in the Senate directed their comments mainly to the situation in Queensland where no charge is made on public ward patients. It was claimed that Queensland is disadvantaged as compared with other States due to its adherence over the years to a policy of free public hospitalisation. The Government is sympathetic in this argument and has been ever since the Nimmo Committee submitted its view that Queensland's policy gives full effect to the Commonwealth objective of affording the community adequate financial protection against the cost of hospital treatment. This view was strongly endorsed by the Wedgwood Committee. 
The specific terms of the amendment requested were clearly directed to the Queensland situation but the amendment went further and proposed the payment of the Commonwealth $2 a day benefit irrespective of whether the patient was insured' or and irrespective of whether a ho.spit.al charge was made. The Government is not prepared to accept an amendment in the wide terms requested. However, the Government is prepared to sponsor a further amendment to the Bill to provide for" the payment of the Commonwealth benefit of $2 a day to hospitals in all cases in which no charge is made to patients. Under this amended proposal the benefit would be payable in respect of each such patient,' whether or not the patient is insured, lt is proposed that this benefit will replace, where relevant, the present Commonwealth benefits paid in respect of such patients. At present, these patients are eligible for the Commonwealth $2 a day benefit if insured - and there will be no increased payment for these patients - or the 80c a day benefit if uninsured. The proposal is that in future the patients will not be classified separately in this way but will all attract the Commonwealth hospital benefit of S2 a day for patients where no charge is made. 
The Commonwealth benefit of S5 a day paid to hospitals on behalf of pensioner patients where no charge is made would not not be affected under the proposal. The mechanics of the payment of the new benefit will be that it is paid direct to the hospitals concerned in the same manner as the 80c benefit is paid now and not through hospital benefit funds. Thi. proposed arrangement will apply of course in respect of any hospital in any Stage, lor example, an infectious diseases hospital, which follows a practice of treating patients without charge. If, following this explanation, the Committee decides not to press the request as originally made, I propose to move a new request for an amendment along the lines I have mentioned. 
I wish to return now to the other requests for amendments and amendments made to the Bill. Generally, these are directed to particular questions and do not involve wide ramifications. The objectives of the amendments are beyond question and my one regret is that each is being brought foward in isolation and not as part of a complete review of the legislative provisions contained in the Act with which the Government will be persevering. 
The Government is prepared to accept request for amendment No. 4 and amendment No. 1 relating to the provisional payment of Commonwealth medical benefit in third party and workers compensation cases and amendments Nos 3, 4 and 5 relating to the Specialist Recognition Advisory Committees, No. 6 relating to the agreement with the Australiana .Medical Association for the pensioner medical service and No. 9 relating to the furnishing of information by applicant medical and hospital benefits organisations. No. 8, which is connected with request No. 5 dealing with eligibility for hospital benefits, is acceptable in a modified form, as is No. 10 relating to the registration of insurance organisations, in addition, the Government is prepared to partially accept amendments numbered 1 1 and 12 dealing respectively with the annual returns of insurance organisations and the Pharmaceutical Benefits Advisory Committee. The remaining requests for amendments and amendments are not acceptable to the Government. 
In summary, the Government is prepared to accept 9 of the 19 requests and amendments in the form presented by the Senate or in a modified form. It will present an alternative proposal for 1 of them and is prepared to partially accept a further 2. The Government is unable to agree to 7 of the amendments. The decisions of the Government are evidence of its determination to improve the health benefits plan in all its aspects as well as its wish to have this Bill passed speedily and given royal assent so that needless delay does not occur before increased benefits are payable to those in the community who incur expenses on medical treatment. As I emphasised earlier, none of the amendments is directed to the new basic principles of the medical benefits plan and I ask the Senate to give speedy passage to the Bill. Before the Committee proceeds to the consideration of the separate requests, I suggest to the Committee that requests Nos 1 and 7 which deal with refraction tests by ophthalmalogists and optometrists be dealt with together and that requests Nos 2 and 3 which deal with services rendered by oral surgeons also be dealt with together. 
[12.19]  - I refer now to request for amendment No.  6.  The Act at present provides for low income families to be assisted with the costs of contributing for medical and hospital benefits and, as honourable senators are aware, the National Health Bill proposes extensions to this assistance. The relevant provisions are set out in the new section  82t  in clause  42  of the Bill. The bases of assessing eligibility are weekly income for families below pensionable age and 'means as assessed' for families of pensionable age. 
In explanation of section  82q (2)  (e) to which the request is directed, I advise that the Social Services Act provides for certain forms of income to be 'exempt income', that is, not included, when calculating the means as assessed' of a person for pension purposes. The forms of income specified in the Social Services Act to which section  82q (2)  (e) relate are: (a) sheltered employment assistance; (b) rehabilitation allowances; (c) tuberculosis allowances; (d) certain Service pensions paid under the Repatriation Act; and (e) age or invalid pensions. The National Health Act, however, provides for these forms of income to be included when calculating the 'means as assessed' for low income families. The amendment would have the effect of providing that, for families over pensionable age, eligibility would be based on means as assessed identical with that applied under the Social Services Act. Means as assessed for the purposes of the National Health Act would then not include any income falling with the categories I have mentioned. 
Families with means as assessed under the Social Services Act equivalent to$47 or less a week are eligible for age pensions, plus enrolment in the pensioner medical service. Families with means as assessed under the Social Services Act equivalent to between  $47  and$70 per week are eligible for what we have come to term taper pensions, but are not eligible for enrolment in the pensioner medical service. The figures I have just given are by way of illustration and are based on afamilyof husband and wife and would vary if the family included one or more dependent children, or conisisted of  1  parent and a child. A further relevant provision is in section 82u(l.)(b) of the National Health Act which excludes pensioners enrolled in the pensioner medical service from low income family assistance. 
It follows, if honourable senators have been able to trace these provisions through, that the amendment would affect only a very small number of applicants whose means as assessed are equivalent to between  $47  a week, which is the eligibility ceiling for the pensioner medical service, and $48.50 a week, which is the eligibility ceiling for low income family assistance under the Bill. The real point at issue is that the amendment would create anomalies by providing assistance with the cost of health insurance for some applicants whilst other applicants in similar financial situations would be denied assistance. To assist honourable senators appreciate this point, I have circulated a table setting out comparisons between  3  typical families. If the income falling within the categories I have listed above were excluded when assessing eligibility, then it would place the recipient of the income in an advantageous position as compared with other families. 
A further anomaly affecting the position of applicants above pensionable age compared with applicants under pensionable age would arise from the amendment. Eligibility for assistance is to be determined for applicants under pensionable age on the basis of total weekly income which includes any pension and other allowances. It would be anomalous to have pensions etc. taken into account in making determinations for applicants under pensionable age, but not to have these sources of income taken into account when determining eligibility of applicants over pensionable age. Although the amendment would involve only a small increase in the cost of providing assistance to low income families, the Government rejects the amendment on the ground that it would introduce a number of anomalies as between families in similar financial circumstances. With the concurrence of honourable senators. I incorporate in Hansard the table I have circulated to honourable senators. 
Thetable below illustrates the effect of the amendment on three familiesAB and  C. 
Family A is of pension age and receives a pension. 
Family B is of pension agebut is not entitled to any pension (e.g., because residential qualifications under the Social Services Act are not satisfied.) 
Family C is under pensionable age. 

<graphic href="044232197006115_24_0.jpg"></graphic>

Therefore. I move: 
Thatthe  request be not pressed. 
[3.22]  -  I am very glad to speak on this matter. I understand perfectly the fear that has been in the minds of some people who are concerned with autistic children because I have worked with them myself and they have approached me also. I am glad to draw attention to the second reading speech and confirm now, asI reply to  Senator Murphy,  that it mentions among the various people spastics and autistics, the profoundly deaf and so on. I can assure him thai autistic children will be included among handicapped children. 
[3.5] -in reply  -  I thank those honourable senators who have contributed to the debate for the speedy passage which they have given to this legislation. 1 think wc all appreciate what this measure will mean to handicapped children. I should imagine that at one time or another all honourable senators have been closely associated with this kind of work. We have all seen the tragedy of children who are born nol so well equipped as other children not being able to take their place in the family circle and in the community at large. These young children have had to be trained so that the) can take a part in the community and can live a happier and fuller life. This legislation is, of course, directed to that purpose, lt also carries out another of the promises which the Prime Minister  (Mr Gorton)  made in his policy speech. He said: 
We shall give capital assistance on a  2  for I basis lo approved institutions which give training for the various kinds of handicapped children. 
The Prime Minister enumerated some of them as being the blind, the deaf, the spastic, the crippled and the mentally retarded. I should imagine that all honourable senators would be aware of the great work which has been and is being done in this field throughout the length and breadth of Australia by voluntary organisations. 1 think it is a very good thing that a Bill of this nature should come before the Senate because not only will it result in the provision of the assistance outlined in the Bill but it also gives us an opportunity to express our appreciation to the dedicated people who have served in this field and given the love, affection and care which is so necessary in assisting handicapped children. 
I wish to refer to one or two points which were raised by honourable senators.  Senator Webster  raised Ihe question of the wide powers which are given to the DirectorGenera! of Social Services under this Bill. I would like to draw his attention to clause 5 of the Bill, which provides: 
The Director-General has, subject to any directions of the Minister, the general mm, nitration of Ibis Act. 
I draw  Senator Webster's  attention to the words 'subject to any direction^ of the Minister', which are quite important. One or two points were raised by honourable senators - 1 think 1 would be right if I said that they were raised mainly by  Senator Cavanagh,  although  Senator Fitzgerald  did touch upon them - in connection wilh the voluntary organisations and the State schools and organisations which are assisting handicapped children. I have been supplied wilh information which indicated that in all States there are voluntary organisations which assume some responsibility for the training and accommodation of handicapped children, including those below school agc and others of school agc who are classified as non-educable by the Slate authority. This Bill will reduce the need for the States to provide capital subventions to voluntary bodies to allow them to devote more funds towards assisting handicapped children in other ways. To that extent I think that this legislation is helping in both of these areas. 
Representations have been made - I suppose they have been made to some honourable senators - urging that the Bill be amended to provide for grants to be made towards the cost of facilities provided by State governments as well as by voluntary organisations. I think the reply which the Minister for Social Services  (Mr Wentworth)  has given in relation to this aspect should be repeated in this debate. He said that it is not proposed that the Commonwealth should intrude into the education programmes of the State governments. The States are assisted by other means towards meeting the cost of education and it would therefore be inappropriate for them to be brought within the provisions of a Bill which is designed to achieve a limited and specific objective. I believe the Bill will be of assistance in the areas to which we have been referred today. Reference has been made to letters which have been written concerning this legislation. I should like to refer to 2 of those letters because they show the appreciation of the organisations who will benefit.  Mrs Mary  Towers, the Secretary of the New South Wales Council for the Mentally Handicapped, wrote to the Minister for Social Services in the following terms: 
The N.S.W. Council for the Mentally Handicapped 19th May 1970 
The  Hon.  W. C. Wentworth, MP 
Minister for Social Service, 
Parliament House, 
CANBERRA, A.C.T. 2600 
Dear  Mr Wentworth, 
Handicapped Children (Assistance) Bill 1970 
It is the desire of the Executive of the NSW Council to convey to you, on behalf of 65 NSW organisations we represent in the mentally handicapped field, our sincere thanks for formulating and presenting this Bill to the Federal Parliament. 
The benefits that will stem from this measure are virtually incalculable and cannot fail to give new heart to all groups who have striven for so long to give handicapped children a chance to live as well as they can. 
We do not intend to go into any detail or stress any special point Our wish is that the Bill will be accepted in its entirety and implemented without delay. 
Our thoughts will be with you al the Third Reading and may success attend your effort. 
Yours sincerely, 
NSW Council for the Mentally Handicapped (Sgd) Mary Towers  (Mrs) 
Secretary 
I wish to quote also from a letter received from the  Chairman  of Aid Retarded Persons, New South Wales. He wrote: 
It affords me considerable pleasure to advise you that at a meeting of the Society's Executive Committee held recently, it was unanimously resolved that on behalf of Aid Retarded Persons New South Wales I extend to your good self our felicitations and hearty commendation on the enlightened prospective legislation (the Handicapped Childrens' Assistance Bill) now before the Federal Parliament. 
As a society, we have good cause to be thankful for the financial assistance we have received from your Government by way of grants to help cover our workshops and equipment. Although it is unlikely that the provisions of this Bill will affect our Society, we recognise its worth to other bodies in an area hitherto largely unassisted. 
Please accept deepest thanks from myself, fellow members of the Society's Board of Honorary Directors and members of Aid Retarded Persons NSW for your efforts and, if we may add, your humanitarian and national outlook. 
I have some information which may influence the thinking of honourable senators on the proposed amendment. The Government has already set up an interdepartmental committee comprising officers of the Departments of Social Services, Health, and Education and Science to survey the extent of handicapped children and the facilities available to them. In those circumstances the Senate may feel that there is no need to establish a Senate select committee to inquire into this field. If it is felt that it is necessary to establish a Senate select committee, honourable senators may feel that it would be better able to function after a report is received . from the interdepartmental committee. I think it is important that honourable senators should be aware of the existence of that committee which is carrying out  a  survey of handicapped children and the facilities available to them. 
I cannot give a date. It will probably take some time. 
I could not answer that, but I will refer the question to the Minister for Social Services. I have given that information about the interdepartmental committee for honourable senators to consider. Honourable senators may well feel that if a select committee is set up it would be much more effective if it waited to receive a report from the interdepartmental committee. I have endeavoured to touch upon the points which have been raised and to answer the questions that have been asked of me by honourable senators. I would conclude the few words I have had to say by reminding honourable senators of the words of  Mrs Mary  Towers, which appeal to me very much. She wrote: 
The benefits that will stem from this measure are virtually incalculable and cannot fail to give new heart to all groups, who have striven for so long, to give handicapped children a chance to live as well as they can. 
I believe those words reflect the spirit of this legislation and the wishes of the Senate. 
Question put. 
That the words proposed to be added  (Senator Fitzgerald's amendment)  be added. 
[11.48]  - I move: 
That the Committee does not insist on amendment No. 8 to which the House of Representatives has disagreed. 
The reasons for this have been circulated and so at this point I do not wish to add to what has been said already. 
[12.23] - The register of organisations contains, in respect of medical and hospital benefits organisations separately: Firstly, the name of the registered organisation; secondly, the States in respect of which they are approved to operate; and thirdly, the terms and conditions of registration. The amendment proposes that ali those details be published in the Commonwealth 'Gazette' in future. 
(11.4] -I completely  support what the Leader of the  House  (Senator Anderson)  has said. We should  either delay it for  1  hour or proceed  now. I  think we should continue.  I repeat my  motion: 
That the message be taken into consideration by the Committee of the Whole forthwith. 
Question  resolved in the affirmative. 
[11.7] - I move: 
That the Committee does not insist on amendments Nos 3 and 8 to which the House of Representatives has disagreed. 
The reasons provided by the other place  for  the rejection of these 2 amendments  have been  circulated to honourable senators.  As the  aspects involved in the amendments  have been  debated thoroughly by the Senate, I do not propose to add at this point of  time  to what I have said already. 
I will take that matter up with my colleague the Minister for Health. 
[8.6] - I rise in this debate to support the Budget. A budget debate is always an interesting one because there are so many subjects upon which one may speak. There are many matters to which I could refer in this debate. However, I rise mainly to inform honourable senators about recent developments in home building activities in Australia, to comment on the prospects of the industry during the current financial year and to draw attention to the very substantial proposed increases in Commonwealth expenditure on housing which are contained in the appropriations for 1970-71. 
During the past few months there has been some easing in the level of home building activity in most States, but I am satisfied that this will be only a temporary easing in the longer term upward movement. Indeed, the Government has taken steps to increase the demand for new dwellings. The present check to the growth in home buildings, undesirable though it may be for a number of home builders and home seekers, should not be allowed to overshadow the tremendous expansion in the number of dwellings which have been commenced and completed during the past few years. The number of new houses and flats commenced rose rapidly from 115,100 in 1966-67 to 139,300 in 1968-69. Commencements rose further in the latter half of 1969, so that, despite a small but widespread downturn in the June quarter of this year, a record number of 144,300 houses and flats were commenced in 1969-70. 
Let us look at the number of completions because the story of completions  is  equally impressive. In 1966-67 111,900 homes were completed. Thereafter, completions rose by about 10,000 a year to reach the record number of 140,800 in 1969-70. This represents a magnificent achievement by Australia's home building industry as well as the suppliers of building materials. At the beginning of 1970 there were signs in one or two of the States of some over-building, as evidenced by a small increase in the number of newly completed and unsold or untenanted dwellings. Although the last year or two has seen a rising rate of growth in our population there have been indications that, at least in a few areas, the number of new dwellings completed has been slightly in excess of the demand. 
In the March quarter of this year there was evidence of an accelerating increase in costs and prices in many sectors of our economy. The prices of building materials and building labour were no exception. At about this time the net effect of the Commonwealth financial transactions changed from a situation in which we were putting more money into the hands of the public to one in which there was a net withdrawal of money from the public. Moneybecame tighter and interest rates, including the interest rates on many housing loans, were allowed to rise. We recognised that this would have a slowing down effect on home building activity. Some temporary check to the earlier strong upward growth in dwelling construction was desirable to avoid excessive cost increases. 
Signs of a small decline in dwelling commencements began to appear early in the June quarter. Those first affected included many of the larger cottage builders, who had come to rely on a continuing flow of finance from permanent building societies for the sale of their homes. The tightening monetary situation during the June quarter had caused an intensification of the customary seasonal decline in the lending activities of the permanent building societies. The rise in interest rates also had some effect on the demand from home seekers and caused some builders of flats to postpone a number of commencements. 
The number of new houses and flats commenced in the June quarter this year was about 7 per cent below the number commenced in the March quarter. This ran counter to the normal seasonal rise in commencements in this period of the year. Flats were affected more than cottages. Between the March and June quarters, the number of cottages commenced declined by less than 6 per cent, whilst the number of flats commenced was reduced by about 11 per cent. On the other hand the total number of dwellings completed during the quarter rose by about 1 1 per cent. This suggests there was little, if any, decline in the volume of home building activity. Although the number and value of new housing loans being approved by private institutional lenders are now rising and the Commonwealth plans to increase its expenditure on housing this year, the effects of the decline in availability of housing finance in the recent past are expected to result in a further small decline in commencements in the September quarter - at least in some States. But by the end of this quarter we expect total commencements to be rising significantly once more. 
As Commonwealth Minister for Housing, I am well aware of the adverse effects that the higher interest rates on housing loans are having on home seekers. However, the question to be asked is: 'Do home seekers wish to pay more and still more for their homes, as they would certainly have to do if the rise in costs and prices had gone on unrestrained, or to pay a higher interest charge for a period?' I think that most home seekers would agree that the latter is much to be preferred. Of course, some may decide to defer temporarily the acquisition of their homes. Our policies are aimed at checking the rise in the cost of a home, and keeping to the minimum the amount that home seekers need to borrow. Even if the price of a home continues to rise a little, the rate of increase has certainly been slowed down. In one or two States, my Department's representatives have reported small declines in the prices of some homes. 
An up-turn in dwelling construction is likely before long. In July the Reserve Bank announced that savings banks intended to increase substantially the number and value of the housing loans they approve this quarter. The rate of housing loan approvals by permanent building societies is also rising, and I expect this rise to continue. All the available evidence leads me to expect that the level of home building activity will be rising during the December quarter. There is growing optimism amongst home builders. As the Treasurer  (Mr Bury)  said in his Budget Speech, the prospects for growth in 1970-71 are good. But he went on to add a qualification, namely, 'provided the call on resources is kept within reason'. I think this should be kept in mind by the building industry. 
With migration flowing strongly and the prospect of a continuing high rate of family formation, some increase above the existing level of dwelling commencements is needed. By and large there is no shortage of building materials, but there will be limits on the availability of building labour. Expenditure on non-residential building is at a very high level, and the value of recent approvals for new construction indicate that this expenditure should rise further during 1970-71. Home building activity will also rise. This will be assisted by the expected growth of more than 3 per cent in the work force, which will include a number of migrants with building skills. Nevertheless the Government will continue to watch the calls on home building resources. We wish to avoid a recurrence of excessive cost and price increases that would put home ownership beyond the means of an increasing number of families. 
I turn now to consider the amounts made available for housing in this Budget. During 1970-71 proposed Commonwealth expenditure on housing is some $288m, or almost 10 per cent more than the $263m spent on housing in 1969-70. Advances to the States under the housing agreements will be up by about $10m to $142. 5m- a rise of nearly 8 per cent. A further $8m will be advanced to the States to build homes for servicemen's families. Our proposed appropriation for war service homes advances is to rise from $55m to $60m. This will permit the elimination of the waiting period for advances for existing dwellings that was imposed earlier this year. 
As I said in answer to a question from the honourable senator last week, we are working towards the elimination of the waiting period. I turn now to homes savings grants. Honourable senators will remember that we have increased the value of an eligible home from $15,000 to S 17,500. We have abolished the requirement that savings held with savings banks and on fixed deposit with trading banks must be in accounts designated  as  Homes Savings Accounts. This will enable more young families acquiring their own homes to obtain a grant of S500. It is estimated that $ 1 4.2m, or $2m more than last year, will be paid out in 1970-71 as grants to young families under the Homes Savings Grant Scheme. In September last year we authorised a grant of $25m to be paid over 5 years to the States for dwellings for single aged pensioners. It is estimated that in 1970-71 $5.7m of that sum will be paid to the States for the erection of such dwellings. The housing needs of many single aged pensioners are indeed urgent and I exhort the States to proceed with the construction of more dwellings for these pensioners as rapidly as possible. 
They have been started in New South Wales. Victoria, South Australia, Western Australia and Tasmania. 
I can give the honourable senator a list. I will do that later because I do not have the details with me now. 
They are for eligible single age pensioners You will recall that $25m over 5 years was made available to the States in the Budget last year, and I would be very happy to let you know where those units are in the process of being built and of approvals which have been given for construction to commence. 
From memory the rentals vary from $2 to $3.20. That is in my notes but I should like to check it. 
1 would be very gald to give it to you. 1 was pleased to have the opportunity to open in Hobart the first units that were made available. All the States have accepted gladly this assistance because they recognise the very great need that exists for single pensioner dwellings. The States either have commenced construction of the dwellings, have already built them or have told us of their plans and are awaiting approval for commencement during this financial year. I should like to mention also the provision of housing for Aboriginals. This is another avenue of expenditure of Commonwealth funds. The amount proposed for expenditure in 1970-71 is S4.8m. This is a grant to the States and is 30 per cent more than was advanced to the States for this purpose last year. 1 have mentioned the aspects of the Budget which relate to the housing of people and the increased amounts of money which the Budget makes available in this field of expenditure. Commonwealth expenditure on housing this year will enable an increasing number of those in need of housing assistance to be offered decent accommodation at a rent they can afford to pay, or to receive assistance in purchasing a home of their own. Those who will benefit include, in addition to many Australian families and pensioners, newcomers to this country of ours. In these few minutes of discussion I have endeavoured to direct the attention of honourable senators to what has been done. I believe that as a result of the increased expenditure which is provided for in the Budget we will see benefit flowing in the areas under review. 
I oppose strongly the motion moved by the Leader of the Opposition  (Senator Murphy).  This is not a deceptive and negative budget. It does not fail to meet the real needs of the Australian people. I confirm my support for the Budget and my opposition to  Senator Murphy's  amendment. 
[10.15] - I have listened very intently to  Senator McClelland's  comments and have noted his desire to know whether the information that has been given to him is correct. He asked also that I take up the matter with the Postmaster-General  (Mr Hulme)  and seek information from the Australian Broadcasting Control Board concerning what has been told to him. If the information is correct, he would like to know how the people who are professionally involved in this area will be affected. I think those were the main points that he raised. 
That is right. I shall place all of those matters before the Postmaster-General and endeavour to get some information for the honourable senator. If it comes to hand before we meet again I shall advise him of it. If not, I shall ensure that the information is given to him when I receive it. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Senate adjourned at 10.17 p.m. to Tuesday, 15 September, at 3 p.m. 
[11.52] - I never thought the day would come when' I would have to listen to a speech in the Senate such as that which we have heard from the Leader of the Opposition  (Senator Murphy).  I believe that people all over Australia would feel as I do. I am disturbed that we should be subjected to the kind of charge that he has made which is. I believe, without foundation, false and indeed most damaging to the freedom which we believe should be enjoyed by all Australians. I would like to give a few facts about the matter which is now before the chamber, because J think it would be a good thing to know the details of the application for a visa which is the basis of the urgency motion. On about 20th August this year the Australian ConsulateGeneral in New York received an application from Richard Gregory, known as Dick Gregory, for a visa to visit Australia. 
If  Senator Georges  is interested in this matter, as I believe he is, I think he should listen to what I am saying because it Ls surprising how much one learns if one listens. I give  Senator Georges,  quite kindly, that little piece of advice. As I was saying, on 20th August the Australian ConsulateGeneral in New York received an application from Dick Gregory for a visa to visit Australia for 2 weeks, departing from the United States on 28th August. The application form was lodged by Gregory. It showed Gregory's occupation as 'entertainer - self-employed'. The application also showed, alongside the question 'purpose of visit' the answer 'sightseeing'. Information received in connection with the application indicated that Gregory proposed travelling to Sydney via Honolulu, London, Rome, Lusaka in Zambia, Nairobi, Bombay and Perth, arriving at Perth on 13th September 1970. No information was given and no representations were made by any person or organisation in Australia concerning Gregory's visa application. At no time did Gregory himself disclose any information beyond what he showed in his application, and he made no reference to any sponsorship by persons or organisations. 
After full consideration of the application it was decided that authority should not be given for the issue of a visit visa to Gregory. This decision was notified by cable to the Australian Consulate-General in New York. I am very disappointed that  Senator Murphy,  in his speech, rather laboured the point that some colour question was involved in this matter. I would like to give htm another instance which I think answers very well the point he made which 1 believe was a most false point. This is interesting to note and it will interest  Senator Georges  very much because he asked me a question about this yesterday. 
Because the honourable senator did not mention a name. 1 know that sometimes I can see something in a crystal ball or read someone's mind, but honourable senators will agree that when 1 am not given a person's name it becomes a little difficult.  Senator Georges  did not name the person; he referred only to a Baptist Minister. Many Baptist Ministers may be wishing to come to Australia; I do not know. 1 know many Baptist Ministers. But I certainly cannot answer an honourable senator's question if he does not give me a name. But now I can answer the honourable senator's question because I have the information. The situation with  Senator Georges  is typical of the whole Opposition. Opposition senators cannot state a name and have no facts but still they make a charge, but when facts are available and are being stated they cannot keep quiet for one minute to listen to them. I will now state the facts and if next time the honourable senator will give me the name of the person involved I might be able to do better for him. An application for a visit visa was lodged in conjunction with Gregory's application by one James Robert McGraw, who was born on 3rd December 1935 and who showed his occupation as clergyman at the Colombia Baptist Church, New York. I am sure that this must be the person in whom  Senator Georges  is interested.  Mr McGraw  showed the purpose of his visit as sight-seeing, and his travel itinerary and proposed arrival date in Perth were the same as those indicated for  Mr 
Gregory. The application by  Mr McGraw  for a visa for a 2-week visit to Australia was refused also. 
Oh, but the Leader of the Opposition tries to imply in this chamber and to tell the people of Australia that we have not accepted Gregory because there was a racial situation, because this man was of coloured skin. That is a false statement because this man  Mr McGraw  was refused also and he, 1 am informed, is not of coloured skin. 
He is a white man. 
Yes, white in skin, as the honourable senator corrects me. But let me get back to the facts because I must give some information. McGraw also was refused and the Australian Consulate-General in New York was advised of the refusal by cable, also on 28th August 1970.  Senator Georges  asked me another question this morning and perhaps I was a little curt in answering him. I just said 'No'. I do not carry all these figures about in my head. 
The  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Bull)  - Order!  Senator Georges  will cease interjecting. 
I think this information also might be interesting to  Senator Georges  because it shows, as we all well know in this country, that many people visit Australia. People like to come to Australia. We have more than 360,000 visitors from all sources coming to Australia each year and, to mention the point in which  Senator Georges  is so interested, American visitors are currently arriving at the rate of 65,000 per annum. That, 1 believe, answers a few of the points. 
T must have misunderstood the honourable senator; I thought he had sought that information. 
Never mind; you have that as a bonus. Let me get back to the point because this is a very serious matter. The thing that disturbs me in this is the misrepresentations that are being made. The Government's policy is to allow the maximum freedom of travel to Australia and people are not prevented from visiting Australia just because their political views may differ from those of the Government. But this must be subject to the essential consideration of Australia's national interest. The Government is not willing to authorise visits by persons whose activities are considered to be contrary to the national interest and where the stated purpose of the visit is judged to be not bona fide. I stress that. This is the point  made yesterday and which I make again. In the Government's view this applies where the intentions are related to a one-sided, distorted anti-war Moratorium Campaign which is inimical to the objectives for which our troops are fighting in Vietnam. I treat this with great sincerity and with deep feeling. I believe every Australian does. If authority were given to people to come to Australia for the purpose of this Moratorium Campaign I believe it would be betraying Australian servicemen in Vietnam. In Vietnam young Australians are performing a task of which we are proud. 1, as are thousand of other Australians, am proud of our servicemen wherever they may be. I oppose anything that would betray those young men. T would oppose anything that would destroy or damage the morale of our troops. 
 Mr Deputy President,  that remark is most offensive. 
The  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Bull)  - Order!  Senator Hendrickson,  you must return to your seat if you wish to interject. You are completely out of order in interjecting from where you are. 
The  DEPUTY PRESIDENT-  The honourable senator has withdrawn. 
He did not withdraw unequivocally. 
The  DEPUTY PRESIDENT  - Order!  Senator Hendrickson,  are you prepared to give an unqualified withdrawal? 
(2.57) - I listened to the points raised by  Senator Gair  and  Senator Byrne.  I must inform them that, after consideration, the Government cannot support the amendment moved by  Senator Gair  and seconded by  Senator Byrne. 
Pursuant to section S3 of the Overseas Telecommunications Act 1946-1968 I present the annual report of the Overseas Telecommunications Commission for the year  ended  31st March 1970 together with financial statements and the Auditor-General's Report on those statements. 
(10.12)- I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
With the concurrence of honourable senators I incorporate in Hansard my second reading speech. 
This Bill does two things: 

 lt increases .the base rate of pensions, both standard and married and all widows, by 50c per week. 
lt introduces a long term sickness benefit, at a higher rate than the old scale. 
In regard to the base rate of pension, information has been prepared for honourable senators, which is fairly detailed and which, with the concurrence of the Senate, I would like to incorporate in Hansard. It covers: 
The real values of the base pension since 1947, calculated at the latest available prices - i.e., prices for June quarter 1970. 
Information about certain additional benefits paid to special classes of age and invalid pensioners. 
A list of the additional benefits (apart from increases in the base rate) brought in by Liberal-Country Party Governments since 1949. 
An analysis of the 'Fringe benefits' currently available to age and invalid pensioners. 
A comparison of the 1949 and 1970 Means Tests. 

 Mr President, while the proposed increase meets changes in the cost of living since the last Budget it does not increase the real rate of pension to any significant extent. Using the June quarter index, a small increase is indicated, but next month, when the September quarter index has been compiled, it will be found that the value at up-dated prices will be almost the same as the corresponding value last October. In real terms, nothing has been added to the base rate, and nothing has been lost. 
Naturally there will be some disappointment that the Government has found itself unable to maintain the real progress in this field which was made in the last two Budgets. But this is a Budget for consolidation and for the major adjustment of Health Benefits. However, I have no doubt that before long we will resume the progress we have made in the past in improving the position of pensioners, whether in increases in the real value of the base rate, or in the provision of new Fringe Benefits or in both directions. 
Meanwhile we have at least maintained the status quo. May I contrast this with what happened in 1949 - I know it is a long time ago, but it is the last time when Labor was in office and is therefore the only real indication of the way in which the Labor Party behaves. 
In the 1948-49 Budget, the base pension was fixed at $4.23 per week (2 2s 6d) while the cost of living index stood at 43.4. By the time that  Mr Chifley's  next Budget came along, the cost of living index stood at 46.1. In spite of this, no increase was made in the pension, so that, by December 1949, when the Liberal Country Party Government came in, the real value of the base pension had fallen by 7i per cent. 
Let me put it in terms of today's prices. The 194S Chifley pension at today's prices was worth 10.89 per week: by the time he left office it had fallen to $10.08 per week. This, 1 repeat, is at today's prices Contrast this with the $15.50 per week in the present Budget. Better still, contrast what Labor does when it is in office. 1 know all this happened a long time ago, but it is the latest available evidence. And remember, supplementary assistance of $2 per week, which we pay as an addition to the base rate pension to those who are in most need, did not exist at all under the Labor Government. 
And, of course, if honourable senators will look at the schedules which I have tabled they will see that the 'Fringe Benefits" - most of which were introduced by the Liberal Country Party Government - add a great deal to the real value of the pension. With today's average male earnings after tax somewhere in the vicinity of $63, the base rate pensioner who gets Supplementary Assistance of $2 per week and the Fringe Benefits which average some $5 per week is up in the range of one-third average male earnings. 
Most emphatically I do not say these things in order to pretend that there are not still pockets of poverty among the pensioners. Even more, I do not say these things in order to give the impression that the Government will not bring in further improvements for pensioners as soon as opportunity offers. 
Rather, I say these things to put the facts on record and to answer some of the misconceptions which have got about. This year our Welfare Programme concentrates on consolidating past gains and getting the new Health Scheme under way. This year we may not have made any significant improvement in the position of pensioners but we have maintained their position at its previous peak. 
Indeed, in a way, the re-action is a testimony to the policy which we have now pursued for twenty-one years, and which we shall soon resume - that is, the policy of continuous improvement of- the real position of the pensioner. People have become so accustomed to this policy of continuous improvement that any slackening of the rate of advance appears to them almost as a regression. I can assure them that any slackening is only temporary, and that this Government, so soon as it can, will be bringing forward another instalment in its continuous and continuing plan of raising the standards of the pensioners in real terms, whether by increasing the base rate or by instituting new benefits for them or by both methods. 
The Bill increases the married rate of pension by $1 per week - i.e. from $26.50 to $27.50 per week. It will also, of course, have a further indirect liberalising effect on the Means Test. The new limits for income (where there is no property component) and for property (where there is no income component) are as follows: 

<graphic href="045232197009171_63_0.jpg"></graphic>

These are the points at which all pension cuts out. Where Means as Assessed include both Income and Property, the Merged Means Test principles apply. Ready reckoners for this will be available to pensioners and prospective pensioners at Post Offices throughout Australia. I should add, of course, that where a pensioner has dependent children the income limits I have quoted above are still further increased as is the property limit for 'single' pensioners. 
The increase of 50 cents per week will apply to all widow pensioners, so that a B Class widow - that is a widow aged 50 to 60 and without dependent children - will now receive $13.75 per week plus, where applicable, Supplementary Assistance of $2 per week. 
For a Class 'A' widow - that is a widow with dependent children - the position will be: 

<graphic href="045232197009171_63_1.jpg"></graphic>

In addition, there will be an extra $2 per week if any one of the children is under 6 years of age or an invalid, plus, of course, child endowment at ordinary rates in all cases. 
Let me now turn to the other provision of the Bill which will benefit about two-thirds of the total number of persons in receipt of sickness benefit. 
Sickness benefits., like invalid pensions, provide a measure of support for the incapacitated and their dependants. The invalid pension is a long-term payment for persons who are permanently incapacitated for work to the extent of at least 85 per cent. Sickness benefit, on the other hand, is for persons who are temporarily incapacitated for work - the payment is primarily shortterm. However, circumstances do occur where an incapacity, although not pensionable, is nonetheless protracted and sickness benefit may be required for a long period. Even assuming that most sickness beneficiaries do not begin their period of incapacity entirely without resources, it sems unlikely that those resources would be intact after a period on benefit. The longer the incapacity continues the more the overall position of the beneficiary approaches that of an invalid pensioner. 
Under the Bill the existing maximum rate of sickness benefit for an adult outside hospital and for an adult in hospital who has dependants will be increased, after benefit has been in force continuously for a period of 6 weeks, from $10 a week to the same rate applicable to an invalid pensioner - that is to $15.50 a week. Married minors and minors without parents in Australia will, of course, be treated as adults for the purposes of this increase. For unmarried minors outside hospital it is proposed to strike a uniform rate of $10 a week, in lieu of the existing rates of $6 a week for minors aged 18-20 years and $4.50 a week for those aged 16-17 years, in cases where benefit has been in force for 6 weeks. 
Furthermore, it is proposed that an additional amount of $2 a week, equivalent to the supplementary assistance available to pensioners, will be payable where a beneficiary pays rent and is entirely or substantially dependent upon his benefit. The present rates of benefit for dependants are the same as for pension purposes and willnot be varied. 
All persons receiving sickness benefit are covered by the Subsidised Medical Services Scheme which assists them in meeting medical expenses and also covers the charges made for public ward treatment in a public hospital. Quite apart from medical and allied costs, however, a person with dependants will invariably have continuing family and domestic expenses; accordingly, hospitalisation will not affect the introduction of the higher rate of benefit in such cases. However, this consideration does not apply where a person without dependants is in hospital and existing rates will apply in these circumstances. 
The higher rate of sickness benefit for long-term cases will lessen the incentive for sick or incapacitated persons to seek an early grant of invalid pension, lt will also enable rehabilitation potential to be assessed thoroughly so that transfer from sickness benefit to invalid pension will not bc made until permanent incapacity is beyond doubt. 
know that international comparisons are difficult but it seems to me that Australia still has too many people on Invalid Pensions. Nothing is more tragic than the fate of a teenager facing a lifetime of useless invalidity. We must help these people to overcome any frustrations springing from their handicaps. 
Rehabilitation is one of the major objectives of the Government's Social Services programme, and we intend to implement here the slogan that the Seventies will be the Decade of Rehabilitation'. The present measure of giving a new long-term sickness benefit may be regarded as a step in that programme - a small step, but nevertheless a significant one. Another step will be made in the Sheltered Employment (Assistance) Bill which I hope will be brought before the Senate very soon. 
There will be other measures towards this same Rehabilitation objective as our pOliCy develops. I do not want to canvass them now; I simply want to alert the Senate to the fact that we are looking to the best means to help at least some of those 134,000 Australians who are still on invalid Penions to make their way towards a fuller and more satisfactory life. 
The new rates of pension will be payable on the first pension pay-day after the day on which the Bill receives the Royal Assent and will benefit over 1 million age. invalid and widow pensioners. The increased rates of sickness benefit will also become payable from the first weekly payment falling due following Royal Assent.  Mr President,  I commend the Bill to the Senate. 
Debate (on motion by  Senator Fitzgerald)  adjourned. 
(9.15) - After I reply to some of the points raised by  Senator Cavanagh  he may wish to continue his remarks. If we look first at sub-section 3 of proposed section 112B, we see that it gives the Director-General power to determine the date of commencement of supplementary allowances. Generally this will be from the date when the sickness benefit is increased to the higher rate. This may be prior to the date on which the claim is determined. Subsections 4 and 5 give the Director-General the necessary authority to cancel the allowance where a person ceases to be eligible. Cancellation may be made retrospective to the first day after the expiration of the time allowed by the Act for the beneficiary to notify change in circumstances. Retrospective cancellation would be made only where payment had been wrongfully obtained. The amount paid up to the date of cancellation would be legally recoverable under section 140 (1) of the Act. 
I cannot just quite recall the wording of the other 2 points which were referred to by  Senator Cavanagh,  but as I understood it he inquired whether the maximum supplementary allowance would be reduced. It will be reduced where income exceeds $1 a* week. I can inform the honourable member that the maximum supplementary allowance of $2 will be reduced by the amount of the recipient's income over $1 a week. The maximum benefits payable to a sickness beneficiary after 6 weeks are identical with the rate of invalid pension, plus the wife's allowance where applicable. An invalid pensioner whose wife receives a wife's allowance may receive supplementary assistance. In the parallel situation, the long term sickness beneficiary will also qualify for supplementary allowance.  Senator Cavanagh  referred to a particular case and, as I understand the position from the papers which I have been given, we are referring to the same case. Brew was the name of the person concerned, so I do nol think there is any doubt that we are dealing with the same case. 
The honourable senator also mentioned that the Act does not require the completion of a claim form for supplementary assistance. That is so. However, there is no doubt that when this assistance was introduced in 1958 it was the intention of the Parliament that some form of written application would be necessary. In the particular case to which I believe the honourable senator is referring, the claim for supplementary assistance was determined on 4th November 1968, and the date on which this assistance became . payable, as determined by the Director-General's delegate, was 24th October 1968. the pension pay day after the receipt of the applica-tion. On appeal the case was very carefully reviewed by the Director-General and a decision was made not to pay arrears over a period of 2 years as requested. From the information I have, the period was 2 years; this decision was confirmed by the Minister for Social Services  (Mr Wentworth). 
As I said in the second reading debate when the honourable senator was unavoidably absent, representations made to the Minister are treated as an appeal under section 15 of the Act. The whole of the circumstances of the particular case are then reviewed, and this was done in the case in point. I think those were the main points raised by the honourable senator, but if I have omitted anything he might remind me. 
(8.24) - I rise to support the Bill and to oppose the amendments. First of all, I want to speak to several points which have been raised during the discussion of the social services legislation. At this point I think it is good to recall the purposes of this Bill, lt seeks to increase the base rate of pensions, both the standard rate and that paid to married people, and of widows,- by 50c a week. It introduces a long term sickness benefit at a higher rate than the benefit payable under the old scale. The provision of the legislation relating to the long term sickness benefit has not been mentioned very much but it is an extremely important part of it. 
Before referring to the several points that I wish to mention I want to make it clear that 1 deplore most deeply the comments made by  Senator Keeffe  which have been dealt with already by  Senator Gair  and  Senator Byrne  because I believe that they reflect on every woman who receives a pension. 1 deplore that such a very serious statement should have been made in this House, not only yesterday but again tonight. Having said that, let me now say that this is an occasion on which we can place on record what this Government has done in the field of social services. Speaking of widows, 11 remind the Senate that it was this Government which introduced the mother's allowance and the additional payment for the second and subsequent children. I know that these payments have been of assistance to widows who are caring for their children. 
I should like to comment on a number of points which have been raised. Yesterday and again today when reference was made to the various fringe benefits that a pensioner receives the matter of assistance in the field of housing for pensioners was raised. That assistance was rather belittled by members of the Opposition, but I remind the House that this Government introduced the Aged Persons Homes Act whereby we join with church and charitable organisations to provide accommodation for our senior citizens. By providing a subsidy the Government has made it possible for accommodation to be provided for about 36,000 people. All over Australia the aged are enjoying the benefits of living in that kind of accommodation. In the Budget last year this Government made available to the States $25m over 5 years for the construction of dwellings for eligible single aged pensioners - this matter comes within the ambit of my Department - and this year $5. 7m will be spent in making this accommodation available. These are important benefits which take their place among those which already have been made available to people who are eligible for them. 

 Senator Keeffe referred to the widow pensioner training scheme. He complained that the training being provided was not being supervised and that the fees paid to some private training institutions were virtually a government subsidy as little or no' training was being given the widow pensioners attending courses conducted by those institutions. The training scheme for widow pensioners has been very well received, not only by the widows who have availed themselves of the opportunity presented by the Government to undertake a course of training but also by the organisations representing them. 
Vocational counsellors employed by the Department of Social Services arrange suitable training courses and maintain a close liaison with the training institutions and the widow trainees to ensure that the training is properly provided. I am not aware of any complaints of the nature mentioned by the honourable senator, but if he will provide me with details of individual cases of which he has knowledge I will be pleased to pass them on to the Minister for Social Services  (Mr Wentworth)  who will look at them. 
That is unworthy of any honourable senator in this House. If you have a complaint, if you say that the scheme is not being carried out, if you say that the training scheme is not doing what the Government intended it to do, if you have knowledge of any case which gives you cause for complaint, then give details of that case to the Minister and he will investigate the matters that you bring forward. To make some stupid comment about it is not worthy of any honourable senator who cares at all about the future of these widows and about whether they should have the benefit of a training scheme. We believe that the training scheme is important. We believe that it is of great benefit to widows. If any honourable senator finds that the Government's intentions are not being carried out it would be of advantage to give details to the Minister. 
Another point that was raised concerned fringe benefits for non-pensioners of age pension age. Queries were raised concerning the income and property of those in this group. In terms of income alone, nonpensioners of age pension age, allowing for the rate increase proposed in the Bill, represent those with incomes of more-' than $41 a week in the case of single persons and $72 a week in the case of married couples. Such persons are in a more favourable position than many workers with young families and are in a position to meet the normal costs of health insurance, etc. Honourable senators will remember that a question was asked as to whether such persons received the fringe benefits but they do not. In terms of property alone, non-pensioners of age pension age, allowing for the rate increase proposed in the Bill, represent those with property, apart from the home, of more than $21,720 in the case of single persons and $38,240 in the case of married couples. Income and property are interchangeable, with $2 a year of income being equivalent to $20 of property. I believe that that answers the points that were raised by  Senator Gair. 

 Senator Cavanagh raised a point that I feel I must answer. I am sure that he must have made a mistake. He said that the Chifley Government introduced child endowment to assist larger than average families. 
Of course it is not true. It was the Menzies Government that introduced child endowment in 1941. I have been in the Senate for a number of years and my memory is quite good. I remind the Senate that in 1950 we introduced legislation to extend endowment to the first child and that legislation was delayed by the Opposition. The Opposition would not consent to it. 
It is no good  Senator Fitzgerald  talking. He knows that what I am saying is true. It will always stand as a charge because, although members of the Opposition talk a lot about this, they were the people who delayed that legislation when it was brought before the Senate in 1950. That reminds me that it was the Liberal Government that introduced student endowment. These are of importance to widows and people with families. 

 Senator Cavanagh also asked about appeals against departmental decisions. I want to answer the points he raised. I remind htm that section 15 of the Social Services Act provides for appeal to the Director-General and that representations to the Minister are treated, in effect, as appeals and that the whole case is reviewed. He referred to a case which I am sure was an individual one. I have here some information which should cover the points he raised. He spoke about arrears of supplementary assistance. I am not sure, but think that this case which has been identified is the one that is concerning him. 
He mentioned that the Act does not require the completion of a claim form for supplementary assistance. That is true. However, there is no doubt that when this assistance was introduced in 1958 it was the intention of the Parliament that some form of written application would be necessary. In the case to which I believe .he is referring, the claim for supplementary assistance was determined on 4th November 1968 and the date from which supplementary assistance became payable, as determined by the Director-General's delegate, was 24th October 1968 - the pension pay-day after the receipt of the application. On appeal the case was reviewed very carefully by the Director-General and the decision not to pay arrears over a period of 2 years was confirmed by the Minister for Social Services.  Senator Cavanagh  also asked about the power to determine from a date prior to the determination. This is to allow for retrospectivity, subject to the eligibility conditions set out in the Bill. He may want to raise that again in the Committee stage. 
I thank all those honourable senators who have spoken on this legislation. The point that stands out in all this discussion is that everybody is deeply concerned about those who need assistance and those who are eligible for benefits and is concerned to see that they receive the benefits that are so necessary. I was interested to hear from my own side - in the person of  Senator Marriott  and  Senator Davidson  who spoke this afternoon - tribute paid again to the Meals on Wheels organisations or the delivered meals organisations, as we call them now. A comment from the Opposition rather implied that these organisations had been set up by the Government. I remind the Senate that the church and charitable bodies are the prime movers in the excellent work that is being done in this field and that the Government is giving a subsidy. 
I wish to refer now to the amendments which I am opposing. I believe that it is good just to note that we have heard a lot of figures concerning pension rates, what should be the increases and so on. We have taken out some figures that I believe are rather interesting. We have gone back in history. I am reminded that the pension rate when Labor was last in office in December 1949 was $4.25 a week. Of course, in those days it was in pounds, shillings and pence. At today's prices that would be worth only $10.08 a week. When this Bill is passed the rate will be $15.50 a week. The real value of the pension itself is thus some 50 per cent more than that payable when Labor was last in office. In addition, supplementary assistance of up to $2 a week is payable to single pensioners with limited means who pay rent. 
Of course, we have introduced a wide range of fringe benefits. I have mentioned some of them. For instance, I have mentioned the subsidy on Meals on Wheels and what has been done in the field of housing. I have also mentioned the measures in the health area, particularly the hospital, medical and pharmaceutical benefits and the subsidised medical services scheme which was introduced by this Government and which has done so much to alleviate health problems encountered by the aged, the sick and the infirm as well as the low income earners with young families - the people who are least able to cope with these problems. This is an integral part of our attack on poverty. Other legislation introduced by this Government, such as the States Grants (Deserted Wives) Act and the States Grants (Home Care) Act, has also been instrumental in assisting needy groups in the community. 
I believe that it is good to remind the Senate that the Government's successful policy of maintaining full employment is also of very great importance in any attack on poverty. Whilst there may still be pockets of poverty among pensioners and others - and we all regret this - it would be only fair to acknowledge the tremendous improvements that have been made in recent years. This progress will be maintained in the future with the object of removing poverty from the community as far as possible. 
The Opposition also talked very glibly about the removal of the means test and the introduction of a contributory national superannuation system. But I have noted that, although I have been waiting for it all through the debate as I am sure other senators have been, no reference has been made to the finances involved which, of course, must come from the pockets of the general community or the taxpayers. Abolition of the means test on age pensions alone, having regard to the rates proposed in this Bill, would cost something approaching $400m extra a year in round figures. Of course, we ask the question: Where does this money come from? We know that there is only one answer and that is that it comes from the people. 
One of the amendments contains a request for an independent tribunal. We have listened to the case for this being put most adequately by speakers representing the Australian Democratic Labor Party. I can only say to them in reply that we oppose this amendment because we believe that a government charged with the responsibility of providing the necessary finance would be failing in its duty if it were to establish a body which, by its decisions, could commit the government to increased expenditure without the responsibility of finding the extra finance required. 1 think that the points raised are important ones. They were considered as the amendments were discussed. 1 thank honourable senators who spoke in the debate. I thank them for their obvious interest and concern in the matters which affect the aged, the needy and the ill. I appreciate the points raised by many honourable senators, points which I know will be looked at by the Minister for Social Services. 1 was interested in the point made by  Senator Milliner,  upon which he did not elaborate. He intimated that certain of the homes for pensioners did not meet the standard which he thought they should. If he has any specific case to raise, I am sure the Minister would be pleased to hear his complaint. I repeat that the Government will' continue to do all that can be done to help the needy not only by the pension benefits which it makes available but also by the fringe benefits which mean so much in the care of the ill, in the accommodation required for them and for those who wish to live out the latter years of their lives in the best possible conditions that they can have. 
Question put: 
That the words proposed to be added  (Senator Gulf's amendment to Senator Fitzgerald's amendment)  be added. 
(8.55)  -I  move: 
That the  Bill be now read a second time. 

 Mr Deputy President,this Bill proposes to increase those charges forPost Office services which require an amendment to the postal or telephone regulations. Except for the proposed air parcels service which is expected to be operational on 1st January 1971, these will generally apply from 1st October 1970. The Bill also amends the Post and Telegraph Act to provide that Government publications are deregistered from 1.9th August 1970, and will no longer be eligible for concessional rates. I have dealt with the reasons for the decision to increase certain of the Post Office rates when speaking on the Post and Telegraph Rates Bill. The more significant changes to be made have been outlined, including those in this Bill which vary telephone rentals and connection fees and postal charges other than the basic postal rates which have been set out in the Post and Telegraph Rates Bill. There is no need for me to again cover these matters, andI commend this Bill to honourable senators. 
Debate (on motion by  Senator Willesee)  adjourned. 
(8.28) - T move: 
That (he Bill be now read a second lime. 1 ask for leave lo incorporate my second reading speech in Hansard. 
The DEPUTY PRESIDENT - ls leave granted? 
Opposition senators - No. 
The DEPUTY PRESIDENT- Leave is not granted. 
The purpose of this Bill is to amend the Post and Telegraph Rates Act in order to adjust certain Post Office charges as outlined by the Treasurer  (Mr Bury)  in his Budget Speech. The new postal, telegraph and telephone charges will come into force on several dates, but principally on 1st October 1970. This Bill deals with the basic postal charges and the basic telegraph charges. Another Bill will deal with those charges set by regulations and, at the same time, there will be some charges set by administrative action. It is my intention, in this speech, to cover the whole field of charges. The proposed adjustments are detailed in the schedules now available to honourable senators. lt is anticipated that the Post Office trading results for 1970-71 would show a loss of Slim if no adjustment to charges were made. This would result from a postal loss of $3 Om and a telecommunications profit of $19m and is largely the result of increased wages totalling $58m, of which S45m will be a charge against trading operations. In 1970-71 the proposals I am now presenting to the Senate are expected to bring in about $42m and $53m in a full year. There would then be an overall profit of $30m for 1970-71 as a result of an estimated $39m telecommunications profit offset against an estimated $9m postal loss. 
Telegraph Services 
At the present time, the public telegraph service is operating al a loss estimated at about S5m a year and, notwithstanding the proposed increases, it will continue to run at a loss. The present rate for ordinary telegrams is 36c for the first 12 words and 3c for each additional word. Double the normal rate is charged for urgent telegrams, ft is proposed that an increase of lc per word be made to the basic telegram rate. This will bring the charge for the first 12 words up to 48c, with a 4c charge for each additional word. The urgent telegram rate will be double the new ordinary rate. 
Telephone Services 
Recurring annual expenses borne by the Post Office in relation to telephone facilities provided are substantially in excess of the revenue from telephone exchange service rentals. Notwithstanding this and the heavy rises in costs in recent years, exchange service rentals and connection fees have not been adjusted since 1964. It is proposed that the existing rentals be increased throughout by $7 per annum and that the one-third reduction in rentals granted to blind persons and certain classes of pensioners be maintained. 
The service connection fee will be increased by $10 - from $30 to $40 - for new services and by $3 - from .$2 to  $5  - in the case of 'in place' services, that is, those services already in the premises when taken over by the new occupant. Rentals on some other miscellaneous telecommunications facilities are also to be adjusted in the light of the need for such services to provide a better rate of return on investment. Intercommunication equipment and private branch exchanges are typical of these services. Variations to the telecommunications tariffs are expected to bring in additional revenue of some S24m in 1970-71 and $28m in 1971-72. 
Provision  of  Lines  for  Country  Telephone  Subscriber!! 
The Post Office is pressing ahead with the replacement of manual exchanges by automatic equipment as part of its plan to bring the benefits of an automatic telephone service to country subscribers as soon as possible. This makes it necessary to upgrade the private sections of country subscribers' lines to a standard higher than that acceptable for manual exchange working. Late in 1968 the Government decided that it would assist subscribers by making funds available for the upgrading of the private sections of the lines. Subscribers would repay by instalment and interest would be charged at the long term bond rate with minimum annual repayments of $100 plus interest and a maximum period of loan of 10 years, [n addition to this arrangement, normal maintenance is taken over, by the Post Office, of  the  private sections of the lines and subscribers are required only to pay for any necessary main items of replacement materials. In spite of these arrangements, persons in the country who are located well out from their exchanges are finding the cost of these private sections of line to be beyond their means. This is particularly true at the moment when rural communities are facing a period of economic strain. 
The policy has therefore been reexamined by the Government and it has been decided that the Post Office will construct and wholly maintain all subscribers' telephone exhange lines from the appropriate exchange to each subscriber's premises. This will include line plant on each subscriber's property, lt has also been decided that the Post Office will bear a greater proportion of the cost than it has been responsible for in the past. In future the Post Office will meet the whole cost up to a distance of 15 radial miles from the appropriate exchange, irrespective of the route distance of the line. The present policy has the Post Office providing line on a formula basis depending on the extent of development along the route and, on the average, the 'departmental section' of the line has a length of 3i miles. 
Where subscribers are located further than 15 radial miles from the exhange the Post Office will still construct and maintain their exchange lines for the full distance. Beyond the 15 miles radius, however, the subscriber will be required, unconditionally, to pay for the line plant at a standard rate of 40 per radial quarter-mile. In the few cases where contributions are required from subscribers, the Post Office will now be able to quote subscribers immediately on application, without the need to prepare detailed estimates of actual line costs. In accepting responsibility for the full costs of maintaining lines beyond the 15 miles radius, the Post Office will regard such lines as being its property. 
These revised conditions will be extended to the upgrading or reconstruction of private sections of existing subscribers' exchange lines as opportunity permits, particularly in association with the conversion of services to automatic operation. The conditions will also apply retrospectively to subscribers who have either provided or upgraded sections of their lines to full departmental specifications in accordance with the policy introduced on 1st January 1969, as announced on 28th November 1968. The Post Office will be in a position to deal with inquiries very shortly. 
Postal Service  1 will now turn to the postal service, lt has now been 3 years since the last rise in the basic postage rate. The wage rates payable to staff involved in mail work have risen by an average of 29 per cent in the same period. This has had an adverse effect on the postal service, because some 70 per cent of its costs are associated with labour. Since 1959, the basic postage rate will have risen by 45 per cent compared with increases in postal wage rates of 100 per cent. The Post Office has, of course, been able to absorb some of these increases by improved productivity. In 1969-70, for instance, postal staff rose by only 1.1 per cent, to cope with a 6 per cent, increase in business. 
However, with estimated postal losses of SI 9m in 1969-70 and $30m in 1970-71, at current tariffs a general rise is unavoidable if rising costs are to be recovered. It is for this reason that variations in the charges for most postal services are proposed, and at the same time new features are to be introduced with the object of further improving the scope and quality of services available to business and the public generally. These proposed tariffs are expected to bring in $ 18.5m in 1970-71 and S25m in a full year, and thus reduce the estimated postal loss to $9m in 1970-71. Although honourable senators may have seen the statements circulated, setting out in some detail the proposed changes to postal rates, I intend to- briefly refer to the more important of these. 
Letters and Postcards 
The existing rate of 5c for the first ounce will be increased to 6c; for each additional weight step the incremental charge will also be 6c, instead of 4c as at present. This increase will to some extent be offset by the combining of several weight steps to simplify the rate structure, the number of steps being reduced from 7 to 5. This simplified structure is identical to that recently adopted by the Universal Postal Union. 
Other Articles 
The rates for the first and successive weight steps, presently 5c and 4c respectively, will be increased to 6c. By introduction  of  the simplified Universal Postal 
Union structure, the effect will be to reduce the number of weight steps from 5 to 4 by combining the present steps of 8 oz to 12 oz and 12 oz to 16oz. 
Publications Registered at the GPO 
The concessional rates on registered newspapers and periodicals posted in bulk require special attention because of the substantial difference between present concessions and normal printed matter rates and the resulting considerable loss involved. Half the estimated postal loss in 1969-70. about $9m, is lost on 158 million copies posted by the 7,600 registered newspapers and periodicals. Between1/2c and 1c is charged on about 75 million copies, and the overall average revenue is only 1.7c from all newspapers and periodicals posted in bulk. 
These concession rates represent, in effect, a substantial subsidy to the publishing and printing industry and to manyorganisations, ranging from religious, charitable and welfare organisations to social and recreational clubs. The fostering of a strong publishing and printing industry in Australia is important but this function is not appropriate to the Post Office. Again it is not the role of the Post Office to support religious denominations, charitable bodies, educational, scientific and technical institutions and the like, however desirable helping the activities of these organisations may be. Thus it is proposed to continue the action taken in recent years to reduce the content of the concession. The existing general rate for registered Australian books, newspapers and periodicals of 5c for the first 6 oz and 4c for each additional 6 oz will become 6c for the first 6 oz and 5c for each additional 6 oz. Newspapers and periodicals published by Commonwealth and State government departments and authorities will no longer be eligible for the general and bulk rates of postage for registered publications, but will pay normal printed matter rates. 
Religious, charitable and welfare organisations, publishing registered newspapers and periodicals, consisting mainly of news, information and articles about their activities or about religious, charitable or welfare subjects; similarly educational, scientific, technical and agricultural organisations whose principal object is the dissemination of knowledge, whose publica tions consist mainly of news, information and articles on such subjects, will pay 6c for each 12 oz, on the total weight of the consignment, subject to a minimum per article charge of1c. This means that a registered newspaper or periodical of the above type weighing up to 2 oz will be only lc postage per article still, compared with 6c at normal printed matter rates. These days lc pays for only 15 seconds of a postman's or mail sorter's time, and any item must be handled a number of times between posting and delivery. 
Newspapers and periodicals consisting in the main of news, information and articles about country subjects will pay the same rate of 6c for each 12 oz on the total weight of the consignment with a minimum per article charge of lc. Other registered newspapers and periodicals, including those published by professional, business, union, commercial, social, recreational and motoring organisations and associations will pay the following rates: 
For delivery from the office of posting -  11/2c  first 2 oz 1/2c each additional oz. 
For delivery elsewhere - 2c first 2 oz 3/4c each additional oz up to 6 oz 3/4c each additional oz thereafter. 
The registered publications will still enjoy a substantial, though reduced, concession. 
Discussions are being held with the New Zealand Post Office regarding the posting of registered publications to New Zealand at the domestic rates of postage. The Universal Postal Union Convention requires such special arrangements to be agreed to by the country of destination. Also from 1st July 1971, Australia will have to pay New Zealand an amount towards the cost of its internal handling of our mail, just as we in turn will be paid by other countries for our external handling of their mail in those cases where we receive more than we send. The amount payable to New Zealand per lb of mail will not be much more than the bulk rate. There will be a further statement on postings to New Zealand in due course. Similar conditions, which have applied on postings to Fiji will become invalid when Fiji becomes independent. The usual overseas rates will apply to Fiji as there are no logical grounds for treating Fiji differently from other countries in the area. The only other major postal administration still providing a domestic bulk rate for newspapers and periodicals is the United States of America, which incurs an annual loss of millions of dollars on this type of mail. 
Bulk Pre-sorted Mail 
The postage rates for letters, other articles, and registered books posted under the bulk pre-sorted mail service will also be increased and will generally maintain the present relativity, in absolute terms,' with full rates. The Post Office is benefiting from the economies of higher mail volumes and compliance with preparation, pre-sorting and other conditions as many customers are taking advantage of these lower rates. Discussions are still being held with the New Zealand Post Office regarding the rates of bulk presorted mail to New Zealand. 
Oilier Postal Adjustments 
Amendment of Postal Regulations or executive action will bring about other variations, details of which are set out in the statement available to honourable senators. Included in the variations is the commission on money orders, the minimum for which is to be raised from 1 5c to 30c as a result of the substantial loss incurred on this service. In many cases postal orders provide a suitable alternative to money orders at less cost to both the customer and the Post Office. To widen the appeal of this service, additional $9 and SIO postal orders will be introduced as soon as possible. There also needs to be an adjustment and regrouping of postal order fees to cover the small loss experienced on these items and to simplify counter operations. For parcels posted to places within 30 miles, thic rates will be increased by 5c each, and to cover costs the charge for lighter weight intrastate parcels will be increased by the same amount. 
In 1968, when the fees for the clearance of private posting receptacles were adjusted, it was indicated that they did not cover costs. This service is very expensive to provide; parking problems in inner capital city areas also accentuate the difficulty associated with this facility. Hence a doubling of the fees is proposed as a further step to place this facility on an economic basis, except that clearances on holidays will cost the same as clearances on Sundays. There will be a rise in fees for the registered post, cash-on-delivery post and messenger delivery services. These special services are particularly labour intensive and tariff increases for them are required to cover costs. 
The Tokyo Congress of the Universal Postal Union in 1969 made a number of changes to the categories and tariff structure of the international post which have been embodied in the new structure: 
fewer and larger weight steps for heavier items; 
merging of the sample and phonopost categories into the small packets category; and 
abolition of reply paid postcards. 
For British Commonwealth, Asian and Oceanic countries, the basic letter rates for overseas surface mail are being increased by 2c to 7c, and 9c for other countries. Even after the introduction of the payments by other countries of amounts towards the costs of our internal handling of international mail on 1st July 1971, the substantial loss incurred would continue to exist. Comparative international rates to overseas countries, expressed in' Australian currency are: 
Britain: Se (4.5c for British Commonwealth countries) 
Canada: 10c (5c for British Commonwealth countries) 
France: 13c 
Germany: 12c 
United States: 12c. 
The Universal Postal Union Convention fixed the relativity of the upper weight steps to the basic rates. The increase in the international letter rates will have relatively little effect as far as the general public is concerned, as its most common form of surface communication overseas is greeting cards, which may be sent at the 6c printed papers rate proposed, and aerogrammes, which will shortly be increased in writing area by more than 20 per cent and arc unchanged at 1 0c. 
New Services 
As part of the Post Office programme for meeting the changing postal needs of the business community, government organisations and the public at large, 2 new services are to be introduced. From 1st October 1970, a service known as 'Printpost Direct Bags' will be introduced. Under this new international service, printers and publishers who have bulk consignments of printed matter for the one address will be able to send them by surface mail in direct bags at 30c per 21b, provided they weigh between 22 lb and 60 lb. At present, such consignments must be broken up into separate packets and parcels. 
An air parcel service will also be introduced. Up to this time, the Post Office has not provided a competitive domestic air parcels service as the normal airmail fee of 3c per ounce has been added to the surface parcel rate to arrive at the airmail parcel rate. Compared to the airlines' parcel service, this has resulted in such high rates that virtually no business has been forthcoming. 
A new air parcels tariff has been developed which is tied closely to distance, lt is proposed that in each of 4 zones based on air route distances there will be a 'per lb' basis of charging, with a minimum charge. The zones and tariffs proposed are: 
Zone I (0-500 miles) 20c per lb: minimum charge 80c. 
Zone 2 (501-1,000 miles) 35c per lb: minimum charge 90c. 
Zone 3 (1,001-1.500 miles) 45c per lb: minimum charge 90c. 
Zone 4 (1,501 miles and over) 65c ger lb: minimum charge 90c. 
Except for very heavy parcels in Zone 4. these charges are cheaper, and in many cases much cheaper, than the present charges for airmail parcels. In Zone 4 the very heavy parcel charge is fractionally higher because the new rates per lb have been expressed in multiples of 5c for ease of calculation, lt is proposed that the new service will be introduced progressively, commencing with the capital cities and the larger provincial centres served by air. The service will go into operation on the 1st January 1971. Other routes will be included as the necessary arrangements are made. On routes not included for the time being in the zones the present airmail fee of 3c per ounce, rounded off to 50c per lb will be applied to parcels for which air conveyance is required. Priority Paid parcels will be charged an additional 30c. 
As an integral part of the community,  Mr Deputy President,  the Post Office is subject to the same pressures in relation to wage increases and rising costs as is any other business. Awards announced last year will add $58m to the total Post Office wages bill and this is more than 10 per cent of the total wage payments to staff. In such a situation it is not possible to absorb costs and, unless the Post Office is to totally disregard business considerations, increased charges are inevitable. No-one can deny that prices generally in the community are trending upwards and a look at individual charges for well known services over the past .10 years shows this pattern of increase. Labour charges for repairs to home appliances, motor vehicles, etc., have gone up by more than 60 per cent - taxi, rail, bus and tram fares have averaged increases above 40 per cent and some daily newspapers have raised their prices by 40 per cent. Typical fees for professional services also show rises of from 40 per cent to 60 per cent. Post Office charges have risen in the same period, but against the backdrop of the business and professional fields, the rises have been moderate. 
Converting the Post Office to a statutory authority is in some quarters held to be the solution to its financial problems. However, the British Post Office, which recently changed from Deparament of Stale to corporation status, finds itself faced with similar problems to those of the Australian Post Office. In Britain, the charges for some local and trunk call charges have been increased this year with the object of the telecommunications service achieving a financial return of 10 per cent before interest on net assets. In Australia, the return on net assets, before interest in the same field in 1969-70 was only  5i  per cent. Business telephone rental in Britain has been increased from SA34 to $A52 and the service connection fee of $43 has been increased to $54. The object of these increases in Britain is to ensure that the telecommunications service conducts its affairs on the lines of an efficient commercial undertaking seeking an adequate return on invested capital, to ensure an adequate investment programme to effect improvements in the service and so that its capital investment programme should be of sufficient stability to permit effective long term planning. 
The problems being encountered by the American Telephone and Telegraph Co., operators of the Bell telephone system, are probably known to many honourable senators. There has been a decline in the quality of service given in a number of major American cities as a result of the company's efforts to keep pace with rising demand in the face of increasing costs. As a result, massive quantities of capital are now required to meet expanded demands for service and much of the new capital required in 1969 was raised by debt financing which, at the end of that year represented some 39 per cent of total Bell system capital. The Australian Post Office has 98 per cent of its capital financed by long term debt. 
On the postal side, the proposed basic postage rate of 6c compares favourably with rates in overseas countries, more particularly when allowance is made for the much greater density of population and the reduced distribution costs of other countries when compared with Australia. Rates in other countries, expressed in Australian currency are: 
Britain: 4.5c with an increase to 6.3c proposed 
Germany: 7.3c 
Canada: 5c 
United States: 5.4c with an increase to 7.1c proposed 
France: 6.4c 
Sweden: 9.5c. 
Rapid increases in wage rates in a highly labour intensive operation is the common experience of the Australian Post Office and the overseas administrations. The United States Post Office deficit now exceeds$A1.6 billion annually, the British postal service lost $A37m in 1969-70, and the Canadian Post Office lost $A47m last year. 
I commend the Bill to honourable senators. 
Debate (on motion by  Senator Willesee)  adjourned. 
by  leave - In my second reading speech on the Post and Telegraph Rates Bill on 18th August 1970 I advised the Senate that the posting of registered publications and bulk pre-sorted mail to New Zealand at the domestic rates of postage was under discussion with the New Zealand Post Office. The Universal Postal Union Convention requires that such special arrangements should be agreed to by the country of destination. 
The New Zealand Postal Administration has now advised that it does not wish to continue the special arrangement whereby domestic bulk rates of postage are applied to bulk consignments of registered publications and pre-sorted printed papers posted to that country. However, the New Zealand Post Office has agreed that the new domestic bulk rates applicable to the categories of mail concerned should be permitted to apply up until 31st December 1970 and that the domestic individual item rate on registered publications could continue indefinitely. This means that as from 1st January 1971 all registered publications posted to New Zealand will be required to pay the individual item rate of 6 cents for the first 6 ounces and 5 cents for each additional 6 ounces. Other types of printed papers posted in' bulk will be required to pay the normal overseas printed papers rate. 
The postcard and greeting card airmail rale to New Zealand and its Territories, New Caledonia, New Hebrides, Loyalty Islands and Wallis and Futuna will be 7 cents per half ounce from 1st October 1970 to accord with the surface postcard rate to these countries. 
(9.40)  -  On the point that  Senator Webster  made, what I said to  Senator Gair  was that there would be an examination of the 2 publications to ensure that they are classified correctly. I did not say that there would be different classifications. I said that there would be an examination to ensure that they are classified correctly. The honourable senator has twisted my statement around in entirely the reverse way. The examination was not to be a review of conditions, as the honourable senator said, but to ensure that they are classified correctly. That is the point I made when I replied to  Senator Gair.  It was perfectly clear. Apparently  Senator Webster  wanted to bring in another point. I make this very clear: Never was it said that it would be a review of conditions. 

 Senator Willessee spoke to clause 6. This covers all the proposed postal rate increases. He referred in particular to registered newspapers and periodicals. Last year 7,600 different newspapers and periodicals, totalling 158 million copies, were posted, at an average cost of 1.7c each; 75 million were posted at a cost of only 0.5c to lc each. The postal service lost $9m on this category last year. The financial position of this category is such that the introduction of the higher rates cannot be delayed. This is the fact of the situation which is facing the Postmaster-General. Users of other postal and other Post Office services must cover the loss in this category if concession rates are to continue. However, it is not the role of the Post Office to subsidise the printing and publishing industries or the activities of a wide range of institutions, organisations or societies, desirable though their activities in the community sense may be. I think that is a very plain fact which is understood by everybody. 
Substantial percentage increases have been quoted. The percentage increases are substantial because the base rates are so low; they start at 0.5c. Any major step towards reducing this concession would appear to be considerable in percentage terms. However, in absolute terms, the increases are reasonable. For a 1 oz publication the increase is 1.5c; for a 2 oz publication the increase is lc; for a 3 oz publication the increase is 1.5c; for a 6 oz publication the increase is 2.5c. When we express this increase in terms of the individual annual subscription or membership fee - and this point was raised by honourable senators - a 3oz monthly magazine would cost 18c extra for a year's issues and a 6 oz monthly magazine would cost 30c extra for a year's issues. These are relatively small amounts when com pared with the existing level of annual subscription fees. The large amounts arise from the millions of copies of particular publications posted annually. In the case of the printing trades journal, quoted by  Senator Milliner  in the debate, the extra cost is 3c only per member per year or SI, 250 for 45,000 members. Although the International Postal Convention allows the country of destination to refuse to handle postings made in overseas countries by a local firm to take advantage of low postal rates, some countries deliberately advance their export printing business through cheap international postage rates. This has been possible because the country of destination has to pay all internal handling conveyance and delivery costs and gets no compensation from the originating country. From 1st July 1971 this will change and such countries will have to review their international rates. 
Either  Senator Webster  or  Senator Willesee  - I forget who - asked whether there could be some discussion with representatives from the printing and allied trades. The Minister has arranged for senior departmental officers to have continuing discussions with the Printing and Allied Trades Employers Association and with the Australian Association of Business Publishers. I think it is important that these discussions should continue. Several honourable senators, including  Senator Willesee  in particular, suggested delaying the passage of this clause. The financial position of this category is such that the increases cannot be deferred in whole or in part and is such that they cannot be reduced. 
(10.40)  -  Speaking about the last point raised, as I understand the position, if it were a country newspaper it would come into category A. As I understand it,  Senator Wriedt  was not referring to a country newspaper but to one being sent to the country. Is that correct? 
It is not a country newspaper? 
If it were it would come into category A and would receive that benefit. As I understand the position this newspaper is published elsewhere and is being posted into country areas. I cannot give a definite answer on this point at the moment but I shall certainly take it up with the Postmaster-General  (Mr Hulme)  and advise  Senator Wriedt.  I come back to the point I made earlier which is fundamental in this discussion: The Government decided that it is possible, financially, for just a small range of publications to receive special consideration. They fall into the category we know and speak of as category A. These are country newspapers and periodicals, and those published by religious, charitable and welfare organisations. I want to pause at this stage for a moment because at some time in the discussion I believe I heard somebody say that these publications were not given the benefit of category A. I want to stress that these periodicals and newspapers published by charitable, religious and welfare organisations are part of category A. 
I am sorry. Yes, they must be subscribed to. You will recall that I made that point earlier. 
I made the point, too, in reply. Both of us made it. The point is that they are subscribed to. As  Senator Murphy  will recall, people want these publications. If they subscribe to them they really want them; that is why they subscribe. I will finish dealing with category A. They cover educational, scientific and technical organisations which have as their principal object the dissemination of knowledge. This has been a point of decision about which we have had some disagreement. The Government was conscious of the special problems in these areas. I want to deny comments made tonight inferring that the Government is attacking trade unions by means of these various postal rates. I inform the Senate that at a meeting on Monday with the union representatives, led by  Mr Souter  of the Australian Council of Trade Unions, the Postmaster-General's Department offered and the unions accepted that the Department would give the unions the benefit of its expertise to assist them in minimising the production and distribution costs of their journals and that it would make this a special project handled by an experienced and knowledgeable officer. That assistance has been offered and accepted. T do not think anyone can say that this is an act aimed at destroying the trade union movement. 1 come back to the points I made earlier. Of course nobody welcomes increased rates in any of these areas. However the Postmaster-General, 1 believe, has made it very clear in all of these areas of discussion why these increases should be applied. The Leader of the Opposition  (Senator Murphy)  raised a number of questions. He referred to representations made to him and to other senators. They read letters and informed me of other information they received. 1 can only say. as 1 said earlier, that I will ensure that these matters are placed before the Postmaster-General and 1 will advise honourable senators of any information I can get. 
(S. 12) - in reply -  In  closing the debate I thank all honourable senators who have spoken because whether they have spoken against the legislation or in favour of it they have, 1 believe, given very real consideration to the Bill. I cannot support the amendment which has been moved or the proposed amendment which will be moved later. In my opposition. 1 speak on behalf of the Government. 1 shall deal with them a little later. During the debate a number of points were raised, to which J. shall make some reply. Among the points raised by  Senator Willesee  was one concerning interest payments. I remind the Senate that on previous occasions the subject has been canvassed. lt is contended that the taxpayer, through consolidated revenue, provides the capital needed by the Post Office and that the taxpayer, as a user, pays interest on the capital. It is true that the Post Office charges are framed to recover all costs, including interest payments. If this were not so, government revenue would fall by the amount of the interest payments. The budget position would have to he adjusted by one means or another. One way would be to reduce government expenditure on pensions, health, education or defence. Alternatively, taxation rates would need to be increased to bring in the extra revenue. Not all taxpayers are telephone subscribers. They should not all pay higher taxes to provide free capital to the telephone subscribers. With no interest element, Post Office charges would be priced at less than the true cost of providing telecommunications and postal services. It would follow that users of these services would demand additional facilities. This would result in a demand for an even greater subsidy provision from taxation. 

 Senator Willesee also spoke about the charges made by the Department of Works. I have some information concerning this. The Post Office expenditure in 1.970-71, made through the Department of Works, is estimated at $46.4m. This is made up of $39m on new buildings, S5.5m on repairs and maintenance and $1.9m on furniture and fittings. These figures include a 6 per cent charge to cover Department of Works expenses, architects' fees, etc. These expenditures are necessary for the provision and maintenance of facilities for the Post Office's business activities. In this way the true commercial cost of providing Post Office facilities is shown.  Senator Willesee  also spoke about Post Office accounts. These are prepared on the basis of accepted accounting principles, audited by the Auditor-General who reports that they exhibit a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Australian Post Office services. 
Yes, millions. I quite agree that it is a very impressive figure. I think it answers the point raised by the honourable senator. 
That would be correct. It is for banking, or social services and for other services. Whatever services have been performed, the reimbursement has been made. It is a very impressive figure of $5. 59m. I think it is worth repeating. I am sorry  Senator Milliner  is not in the chamber because he raised 2 points - one in discussion last night and the other at question time this afternoon. 
That is so. I regret that he is not present to hear my reply. He can read it in Hansard. The first point he raised related to wage increases. The White Paper gives forecasts of earnings and expenses for 1969-70 and for 1970-71 for both postal and telecom munications services. On the postal side it is expected that there will be an increase of $8. 5m in earnings from the expected 5 per cent growth in business - and this, honourable senators will recall, was the point gravely concerning  Senator Milliner  - and an increase of Si 8.5m from the higher charges which, added to the 1969-70 figure of $162m, gives the published forecast of $189m. It is expected that postal expenses will rise by about 10 per cent from $181m in 1969-70 to $198m in 1970-71. The increase in 1969-70 over 1968-69 was 12.9 per cent. On the telecommunications side, it is forecast that earnings will rise from $464m to $534m - an extra $46m from growth in business and about $24m from tariffs. Expenses are expected to increase by 12.2 per cent in 1970-71 to $495m. They rose by 15 per cent last year. 
A point which was referred to by  Senator Milliner  and which was really the basis for his inquiry involved the wage increase of $58m which was mentioned in the second reading speech. The annual cost of increases granted under awards and determinations made in 1969-70 included the following main items, which I believe the Senate will find quite interesting: The national wage, $12m; postal grades structure, $14.3m; trade staff, $11. 8m; administrative and clerical staff, $4. 9m; technical and drafting grades, $6.1m; and telephonists, $4m. This afternoon I referred to comments made by the honourable senator regarding publications by the Ambassador College. I inform him and the Senate that the Postmaster-General  (Mr Hulme)  is fully aware of this matter. The honourable senator will be interested to know that not only is the Postmaster-General aware of it but also that last night he had a discussion with the representative of the Ambassador College. 
As the Postmaster-General announced in the statement which he made today and which it will be recalled I read in the Senate chamber this afternoon, on the matter of postal rates to New Zealand there has been a long-standing arrangement between the 2 countries in applying lower rates between them than are generally permitted by the international postal agreement. The New Zealand Post Office has decided to restrict sharply this agreement. The Australian Post Office also is examining the question whether it should allow special rates to continue on newspaper and magazine postings to Australia. This could change the relativity of Australia's and New Zealand's international rates. So far as rates in the United States are concerned, in that country they experience a huge financial loss of $1.16 billion- 
-Yes,  Senator Wright,  billion. The loss is $1.16 billion, which is colossal, is it not? That loss results mainly from the handling of newspapers and periodicals, a point which I think wilt interest the Senate. Clearly, 1 can accept no responsibility for the internal rate structure in the United States. 
This afternoon  Senator Gair  raised a point concerning school publications. I can assure the honourable senator that a close re-examination will be made of the 2 publications to ensure that they are correctly classified. However, the financial loss in this category is such that appropriate rates must be paid. 1 regret that the rates of He and 2c for light-weight category B publications cannot be reduced. Nevertheless, I give the honourable senator the assurance that a close re-examination will be made of the 2 publications which he mentioned this afternoon to ensure that they are correctly classified. The honourable senator's comments in that regard have been noted, as I promised. 

 Senator Webster spoke about Post Office staff not being fully efficient. This is a difficult matter. People make these comments, so I think it is of use to acquaint the Senate with some information that I have. The front line supervision is recognised as a key area in the drive for improved productivity. District engineers give a lot of attention to this and watch closely the cost of various capital works projects. Over all, year by year, we have quite an improvement in productivity in both the telecommunications operating and capital areas. On the postal side, a 6 per cent increase in business was handled with a 1.1 per cent increase in staff. Those are interesting figures which 1 hope will answer the points made by  Senator Webster. 

 Senator McClelland inquired about the Radio Australia booster station at Darwin and referred to a paragraph in the AuditorGeneral's report. He suggested that the absence of the Department's accounts for 1969-70 had some bearing on the disclosure to Parliament of the costs of the Darwin booster station. I inform the honourable senator that section 96l of the Post and Telegraph Act provides that the accounts included in the annual report will relate to the Post Office services. By definition in section 96a of the Act the broadcasting and television services to which the booster station belongs are specifically excluded from the accounts. The honourable senator raised also the matter of telegram deliveries. I have been informed that the pay rates for telegram messengers are reasonable but that this is not a job which appeals so much to boys these days. A new approach to telegram delivery is being tested. This approach gets away from bicycles and makes use of motor cycles and other vehicles. Although these are dearer to run, the extra costs are more than offset because the work can be done faster and labour costs are thereby reduced. This arrangement will avoid the emergency use of taxis which was referred to by  Senator McClelland  this afternoon and which I feU required some comment. The honourable senator raised also a point about the payment of interest. In reply to him 1 would state that the capital of the Post Office at 30th June 1959, which was referred to by him, was determined by the Government after consideration of ' a report by an expert committee of inquiry. It was not a sum determined by the Treasury. 
The points raised by  Senator Willesee  include those matters which are dealt with the amendment which he moved.  His  motion was for the appointment of a joint select committee to inquire into a desirability and practicability of removing the Australian Post Office from the administrative influence of the Public Service Board and of establishing a public corporation to manage the business of the Post Office. I have given this matter quite an amount of consideration. The honourable senator refers to the removal of the Australian Post Office from the administrative influence of the Public Service Board, but what is meant by the expression 'influence of the Public Service Board? Primarily that means the determination of pay and conditions of Post Office employees. But the Public Service Board as the Commonwealth central personnel agency must be involved to some degree in this important aspect of Commonwealth employment. Although the Government and Parliament have found it desirable to establish many statutory authorities with varying degrees of autonomy for the conduct of particular activities, there has been a continuing policy of ensuring, either by statutory form or by administrative practice, full coordination on wage and salary matters in the Commonwealth area of employment. 
A statement on the Public Service Board's statutory relationship with various Commonwealth authorities is given at page 66 of the Board's annual report for 1969-70. Employment by public authorities represent 27 per cent of total employment, and employment by the Commonwealth Government, including the armed forces represents 10 per cent of the total. Thus public employment is a significant part of total employment, and industrial relations in the public sector are an important part of industrial relations in the community as a whole. The motion which has been moved suggests that a post office corporation would be free to determine pay and conditions without regard to going rates and the effect of such determinations on the labour market and on the economy generally. In practice I believe that no responsible government could permit this to happen. 
Turning to the business management of the Post Office, it is by any standards, considering its size, a well managed business. I have shown already that it could not have complete autonomy in industrial matters. On the financial side the Post Office now enjoys the same freedom of detailed financing of its operations as do many statutory corporations. It operates from its own Trust Account. It receives annually an amount, voted by Parliament, which is necessary to cover the difference between revenue on the one hand and capital and operating expenses on the other hand. What is the alternative to the present form of financing the Post Office? If the Post Officer were a corporation, should it be empowered to raise its capital needs on the open market? Its entry into the loan market with a need for $240m in 1970-71 surely would not be welcomed by the other governmental and semi-governmental organisations already endeavouring to raise capital in the same limited market. 1 think this is a point we should consider. It could be reasonably concluded that even if the Post Office were to become a corporation, the form of financing would not change from the present simple and effective method employed which ensures a continuity of money supply. Accordingly, so far as finance is concerned, it is difficult to see any particular virtue in conversion to corporation status. 
Let us look at the commercial activities in this regard. On the commercial side it has been claimed that the Post Office lacks marketing awareness. I say to honourable senators that the experience very definitely proves otherwise. Both the postal and telecommunications services are active in market research and in marketing. Both have active customer relations groups which provide advice and training to users of mailing services and facilities as well as telecommunications equipment. Customer advisory officers visit customers and provide on the spot assistance. Post Office experts also train various groups to increase their effective use of Post Office facilities with benefit to all. I think that is important. Through the development of new services, the postal service has stimulated its business growth. The bulk presorted mail service, which is widely used by the direct mail and mail order trade, totalled about 55 million pieces last year. In return for customer pre-sorting, which is usually done by computer, and acceptance of other conditions which reduce postal costs, lower rates are charged. The new priority paid mail service for urgent inter-capital mail has been welcomed by the business community and is growing quickly. Parcel traffic has risen by 8 per cent per annum by improved service and competitive pricing, and several service developments, including an air parcels service, will be introduced soon. 
Phonecraft is one example of marketing in the telecommunication field. This free service shows how the planned use of the telephone can assist a merchandising organisation to increase its sales or reduce its costs. Under phonecraft a Post Office specialist conducts research into a firm's operations and makes recommendations on the use of phonecraft techniques. He may  also train selected salesmen and market test the new procedures. While the Post Office provides a wide range of services to meet the needs of the community, it promotes only those which are not a burden on the ordinary taxpayer. For example, the new rates may result in a loss of some postings of journals and publications, but these items being heavily subsidised are handled at a loss. 
When we look at all those points, when we see what the Post Office is doing, when we appreciate the problems that it has in connection with the loss on these items which I have just mentioned, then I believe that we must appreciate the need for this legislation and for the carrying of the Bill without amendment. I therefore support the Bill and inform the Senate that the Government opposes the amendment which has been moved by the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Senator Willesee)  and it also will oppose the amendment foreshadowed by the Leader of the Australian Democratic Labor Party  (Senator Gair). 
Question put: 
That the words proposed to be left out  (Senator Willesee's amendment)  be left out. 
(12.2)  -  I move: 
That the Bill be now  read a  second time. 
The Bill which I now introduce seeks to give effect to the Government's intention to increase the licence fees for radio-communication stations. It is necessary to define clearly the types of stations which require a licence and to amend the present station definitions in accordance with modern concepts to give effect to the proposed fee structure. Land, mobile, fixed, amateur and receiving are the 5 basic categories of radiocommunication stations. For mobile stations, usually installed in aircraft, ships or motor vehicles, land stations are the key or base stations. Those stations operated by hobbyists, sometimes referred to as 'radio hams', are defined as amateur stations. Those land and fixed stations not licensed to provide transmitting capabilities are termed receiving stations. The types of licences to be issued are set out in the schedule to the regulations. They all fall within one of the broad categories approved. 
Since 1924, when it was set at $2, there has been no change in the level of the licence fee. The disparity between costs and revenues was not large enough, until about 1950, to cause concern since stations were few in number and were primarily provided as a means of emergency communication. Since 1950 there has been a rapid change in the situation, and the number of licences issued has risen from 5,115 to the present total of 136,000 by increasingly large annual increments. This growth has added greatly to the administrative and technical supervision costs. Because of a persistent deterioration which has led to the present annual deficit of $0.8m, it is proposed that licence fees be adjusted to a more appropriate level which will return an extra $460,000 in 1970-71 and $620,000 in a full year. These new fees do not seek to cover costs associated with Commonwealth Government services and certain services deserving of special consideration as a result of the community interests involved. 
The fee for land and fixed stations will be $10. Receiving stations and mobile and amateur stations will pay a fee of $6. The variation in administrative and technical effort involved is reflected in the different fee levels. Stations operating as outpost services will continue to pay the existing fee of $2. In the outback areas of the Commonwealth, 5,000 such stations provide services associated with 'schools of the Air' or the Flying Doctor and aerial ambulances or are providing the only means of public communication and thus are required to handle telegraph traffic. Australian outback missions come within this group. 
As the regulations apply in Papua and New Guinea, it is felt that missions in that Territory should be given similar treatment and be licensed for the present fee of $2. There are approximately 500 such stations. The present licence fee of $2. will also continue to be applied to ambulance services which are not included as outpost stations and rural fire brigades.It is proposed that stations established to provide speech connection to the public telephone system both in Australia and Papua and New Guinea will be licensed free of charge since the operators are required to pay the appropriate telephone tariffs. The issue of special licences will achieve this. They are already provided for in the regulations and may be issued without charge. The date from which the proposed fees will operate is 1st November 1970. I commend the Bill to the honourable senators. 
Debate (on motion by  Senator Willesee)  adjourned. 
(8.5)  -  I move: 
That the Bill be  now  read asecond time. With the concurrence of honourable senators I incorporate in Hansard my second reading speech. 
The purpose of this Bill is to extend and make more effective the Government's program of assistance to sheltered workshops. It is the sort of assistance the Prime Minister had in mind when in his policy speech of October last year he said: 
During the next Parliament we shall pay special attention to ... the positive rehabilitation of the handicapped and the invalid so that they may return to normal life. . . . 
The Bill gives effect to three specific proposals contained in the Budget Speech - namely,  a  subsidy towards the capital  cost  of accommodation for disabled persons working in normal industry; payment of a training fee in respect of persons placed in normal employment by  a  sheltered workshop organisation; and  a  subsidy towards the salaries of certain sheltered workshop staff. 
At this stage of the development of sheltered workshops, these items have been selected as the forms of assistance which will meet their most immediate needs, and will help them to attain their objective of improving their services for the increasing number of handicapped people who look to them for help in overcoming the many problems they encounter. 
Under the Sheltered Employment (Assistance) Act, introduced in 1967, capital subsidy of 2:1 is available towards the capital cost of sheltered workshops, workshop equipment, and residential accommodation for workshop employees. Subsidy is also available, for up to 3 years, towards the cost of rent for workshop premises. in the 3 years that this legislation has been in force sheltered workshops have become a vital force in tackling the social, vocational and economic problems of the handicapped. 
The effectiveness of the Government's assistance can be gauged by the fact that more than 100 sheltered workshops - employing an estimated 5,000 handicapped people - have been approved for assistance and are now producing goods worth $5m a year. This figure is rising at the rate of approximately Sim each year. The wages paid to their handicapped employees, most of whom are invalid pensioners, are also increasing steadily. 
Government assistance to the extent of almost $5m has been granted to workshop organisations during the past 3 years. To this must be added the money, amounting to more than $2m, contributed by organisations and other groups conducting workshops. To these organisations also goes the credit of organising the workshops, of endeavouring to make them viable economic establishments, while at the same time administering them sympathetically and in the interests of their physically and intellectually handicapped employees. Credit is due too, perhaps most of all, to the handicapped people themselves whose courage and determination has been the greatest single factor contributing to the marked success of the sheltered workshops. 
The Bill now before the Senate represents the second stage of Commonwealth assistance. It is calculated to provide aid in specific areas where financial help is needed and to recognise the community service which workshop organisations are providing at their expense. 
The capital subsidy of $2 for $1 which is at present available for the accommodation of persons working in sheltered workshops, most of whom have been assessed as  85  per cent incapacitated for work, will be extended to include subsidy for hostels for disabled people who are working in normal industry. 
The need for 'half-way houses' for the physically and mentally handicapped is something that few will dispute. There are many disabled people who are able to hold a job in commerce or industry, but who need special facilities or supervision to enable them to cope with the ordinary acts of daily living - accommodation designed for wheelchairs, or help in building confidence and adjusting to a way of life that we take for granted. 
For some people accommodation of this type will be a permanent requirement, for others it will provide a stepping stone to their complete social and vocational rehabilitation. 
The proposed amendment of Section 9 of the Principal Act means that all existing and future subsidised hostels will be able to offer accommodation to eligible disabled persons regardless of whether they are working in a sheltered workshop or in normal employment. 
The second feature of the Bill is that it provides for a training fee of  $500  to be paid to a sheltered workshop organisation where a former employee who is disabled to the extent required for invalid pension purposes, graduates to normal employment and is able to retain such employment for a period of twelve months. 
A considerable amount of time is spent by many sheltered workshops training their disabled employees until they reach a degree of proficiency which enables them to accept outside employment. Sheltered workshops are, therefore, continually losing their most proficient workers with resultant loss of their productive capacity. Because of this there has been an understandable reluctance on the part of many workshops to encourage their best workers to attempt the step to open employment. Nevertheless, last year, workshops placed in outside employment almost  500  disabled people, a majority of whom were or had been invalid pensioners. I am sure (hat the 
Senate will agree with me that this is a magnificent effort, which deserves reward and merits stimulus. 
The proposed training fee of $500 is a recognition of this valuable secondary function of sheltered workshops. It will be paid in respect of disabled people who complete their period of twelve months normal employment on or after the date on which the legislation comes into effect. The fee will generally be only payable once in respect of an individual and then only if that person has been undergoing a period of training of at least six months in the sheltered workshop. 
Payment of a $1 for $1 subsidy towards the salary costs incurred by sheltered workshop organisations in the employment of persons to provide special supervision, or medical guidance, counselling, social work or other services for their disabled workers is the final provision contained in the Bill. 
Because sheltered workshops are business enterprises, they must have regard to their overhead costs the same as any other commercial organisation. But business firms, as a rule, do not have to employ staff on a full-time or part-time basis to provide medical guidance, counselling, or training to the same extent, or to attend to the personal needs of severely handicapped people. Sheltered workshops have to provide more staff for purposes of supervision and training than is normally expected in industry, and to this extent are financially disadvantaged by comparison. 
The subsidy of $1 for.$l will assist sheltered workshop organisations to meet these additional expenses and by reducing the amount of money, obtained either from outside sources or from their own business activities, which they are required to use for these purposes, will permit them to apply a greater proportion of their income towards improving their operational efficiency and by this means providing a better service and higher remuneration for their disabled workers. 
The 3 new provisions contained in the Bill will enable sheltered workshops to assume a more important role in catering for those people, who notwithstanding their physical and mental disadvantages, want to work to the best of their ability; some to augment their invalid pensions, others with the objective of achieving full economic independence by entering or reentering the normal workforce. 
The measures are designed to provide encouragement and to give the workshops an incentive to do these things. 
It is expected that sheltered workshops will play an ever increasing role, in collaboration with the Commonwealth Rehabilitation Service, in serving the needs of those who are physically or mentally handicapped. The Bill is designed to provide the assistance that is required at this stage for their continued development. I am confident that it will receive the support of all honourable senators. I commend the Bill to the Senate. 
Debate (on motion by  Senator O'Byrne)  adjourned. 
(8.4) - 1 move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
With the concurrence of honourable senators I incorporate in Hansard my second reading speech. 
The purpose of the Bill before the Senate is to extend the operation of the States Grants (Mental Health Institutions) Act 1964-1967 for a further period of 3 years from 1st July 1970 to 30th June 1973. 
Under the States Grants (Mental Health Institutions) Act 1964-1967, capital assistance grants have been provided to the States in respect of mental health institutions, on the basis of $1 from the Commonwealth for each $2 expended by the States. 
The 1964-1967 Act, which is being extended by this Bill, applies in respect of mental health institutions' which are defined as being institutions 'carried on exclusively or principally for the care and treatment of mentally ill or mentally defective persons' and which are conducted by or are in receipt of maintenance grants from a State. Assistance is made available by the Commonwealth in connection with expenditure made for the acquisition of land and buildings to be used as mental health institutions, the construction and alteration of buildings used for this purpose and the acquisition of equipment for use in mental health institutions. 
Under the 1964-1967 Act it was necessary for the States to obtain prior approval, before 30th June 1969 for expenditure to be incurred up to 30th June 1970. Because of this time factor, no approvals have been given to any State since 30th June 1969. 
In order to ensure continuation of assistance over the next 3 years, it is necessary to provide machinery for approval to be given for expenditure incurred between 30th June 1969 and the date the new legislation receives Royal Assent, in cases where prior approval for the expenditure had not been obtained before 30th June 1969. A provision has therefore been included in the Bill which allows the Minister, or a person authorised by the Minister, to approve expenditure incurred during that period. Any such approvals will be deemed to have been given before the expenditure was incurred. 
In addition to new projects commenced between 30th June 1969 and the date of Royal Assent, this provision will also cover cases where final expenditure on projects already approved exceeds the amount previously approved.It is anticipated that in practice it will apply mainly in these latter cases. 
Once the new legislation receives Royal Assent, the established procedure of obtaining prior approval to expenditure will apply. It will be necessary in all cases for expenditure to be approved before 30th June 1972 if it is to attract Commonwealth assistance. 
It will be noted that Section 6 of the 1964-1967 Act has been repealed. The purpose of this Section had been to ensure continuation of a provision in the earlier 1955 Act which specified certain amounts as the level of the respective States' entitlement. When amending legislation was enacted in 1964 and again in 1967 not all the States had reached the level of entitlement specified in the 1955 Act and Section 6 was necessary to preserve that entitlement. However, all States have now received their entitlement under the 1955 Act and continuation of Section 6 is therefore no longer necessary. 
The Commonwealth has provided material assistance to the States under this legislation, and the 1955 Act, amounting in aggregate to just on $44m. There is no doubt that the States have derived great benefit over the past 15 years, as a result of the Commonwealth's participation in this particular area of mental health, which has in turn enabled the States to provide greatly improved facilities for mental patients. 
However, the Government is aware that the various States are now placing more emphasis on expenditure on community mental health projects, such as early treatment psychiatric centres, day centres and hostels and on integrated services. It also recognises that the emphasis on capital expenditure in traditional mental health institutions is declining in favour of such projects, a large proportion of which qualify for Commonwealth assistance under the legislation which this Bill proposes to continue. 
It is evident, from an examination made of the States' proposed capital works programmes over the next 3 years, that there is still a significant amount of capital works to be done to warrant continuation of the Commonwealth's participation in the form of capita) assistance grants. 
The development by the States of community and integrated mental health services will be kept under observation by the Commonwealth so that at the end of the 3 year period, the Government will be in a position to consider what future role the Commonwealth should play in the mental health field. I commend the Bill to honourable senators. 
Debate (on motion by  Senator O'Byrne)  adjourned. 
SALES TAX BILLS (Nos  1  to  9) 1970 
(10.0) - I move: 
That the Bill  be  now read a second time. 
The purpose of this Bill is to authorise the borrowing of moneys not exceeding 142,550,000 to be advanced to the States during 1970-71 for housing in accordance with the provisions of the Commonwealth and State Housing Agreement. At its meeting last June, the Australian Loan Council approved a government borrowing programme for 1970-71, of which $823m was for the financing of State works and housing. Within this total, each State nominated the amount it wished to receive as advances under the Commonwealth and State Housing Agreement. In aggregate, housing advances in 1970-71 will amount to $142,550,000- an increase of $10,320,000 or about 8 per cent over last year. The amounts requested by the States are as follows: 

<graphic href="046232197010204_22_0.jpg"></graphic>

Advances made to the States under the Agreement are repayable over a period of 53 years and bear interest at1 per cent per annum below the long term bond rate. 
This is the concluding year of the period covered by the present Housing Agreement. During this 5 year period, the Commonwealth will have advanced almost $644m to the States for housing purposes. Of this amount, it is expected that almost $426m will have been used by State housing authorities, together with supplementary advances from the Commonwealth for the housing of servicemen, to construct some 54,400 dwellings. The remaining $2 18m will have been advanced through the home builders' accounts and, together with moneys accruing from earlier advances, will have assisted some 39,600 persons to acquire their own homes. I commend the Bill to honourable senators. 
Debate (on motion by  Senator Willesee)  adjourned. 
(1 1.7) -I have listened with interest to the points raised by the honourable senator concerning these three cases. I shall see that they are placed before the Minister for Immigration  (Mr Lynch)  for his consideration. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Senate adjourned at 1 1.8 p.m. 
(10.12) -  Senator Cavanagh  has referred to an individual case and his remarks have been supported by  Senator Laucke.  I think that the best thing I can do is to place this particular case before the Minister for Health for his consideration. 
(9.52) - I will have to put this matter to the Minister for Health  (Dr Forbes)  because it is a matter of policy. I understand, however, that the rate is one of the matters under consideration by the Government as part of its consideration of the recommendations of the Nimmo Committee. I would mention that payment of pensioner benefits in public hospitals is conditional upon the hospitals providing free treatment for pensioners in public wards. 
(5.0)  -  Mr Chairman,  1 will ' reply to the honourable senators who have spoken. Before I do so. I must ask for your ruling for my guidance on whether, if 1 reply concerning the amendment, I will affect my right to reply to any other detail in the items? My understanding is that it will not. 
First, I wish to make it quite clear to the honourable senator who moved the amendment that I oppose the amendment. I believe that by moving this amendment the honourable senator is wishing to have a large scale debate on housing whereas in effect we are considering the Estimates at the Committee stage where we debate the lines in the Estimates. I would remind the honourable senator that this is the purpose of this debate. I will reply to the amendment moved by the honourable senator in these terms. He asks that the estimates for the Department of Housing be reduced by SI. This is just a form of delaying the consideration of the Estimates in the Committee and of having a debate concerning housing. The honourable senator's amendment continues: 
. until a National Inquiry is initiated to ascertain the nation's housing needs in the future . . .  and so on. The honourable senator has already moved his amendment, it has been read to us. I will not read it again. 
Let me give the Committee a few facts concerning the Australian housing situation and details of some of the money that is made available in this area. In the last financial year, 1969-70, $55m was provided to finance war service homes for eligible ex-service personnel; $ 12.7m was made available in grants under the aged persons homes scheme; $ 12.3m was provided in grants under the home savings grants scheme; $18. 3m was used to finance housing in the Australian Capital Territory; $10.1m was expended on housing in the Northern Territory; and $12.5m was provided for sundry other housing projects. The Commonwealth expenditure on housing in 1969-70 amounted in total to $262.7m. 
Honourable senators will recall that recently we passed legislation in connection with the money made available under the Commonwealth-State Housing Agreement. I think that some figures should be of assistance in this discussion. In each of the 5 years since the financial year 1965-66, the number of Government and private dwellings commenced increased until it reached the all-time high of 144,000 in 1969-70. These, I think, are important figures. We see that the high level of dwelling construction in 1969-70 was financed in part by sustained lending by banks and major life assurance companies. The value of loans made for new housing by these institutions during the last financial year was $307m compared with the slightly higher figure of S3 16m in the previous year. There was a downturn towards the end of 1969-70. But, despite that, the total value of loans approved by the per manent building societies tor new and previously occupied dwellings increased considerably during the year to $367m. 
If we look at the September figures for approvals, commencements and completions, although there is, as I said there would be, this slight downturn in that quarter, with more money being made available as there now is we will be seeing an upward trend in housing figures once more. So, I feel that this amendment is only a vehicle for further discussion on this subject. I oppose it and suggest that we deal with the lines and the items that are here in the Estimates before the Committee. 
Many of the points which have been raised have been discussed during the meetings of the Estimates Committee that dealt with housing.  Senator Cavanagh  referred to the line of appropriation dealing with the Secretary's salary, $19,500, and allowance, $1,000. The honourable senator asked what those figures covered. I make it quite clear that these figures cover the payment of salary and allowances as we are informed in the estimate. The Permanent Head's allowance has been paid for a couple of years, lt is not related specifically to entertainment expenses and is not vouchered separately. It is regarded as a degree of compensation for the general expenses involved in keeping up the position and duties of the important State office of head of a major instrumentality of Government. I am sure that the honourable senator realises that there are demands on the head of a department, and I believe it is right and proper that he should be paid accordingly. 

 Senator POYSER (Victoria) (5.51- I would like to raise a matter under Division 310, which deals with administration, lt relates to war service homes and what I believe is an outdated method that exists in relation to persons who make applications for homes that are away from the more populated areas. I believe that the general practice that exists today is something that has developed from the dark ages, when in fact a person living in a remote part of the country may have had some difficulty in the resale of a home or the War Service Homes Division may have had some difficulty in the re-sale of a home if it did happen to become a liability to the Division. 1 have recently had 2 cases brought to my notice. I feel that the circumstances of one case in particular are wrong, lt concerns a person who made an application for a war service loan to build a home in a place called Nelson which is on the Glenelg River in Victoria and very close to the South Australian border. This application has been rejected on the ground that Nelson is a remote area and that it would be difficult for the Division to recoup its equity in the home if the person for any reason had to sell it or if something happened to him that would prevent his continuing his payments. 
I think the Division has shown little knowledge of the area concerned by ruling out Nelson as a place where an exserviceman may build a home that attracts a war service loan, because all indications are that this area will be a very thriving tourist area in the near future. It is a very beautiful spot in Victoria and people are being attracted to this area in greater numbers each year. The man who made the application is a permanent officer of a State department and it looks as though he will be a permanent resident in this area for years to come. He is a person of high standing, and the Commission would have no doubt about his meeting his obligations under normal circumstances. He lives in the area and looks like living there for many years to come because of his employment. But he has been rejected as an applicant for a loan under the War Service Homes Act on the basis that the area in which he wishes to build is classified as a remote area. 
From my inquiries I understand that land prices in this area have continued to increase over the years and will do so in future because of the development that will take place in the area. I have discussed this matter with officers of the State Housing Commission. They are of the opinion that this area will develop to the extent that land values will increase. Yet this man who has served his country is to be denied a war service home because he happens to live in an area that today is classified as a remote area of the State. We know that today, with the motor car and the ability of people, particularly tourists, to move quickly around the State this area would not be a place in which it would be impossible to sell a home. Indeed I am certain that over the next 5 or 6 years a home in this area would definitely increase in value because of the tourist potential of the area. I believe we need to re-examine this aspect of war service home loans. 1 think that modern day people are moving away from the heavily populated areas as much as they can. It is to the advantage of the cities' that people are prepared to do this and to comute backwards and forwards to their employment. In the case to which I have referred the person is close to his employment, and the area in which he wishes to build is an area that I have been advised will develop and will have a great future as a tourist centre. 
feel that this case has been wrongly dealt with. I put this matter before the Minister for Housing  (Senator Dame Annabelle Rankin)  some weeks ago. I have not yet had a final reply. T understand that these things take time. But. if necessary, I am prepared to advance additional evidence from reputable people who know the area and who are in the real estate game to indicate quite clearly that this is not a little hick village without any future as far as values are concerned. I think that the whole question of building war service homes in remote areas should be reexamined by the War Service Homes Division. Modern day thinking should be applied to this question. 
(8.26) -  Senator Poyser  raised the question of what would happen if a European family adopted a child who would not normally come within the category- 
The honourable senator made a comment about the last part of the answer given, which was: 
Normally assisted passages are nol granted in a family in which one or more members are ineligible. 
In connection with that part of the answer given today the honourable senator asked what would be the position if they had adopted a child. My reply to the honourable senator is: Sympathetic consideration would be given to the adopted child being given an assisted passage. 

 Senator Mulvihill made a point relating to a question he has on the notice paper. I think that it should be answered in the normal way during the question period and as soon as there is an answer available for him I will see that he gets it. The honourable senator raised one other point. 1 have not yet got the information but as soon as 1 get it I will let him have it. 
(5.43)  -  Senator Toohey  has referred ' to a particular case that he is aware of and which we have- already looked into. The method used was accepted practice at thetime the house was constructed . and I understand that the report we had was submitted by a man who also- is an expert in this field. But I will have another look at this matter. 'The honourable senator may supply further details to my office. I am prepared to look at this case again. 
(4.55) - I thank the honourable senator for the comments he has made concerning this very important Bill and for the support of the Opposition. There is just one point I would like to refer to. He mentioned the sum of $10m saying that he would like it to be more. The $10m compares favourably with the contributions of other countries to special funds. I think this is a very important point. The honourable senator himself made the important point that ours in the third highest contribution of the various countries. This is a very important piece of legislation and 1 thank the Opposition for its support. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time, and passed through its remaining stages without amendment or debate. 
(5.34) - T thank  Senator McClelland  for the comments he has made. I am aware of his particular interest in the Australian Film Development Corporation. I have noted the points he has raised concerning the other 3 Bills. As the honourable senator has said it is quite correct that the salary of the Director of the Australian Stevedoring Industry Authority does not come out of Consolidated Revenue. The honourable senator raised the point of the difference between the salary paid to that Director and the salaries set out in the other Bills. These points will be noted by the Minister for Labour and National Service  (Mr Snedden)  who is responsible for this legislation. I thank the Opposition for its support of the Bills. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bills read a second time, and passed through their remaining stages without amendment or debate. 
(9.21)  -  As has been said, this Bill is concerned with the International Bank loan for Papua and New Guinea. I am pleased with the support we have received from the Opposition. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time, and passed through its remaining stages without amendment or debate. 
(10.34) -  Senator Cavanagh  referred, as I under stood it, to the Broadcasting arrangements for the Parliament. I inform the honourable senator that there was quite considerable comment on this in the Estimates Committee where  Senator Lawrie  inquired about this matter. The departmental officer present at the Committee hearing said that he would advise  Senator Lawrie  when he had had a further look at the points which had been raised. I also inform the honourable senator that this is a matter which is being considered at present by the Joint Standing Committee on Broadcasting of Parliamentary Proceedings with officers of the ABC's Technical Services Division. This comes under the Parliamentary Proceedings Broadcasting Act and not the Broadcasting and Television Act. However, the matter is under consideration and I shall certainly ensure that the honourable senator is given any further information which is made available by those officers who were asked similar questions in Senate Estimates Committee B. 
(12.28)  -  I rise to reply to the speakers on the States Grants (Aboriginal Advancement) Bill which is now before the Senate and to speak to the amendment which has been moved by  Senator Georges.  First of all I should like to speak to some of the points that have been raised and to reply to some of the comments that have been made.  Senator Georges  plucked a figure out of the air when he spoke about $25m which was being spent on the Aboriginal people. I would inform the honourable senator that this is for direct assistance. All the State allocations for 1970-71 have not yet been analysed, but it is thought that the amount which is now being spent will probably be more than that. This information will be given when all of the reports have been received. 
These sums are allocated and must be spread right around the continent. They must include the remote areas as well as the more highly populated areas. Aboriginal advancement cannot be hurried, lt is necessary to maintain and sustain many remote missions and settlements, which are doing a very helpful job in the programme of work for our Aboriginal people.  Senator Georges  and  Senator Keeffe  used the expression, as I understand it, that there should be a better allocation of funds. I think we all agree that the basic needs are housing, health and education. 
And training for employment. I think we recognise that all these matters are being given the most careful consideration and assistance by the Government. Within the availability of funds the Government is devoting 68 per cent of its grants to the States for housing, which is a basic need. In the legislation before the Senate today are special allocations. We see that a particular amount is being made available for the States in this area. I draw the attention of honourable senators to the words below the Second Schedule: 'Minimum financial assistance for housing'. The total amount of assistance is $4. 8m. New South Wales will receive $1,350,000, Victoria will receive $265,000, Queensland will receive $1,770,000, South Australia will receive $300,000. Western Australia will receive $1,080,000 and Tasmania will receive $35,000. These amounts will be of tremendous assistance in the field of housing. We realise that other needs exist. The Commonwealth hopes to increase its allocations in all these other fields. 
Amongst his other comments  Senator Keeffe  mentioned the conditions in Cunnamulla. He spoke of the need for housing and health requirements. I am sure that he will be interested to know that next week  Dr Coombs, Chairman  of the Council, and  Mr Dexter,  who is the Director of the Office of Aboriginal Affairs, will be paying a visit there to see the conditions at first hand and to assess what help can be given.  Senator Keeffe  also spoke about the problems of health of Aboriginals in Queensland. The Queensland programme for 1970-71 includes health education programmes on settlements and reserves. It also includes supplementary food assistance in settlements and reserves. The amount of assistance for the former is $38,500 and for the latter $60,000 which, I believe, will be of tremendous assistance. 

 Senator Keeffe referred to the bad conditions of living at Normanton but he did not mention that, as are there for all to see, 6 houses have been made available. I am sorry that he was not present at the Estimates Committee meeting when  Senator Lawrie  spoke about how well these houses were cared for and what a difference they had made to those who are living in them. Eight more houses are to be built in 1970-71. The Government has provided $30,000 for a pre-school child centre at Normanton which we expect to be built early next year. I believe that this benefit, too, will be of tremendous assistance to the people in the area and to the young children who are the ones who, we believe, are so important to help their people face the future.  Senator Keeffe  also raised the problems of the older Aboriginals. I appreciate his point very much because it is one that concerns me. He referred to the non-payment of social service benefits, because the person involved was not able to fill in a form, did not understand it and needed some particular assistance. If this is a case which has not yet been attended to and if there is anything that the Department can do about it I would ask the honourable senator to give me that information. 
J am very glad to hear that the man is receiving his pension. The Government has already made many more Aboriginals aware of their rights. This has enabled them to be paid benefits to which they are entitled. But there are problems faced by Aboriginals in handling and filling out social services forms. If honourable senators have individual cases 1 suggest they supply the necessary information and the Department will see what can be done. 

 Senator Wilkinson said that there was not a planned programme. If I may say so. his remarks rather gave the impression that $75,000 was suddenly to be spent on something in Western Australia and that no-one knew that this was to happen. While the honourable senator said how much this assistance was appreciated, I understood the honourable senator to say - and ( hope 1 am not interpreting his remarks incorrectly - that the people in Western Australia were not aware that this money would be allocated. I want to inform the honourable senator that the Aboriginal Advancement Council of Western Australia requested these funds so that a nearby building could be acquired and converted into a community centre. The $75,000 which has been paid was the estimated cost of their project. This was the cost of the building the Council wanted. 1 join with  Senator Wilkinson  in saying how good it is that this money has been made available. 

 Senator Wilkinson made the interesting point that initially in this programme for the Aboriginal people in this part of Western Australia the people in charge of the committee were white Australians.  Senator Wilkinson  said that the committee is now being run by Aboriginal people and not white Australians. 1 think that this shows exactly how much assistance this programme is giving and how rauch work is being done by the Government in this area. We see at first hand that people who needed assistance are doing something for themselves. The Aboriginal people are now able to run such a programme by themselves. I believe that this is a great step forward. 1 would like to wish them good fortune and I hope that this centre will be a very great success and that the Aboriginal people will get much pleasure from it. lt was said that there is a lack of planning. This brings me to the amendment moved by  Senator Georges,  about which I shall be speaking a little later. I think I have said that a great deal of planning and programming has taken place. This has been demonstrated in the areas I have mentioned. 1 think that this is particularly so in the field of education. In 1970-71, S2.3m is provided in the Aboriginal Advancement Trust Account for study grants in tertiary education and secondary grants to enable students to continue their secondary education. The Government is developing a very decided programme of pre-school education for implementation in this financial year. Therefore, we are looking to all the areas of education. Our assistance goes right down to the pre-school level, which we all agree is tremendously important, and up through the education of children of older ages. I want to make one or two other points because it was implied that while there is a need for education and assistance in employment - and of course this is accepted - nothing was being done. This is not true. Work is being done to assist young people or older people to train so that they engage in the kind of occupation in which they wish to engage. 
I was interested in the point that was raised by  Senator Gair  as to whether or not an Aboriginal could run a station property. I would like to mention something on a personal plane. I have a very good Aboriginal friend who managed a station for many, many years while members of the family who owned the station were away serving in the Services. He carried out his job splendidly, in fact, I do not think there could have been higher praise for what he achieved. He has shown what can be done and has proved the point that was made by  Senator Gair.  1 draw the attention of the Senate to what was said by the Leader of the Government  (Senator Sir Kenneth Anderson)  when this Bill was introduced in this chamber. The Minister's second reading speech records the assistance which is being given to Aboriginals. I believe that this is most important, lt is a record of- assistance that has been given in such a variety of areas. For example, the Government is assisting Aboriginals in the field of housing, to which I have referred, and this is a most important area. Assistance is also given in the field of health services. I draw the attention of the Senate to this because assistance is being provided in the remote areas of Australia in a variety of places where it is so vitally needed. The services of community health nurses are being provided at Bourke, Moree, Dareton and Wilcannia. There are areas which itinerant nurses visit. Subsidies are given to Bush Nursing, the Far West Children's Health Scheme, the Western Shires Dental Scheme and to charitable organisations which are doing so much. Assistance is also given in the field of education by way of grants in aid. The Government provides assistance by subsidising the running of school buses. The Government also provides assistance to pre-schools, which I mentioned earlier. 
All of this assistance is being given to the individual. Therefore, I contradict the point that was made by  Senator Georges  that nothing is being done for the individual. 
That is what I understood you to say. However, if I misunderstood you I apologise. Aboriginals are also assisted by special work projects which help them to obtain continuing employment which is so important. Special adult education projects have been set up and this of course must assist Aboriginals tremendously in the employment field. Further, assistance is given to students who live in hostels and those who attend manual training centres. I believe that this contradicts the point that was made that there is not a planned programme. 
I wish to inform the Senate that the Government opposes the amendment which has been moved by  Senator Georges  on behalf of the Opposition. Id opposing the amendment I would like to repeat what the Leader of the Government  (Senator Sir Kenneth Anderson)  said in his second reading speech. In this amendment the Opposition proposes that the Commonwealth request the States of Queensland and Western Australia to take immediate legislative action to abolish all discriminatory Acts and regulations in those States. 1 remind the Senate that the Prime Minister  (Mr Gorton)  promised that all legislation which discriminated against Aboriginals whether on a State or Federal basis would be eliminated in the lifetime of this Parliament, f endorse the words of the Leader of the Government when he said: 
This promise, will, of course,  be  kept but  I  know that the Senate will share my desire that in keeping it we should to the greatest possible extent co-operate with the States . . .  1 know that the Senate will be interested to know that further talks concerning this very matter will be taking place very shortly. In fact, I think they might take place as early as next week. The Government is carrying out a programme which will assist the Aboriginal people. It is a programme which is sympathetic to their needs. I believe that this programme will equip them to live happily in the community. Because the Prime Minister has promised that this discriminatory legislation will be eliminated I say to you,  Sir, and  to the Senate, that the Government opposes the amendment moved by the Opposition. 
Question put: 
That the amendment  (Senator Georges')  be agreed to. 
(8.40) - I rise to close the debate on the States Giants (Special Assistance) Bill, to which honourable senators have been speaking, and the other 3 Bills that we have taken with it at the second reading stage. My colleagues  Senator Laucke  and  Senator Davidson  have replied very ably to points that have been raised by the Opposition. I shall not traverse the areas that they have covered. 
There is just I point that 1 should like to clear up. It relates to what  Senator Drury  said about South Australia and the Commonwealth Grants Commission. At the June Premiers Conference the South Australian Premier asked for grants over and above what was being made available to all the States. The Commonwealth did not accept that request, but it did say that South Australia and any of the other less wealthy States could apply to the Grants Commission if the State thought its share of the grants was inadequate. The Grants Commission is an expert and independent body. It received submissions by the State of South Australia and recommended a grant of $5m for 1970-71. That is the matter that we are discussing in connection with the States Grants (Special Assistance) Bill. This grant is based on a preliminary assessment which could be subject to adjustment after a detailed examination. The Grants Commission leaves the States free to impose taxes and to spend as they themselves decide. I believe that in the speech made late this afternoon a very wrong impression was given concerning this matter. I felt that I should clear up that point. 

 Senator Donald Cameron spoke, as also did  Senator Davidson,  about concrete sleepers for the railway between Whyalla and Port Augusta. That is a matter which can be given consideration only by the Minister concerned. I shall certainly see that it is placed before him. I thank honourable senators for the interest they have taken in this debate. T hope that we can now complete it. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bills read a second time, and passed through their remaining stages without amendment or debate. 
 Mr President,  1 rise to speak on behalf of the Leader of the Government in the Senate  (Senator Sir Kenneth Anderson)  who, as you know, is absent this evening attending a very important engagement. It is on his behalf that I speak. Firstly, on behalf of my colleagues, I thank you,  Sir, for  your guidance during the year, for your wisdom when we needed it, for your support when we wanted it and for your assistance when we required help in time of difficulty. We thank you for that and we appreciate all that you have done. Your task has not been easy and we recognise that the long hours of this long sitting have added to your work. 
I know that my Leader would particularly like me to convey his thanks to the Leader of the Opposition  (Senator Murphy)  and to members of the Opposition for their co-operation. I especially thank the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Senator Willesee)  for his co-operation. I think that today he and I have worked very well in handling the problems that we have had to face. I also would like to thank the Leader of the Democratic Labor Party  (Senator Gair)  and his members for what they have done. Our special thanks go to the Party Whips. I speak in this regard with great feeling because I was a Whip for a record term of office and I know the problems they face when numbers are close. 
I offer thanks also to the  Deputy President  and  Chairman  of Committees, the Temporary Chairmen, the  Clerk  of the Senate and his assistants, the other officers of the Senate staff, the attendants and those who care for us in the dining room, the people on the maintenance and cleaning staff, our Hansard reporters who deal with what we have said and make it read better, the Parliamentary Library staff who are always so very helpful when we need assistance, and to our friends in the Press. I have not seen the representatives of the Press playing noughts and crosses.  Senator Gair  must have a better view. 
T convey thanks above all to my ministerial colleagues and other colleagues in the chamber who work in the wonderful spirit of a team. I speak not only personally of my appreciation but I convey to them the appreciation of  Sir Kenneth  Anderson who is not here to speak on this occasion. May T say to each and every one that our wishes are that you will have a happy Christmas, although it seems quite early to be doing so, and that the New Year may be a good one for us all and for Australia. I convey our most sincere thanks to all who have worked with us during the year. 
(10.3) - I rise to speak to the motion brought before the Senate by  Senator Gair  and his supporters. All of us are concerned, of course, about people in need and all of us at all times wish to help them whenever we can. I believe this Government over the years has demonstrated its concern by the assistance it has given to these people. I think it appropriate for me at this point to remind honourable senators of what is available to pensioners today from Commonwealth sources and to mention the part played by Liberal and Country Party governments in developing the present comprehensive range of benefits and services. Year after year since Liberal and Country Party governments first took office they have reviewed social services. They have increased the basic rate of pension on no less than 15 occasions in the case of single pensioners and on 14 occasions in the case of married pensioners in order to bring their respective base rates to Si 5.50 and $27.50 a week. I say, very deliberately, that these governments have constantly reviewed these matters because  Senator Gair  implied that this Government has not concerned itself with the problems of pensioners. 
Liberal and Country Party governments have recognised that, there are groups of pensioners with special needs requiring special consideration. I remind the Senate that this was the reason for the introduction in 1958 of supplementary assistance for single pensioners who were entirely dependent upon their pensions and were paying rent. The rate of supplementary assistance now is $2 a week and the conditions of eligibility have been considerably improved since 1958. Honourable senators will remember that I introduced into the 
Senate legislation to give effect to the dwellings for single age pensioners scheme. That legislation was specifically brought in to assist single age and eligible pensioners who had no other income than their pension. It is good to know that this scheme is progressing and units are being provided for these people. Approval has been given for more units to be made available throughout Australia, in rural and in metropolitan areas. The fact that S25m is to be made available over 5 years - 1969 to 1974 - will assist in housing these people, lt was recognised that this was one of the areas in which there was a great deal of need. Single eligible people with no income other than their pension were paying rent far beyond what they could afford. This scheme was designed to assist one of these very special areas. 
Another group of pensioners whose position has engaged the attention of the Government consists of those with children in their custody, care and control. When the Liberal and Country Party Government came into office in 1949 a pensioner with more than one child received no additional cash assistance for the second and subsequent children in his or her care. Let us contrast that situation with the situation today. Not only has the Government introduced an additional pension, which is now S3. 50 per week, for each child or student child after the first for all pensioners, but it has also legislated for a guardian's allowance - called in this case a mother's allowance, for widow pension - of up to S6 per week for single and widowed pensioners with the care of one or more children. At present S2.50 per week is paid for the first or only child of all pensioners. 
The marked improvement in the position of the single or widowed pensioner with children can best be illustrated perhaps by reference to the case of a widow pensioner wilh. say. 3 children. The maximum cash assistance available to such a woman under the Social Services Act today by way of pension and supplementary payments is S33 per week excluding child endowment. When the Libera! and Country Party Government took office in 1949 a woman in similar circumstances would have been receiving a pension of '"54.75 a week. Surely al! these things show a tremendous improvement over that period of time. 
If the honourable senator listens to me he will receive all that information, lt will prove the point about which he is interested. Other special groups are recognised in provisions introduced by this Government. I refer to such matters as the extension of benefits in respect of student children up to 21 years of age who are in the care of age, invalid or widow pensioners. There is the provision for dual payment for up to 12 weeks to the survivor when one of a pensioner couple dies. I believe every honourable senator recognises that this is of great assistance in this very real area of need. Then there is the payment of the standard rate to certain married pensioners who have to live apart for health reasons. Wc know there are cases where a husband or a wife may bc in hospital or in a nursing home. This is a matter which was causing very real concern, lt was another area of great need which deserved some special consideration. This matter was looked at and assistance given. 
Reference has been made tonight to the means test. I think this is something which should be looked at because under the means test pensioners are allowed a substantial amount of income and 'or property before the base pension or the additional payments I have already mentioned are affected. I shall refer to the effect of (he Government's liberalisations of the means test later on in my speech, lt is interesting to note - this is a point to which I think  Senator Cant  was referring earlier  -  the improvement which has been achieved in the real value of pensions since the Government came to office. When this Government came to office in 1949 the base pension was S4.25 a week. Had this pension been varied in accordance with movements in the consumer price index it would be 10.33 a week now instead of the $15.50 a week - single pension - or SI 3.75 a week - married person - now payable. Thus the real value of the single pension has increased bv some 50 per cent since 1949. 
Under the Gorton Government increases in the age pension have also more than kept pace with increases in prices. When the Gorton Government took office in January 196S the single age pension was 13 a week and the married age pension was SI 1.75 a week. The consumer price index for the December quarter of 1967  -  the quarter immediately preceding the date the Gorton Government took office - was 103.0. The index for the December quarter of 1970  -  the latest available - was 114. To maintain the real value of the January 1968 pension the weekly rates of the single pension would be $14.39 and for a married person it would be $13. Having regard to the increases which have been provided in subsequent budgets, weekly increases of $2.50 and $2 have been made in the standard and married rates respectively, bringing their present levels to $15.50 and $13.75 a week respectively. Thus the increases have significantly exceeded the amounts required to maintain the real value of the January 1968 pension. 
I would reply to  Senator Gair  by saying that this Government's interest in all fields of social services is shown by the record of what it has done for the people. The Government's performances in the field of social services should be judged not upon who is or is not in the chamber at present but upon the record of its achievements. 1 wish to continue discussing the new benefits which have been introduced and the widening of eligibility for some of the existing benefits. This Government introduced in 1956 the payment of an additional pension for children after the first and subsequently provision was made for extending the payment in respect of student children. The supplementary assistance allowance was introduced in 195S, the mother's allowance was introduced in 1963 and the guardian's allowance was introduced in 1965. These allowances have been paid to single and widow pensioners with children. In 1965 there was a further extension of the eligibility for the wife's allowance to include cases where the pensioner husband is not an invalid but where there is a child. This allowance was payable previously only where the pensioner husband was an invalid. I think that in itself shows a realisation of an area of need in which this Government has assisted. Honourable senators are no doubt well aware of the sheltered employment allowance. This allowance was introduced in 1967 to assist invalid pensioners employed in sheltered workshops and it has been of very great assistance to these people. 
I am not saying that at all. What I am saying is- 
I am not saying that I am satisfied and I am not saying that the Government is satisfied; 1 am showing that the Government has a continuing and constant concern for those who are pension recipients. 1 am saying that the Government has not only been concerned but has also put its concern into action in the Form of assistance in the areas of need I have mentioned and it will always be concerned about these matters. 
I did not hear the honourable senator's interjection. 
That is a good idea. 1 will do that. 1 think it also necessary to look at the need which exists in the field of housing. The Government has been of great assistance in providing dwellings for aged persons. In this respect I think that recognition should be given to the church and charitable bodies which have given care and attention to providing housing assistance for aged persons. Honourable senators are no doubt aware that the aged persons homes scheme has been in operation for some years now. The subsidy was originally on the basis of $1 for $1. but it was increased to $2 for Si because the Government recognised that there was a great need in this area. This, of course, has meant that all over Australia - as far away as Alice Springs or as close as one's nearest suburb - there are now homes for aged persons under the aged persons homes scheme. This is talcing away from these people the fear of being alone and uncared for - -the fear of insecurity. Assistance is now being given in this very important area, f am sure all honourable senators will agree with me when I say that this is a very important area. This Government is providing more and more assistance in this field and more and more homes are being built to meet this need. 
Which ones is the honourable senator talking about? 
Homes are being built all over Australia for aged persons including those who are in receipt of social service benefits. 
I. am talking about the areas in which these homes have been built. Some of them have been built in the honourable senator's own State of Victoria. I think I have already given in this chamber a list of the places in which the building of these homes has been approved under the dwellings for aged pensioners scheme and in which 578 units will be available. Let me go on to speak a little more about other forms of assistance. The hearing aid service is one. These fringe benefits all add up and are of tremendous importance. If honourable senators opposite are concerned about, pensioners and about what is being done for them they should be interested in fringe benefits. Fringe benefits are important to pensioners. Another fringe benefit is the training scheme for widow pensioners. I believe that this has given to many widowed people not only great pleasure in being able to be trained to do something that they wish to do but confidence in themselves., a feeling that they can be secure again and take a new interest in life. The personal care subsidy for aged persons is much more than just the actual care; I believe that it is the person who gives the care who contributes greatly to the assistance. Is there anybody in this chamber who does not agree with me when I say that the Meals on Wheels subsidy is another fringe benefit which is of great assistance? A nutritious, hot, good meal is being taken to the homes of pensioners under the Meals on Wheels scheme. All these benefits also have been introduced by this Government to assist pensioners. 

 Senator Gair rather belittled the Minister for Social Services  (Mr Wentworth).  He said that great things had been expected of him but nothing had been done. That was a most unfair statement. Many of the benefits to which I referred have been introduced since the present minister has been in office. I shall remind honourable senators of other fringe benefits that have been introduced. I refer to the pensioner medical service and to the nursing home benefits. These are of tremendous importance. I think it is almost impossible to assess in money terms how beneficial these are. As I proceed I shall give honourable senators an idea of what the benefits would average a week. 
I think that comment detracts from what has been done. I am showing how the Government is endeavouring to assist these people and how it is introducing more and more benefits which cover a wide range. Not only has the actual pension rate been increased but also other benefits such as the nursing home benefits and the telephone, radio and television concessions have been made available. The Government has provided assistance in housing, which I have mentioned. Travel concessions are also available. 
Honourable senators will recall that last year, when dealing with the Social Services Bill, 1 tabled details of the fringe benefits available to pensioners from both Commonwealth and State Government sources. I think it is important that honourable senators should acquaint themselves of the benefits which pensioners may receive. I pointed out then - and I refer to it again - that the value of these benefits to eligible pensioners averaged about $5 a week. It is worth emphasising, to remind honourable senators, that the figure was an average one and that it can be misleading. The value of fringe benefits in individual cases can be considerably more than the average figure. I am sure all honourable senators will appreciate this point. If a pensioner requires constant medical attention, which is provided under the pensioner medical service, this is a benefit which is of tremendous assistance to the pensioner.  Senator Gairs  motion makes no mention of the amount of increase that he sees necessary to meet, as the motion puts it, the minimum needs of the recipients. It is easy to make sweeping statements about what should be done to benefit the community, or sections of it, in one way or another. It is also easy to overlook the matter of responsibility for finding the funds to give effect to these proposals. 
Last year, in connection with the Senate election, I read with interest what  Senator Gair  was reported as saying. I have only the Press reports on this. He was reported as saying that the pension rate should be increased immediately to half the minimum wage. Presumably that is still his view: I do not know. That is the point he made then. The existing minimum wage under Commonwealth awards is $46.40. Therefore his proposal would involve increasing nil pensions to $23.20 a week. Assuming the proposal relates to basic pension rates only - that is, disregarding additional pensions and allowances where there are children, about which I have informed the Senate already, as honourable senators will recall - the cost in respect of the number of age. invalid and widow pensions current at the beginning of this year is estimated to be $443m a year. It should bp noted, too - and I think it is important that we should note these figures because we have a responsibility to do so - that an increase in pension on the scale mentioned would enable a number of persons at present ineligible because of means to qualify for a pension, but the number and cost involved cannot be assessed accurately. 
Typically, no mention appears to have been made of the source of the funds from which the heavily increased charge for pensions would have to be found. All of us would like lo be able to spend more on social welfare and on the other activities of government. As we all recognise, our desires for increased expenditure must be limited by the funds available. I think that those of us who appreciate these points recognise that this Government has a very fine record in the field of social services, it has a record of a continuing review of all areas of social services, lt has done a very fine service in the areas of special need. This Government will continue to study these matters. It will continue to be concerned with the needs of the people and with the areas of special need. 
I do not know whether the honourable senator has been present all the time that [ have been speaking. 
I am sorry that I did not notice him if he has been present. Whether he has or has not. I have told the Senate about the fringe benefits which are available. They arc benefits additional to the pension rates. These additional benefits are tremendously important. They are not be be disregarded. One has to take into account what is being done, what is being given and the assistance that is being made available. 

 Senator Dame ANNABELLE RANKIN I think it would be interesting if some of the people who interject worked out how much these benefits mean to people. They mean a great deal. 
1 do not know what the tribal warfare is about so I cannot come in on the side of the right or on the side of the left. I shall continue. Tomorrow I shall read in Hansard what was said.  Senator Gair,  in the course of his speech, claimed that the pension should be a specific proportion of the average weekly earnings or that it should be adjusted in accordance with movements in average weekly earnings. In reply to my friend  Senator Gair.  I say that no Commonwealth Government has ever accepted the proposition that the pension should be related to either criteria. The pension rate has always been determined in the light of the various commitments of the government and in the light of the revenues at its disposal. The record of this LiberalCountry Party Government since 1949 has illustrated and has proved that pensioners and their needs have always been given a high priority when available funds have been allocated among the various government responsibilities.I believe that that situation will continue. The Government's policy is  to  use available funds to the greatest advantage of the community as a whole. As honourable  senators  know, there are many competing commitments. These cannot be met in full without straining the economy unduly. The Government has examined with care the position of pensioners. At all times it. will continue to examine their position. It will continue to assess their position as and when it can. Honourable senators can be assured that pension increases have been granted at the maximum that could be prudently made. 
Debate interrupted. 
(9.57)  - I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
The intention of this Bill,  Mr President,  is. to update those portions of the Broadcasting and Television Act affecting financial operations of the Australian Broadcasting Commission and the Australian Broadcasting Control Board. It also aims to make changes to the existing provisions regarding the ownership and control of broadcasting and television stations. In addition, it extends broadcast listeners' and television viewers' licence concessions to several new small groups of pensioners and introduces measures to permit the service, by post, of summonses in relation to licensing offences under the Broadcasting and Television Act. The financial provisions, as drafted, represent a standard approach to statutory authority financial legislation. I will not therefore be dealing with these provisions in detail. The existing provisions in the Act are known to be inadequate, and both the Treasury and the Auditor-General's Office were consulted as to the desirable provisions in relation both to the Australian Broadcasting Commission and the 
Australian Broadcasting Control Board. This Bill has, accordingly, been drafted to update the banking provisions, provide for proper keeping of accounts and records; and to amplify the audit provision in accordance with more modern legislation. Changes affecting the administration of the Australian Broadcasting Commission are introduced in the Bill. Because of the present section 40 of the Act, which provides that the Commission may delegate its powers, except that of delegation itself, only to a Commissioner or the General Manager, administrative difficulties have arisen. The Commission operates throughout the Commonwealth, and delegations; limited to a few persons in Sydney place obvious obstacles in the way of efficient administration. The Bill amends section 40 so that the Commission's powers may be delegated to any person in the employ of the Commission. This, however, does not affect the power to appoint permanent officers of the Commission, which still remains limited to a Commissioner or the General Manager. 
The Bill also proposes, through amendments to sections 61 and 62, to raise the limits involved in the purchase and disposal of property, or entry into any agreement or lease, involving expenditure by the Broadcasting Commission, without ministerial approval. At present the limit is $40,000 and the Act directs that no agreement or lease involving expenditure may be entered into for a, period exceeding 5 years. Values have changed and the Bill proposes that these changes be recognised by raising the limits to $100,000 and 10 years respectively. The existing section 71, providing that the Commission may not pay compensation to a member of the Commission or its officers or employees, in excess of $500 without ministerial approval, is repealed. The purpose of the existing provision, which has no counterpart in other legislation, is not known and, in any case, the Commonwealth Employees' Compensation legislation provides adequate cover. 
Honourable  senators  will be aware that the Act now places important restrictions on the number of television and broadcasting stations that may be controlled by any one person or company. A close connection, it will be agreed in this context, exists between company employee benefit funds and the companies with which such funds are associated. There is an increasing tendency for pension funds associated with companies already having extensive interests in broadcasting and television stations to invest in companies having interests in such stations. If permitted to continue unchecked, this could have a material influence on the control of television and broadcasting stations. This is considered to be contrary to the intentions of the ownership and control provisions of the Act and, in consequence, 2 new sections, 90aa and 91ab, are introduced in this Bill. If passed, their effect will be that interests in broadcasting and television licences acquired by funds maintained for the purpose of providing pensions and retiring allowances or other personal benefits for the employees of a company shall be deemed for the purposes of the ownership and control provisions to be beneficially held by the company concerned. These new provisions, honourable senators will note, will apply from 12th December 1969, the date on which the Postmaster-General announced the Government's intention to bring down this legislation. 

 Mr President, this Bill also groups, m section 128, all pensions payable under the Repatriation Act and other Acts making provisions of a similar kind for the purpose of concessional broadcast listener's and television viewer's licences. In addition, it extends these concessions to several new pensioner groups. The new entitlement covers persons receiving a service pension under the Repatriation (Special Overseas Service) legislation, and persons receiving service pensions and pensions in respect of total and permanent incapacity under the Native Members of the Forces legislation. Persons receiving pensions in respect of total and permanent incapacity under the Interim Forces Benefits legislation and the Seamen's War Pensions and Allowances Act will also become eligible for the concessions. These concessions have been extended in the interests of giving equitable treatment to all persons in receipt of similar pensions. 
Finally, the Bill proposes the insertion of a new section 132a to permit the service, by means of registered post, of summonses for offences in relation to unlicensed broadcast and television receivers. 
This will provide an additional means for the service of these summonses in most of the States. It will not do away with the availability of personal service in appropriate cases. Although it has been the practice to date to have summonses for offences relating to unlicensed broadcast and television receivers served on defendants by members of the State police forces, there have been indications for .some time that, in some States at least, this arrangement was not satisfactory. Some State Ministers in charge of police have taken the view that the service of. summonses is not a proper police function and that it diverts trained men from more responsible activities. They have therefore directed that police are not to be used for the service of certain summonses for offences under thei'r own State laws. More recently, with increasing demands on the police, it has been made clear to the Commonwealth that some of the States are no longer prepared to see members of the police used to serve summonses' for the more common Commonwealth statutory- offences. The Chief Secretary for Victoria has already informed the Commonwealth that the Victoria Police will no longer undertake the service of summonses - issued under the Broadcasting and Television Act. It has, therefore, become . necessary  to arrange immediately for some - other means - of effecting service of summonses in respect of the common minor &lt; offences under the Broadcasting and Television Act in relation to. unlicensed broadcast and television receivers. 
Until quite recently, the Jaws in force in all Stales and - Territories --required that there should be ' personal . service of all summonses for offences and this generally involved the delivery of a summons to the defendant himself or leaving a copy at the last known or usual place of abode or business of-, the defendant, with some other person who was -apparently, an inmate -of; or employed at, that place and apparently at least 1 6 years of age. The laws in force in most - States were - amended - between 1962 and 1970 to enable .summonses for relatively minor  offences ' to be served by post and the new procedures seem- to have worked satisfactorily in- the States. . It is desirable that, a ..similar procedure be authorised by Commonwealth law for the service of. summonses-, .in -relation .to offences concerning unlicensed broadcast and television receivers. The new provisions have been drawn to ensure, firstly, that there will be a high degree of probability that the defendant will in fact receive the summons that is posted to him and, secondly, that if a defendant does not receive a summons posted to him, there will be a simple procedure by which he or the prosecutor may proceed to have set aside any conviction that was recorded. This would apply in circumstances where the defendant was not in fact served with a summons or was not served soon enough to give him reasonable opportunity to answer the charge. 
In providing for service by registered post, a more secure means of delivery will be provided than is required by corresponding laws of the States. Moreover, the provisions of the new clause enabling convictions to be set aside are more favourable to defendants than the provisions of corresponding State legislation. I am satisfied,  Mr President,  that the registered post will provide a satisfactory vehicle for the service of summonses under the Broadcasting and Television Act.  1  am also of the opinion that there will be adequate safeguards fo ensure that no person will be unjustly treated. I commend the Bill to honourable senators. 
Debate (on motion by  Senator McClelland)  adjourned. ' 
(.10.43)  -  in reply - Tonight both honourable senators who have spoken in the debate on the adjournment motion have referred ' to matters concerning Ministers whom I represent in this place. I should like to explain to  Senator Mulvihill  that- 1 could not answer him before  Senator McClelland  spoke because had I done so I would have closed the debate. So my failure to answer  Senator Mulvihill  was not a neglect to do sp.. T have noted very carefully the .points raised by the honourable senator concerning the 2 persons, Kabra and Kouzamee. Tn fairness I .think I. should have recorded exactly what the 
Minister said in his letter to the honourable senator because it puts on record a little more detail than is contained in the reference made by the honourable senator. Those 2 persons entered Australia illegally by deserting their vessel at Botany Bay in December 1970. The Minister for Immigration  (Mr Lynch)  very correctly said in his written reply to  Senator Mulvihill:  - The essential feature in these cases is that illegal entry by deserting seamen is very frequent and must therefore bc discouraged in every way possible. The most effective means of doing this is to ensure that such illegal entrains are removed from the country unless exceptional circumstances exist. 
I have carefully considered the cases of Messrs  Khadra  and  Zouzami  in the light of your representations but I have decided that, in the absence of any special circumstances, their deportations are to proceed. You will appreciate that the shipboard conditions under which seamen serve is nol a matter which can enter into my consideration of their cases, lt is presumed that seamen make themselves aware of these conditions prior to entering into employment contracts with shipping companies. 
So the whole point on which this case was considered by the Minister was that they had illegally entered Australia by deserting from a vessel on the date which was named.  Senator Mulvihill,  in bringing this matter before the Senate, expressed his concern for people who -desert for a. variety of reasons, and he asked that the Minister consider the establishment of an immigration appeals tribunal. In doing this he made a comment which I feel I must contradict, because he spoke as. though the Minister was inaccessible and as though the departmental officers . were inaccessible. I do not feel that this is so; I feel that this is a wrong assessment by the honourable senator. I have noted the points he. raised,' including the point concerning .an appeals ' tribunal, and T can assure him that I shall place these matters, in relation to which he has. expressed his concern for people in special circumstances, before the Minister for Immigration. 
 The next matter to which I wish to reply is the matter- raised by  Senator Mcclelland.  On this occasion I reply on behalf of the Postmaster-General.  (Sir Alan Hulme). Senator McClelland  put before the Senate tonight a. number of points concerning the. merging of 2 television stations. I say very, briefly to the honourable senator that I shall most certainly put his views, as expressed in the Senate tonight, before the Postmaster-General. But I think I should make 2 points concerning this matter. The matter would, of course, be subject to the Ministers approval notwithstanding the published particulars which  Senator McClelland  has given us in the Senate tonight. I ask  Senator Cavanagh,  who is trying to interject, to let me continue because this matter is going to the Minister. I am not making a decision on it, but I am giving the points of fact. The whole substance of this matter will no doubt come before the Postmaster-General, and I will ensure that he will also have before him the points that  Senator McClelland  has raised. 
(12.17)  -  I move: 
That the Bill he now read a second time. 
This Bill provides legislative basis for the comprehensive programme of migrant education which was announced in the House of Representatives on 23rd April 1970 by the Minister for Immigration  (Mr Lynch).  The Bill,  Mr Deputy President,  relates to the total area of migrant education, which for purpose of simplicity may be dealt with under 3 main headings - the adult programme, intensive courses and child migrant education. As foreshadowed in the statement on 23rd April the Government has approved the detail of a major review of the adult education programme in source countries where pre-embarkation instruction is given, during the journey to Australia and in the community after arrival. Facilities for pre-embarkation instruction will be expanded, additional forms of instruction will be introduced and courses will be extended to new source areas such as Yugoslavia and the Scandinavian countries. The number of shipboard education officers will be increased, and with the growing emphasis upon air travel we will consider providing educational facilities in aircraft as circumstances permit. 
In Australia, facilities for instruction in reception centres, in hostels and in the community generally will be expanded. There will be greater provision of parttime accelerated courses to meet the needs of migrants who for economic reasons cannot engage in full-time instruction. Greater use will be made of the medium of television and radio courses are under review. Emphasis will be placed upon encouraging industry to provide facilities for instruction at the work place so that migrant workers can have convenient access to courses of instruction. Special attention will be given to the needs of migrant women - the married woman and the housewife - for whom, if they are to become full members of the community and if they are to participate in the social life, a knowledge of English is essential. Advanced teaching techniques will be used to meet the needs of individual groups of migrants. Research surveys already undertaken and those planned will identify these individual needs and the most effective way of providing for them. 
The full-time intensive course of instruction which was first introduced early in 1969 is designed specifically to meet the needs- of professional and other qualified migrants for whom an adequate knowledge of English is a pre-requisite to their being suitably employed. As a general rule only migrants who have reached a certain educational level are able to benefit effectively from this particular type of instruction. There is a considerable demand however for enrolment in the intensive courses and it is the Government's intention to provide additional centres for intensive instruction in Sydney and Melbourne, and to extend these to other capital cities and to provincial areas of high migrant density. 
The child migrant education programme represents a new area of Commonwealth participation. The Government intends to finance the salaries of special teachers in both existing Government and independent schools to teach migrant children who are handicapped in varying degrees by some type of English language difficulty and the cost of special training courses for these teachers. Tt will finance the purchase of approved capital equipment of the language laboratory type for use in the special classes which will be established, lt will provide suitable teaching and learning materials not only to schools where special classes are formed but also to schools where there are insufficient numbers of migrant children with language problems to justify the appointment of a special teacher. Because what is planned in the adult programme and with intensive courses is essentially an extension of existing programmes, the Bill is concerned largely with the area of the major new initiative in child migrant education^ 
The Bill,  Mr Deputy President,  is a relatively short one. The title includes the words 'for immigrants and certain other persons'. The term 'immigrants' is intended to relate to persons who have been admitted to or allowed to remain in Australia indefinitely for residence. The qualification provided by the words 'who are ordinarily resident' in paragraph (b) of subclause 2 of clause 4 excludes from the intended meaning of the word 'immigrants' those persons who do not have resident status in Australia. The Bill therefore does not relate to persons admitted for a limited period of time under temporary entry permit, such as visitors and overseas students. The term 'certain other persons' is intended to include naturalised Australians and the Australian-born offspring of immigrants who require instruction in the English language, as well as those who are immigrants under the definition already described. 
The short title - Immigration (Education) Act 1970  -  indicates that the source of power for the Bill derives from the immigration provision in the Constitution. Clause 2 of the Bill provides that the date on which the Act will come into operation will be the first day of July 1970. The State education departments and the independent school authorities are being informed that the Commonwealth will meet from existing appropriation costs within the approved programme which are incurred in the special instruction of migrant children as from 1st April 1970. In the defintions clause, clause 3. the intention of the definition 'capital equipment of an educational nature' is where the need for special classes is established that State and independent schools will be provided with Commonwealth funds to purchase equipment of the language laboratory type. The definition of independent school' is consistent with the similar definition used in Acts which provide financal assistance for independent schools under section 96 of the Constitution. 
Clause 4 covers in a general way the type of courses which are to be provided and to whom. Non-English speaking immigrants are not specified because English speaking immigrants and their children as well as their non-English speaking counterparts are to be provided with courses in citizenship education which are referred to in paragraph (b) of sub-clause (I.) of clause 4. Paragraph (a) of sub-clause (2.) of clause 4 gives the Minister authority to make arrangements for the provision of courses of. instruction outside Australia, whether in the source country before embarkation or during the voyage to Australia and to adjust these as changing circumstances involving particularly international organisations or overseas governments may require. Clause 5 relates to the proposed new arrangements for the child migrant education programme as well as to existing arrangements for adult migrants and for full lime intensive courses of instruction. 
The Department of Education and Science, which will be assisting in the development of the child migrant education programme in the States and will be responsible for producing appropriate teaching materials, will be establishing a committee to advise on the design and content and production of text books and other material for the child programme. The committee will include representatives from State Education Departments as well as the Department of Immigration and the Department of Education and Science. Full scale production of material designed specifically for child migrants will possibly take 2 to 3 years. In the meantime selected materials already used in the adult pro gramme will be made available for use by migrant children. 
Clause 6 indicates that subject to regulation a living allowance will be paid to migrant students, other than school children, attending approved courses of instruction. With the introduction early in 1969 of the full time intensive courses, students already attending such courses have been paid a living allowance at the following rates: If in private accommodation, single students will now receive an allowance of S29.I5 per week of which $17.00 is for their accommodation expenses and $12.15 an allowance to meet normal living costs. For the married student, the rate of allowance is $37.00 of which $22.00 relates to accommodation and the balance of $15.00 to other living costs. For the migrant in Commonwealth hostels, the allowance has been such that the normal hostel tariff has been deducted leaving the migrant, if single, a living allowance of $12.15 per week and, if married with a dependent wife, $.15.00 per week with increases according to the number of dependent children in the family. 
It has been considered advisable that the rates of living allowance paid to migrant students, other than school children, attending approved courses of instruction and the conditions under which the allowance may be paid should be provided by way of regulation so that the detail of the allowances to bc paid will be laid before the Parliament when the regulations are made. Some State Departments of Education have already taken steps to meet the problems encountered by migrant children in their schools and for this purpose are employing teachers in the special instruction of migrant children. Under the adult programme there are teachers also who would benefit from further training. Clause 7 of the Bill is therefore intended to provide for the training of teachers who may already be engaged in teaching migrant students as well as those who will be selected for training before being so employed. The payment of travelling allowance for teachers attending training courses which is referred to in sub-clause (3.) of clause 7 will be in accordance with the rate of travelling allowance normally payable to Government employees of the State concerned. 
Reference was made in the House of Representatives on 23rd April to the need for research in the fields of both adult and child migrant education. Clauses 8 provides authority for the conduct of such research, which will be undertaken by the Department of Immigration and the Department of Education and Science in conjunction with the research units of the State Education Departments and of appropriate tertiary institutions. Clause 9 as a whole is intended to make it clear that the Minister in making arrangements may arrange for payments by the Commonwealth to the other party to the arrangements. Sub-clause (1 .) of clause 9 relates to the programme generally. Sub-clause (2.) of clause 9 relates to certain types of payments, which it was thought desirable to refer to specifically, with respect to arrangements entered into with the government of a State - under- both' the adult programme and the child programme-as well as with an independent school -authority under the child programme. 
It may be useful,  Mr President,  if 1 were to explain that schools which will qualify for financial assistance under the special programme for child migrants will be those where a special teacher is employed. The appointment of a special teacher will in turn require, as a general "rule, a minimum of 30 migrant children in the school in need of special instruction in the English language - though the children may be taught in smaller groups. Financial assistance may also be available where a special teacher is employed at several adjacent schools or pro rata where the special teacher may be required only on a casual or part time basis. 
In the statement on 23rd April if was indicated that the Government would finance, in addition to the salary costs of special teachers, the salary costs of necessary supervisory staff. We have decided in paragraph (b) of sub-clause (2.) of clause 9 to adopt the term 'administrative staff' as we believe the former term was not sufficiently wide to cover the adult programme. Administrative staff in the case of the child migrant programme will be concerned essentially with policy formulation, the control, training and development of teaching staff and the inspection and supervision of the programme at the local level. Administrative costs will also include costs normally incidental to salaries of both teachers and administrative staff - payroll tax, workers' compensation and workers' insurance premiums, employer's contribution to superannuation fund and entitlement to long service leave of permanent officers. Under the adult programme, the administrative costs will also include certain operating costs to which the Commonwealth has been committed since 1951 by agreement with the States. 
Paragraph (d) of sub-clause (2.) of clause 9 is intended to provide for the situation where the State Education Department or independent school authority may wish to purchase teaching and learning materials which are not suitable for production under the arrangement referred to in clause S but which may be considered necessary to the effective implementation of the child programme. Clause 10 makes the normal provision for the administration of any part of the migrant education programme to be delegated by the Minister and is in accordance with the provision of such delegation used frequently in other Acts. Clause 11 indicates that the funds required from time to time will . be provided under the annual appropriations for the Department of Immigration. Clauses 12 and 13 contain normal legislative provisions for the making of reports and regulations. Thus Parliament will have the opportunity of receiving progress reports on the operation of the programme. 
The Bill is intended to give legislative force to the programme of migrant education which the Government believes to be a matter of national importance. Some 1.5m has been provided in the current financial year for migrant education. The greater part, $l.2m, is on the adult programme, in which expenditure has been to the order of Sim annually over recent years. We expect to spend $150,000 on intensive courses during 1969-70 and $250,000 on the child programme during the final quarter of the financial year. It is expected, subject to budgetary considerations, that expenditure on the three programmes will rise to $4m in 1970-71 and that funds to the order of $16m will be required over the next 4 financial years. I commend the Bill to honourable senators. 
Debate (on motion by  Senator Mulvihill)  adjourned. 
(4.2 lj - For the information of honourable senators I lay on the' table the following paper: 
Migration and Settlement Agreement Between the Government of the Commonwealth of Australia and the Government of Malta.  1 ask for leave to make a statement in relation to the Agreement. 
The DEPUTY PRESIDENT- There being no objection, leave is granted. 
1 wish to inform the Senate of the main features of the Migration and Settlement Agreement recently concluded between the Government of Australia and the Government of Malta. The Agreement was signed in Canberra on 14th December 1970 by  Dr V.  Tabone, Minister of Labour. Employment and Welfare, on behalf of the Maltese Government and by the Minister for Immigration  (Mr Lynch)  on behalf of the Australian Government. Australia has had assisted migration agreements with Malta since January 1949. These agreements including that which expired on 30th June 1970 were essentially agreements for assisted migration. Rather than extend the old Agreement for which there was provision under its Article 23. the Government decided to negotiate a new and more broadly based agreement which would: (a) give expression to the entitlements and obligations' of all Maltese citizens who migrate to and settle in Australia; (b) make the agreement consistent with the basic provisions of recent agreements concluded with other migrant source countries, for example, Italy. Turkey and Yugoslavia; and (c) take account of substantive machinery modifications agreed upon between Australia and Malta late in 1969 in regard to financial arrangements and eligibility criteria for assisted Maltese migrants. 
On 1st June 1970, in Malta  Dr V.  Tabone. Minister of Labour, Employment and Welfare, on behalf of the Maltese Government and the Minister for Immigration on behalf of the Australian Government initialled agreed draft texts of the proposed new Migration and Settlement Agreement and related Arrangement dealing with assisted passage provisions. In formulating these texts, the Department of Immigration had the advice of the Departments of Foreign Affairs, the Treasury, Labour and National Service, Social Services. Health. Education and Science. Civil Aviation and the Attorney-General's Department. The draft text of Agreement was referred to each State Government for its concurrence on matters falling within the State's competence. Each signified that it had no objection to the terms of the Agreement proposed. With its signing by both parlies (he Agreement retroactively enters into force from 1st July 1970 and remains in force until 'he one hundred and eightieth day after the day on which either Government receives from the other notice in writing of its desire to terminate the Agreement. 
The new Migration and Settlement Agreement has the following principal elements. It describes the facilities for settlement of Maltese citizens, lt records the rights they enjoy and the obligations they undertake in common with Australian citizens .and other citizens; it affirms that Maltese citizens resident in Australia will receive social service and health benefits which Australia provides to Australian citizens, and that both Governments will make efforts towards reaching areement on reciprocity in payment of each other's corresponding social security benefits. The Minister for Social Services and the Minister for Immigration have already had initial discussions on social services reciprocity with  Dr Tabone.  The Agreement provides for advice to Maltese migrants on the acceptance of vocational qualifications in Australia and records that the Australian Government will endeavour to advance the acceptance of Maltese qualifications within the framework of Australian laws, regulations and practices; the rights of Maltese settlers as residents and as workers are set out. and that Australia undertakes to extend to Maltese workers and their families the facilities available in Australia for migrants to learn English. 
Article 15 of the Migration and Settlement Agreement indicates that the migration of Maltese citizens may be considered on the basis of direct applications submit ted in Malta and nominations submitted to the Australian authorities in Australia. In addition it provides that the 2 Governments shall co-operate in such special assisted migration programmes as may be mutually agreed. Under the terms of Article 15, assisted migrants 19 years of age and over will contribute $A25.00 towards the cost of their travel to Australia, those under 19 years will travel free and the Australian Government will meet the balance of the fare. This accords with the conditions available to assisted migrants generally. Special provision has been made for single women with or without close relatives in Australia to be nominated by a relative in Australia or by a friend or by an organisation approved by the 2 Governments. 
As in other recent agreements an article has been included in the Migration and Settlement Agreement with Malta which deals with a Maltese citizen's liability for military service in Australia. Article 18 records that in accordance with the National Service Act 1951-1968 Maltese citizens who have rendered continuous full time service in the naval, military or air forces of Malta or a country other than Australia are granted recognition of such service in determining their national service liability. It also records that a Maltese citizen who was liable to register for military service after 1st January 1967 and who is called up may exercise his option to leave Australia rather than render such service. The reference to 1st January 1967 takes account of the fact that prior to this date this concession did not apply to British subjects including persons from Malta. This concession applies, of course, to nationals from any country who may be called up. The Agreement records that the right to determine who may be admitted to Australia for permanent settlement rests with Australia. The selection procedures provide for an assessment by Australian officers of the general suitability, health, character and the potential of the individual to settle here satisfactorily. 
People from Malta were among our earliest arrivals. In the late 1850s a group of Maltese fishermen, domestic servants and labourers settled in Queensland. The first organised group of Maltese migrants arrived in Queensland in 1883 for employment on the canefields. After World War  I  the inflow of Maltese increased rapidly until by 1921 Australia was taking more Maltese settlers than any other country. The greatest inflow, however, occurred after World War II. when the migration agreement was signed with Malta. Although migration from Malta has diminished in recent years, Australia now receives more than half of the number of Maltese migrants leaving Malta each year. As at the 1966 census there were approximately 55,000 Maltese-born people in Australia, and inthe 4 years ending 30th June 1970 more than 5,000 settlers from Malta had arrived in this country. The population of Malta is not large - 325,600 people at mid- 1 970 - and it would be unrealistic to expect very large numbers of migrants in relation to the total Australian migration programme, but in terms of the Maltese population it is a welcome movement. 
The steady movement of Maltese migrants to this country has created strong links of family relationship and of friendship between the 2 countries. Migrants from Malta have played an important role in Australian development over the years. More than half of all Maltese workers in Australia are employed in manufacturing, especially heavy engineering. 
It is my firm belief that as Maltese settlers continue to bring to us those qualities of loyalty, valour and determination which have earned the respect of the world, their contribution to Australia's future will be equally as distinguished.  I  commend the Agreement to honourable senators. 
(5.04)- I have carefully listened to  Senator Poyser  because I know he is interested in these matters. But I was a little amazed because he really did not seem to be speaking to the motion. He talked about interest rates, municipal rates, high rise buildings and social amenities, but none of these things is mentioned in the motion. 
Another interesting point is that this motion has been on the notice paper since last August.  Senator Murphy  implied that it was of great importance when he moved the motion, but today his seat is vacant when we are debating it and another senator has led for the Opposition in the debate. Surely this shows that  Senator Murphy  is treating the matter as trivial. If he had been sincere in moving this motion, surely he would have been here to open the discussion on it. 
Having listened to the interjection of my friend may I also comment that if this is how  Senator Murphy  shows his concern for the motion which he has moved and brought into this House then 1 wonder how much attention honourable senators opposite would give to no inquiry into these matters. 
I do not think that has anything to do with the subject at all.  Senator Murphy  moved this motion. I thought that up to this time he was treating it most seriously and that he was personally concerned with it. 
Yes, I noticed that. I have looked at this motion on the notice paper and given a good deal of attention to it. For good reasons which I shall enumerate to honourable senators the Government opposes  Senator Murphy's  motion. One reason is that the proposed scope of the inquiry is much too wide. It would take ages to produce a report on all the items which are contained in this motion. If there is to be an inquiry into housing problems - and we do not think that this is necessary - I believe it should be into specific housing problems where the matter could be the subject of a quick report. A committee could meet, discuss the matter, obtain information and report back to the Senate. 
Another interesting point is that for all these months we have had this matter before the Senate Standing Committee on Health and Welfare. This time we are asked to refer it to a committee which is noi yet in operation, lt has not yet been set up. We do nol know when it will be set up. To me this seems to be extraordinary. 
In listening to  Senator Poyser  I have not heard one argument which I feel would convince any thinking Australian that the appointment of an inquiry such as proposed would provide an additional home for a needy family. To suggest that the Government is not continuing to explore the housing needs of Australians and is not considering desirable further action to satisfy as many as possible of these needs is sheer nonsense. A reasonable supply of private finance has been made available for home building and purchase. In 1970 the value of housing loans approved to individuals by savings and trading banks and major assurance companies was a record $773m. In addition the permanent building societies approved housing loans amounting to $339m, a total of $1,1 12m. As all hon~ ourable senators will be aware we recently increased from 35 per cent to 40 per cent the proportion of depositors' balances with savings banks which may be lent for home ownership and other socially beneficial purposes. Large and increasing Commonwealth advances are being made each year through the Home Builders' Accounts to co-operative housing societies to assist home seekers on modest incomes to acquire their own homes. 
The Commonwealth is also providing large sums for aged persons homes. We are also offering long term housing loans at a very favourable rate of interest to eligible ex-servicemen. In addition we are providing generous assistance to their widows. We are making sizeable advances to the States at a concessional rate of interest to permit them to house needy families at rents which these families can afford to pay. This is being done under the CommonwealthState Housing Agreement to which the honourable senator referred. The home building industry does not lack the capacity to build the number of new dwellings needed, nor is there any significant under-employment of the industry's resources. Lenders are being encouraged to make, and are making, high ratio housing loans to home seekers at what are, under today's conditions, reasonable rates of interest. This is being done by the offer to insure repayment of principal and payment of interest, both by the Housing Loans Insurance Corporation we have set up for this purpose and also by private insurers. Most important, is there any significant number of our citizens lacking shelter? There is not a considerable number, but we are very concerned about those who are living in inadequate accommodation or paying too large a proportion of their incomes as rent. These are matters which concern us. 
As I have mentioned the Government is maintaining an economic climate favourable to an increasing flow of private finance for home building and purchase, lt is offering financial assistance lo home seekers in a variety of ways. Our several efforts in the housing field have raised the standards of housing and dwelling accommodation for many Australians - I think this is an important point - and we are continuing our efforts to provide more accommodation for those most in need of satisfactory homes. We have a great record in regard to housing in this country. Most people in Australia are better housed than those in any other country. But we still need more suitable accommodation for some aged and disabled persons, some families without a male breadwinner and some large families on relatively low incomes. These persons and families need housing at rents or prices they can afford to pay. The Government is continuing to direct its attention to these problems which are indeed important. But I ask honourable senators to note that housing for the needy is not among the matters specifically listed for referral to the Standing Committee. The Government is concerned with the practical things that need to be done to improve the housing situation of a number of Australians and not with just theoretical exercises. 
A satisfactory number of homes is being commenced to meet the housing needs of the growing number of young married people, migrant families and single persons wishing to establish a home of their own. During 1970 some 143.000 new homes were completed. 1 ask honourable senators opposite a question: Does the Opposition really believe that an inquiry into housing, especially one  with  the terms of reference proposed in this motion, would produce practical proposals not already being considered by the Government to improve the lot of those in need of better housing? Would the proposed inquiry be likely to be concerned  with  the real housing problems which the Government is tackling? 1 would say that  up  to this point we have not been given a scrap of evidence by the previous  speaker  to suggest this. 1 invite honourable senators to look carefully at what the Standing Committee would be asked to inquire into. It would bc asked to find out what would be future housing demands - not needs but demands - and whether the home building industry is capable of meeting these demands which no-one can accurately forecast some years ahead, lt would bc asked to  report  on the extent to which private capital can be expected to finance future demands for housing; a question to which no reasonably precise answer could possibly be given. It would be asked to examine the allocation of Commonwealth finance for different types of housing need and for urban renewal projects - for what purpose is  far  from clear, unless of course the Opposition wishes to allocate less Commonwealth money for housing the needy and to indicate to the States that in their fields of town planning and the provision of urban services they must comply with standards laid down by the Commonwealth in respect of these operations as ari essential precondition to determination of the extent of any new offer to the States of Commonwealth housing assistance. The final matter which would be inquired into - which was added only last Thursday, ] would remind honourable senators - relates to land costs. 
I fail to see how the proposed inquiry would assist people to obtain better housing. The motion smacks of time wasting political opportunism by the Opposition. Let us look at the proposed matters which . are to be inquired into one by one. The first matter on the list is forecasts of housing demand  in  Australia. Forecasts, in this field, must be guesses because any forecast of the number of dwellings that may be demanded in future years must be based on a number of assumptions. I doubt whether any two forecasters would agree on all the inescapable assumptions. Probably the most significant factor affecting future demand is the estimated growth in population and in family formation. This must be based on guesses as to future birth and marriage rates and the future level of net migration. Allowances must also be made for improvements in standards, including the increasing tendency for single people to establish their own homes, for obsolescence and demolitions, for the growing tendency of many to own a holiday home, for the movement of people within Australia and for changes in the number of unoccupied dwellings. 
Any forecast of the housing that will be demanded must also take into account changes in the economic climate, which have significant effects on the availability of housing finance, and on the movements in costs, prices and real incomes. All these are factors which will significantly affect the demand for new or better homes. How do we assess their influence in 2, 3 or more years time, or even in 12 months time? 1 should think that most Australians would agree that it is impracticable to guess the nature of the housing demands some Years hence and the areas or regions in which the homes will be required. The most rapidly expanding regions in 5 or 10 years time will be determined by a multitude of private decisions which will be influenced by many factors yet to be formulated. Those are things which I think honourable senators must consider. We will continue to study housing needs throughout the Commonwealth and the extent to which the homebuilding industry is meeting and is likely to meet these needs in the years immediately ahead. If and when We think it necessary we will use our influence to adjust the likely availability of private finance for housing and possibly the flow of finance from Commonwealth sources. But it has yet to be revealed how the preparation of forecasts of housing demand in Australia will add to the number of homes that will be built. 
The next proposed matter for inquiry, as we look at the list, is the capacity of the building industry to meet future demands for housing, however uncertain the size of these demands may be. The history of the home building industry in Australia, 99 per cent of which is in the hands of private industry, has been one of continued expansion to meet all reasonable calls on it. In recent years there has been a steady growth in capacity to build the homes demanded. The industry has become more efficient in the sense that now fewer workers than were needed a few years ago are needed to produce the same number of homes. At present there is an adequate supply of all key building materials. I am quite unaware of any residential building that has been held back due to a shortage or lack of building labour, lt is true that there is little unemployment in the building industry, but this is the situation at which we aim. However, the fact that the home building industry is very close to full employment does not mean that it cannot expand as the requirement for its services grows in future. During the past decade the number of dwellings commenced increased, on average, by more than 5 per cent per annum, whilst population increased by about 2 per cent per annum. The number of dwellings commenced rose from fewer than 100,000 in I960 to close to 139,000 in 1970. This expansion in capacity has been the outcome of the many private initiatives. 
The next suggested inquiry is into the extent to which private capital can be expected to finance the future demand for housing. In proposing this matter for inquiry, I can assume only that the Opposition is hoping to produce statements that insufficient private capital will be available to finance a high proportion of future home building. This is unlikely to be the case while this Government is in power. As I mentioned earlier, housing loans approved by savings banks, trading banks and major assurance companies were no less than S773m in 1970. Lending for new housing by permanent building societies is also running at a very satisfactory level. Under the stimulus of housing loans insurance, these societies are now attracting a rapidly expanding volume of funds. Over the past 12 months the major lending institutions have increased substantially the volume of their lending for the purchase of previously occupied homes. This has done a great deal to assist home seekers in satisfying their needs and requirements. Encouraged by the favourable climate for investment, brought about by the policies of this Government, more and more inves tors are being attracted to put money into new flats and so increase the amount of residential accommodation available to rent or to purchase. Private capital can be expected to finance future housing demands to an increasing extent, and with increasing effectiveness, as the idea of the high ratio insured loan takes hold. 
Private capital will not provide all the finance for housing. A number of home seekers cannot afford to pay the rents asked for private dwellings or are unable to buy a modest home without some government assistance. Governments must expect to continue to provide homes for the neediest among our people - some of the aged and those families which cannot afford to purchase a home or to pay market rentals for reasonable accommodation. The prospects of an increasing flow of private capital to meet the future growth in housing demand are excellent. In proposing this matter for inquiry, honourable senators opposite appear to have overlooked the fact that this Government has been successful in influencing the flow of private investment into housing. Of course, one could not be sure that this would continue if the Opposition became the government. We should never forget that private investment is very sensitive to 'the political climate and under this Government the climate has been very favourable indeed. 
The Opposition then called for an examination of the role of Commonwealth finance in housing. The role of the Commonwealth in this field is to help those needing Government assistance- to .obtain a suitable dwelling at a price that they can afford. I think that is very important. The first essential is, of course, to. determine which groups are most in need, of this assistance. From our own investigations' and our consultations with the States we have learned a great deal about who comprise these groups and what their, needs are. We have also had the benefit of information obtained from private surveys and advice on this subject by a variety of. welfare and charitable organisations. More ; recently my Department, in collaboration with the States, commenced an investigation into the housing needs of Aboriginals..,! should think that there would be a wide measure of agreement in this chamber in particular and amongst Australians in general as to who are in need of housing assistance and what it is they need. For that reason there is no need for the proposed inquiry. 
Commonwealth financial assistance for housing is largely directed towards assisting the less fortunate groups in our community. It is comprehensive and comes in a variety of forms. The most significant form of assistance is that provided under the Commonwealth and State Housing Agreement, which was referred to by  Senator Poyser.  The record sum of Si 42.5m will be advanced this year to the States under this Agreement. Close to $94m of this amount will be made available to the State housing authorities. This will benefit those who need to rent a dwelling but cannot afford to pay market rents and those who can afford to buy a home only with the assistance of a very long term loan at a concessional rate of interest. The remaining $49m is the estimated amount to be paid into Home Builders' Accounts which, together with the addition of some $22m which will be made available from the repayment of earlier loans, is being advanced to co-operative terminating societies and other approved institutions. These advances will provide long term housing loans at a concessional rate of interest to low income families who wish to buy or build a home of their own choice. 
Then there is, of course, the war service homes scheme. At least $60m will be advanced under this scheme to exservicemen and ex-servicewomen during the current financial year. Some S20m has also been budgeted for this year to provide generous capital grants for the housing of our elderly and incapacitated citizens under the aged persons home scheme and the sheltered employment assistance scheme as well as dwellings for needy single aged pensioners. We are also providing more transitory accommodation for migrant families in hostels and, for a limited stay of no more than 6 months, self contained flats. We are continuing to help young people to save for their own homes by giving them a tax free gift - the home savings grant. It has been estimated that tax free payments of about $15m will be made this year to young married couples and widowed and divorced persons with dependent children who have saved in an acceptable form for the acquisition of their homes. The Commonwealth's overall con tribution to housing has risen from Si 64m in 1960-61 to an estimated $288m in 1970- 71. With this help Australians are being better housed with each passing year. 
The next matter which has been proposed for investigation is the allocation of the Commonwealth finance between housing for private owners, rental housing, housing renovation and urban renewal projects. Whilst it is our policy to encourage and assist as many Australians as possible to own their own homes, we recognise that many families and individuals require rental accommodation at some stage of their lives. Our policy is to ensure that sufficient and adequate homes become available for those on the lower incomes and to offer them the choice of buying their own homes, if they can afford to do so with some Government assistance, or to rent a home. Given this choice, there is surely no problem in allocating funds between home ownership and home rental - or would the Opposition deny a family on a relatively low income the opportunity to own its own home, as it did under the 1945 agreement? 
The Commonwealth Government does not ordinarily make advances to private owners to carry out alterations, additions or renovations to their homes. This is a matter for private initiative and private borrowing, lt does, however, encourage and assist private owners to carry out alterations and additions by its offer to insure the repayment of second mortgage loans for these purposes. As for urban renewal projects, these may or may not include the acquisition and demolition of existing homes or the provision of new residential accommodation. Urban renewal can be a vast exercise involving the determination of new land uses and may include the provision of new social facilities in addition to the building of new commercial, industrial and office accommodation. Much urban renewal is being undertaken in Australia by private enterprise, although public authorities are playing some part in providing housing and new utility services. It is surely for the States themselves to decide how much, if any, of the housing advances the Commonwealth makes under the agreements which have been entered into is to be used to provide new Government housing that forms part of any urban redevelopment scheme. If some large part of the Commonwealth's finance were to be allocated to assist urban renewal schemes less could well be available to meet urgent housing needs. Once againI stress the word needs'. 
It has been suggested that an inquiry should be conducted into the extent to which the allocation of Commonwealth housing finance to the States should be made conditional upon compliance with standards of town planning and the provision of urban services. These standards of town planning and the provision of urban services are State matters.I am unaware of any request from any State for the Commonwealth to lay down such standards. In any case, are there generally accepted standards of town planning? Does the Opposition envisage new Commonwealth-State financial arrangements under which the Commonwealth would make special advances for the provision of urban services? 
The last matter into which an inquiry is sought is land costs. Notice was given of this matter only last Wednesday. Without drastic action of a very socialistic nature it would be impossible to control land costs near the centres of our capital cities. I think it is a well known and well recognised fact that the amount of land which is available within 5 or 10 miles of the centre of these cities cannot be increased. With a rising demand the cost of this land must increase. It is true that the States might develop more land on the outskirts of the cities and, by this means, slow down the rate of increase of land prices, but even this is likely to be temporary. Anyway, where is the money for this to come from? 
I have traversed in some detail the suggested matters of inquiry by the proposed standing committee. However, I want to make it quite clear that an inquiry of this nature would be most unlikely to serve any useful purpose. I believe that it would be a waste of time and effortto prepare a range of forecasts based on a number of differing assumptions. In conclusion I would point out that the Government is continuing to make progress in the field of housing. It is aware of the difficulty which many people are having in securing a home suited to their needs. It would be foolish and wrong to pretend that we have solved every problem, but no other country can. point to a better record and few can point to one nearly as good. The role of theCommonwealth in the field of housing isto do everything reasonable to help those in need of housing assistance and itwill continue to fulfil this role. It would not be appropriate for a Commonwealth committee to inquire into matters which arc the prerogative of a State without the invitation of that State and its local authorities. For these very obvious reasons, I ask the Senate to dismiss this motion as an irrelevant, time-wasting exercise. 
(10.53) - I shall refer the matters raised by  Senator Keeffe  to the Minister in charge of Aboriginal Affairs  (Mr Wentworth)  whom I represent in this chamber. The honourable senator has given us a very long list of problems which face people on Palm Island and in North Queensland. We all listened with concern because of the problems facing them. I. am unable to give any answer to him in relation to them, as he would be well aware. 1 did answer a question regarding  Mrs McEvoy  the other day but he has queried part of that answer from the Minister. 
Yes. You did query part of the answer. The points the honourable senator has now raised are very important and I assure him that I will take them up with the Minister,  Mr Wentworth,  discuss them with him and get what information I can for the honourable senator. I shall place before the Minister the strong case the honourable senator has made. 

 Senator Mulvihill has raised the matter of deserting seamen on another occasion. He discussed the conditions for crew members on Greek ships. The Department of Immigration is unable to give any information about conditions for crew members on Greek ships but I think  Senator Cotton,  who represents the Minister for Shipping and Transport  (Mr Nixon)  will have some information for the honourable senator. He implied that Greek seamen had been deserting only since the present regime came to power in Greece, or rather he felt that that was so in large measure. 
I have some figures here which are rather interesting. First of all, let me tell the honourable senator that Greek seamen have been deserting in large numbers for many years - well before the present regime came to power in Greece in 1967. The figures I have show that in 1963 there were 540 desertions, in 1964 there were 891, in 1965 there were 582, in 1966 there were 325, in 1967 there were 349 - I think that was the year in which the new regime came to power in Greece - in 1968 there were 323, in 1969 there were 464 and to 30th September 1970 there were 345. Those are rather large numbers of desertions and the majority of them occurred well before the period the honourable senator mentioned. 
The majority of deserters have had residence in. Australia as their main objective, wishing to avoid normal migration procedures and costs. The Minister for Immigration believes that this kind of malpractice clearly has to be discouraged or it will become more prevalent in the future. It is in Australia's interest as an exporting and importing nation, and in the interests of other maritime nations, to discourage a high desertion rate which can be detrimental to shipping movements. The figures indicate that that could be so, and the points made by the Minister are valid and important. It is true, as  Senator Mulvihill  has said and as I have said on previous occasions, that the Minister for Immigration exercises discretion to allow deserters to remain on humanitarian grounds, but obviously if shipboard conditions are bad the remedy lies elsewhere, not in condoning the practice of desertion by seamen from their ships in Australia. 
The honourable senator has raised 3 points. First of all, he wants a list of people who have been allowed to stay in Australia. I will put that to the Minister. 
Very well. I do not know what information 1 can get but I will take up the request. The honourable senator asked about the refugee seamen's agreement. I shall get what information I can on that. He asked also whether a seaman who had been deported from Australia could apply to come hack to Australia. 
SenatorMulvihill  -  I specified the 2 Lebanese who were the basis of my original complaint. How do they stand? 
It would be improper for me, without consulting the Minister to give an answer concerning 2 people because I do not know enough about the case, but the overall picture is that deserting seamen deported from Australia are not prevented from migrating to Australia subsequently if they can meet normal immigration requirements. That is why I cannot give an answer regarding 2 particular people. I would not know whether they could meet normal immigration requirements or not. I hope that what I have said will be helpful in answering the queries the honourable senator has raised.I will endeavour to get answers to the other questions. 
(8.33) -  I am informed by my advisers that the drafting does achieve the purpose that is required and is quite correct. 
(5.18) - My first reply to  Senator Webster  related to section 27d(1.). I omitted to mention sub-section (2.) of that section and for that I apologise. This new section concerns the auditing of the accounts of the 
Australian Broadcasting Control Board. Yesterday the honourable senator asked me whether the intention set out in section 27d (2.) appeared in other Acts of Parliament. I can inform him that the provision was taken almost verbatim from section 45b of the Audit Act. The effect of the proposed section 27o (2.) is to give to the Auditor-General the same powers as he has in respect of any of his normal Public Service audits. 
As the Minister in charge of this Bill, if I can manage to be heard, I will reply. 
The ACTING  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Laucke)  - The incident is closed. I now call  Senator Dame  Annabelle Rankin. 
I have listened to the speeches made yesterday and today in this debate. Many of the points raised by honourable senators may be more effectively dealt with at the Committee stage, and I will do so. I do not want honourable senators to think, if they are listening to me, that I have not noted the points they have made. I will attend to them at the Committee stage. One or two points that have been raised can be replied to now.  Senator McClelland  referred to a transaction affecting CTC7, Canberra, and John Fairfax Ltd. That transaction occurred 21 months before the Postmaster-General  (Mr Hulme)  announced on 12th December 1969 details of the new legislation, and it is therefore not really relevant. I think  Senator McClelland  believed that the transaction took place closer to the PostmasterGeneral's announcement. 
There may be some discrepancy. I have read the information I have been given and I shall have it checked immediately. I am not trying to give the Senate incorrect information. I am giving only the information thai 1 have been handed. 
I will take up the matter and see whether an error has occurred. That is the information I have been given.  Senator Kennelly  referred to 12th December as being the date under discussion. I remind him that an amendment has been moved and I shall deal with his point when we are debating the proposed amendment.  Senator Hannan  gave us a very interesting discourse concerning the work of the Australian Broadcasting Control Board. He made a very interesting point, which I have noted and will certainly take up with the Postmaster-General. I refer to his point about qualified privilege for commercial broadcasters in respect of obligatory political broadcasts. The point was well taken by the honourable senator and I shall bring his remarks to the attention of the Postmaster-General. 

 Senator Wriedt made some very complimentary remarks about the Australian Brodacasting Commission's radio programmes 'AM' and 'PM I am sure that the Commission is very much alive to the need to maintain and develop radio programmes as well as television programmes.  Senator Webster  referred to the Australian content of television programmes. Toe Australian Broadcasting Control Board issued advice of new and increased requirements to be effective from September 1971. These requirements provide for 45 per cent of programmes between 6 p.m. and 10 p.m. to be Australian, that proportion rising to 50 per cent in June 1972. The new requirements also provide for 6 hours of drama a month on each station between 6 p.m. and 10 p.m.  Senator Webster  asked questions at some length regarding sections of the legislation. If the honourable senator agrees I think these questions would be better answered at the Committee stage. I thank honourable senators for speaking on the variety of subjects they dealt with in the field of broadcasting and television. At the Committee stage I shall be pleased to answer what questions I can. I thank the Senate for its support in the second reading of the Bill. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. 
In Committee 
Clauses 1 to 4 - by leave - taken together, and agreed to. 
Clause 5. 
(5.12) - I have an amount of information whichI hope will cover the points raised by both honourable senators. Clause 5 repeals sections 26 and 27 of the Act and replaces them with new Division 4 which deals with the finances of the Australian Broadcasting Control Board. It deals with moneys payable to the Board, namely, banking, the application of moneys, the keepings of accounts, estimates of proposed expenditure and audit provisions. All of these matters represent the modern approach to financial legislation of this kind. The provisions of the Bill are the result of consultation and agreement between the Australian Broadcasting Control Board, the Treasury and the AuditorGeneral's office. The clause introduces nothing new except that it imposes an obligation on the Board to keep proper accounts and records and to furnish each year particulars of proposed expenditure for the forthcoming financial year. Neither of these matters is covered in the existing legislation which deals with the finances of the Board in a very cursory fashion when compared with more recent Acts. 
I have information which concerns points which have been raised in connection with proposed new sub-section 27o(2.). This proposed new sub-section relates to the audit of the accounts of the Australian Broadcasting Control Board. Proposed new sub-section 27d(I.) as proposed in the Broadcasting and Television Bill is in the standard form agreed upon wilh the Parliamentary Counsel.  Senator Webster  asked about examples of sections of other Acts which contain the same wording. Some of these are: The Australian Institute of Aboriginal Studies Act 1964, section 28: Aboriginal Enterprises (Assistance) Act 1968, section 12: Australian Tourist Commission Act 1967: Canberra College of Advanced Education Act; Science and Industry Research Act; Commonwealth Serum Laboratories Act; Australian Capital Territory Electricity Supply Act; and the National Library Act. The honourable senator also asked during his speech yesterday about amendments to sections 61 and 62 of the Act. I think this information is a little premature. Would the honourable senator like it now? 
That is so. T shall leave the points I have made. 
(5.34)  -  Clause 7 of the Bill seeks to amend section 40 of the Act to provide, inter alia, that the Australian Broadcasting Commission may delegate any of its powers, except the power of delegation and the power to appoint permanent staff, to any person employed by the Commission. The existing legislation limits the delegation of powers of the Commission to a Commissioner or the General Manager but this limitation has been found to be virtually unworkable in an organisation such as the Commission which is represented in all States of the Commonwealth. The delegation of the power to appoint permanent staff is in the main limited to a Commissioner or the General Manager. The Commission needs to be able to delegate certain powers quite freely. For example, the producers of various programmes must be able to authorise expenditure as necessary. Limiting powers to a Commissioner or the General Manager created an untenable position and in fact the Commission has had to resort to the device of issuing authorisations' to enable persons down the line lo exercise the powers they needed to exercise. This activity was not viewed very kindly by the Auditor-General's office, and because of this the present amendment has been made. 

 Senator Webster raised a point both yesterday and today in regard to my second reading speech. This matter has been mentioned already but I will refer to it again. The amendment is to facilitate the operations of the Commission, which is now a large organisation with a large staff, and the appointment of staff is not delegated beyond the General Manager. I think that shows the importance we attach to this question. It may be that the General Manager must approve all appointments. However, formal processes would take place lower down. The drafting of the section shows the importance attached to staff appointments. In answering further points raised by  Senator Webster,  I inform him that it seems necessary for the Commission to be able to select any employee to whom a task may be delegated.I believe that also refers to this particular amendment. 
Clause agreed to. 
Clauses 8 to 13 - by leave - taken together, and agreed to. 
Clause 14 (shares held by trustees of superannuation funds). 
(11.0) - I have noted the point raised by  Senator Mulvihill  and I will inform .the Minister for Immigration of his wishes. 
(10.15) - I have listened very carefully to  Senator McClelland's  speech. I recall that on an earlier occasion he expressed concern about Groote Eylandt. 
Yes. I understand from the correspondence quoted by  Senator McClelland  that further consideration has been given to the provision of increased medical services. I appreciate the point made by the honourable senator about this isolated area in which a number of people are engaged in industry. I understood the point he made about the possibility of an emergency arising. I will be pleased to place before the Minister for Health  (Dr Forbes)  the points raised by the honourable senator and his request for further assistance if that can be made available. I shall see that the Minister gets all the information referred to by the honourable senator. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
(5.35) - in reply - I thank all honourable senators who spoke during the debate on this Bill for their support and for the interest they have taken not only in this measure but in migration generally and the problems which face people who come to live in Australia. I noted the points made by  Senator Little  and his suggestions for overcoming the great language problem. I hope, as he does, that some solution to it will be found. We all recognise that it is a very difficult problem. 
Yes. The points raised by  Senator Little  are of great importance and I will ensure that they are brought to the notice of the Minister for Immigration  (Mr Lynch). Senator Mulvihill  raised a number of points. I will endeavour lo reply to each one. If the information I have is insufficient I shall endeavour to get further information from the Minister and convey it to the honourable senator. He queried the details of expenditure for 1970-71. For pre-embarkation and shipboard instruction S200,000 has been set aside. Other figures are as follows: Adult programme in Australia, Si. 4m; full time intensive courses, $600,000; child migrant education programme, $1.8m. The total is $4m. Those are round figures, merely approximations, but I think  Senator Mulvihill  will understand that they refer to the points he inquired about. 

 Senator Mulvihill spoke with real thought about maintaining enthusiasm and encouraging people to continue learning. The move to part time accelerated courses of instruction - that is in the mornings, afternoons and evenings - which condense into courses ranging from 16 to 20 weeks the former 18 months continuation programme, is intended to maintain interest and to avoid the high abandonment rate which has been a feature of the continuation programme. I think this is a very real problem. Some people feel the courses go on and on. I believe these accelerated courses will overcome this very real problem which  Senator Mulvihill  raised. The honourable senator referred to cooperation between State Departments of Education. I wish to inform him that under the adult programme an agreement between the Commonwealth and State governments in 1951 gave the State Departments of Education a specific role in the operation of the adult programmes. The new child programme requires substantial co-operation and activity on the part of State Departments of Education and of the independent school authorities. I think this answers the point he raised about co-operation in carrying out this programme. 

 Senator Mulvihill referred to the Canadian experience and asked whether I could provide some information on it. The Australian migrant education programme is not confined only to language instruction but includes also social and orientation courses. These commence in the source country before embarkation. This is an important point. We have some information on the Canadian practice but intend, when resources permit, to make a closer study of it and of practices in other large migrant receiving countries such as Israel. These matters are under consideration.  Senator Mulvihill  referred also to cassettes. They constitute one of the items of equipment which the Commonwealth provides to Government and independent schools under the child programme. The schools can select from an approved list the items of equipment which they find most suitable to their needs. Some of them prefer tape recorders and others prefer cassettes and other items of equipment. They do have the right of choice. The approved list is sent out and they select what they require from it. Naturally they select the equipment most suitable for the work they are trying to do. 

 Senator Mulvihill referred to parents and citizens associations and the work they do. I think all of us recognise the work done by these bodies throughout the Australian community. In replying to the comments  Senator Mulvihill  made I think I can well say that because of the extent to which the Commonwealth is now providing items of equipment and materials the resources of the various associations can be used for other purposes. This helps them in a very real way. The honourable senator was anxious to get some information about employers. 
You referred to the work being carried out by employers and I think you said that there was an inadequate response from industry. 
Classes at work sites have been part of the normal continuation programme for migrant education in the Australian community. Currently 70 classes are being held in factories in Sydney and Melbourne. They are held in the employees' time. We have been endeavouring to encourage employers to provide classes at work in the employers' time but so far there has been little response. Only recently we have interested the Building Workers Industrial Union, New South Wales Branch, in providing classes in the employers' time at building industry job sites in Sydney. Nevertheless the Department of Immigration has had useful discussions with representatives of employer federations and the trade unions. It is proposed also to develop special courses of instruction oriented to the needs of our particular industries - for example, underground workers in mining centres. It is believed that the education of migrant workers in both language and citizenship should be a normal part of the personnel management practice of all major employers of migrant labour, and I hope it will not be too long before this is a reality. I think we all recognise the importance of these points which have been raised. 

 Senator Davidson covered a great deal of what I intended to say in opposition to the amendment. I acknowledge his concern about many of the matters covered in this debate. I was interested in the points raised by  Senator Turnbull  and I want to refer to what he said about teacher training courses. These are being conducted in cooperation with the State Departments of Education and the Commonwealth Department of Education and Science. Usually these are of 4 weeks duration. They are designed to instruct the special teachers appointed by Government and independent schools in the particular requirements of teaching English as a second language to migrant children of varying ages. The training course involves also instruction in the socio-cultural backgrounds of migrant children. We believe that this understanding is important. Instruction also is given in the use of audio-visual and other essential items of equipment. The cost of the 10 training courses to be arranged this year will not exceed $30,000 and some 300 special teachers will have received this special training. I think that answers the point raised by  Senator Turnbull  about the training of teachers and the very excellent work they are doing in these particular areas which is so important for these people. It helps migrants to understand and to live in this country more happily. 
I want now to reply to comments made by  Senator Little.  I agree with his remarks rejecting the proposition put by  Senator Turnbull  not to admit migrants until they have some working knowledge of English. I think  Senator Little  answered that suggestion very effectively and I will say no more about it.  Senator Mulvihill  referred also to an air advisory committee. He proposed an advisory committee comprising representatives of ethnic groups. This matter needs a great deal of consideration. I noted the points he raised and I know of his interest in this subject. I think the best thing I can do is to put the points he raised before the Minister. I will report  Senator Mulvihills  concern about these things and I will get a detailed reply from the Minister. If I cannot give it to him personally I will see that the information is conveyed to him after this debate. 
Sitting suspended from 5.45 to 8 p.m. 
When the sitting was suspended I was replying to questions raised earlier by honourable senators relating to the Bill now before the Senate, and I had promised to refer to .the Minister for Immigration those questions which I felt I was not able to answer or which it was not proper for me to answer. I refer again to the amendment which has been moved by  Senator Mulvihill  and confirm that the Government, finding it totally unacceptable, opposes it. 
The Opposition has charged that there has been inordinate delay on the part of the Government in introducing a comprehensive programme of migrant education. I think that this was answered adequately by my colleague,  Senator Davidson.  I remind honourable senators that the proposed amendment ignores entirely the substantial measures which have been taken since the early days of postwar migration by this Government, and by its predecessor, to develop a comprehensive programme of migrant education. I remind honourable senators of the education officers who have been appointed in overseas countries, of shipboard education programmes, of continuation classes after the arrival of migrants and of the radio and correspondence courses which have been designed to reach adult migrant communities in Australia. These have been constantly under review. The position has never remained static. Surveys in concert with the States were involved and some time had to elapse to enable us to marshal the facts and to inform ourselves of the areas of need before programmes could be implemented. The surveys which were made were relevant not only to adult migrants but also to migrant children in the schools. 
As has been stated already in this House and by the Minister in another place, in February 1960 a special committee of the Commonwealth Immigration Advisory Council submitted a report on the progress and assimilation of migrant children in Australia. This involved a study of both pre-school children and children in primary and secondary schools, a survey of schools in which migrant children .were enrolled and consultation with the teachers who were dealing with these children very closely. It was the Department of Immigration, I remind the honourable senator, which took the initiative again in 1962 in conducting a survey of abandonment from migrant education classes in Victoria. In 1967 and 1968 further steps were initiated. There was the planning of a major survey of the education needs of both adult and child migrants. This led to the report which has been referred to previously on the situation of migrant children in schools in New South Wales and which has provided such an important basis for the new initiatives in child migrant education. Surveys were undertaken concerning the special needs of migrant women and of adolescent migrants. With the experience which has been gathered through the years, the steps which have been taken have led to the current policy designed to develop accelerated forms of instruction to supplement the long term continuation programme, and the need for specialisation through courses of instruction oriented towards the particular needs of individual groups of migrants. 
It is significant that it was not until towards the end of the 1960s that the States themselves began to appreciate the need for special and additional measures for migrant children. In large measure this situation has developed as a result of an increase in the intake of non-English speaking migrant families. There was also, as a result of the surveys undertaken, a much better appreciation of the very real problems which existed. It is wrong to say that nothing has been done because there has been continuing work, a continuing review and continued appreciation of what is required in our immigration programme. 
The second major point in the amendment concerns the lack of financial assistance for the provision of capital equipment, including buildings. This is a very important aspect and it is important, therefore, that I repeat to the House some points which the Minister has raised already because I believe that they should be placed before honourable senators. An opposition can always enjoy the luxury of criticising the Government for failing to spend money or to extend services. But after all, we have to accept the responsibility for raising the money to finance such programmes. Therefore, consistent with the funds available - this is the important thing - programmes have been developed which include the provision of capital equipment of the language laboratory type to all schools where special teachers are employed. 
This year expenditure on migrant education represents an increase of 166 per cent over the funds available last financial year. The funds available this financial year have been sufficient to provide equipment at 277 schools. This does not represent all of the schools where special teachers are employed, but I think it is important to note that the first need is for special teachers, for essential teaching and learning materials, and teaching aids of the less sophisticated type. Laboratory type equipment also is desirable and of very great advantage in teaching those pupils although it is not essential. 
To this stage the Government has not been able to accept that buildings, and classrooms in particular, should be a charge to the migrant education vote. There are reasons for this with which I will deal in a moment. First let me say that immigration is not totally a Commonwealth responsibility. It is a partnership with the States. While the States have had the responsibility for bearing the costs of the social infra-structure resulting from immigration, they have not called for any halt in the programme. The Government maintains that funds for classrooms are not a proper charge to the migrant education vote for several reasons. Firstly, funds under the programme are not without limit. In response to the requirements of the States the funds available have already been fully committed in meeting teachers' salaries and in providing schools with language laboratory type equipment. Secondly, the accommodation requirements of schools cannot be attributable only to newly arriving migrant children. Expenditure on additional classroom space is appropriately a charge to the States' capital works votes. Thirdly, as a result of decisions taken at the June 1970 Loan Council meeting, the States received a substantial increase in 1970-71 in funds available for capital works. Finally, current restraints on 
Government spending provide further support for the view that immigration funds should not be used to finance capital works in the States. 
I thank those honourable senators who have spoken in support of the legislation. I inform the Senate again that the Government opposes the amendment which has been moved by  Senator Mulvihill  and supported by members of his Party. The Bill before the House is a very important one. The work that is being done by the Department of Immigration, by the people who are teaching migrant children and by the people who are assisting adult migrants in the great difficulties which confront them in a new land is of tremendous importance. Not only are we assisting the migrants in the field of education, we are helping them also to live happily and to enjoy their lives as citizens of this country. I thank the Senate for having speedily accepted the legislation. 
Question put: 
That the words proposed to be added  (Senator  Mulvihill's amendment) be added. 
(8.17) - I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
The intention of this Bill is to amend the financial provisions of the Overseas Telecommunications Act 1946-1968 to provide for the implementation of revised financial arrangements between the Commonwealth and the Overseas Telecommunications Commission as from 1st April 1970. The section of the Act relating to retirement conditions are also to be amended with this Bill. The financial arrangements between the Commission and the Commonwealth have been governed by the provision of the Overseas Telecommunications Act, which arc essentially unchanged since being drafted at the Commission's inception over 24 years ago. Finance has been provided by Treasury advances on terms fixed by the Treasurer, which have always included liability for interest. Income which the Commission may accrue was exempted from taxation and the derived net profit from the Commission's operations has been used each year as directed by the Postmaster-General following the concurrence of the Treasurer. Up to and including 1967-68 the direction has been that the net profit be retained by the Commission. 
In the first 151/2 years of the Commission's operation, Treasury advances totalled $4.4m and retained profits in the same period only $4.7m. Six years later, however, the retained profit had risen to$29.5m whilst Treasury advances totalled $22.5m. Such was the position as at 31st March 1968. This significant change, coming as a direct result of the employment of coaxial submarine telephone cables and satellite communications as well as an increasing use of services provided by the Commission, has emphasised the need for a review of the financial arrangements. Despite tariffs that compare more than favourably with world rates, and a relatively heavy and continuing programme of capital expenditure on new and replacement assets, there has been a significant build-up of cash from profits and depreciation recoveries. In these circumstances,  Mr President,  it is proposed that the financial relations between the Commission and the Commonwealth be altered to provide: (a) that the nature of the Commonwealth's investment in the Commission be varied - from interest-bearing Treasury advances to capital; (b) that the Commission's income be subject to taxation; (c) that in lieu of the interest that has been paid in the past on Treasury advances, a dividend be paid each year on capital. A commencing rate of 7i per cent is proposed; and (d) that the Commission's requirements for new capital investment, additional to retained profits, be provided from the Budget or from authorised borrowings. 
Conversion of existing Treasury advances to capital and transference from the Commission's retained past profits of an amount sufficient to bring the initial capital to S35m will achieve the reconstruction of the capital structure. At present Treasury advances to the Commission stand at S17.5m, following repayment of $5m to the Treasury in 1968. The proposals were designed for introduction in the financial year which began on 1st April 1968 but, for a number of reasons, this was not achieved. On the recommendation of the Commission, and with Treasury concurrence, the Postmaster-General directed that in respect of the profit derived from that year, $6.47m be paid to the Commonwealth Treasury. This represented a payment in lieu of income tax and of a dividend on the Commonwealth's funds employed. For the year ended 31st March 1970 provision has been made similarly for a payment of $6.9 lm to Treasury. 
The proposed financial arrangements are similar to those for other Commonwealth statutory business undertakings. It is anticipated that the Commission will require only modest drawings of new capital from the Commonwealth whilst there will be from time to time a need for a review of the level of capital. There is provision in the Bill that the Postmaster-General, with concurrence of the Treasurer, may direct the Commission to transfer further amounts to the capital account from retained profits.  Mr President,  the Bill also seeks to amend section 24 of the Overseas Telecommunications Act. This section determines the conditions under which the retired. Whilst prescribing a maximum age of 65 years for male officers, female Commission's officers may retire or be officers at the present time must retire on attaining the age of 60 years. This restriction on female officers is to be removed and, in cases suitable to the Commission an officer, male or female, who has attained the age of 65 years may continue in the Commission's service for a period not exceeding 12 months. These amendments provide conditions which are similar to existing provisions in the Commonwealth Public Service Act. I commend the Bill to honourable senators. 
Debate (on motion by  Senator Willesee)  adjourned. 
(5.47) - I have listened to the amendment moved by  Senator Willesee  for the alteration of certain words in proposed new section 52 (3.). I inform the Committee that the Government does not oppose the amendment. 
(4.8) - Following on the comments that he made when this Bill was last discussed at the Committee stage,  Senator Murphy  has moved a slightly altered amendment which we have approved. The Government does not oppose this amendment, as it embodies a principle which has already been accepted by the Senate in relation to this type of matter. 1 also inform the Senate that I propose to move a further amendment in relation to salaries and remuneration after  Senator Murphy's  amendment has been dealt with. 
I foreshadow the following amendment to clause 2: 
After sub-clause (1.), insert the following subclause: (1a.) The amendments of the Principal Act effected by sections 4a and 6a, and by sub-section (2.) of section 8, of this Act shall take effect on the twenty-eighth day after this Act receives the Royal Assent. 
This will give the officers time to look at these matters so that the regulations can be made. As the regulations cannot be made until after the amendments come into force, there could be a substantial period in which the remuneration, salary and allowances could not validly be paid. It would therefore be desirable to postpone the commencement of the amendments to obtain sufficient breathing space to enable the regulations to be drafted. This means that the area which would otherwise be not covered will be covered. 
(5.44) - in reply - I thank the 2 honourable senators for the support which they indicated for the legislation.  Senator Willesee  foreshadowed an amendment which he will move in the Committee stage. 1 will reply to the proposed amendment at that stage.  Senator Byrne  inquired about the Treasury advances of $ 17.5m and the S 17.5m from general revenue reserves, which total S35m. He was concerned about the balance of SI2m in the general reserves. 1 inform him that this balance is to be used for future developments, the cost of which could be quite heavy over the next few years as developments in cables and satellites are extended. That is the reason for keeping these reserves. I think that covers all the points that we noted. 
The honourable senator also referred to the possibility of more consideration of this kind of business taking place. He suggested that the Senate committees which have been set up and are now in operation could be interested in this matter. 1 shall make certain that the points raised are conveyed to the Minister who administers this legislation. I thank honourable senators for the passage they have given to the legislation. When points are raised in Committee, I. shall reply to them al that stage. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. 
In Committee 
The Bill. 
Almost 25 years ago now I made my first speech in this chamber from the position in which  Senator Wilkinson  sits today. I think I am more terrified today than I was then - and that is saying a lot. I thank all those who have spoken today for the very kind things they have said. I thank  Senator Wright  especially for his reference to my late father. All these things I appreciate tremendously. I appreciate,  Mr President,  the guidance you have given us on all the occasions on which we have wanted it. I express my appreciation to the Clerks of the Senate and the members of the staff, including the members of the Hansard staff who very often put the word better by pen than we can by mouth. 
Since I came here there have been many changes. When I came I was one of 3 senators in Opposition, as has been recorded. Those who were here in government in those days will remember that we battled very hard. The going was very hard, but we made friends with each other and with those who were in government. We learnt to understand what Parliament meant;  that  people could argue and disagree inside and be firm friends outside. This is tremendously important. As  Senator Byrne  said, during the time I have been here there have been 5 different Prime Ministers. There have also been several Leaders on both sides of the Senate. I pay tribute to them all. I pay tribute to our present Leader,  Senator Sir Kenneth  Anderson. There has never been a better 
Leader of the Government in the Senate. He has understood what people feel. He has created team work which I believe all of us consider has been of benefit to the Senate and those who have served in it. 
I appreciate what the people of Queensland did in sending me to serve my country in this place. I hope that today there are people whose lives may be a little better or a little happier because of what 1 have been able to do to help them along the road of life. I think that would be the wish of all of us who have served here. To all my- colleagues who are leaving the Senate I extend my best wishes. They have all contributed, a great deal. To those who are staying behind I say: 'I wish you good health and good fortune'. I thank you all, whether you are on this side of the chamber or the other, for what you have contributed to make my life in this place happy and hard working, and at times even difficult. In the argument of debate and in the searching inquiry of your questions you have helped me to contribute more. I thank you for that. But above all else, I thank you foi* your friendship. Wherever we are from this day forward, whatever our tasks may be, you and I who have served together in this chamber will be linked by memory. We will not forget each other, and the link will be strengthened, I believe, by the friendships which we have formed. Thank you very much for all that you have said, and thank you for your assistance and your friendship. 
