My question is directed to the Leader of the Government in the Senate, not to the Minister representing the Postmaster-General. The reason for this will be made clear in the last part of my question. Is it a fact that the Australian Broadcasting Commission and commercial television stations will combine their television coverage of the Royal visit which begins on 30th March? ls it also a fact that coverage of the Queen's arrival in Australia and the subsequent arrivals in each State and the Australian national capital will be shown nationally, with the exception of Western Australia which is to be excluded specifically from the programmes shown in the eastern States? Does this exclusion of one-third of Australia apply also to the television coverage of the Royal visit to the Captain Cook bicentenary exhibition in Melbourne on 6th April? Why has Western Australia been denied this coverage when that State has been excluded totally from the Royal tour and not one member of the Royal family will visit it. Will the Leader of the Government ask the Prime Minister to intercede on behalf of the people of Western Australia to see that they do get this coverage? 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for the Interior. Can the Minister tell me where was the centre of the earthquake or earth tremor which occurred in Canberra last night and which gave a reading of 3 on the Richter scale? Have there been any reports of any damage caused? 
I seek leave to make a statement. 
The DEPUTY PRESIDENT - There being no objection, leave is granted. 
-I sought leave to correct what I believe is a grave injustice done to a witness who appeared before the Senate Select Committee on Drug Trafficking and Drug Abuse in Australia. I speak as a member of that Senate Select Committee. The Committee sat for 4 days last week in Sydney. Arising out of those sittings emanated what I believe is a shocking piece of misreporting. To my knowledge it appeared only in the'Canberra Times'. It is my belief that this news item was supplied by a news agency and that the newspaper did not have its own reporter present. This still does not absolve the newspaper from responsibility for its reporting. On Thursday, 28th May,  Mr Bobby  Limb, who is a well known television personality in Australia, appeared before the Senate Select Committee and gave evidence about an hourlong colour film he was to produce. The whole of the proceeds from the film, which it is hoped to sell overseas as well as in Australia, are to go to the Commonwealth Government to be used for the setting up of clinics to treat drug affected people. I will not read all  Mr Limb's  evidence from the transcript but I must read the pertinent part to show that he was misreported. 

 Mr Limb in the course of his evidence to the Committee about this film said he had approached a number of people who were going to co-operate and give their services free to produce this film. One of them was  Dr Harry  Bailey who is a well known psychiatrist in Sydney.  Dr Bailey  spoke to  Mr Limb  of a girl who, for the purpose of the exercise, was known as Sonia.  Mr Limb  said: 

 Dr Bailey told me how she became hooked on drugs. She started at 13 years of age. . . . Sonia was deeply depressed. She was a very clever girl but she was depressed. She started off at a party when she was 13. She was a little depressed and a young man, a pusher, noticed this and that she was one who could be susceptible to drugs. She was given 4 amphetamines and from there she went on and on until she was taking 40 amphetamines a day. Then she went on to heroin and she was subjected to tremendous atrocities at Paddington. This shocked me tremendously. 

 Senator Wheeldon, a member of the Committee, interjected and said: 
When you say she was subjected to atrocities, what do you mean? 

 Mr Limb replied: 
Initiation ceremonies. 
I ask the Senate  to  please listen to this next part: 
This comes not from her but from our interviews with  Dr Bailey. 
That was the interview  Mr Limb  had with  Dr Bailey.  That is where he obtained the information.  Senator Wheeldon  said: 
This was some type of club, was  it; 

 Mr Limb replied: 
It was a pad at Paddington. She would clock on at school and then she would go to this place at Paddington and there she was initiated by 12 men in purple hoods around her and she stood in the middle of the floor. The whole floor was covered with mattresses and she was subjected to tremendous atrocities when she was 14 or15 years of age. 
I have put that part in because whatI am going to refer to relates to the atrocities. 
But  I  again remind the Senate  that  Mr Limb  said that this information came not from her but from his interview with  Dr Bailey.  That was the evidence, f did not arrive in Canberra until the Saturday, 1 was shocked to read the report  in  the 'Canberra Times' of Friday, 29th May. The heading is important because it says: 
TV man tells of 'atrocities on girl'. 
The heading is in quite large type. The article states: 
Sydney, Thursday.- Television personality Bobby Limb spoke today of 'atrocities' carried out on a teenage girl drug addict by a dozen men al Paddington. 
Please listen to this next paragraph  which  states: 
Limb said he had witnessed the atrocities on a 14-year-old girl in a Paddington flat. He said they had been carried out by 12 men in purple hoods. 
Having read that I was so distressed that 1 thought the least I could do was write a letter to the editor of the 'Canberra Times', which I did. 1 thought it was in fairly temperate language, I wrote: 
I have read your report in the 'Canberra Times' of 29th May under the heading T.V. Man Tells of Atrocities on Girl' which purports lo report evidence given before the Senate Select Committee on Drug Trafficking and Drug Abuse in Sydney on Thursday, 28th May. Your report states that  Mr Limb  said he hud witnessed atrocities committed on a 14-year old girl in a Paddington flat. 
As a member of the Committee who heard this evidence and who has the advantage of later checking it wilh the official transcript of evidence, 1 would like to flatly deny thai  Mr Limb  said that he had 'witnessed' this incident. In fact, the evidence was clear that  Mr Limb  had been told of this by a Sydney psychiatrist. 
Mi Limb is performing a great public service in endeavouring to produce, with the help of a number of colleagues, a film directed to countering the drug problem, lt is in the course of his research for this film that this story was related to him. 
I believe it is in the public interest for parliamentary committees to be open to the Press but at the same time I believe this places responsibility on the Press representative to fairly and accurately report evidence placed before the Committee. I trust thai you will take action lo correct this unfortunate incident. 
Honourable senators can imagine my surprise yesterday morning when I opened the newspaper and found that not one word of my letter was printed. Because I was an interested person I read through the newspaper 3 times before I found this paragraph, which 1 now show to honourable senators, stuck in the bottom left hand corner of page 3 and with only the heading Corrections'. It read: 
report supplied by a news agency and published on Friday, 29th May, said incorrectly that television personality  Mr Bobby  Limb had told the Senate Select Committee on Drug Trafficking and Drug Abuse that he had witnessed atrocities committed on a girl drug addict. In fuel.  Mr Limb  gave evidence that he had been told of the incident by a Sydney psychiatrist. 
hold the 'Canberra Times' in very high regard. 
No; I believe that this is something that perhaps slipped through. The report came from an outside agency. But it is still inexcusable that it did slip through. As far as reporting is concerned, f have reached the stage where f wonder how wise it is for us to permit people to bc present at some of these hearings. If this sort of thing goes on, committees of inquiry will never have any witnesses coming forward voluntarily because potential witnesses will be frightened that they will be misreported. Then we will have to resort to issuing subpoenas. 1 raised this matter, first of all, because it was a scare headline that everybody would read and, secondly, because the newspaper may consider that it has now fixed the whole matter up by printing a very small correction. However, in seeking the opinions of a number of people here in Parliament House who read newspapers fairly avidly, I found that practically every person to whom I spoke had seen the original report damning  Mr Limb  as a man who would stand there and watch 12 men commit atrocities on a 14-year-old girl and do nothing about it; but, although the newspaper turned round and printed that small correction, of the people who saw the original report I did not strike one who saw the correction. So, with the permission of members of the Senate, I have taken this action  to  try to put the record straight.  Mr Limb  did not witness this incident. He was not a party to it. He was badly and incorrectly reported. 
In accordance with the provisions of the Public Works Committee Act 1969, I present the report relating to the following proposed work: 
Archives Repository at Villawood, New South Wales. 
I will only be about  a  minute, but I feel what I have to say should bc said. I would say, as one who has not participated in the luncheon today, that we have seen the Senate reduced to a farce and brought into ridicule. T say this because we agreed sometime ago to extend the sitting hours of the Senate to avoid late night sittings, which we all deplore, and to stop the accumulation of Bills towards the end of a session. 1 think that was a laudable thing that we did as a Senate. But what do we see? We see the Opposition manoeuvring motions lo frustrate the business of the Senate. 
All right. I have great respect for you personally. J consider your motion,  Senator Bishop,  is an important motion but I do not consider it is an urgent motion. I put it to  Senator Bishop  in all temperance: Why did it not take precedence over other motions, which I consider innocuous, of urgency and importance that you have moved over the last 10 weeks? 
 Just wait a minute,  Senator, because  I think you may be surprised by what I am about to say. We agreed to sit on Friday to try to get through the business of the Parliament before the end of the session. It was an honest endeavour on your part and our part to try to get this done. But what happened? We take the whole of the morning of a Friday to deal with a matter of importance but not a matter of urgency. 
I believe it is not a matter of urgency, and I am prepared to test this. I hope I have provoked you sufficiently so that you will answer me when I sit down. 
I put it to you that if the Opposition is quite serious- 
The  DEPUTY PRESIDENT-  Order! The honourable senator will direct his remarks to the Chair. 
I beg your pardon,  Sir. I  will now do so. I put it to you,  Sir, that  if the Opposition is serious, why is it not prepared to debate the Bills that are before the Senate? Is it running away by using the forms of the Senate to curtail the debates of these important measures that are before us? If honourable senators provoke me I will quote the titles of the 34 Bills that are on the notice paper. 
I have no wish to do so but I will if you provoke me. I wonder whether the Opposition is using delaying tactics so that it can say at the end of the session - and I will guarantee it will do this - that it did not have sufficient time to debate these matters, when in fact it was its calculated action to delay the debate on these issues. Having said that- 
All right. I am not worrying about endorsement. 
It is no concern of mine because I am not even a candidate for endorsement. Would honourable senators please bear with me because I think what I have to say might be of interest to them. The Opposition and the Government - does that please you? - are entirely wrong if they vote to adjourn the Senate now. 
I am. Who do you think I am speaking for? 
The  DEPUTY PRESIDENT-  Order! The honourable senator should direct his remarks to the Chair; otherwise he will be in a lot of trouble. 

 - Mr Deputy President, I think the Opposition and the Government are entirely wrong if they vote to adjourn the Senate now. If we condone the actions of the Opposition- when I say we' I mean the Government- we do so at our own risk. Surely the Opposition's job is to put the Government on the defensive. That is its sole function. I put it to the Senate that the Opposition acted quite correctly. But if we play into the Opposition's hands and adjourn now we will have allowed the Opposition to achieve the objective which it set this morning. I appeal to honourable senators on the Government side of the chamber to show their sincerity by opposing the motion for the adjournment of the Senate. I believe that the Senate should sit tonight in order to deal with some of the business which is before it. 
If honourable senators opposite do not agree with the proposal to sit tonight they can go home because I assure them that as long as there are 20 senators present - there are 20 on this side - the Senate can deal with the legislation which is before it. If honourable senators on this side of the chamber are serious about the responsibility they have of governing the country they should vote against the motion for the adjournment of the Senate and get on with the business of governing, which is the purpose for which we are here. Through you,  Mr Deputy President,  I say to  Senator Devitt  in a temperate way that today's sitting has been a waste of time and an exercise in political expediency. I shall oppose the motion for the adjournment of the Senate. Would any honourable senator on either side of the chamber who disagrees with me please stand up now and say so. All honourable senators who are serious - - I stress the word 'serious' - about the business of the Senate should either stand up and say that they are not in favour of what I have said or vote in support of me. 
As a brother officer, an old Service comrade, and one who was a prisoner of war with Billy Kent Hughes, I support everything that has been said about him. I think that if Billy Kent Hughes had to go, this is the way he would want to go - not being sick but being, up till the last minute, alert, agile and as forceful as he always had been. He was a great Australian and a great soldier. I salute him. 
In accordance with the provisions of the Public Works Committee Act 1969, I present the reports relating to the following proposed works: 
Mail Exchange Building at Adelaide, South Australia; 
National Standards Laboratories, Bradfield Park, New South Wales; 
Development of Freight Aprons, Taxiways, Runway Extension and Engineering Services at Melbourne Airport. 
asked the Minister  representing the Postmaster-General, upon notice: 
In view of Report No. 5/1970, Berlin Information, which draws attention to the Telephonic 
Health Services Report of Success' and which points out that 100,000 telephone calls to this service have been made in West Berlin in the last 12 months, would the Postmaster-General consult with the Minister for Health and give consideration to introducing a similar system in Australia, whereby subscribers could call for information on such subjects as those in the system operating in Berlin, for example (a) early recognition of cancer, (b) diabetes, (c) child care, (d) poliomyelitis, (e) health tips for travellers, (f) diet for the elderly, (g) dental care, (h) the misuse of drugs, (i) tips for expectant mothers, (j) the noxious effect of nicotine, and (k) the dangers of left-over drugs in medicine cupboards. 
The Post Office is prepared to co-operate with the Department of Health, or any other interested body, in providing message services for the public. The Post Office is aware of the medical health hints service operating in several large cities throughout Western Germany. There are certain conditions to be met concerning the length of a message which are necessary to avoid exchange congestion inconveniencing other telephone users. An approach will be made to the Department of Health to assess the feasibility of the Post Office providing a similar type of service. 
In accordance with the provisions of the Public Works Committee Act 1969, I present the report relating to the following proposed work: 
Engineering Services to Sub-Divisions of Racecourse West, Morris Soak and Bradshaw Drive at Alice Springs, Northern Territory. 
In accordance with the provisions of the Public Works Committee Act 1969, I present the reports relating to the following proposed works: 
Augmentation of electrical supply system, central city area at Darwin, Northern Territory, and 
Augmentation of town water supply at Alice Springs, Northern Territory- 
In accordance with the provisions of the Public Works Committee Act 1969, I present the report relating to the following proposed work: 
Transportable Houses and Classroom at Exmouth, Western Australia. 
In accordance with the provisions of the Public Works Committee Act 1969, I present the report relating to the following proposed work: 
Development of Avalon Airport (Victoria) to Boeing 747/Concord Standard. 
 -In  accordance with the provisions of the Public Works Committee Act 1969, I present the reports relating to the following proposed works: 
Development of the Port of Darwin, Northern Territory. 
Point Peron - Garden Island Causeway (Naval Support Facility, Cockburn Sound), Western Australia. 
1 address ray question to the Minister representing the Prime Minister. As it is almost 15 months since the Twenty-seventh Parliament met, on 25th November 1969, can the Minister explain the delay in the production of the Parliamentary Handbook for the Twentyseventh Parliament? When will it be distributed to senators and members? 
The honourable senator has directed his question to me in my capacity as representative of the Prime Minister. 1 am not sure that the Parliamentary Handbook is a responsibility of the Prime Minister's Department, lt may be within the administration of the Presiding Officers. As I will need an opportunity to confer with the Presiding Officers, the question should bc placed on the notice paper. 
-In accordance with the provisions of the Public Works Committee Act 1969,I present the report relating to the following proposed work: 
Yirara ResidentialCollege for Aboriginal Students. Alice Springs, Northern Territory. . 
First of all, I would like to thank the members of the Opposition and of the Australian Democratic Labor Party whom I believe have agreed that 1 should speak at this stage. There is a good reason for it in that I will not be here when the report is to be debated. It would be right at this stage that I should pay a personal tribute to  Senator Marriott  for the dedicated and impartial way in which he conducted this inquiry. I think we all realise that this was a controversial subject but he managed to weld together a team of people, despite our differences when we started, which produced what is almost a unaminous report. I respect my 2 colleagues who saw fit to make certain observations. I would remind the Senate that they are observations and not dissenting reports. As I have said it is a controversial subject and I think that  Senator Marriott  did a remark- able job in welding us together as a team. Before leaving that side of the matter I want to pay a personal tribute to  Mr Arthur  Higgins who in the last 15 months just lived with the task of producing a report of which the Senate would be proud. 
1 take the interjection from my friend  Senator Cavanagh  but 1 would not want it to be taken the wrong way.  Mr Higgins  would never need drugs to do the sort of job he did. 1 found this a fascinating and absorbing inquiry because it dealt with people. They were troubled people; that is the point. As we went along we found that these people were at odds with society. They apparently could not fit, as I believe all of us ought to try to fit into what I say is the accepted way of life. We were dealing with people who just did not fit into it. They needed some help - a crutch - and their crutch was drugs. Those drugs varied from simple analgesics - for the benefit of people who do not know, an analgesic is simply an aspirin, Bex powder or APC taken to make one feel well - right through the whole gamut to heroin. This was the crutch they sought in order to fit into a society that they found difficulty in living with. 
One witness who impressed me greatly said that there was no such thing as addictive drugs, only addictive people. I ask honourable senators to think of that statement again: There is no such thing as addictive drugs, there are only addictive people. That remark impressed me so much that from then on I pursued the line of asking witnesses whether they agreed with it. A number of men eminent in their professions did agree with it. I think the remark was exaggerated to make a point but nevertheless I believe that the pressures of our present day society do create addictive people. I am convinced that one of the factors causing this is the overcrowding in big cities. One of the biggest single causes of drug abuse is the fact that we tend to live in an affluent society where there is overcrowding, pressure and tension as a result of centralising people in big cities. This has been proved. Anybody who gets around to reading the transcript of evidence will find that the greatest incidence of drug abuse is in the big cities. We did not find much drug addiction in small country centres, but we found it in the bigger country centres. When you crowd people together, under the pressure of modern day living they will escape in some way and they escape to drugs in some form. The people who will be in the Senate when I leave it will have to look into what should be done about planning. 
There is another factor. I do not know whether my fellow Committee members agree with me but I felt that some addiction was due to pressure by parents on their children to succeed academically. In the affluent 1970s in which we live there seems to be pressure by parents on their children to conform to the idea of. having their own home and a 2-car garage. A lot of young people revolt over this. They protest against our perhaps square belief that the thing we ought to be trying to achieve is financial security. Their form of revolt is pretty drastic. They say: 'No, we do not want this. You may want it. You may like it. But we do not want it.' They have a slap at Dad and Mum. They revolt and turn to drugs perhaps as an experiment. Fortunately in most cases we found that after these young people reached the age of 25 years because of responsibilities they may have accepted such as marriage or perhaps promotion in a job they gave away the more spectacular type of drugs. I believe and I say with deep sincerity to my colleagues, that the tragedy of affluence is that it breeds boredom. By far the greatest number of people who resort to drugs of some sort are people who are bored with their lot. The great majority of people who are resorting to drugs in some form are over the age of 35. 
I believe - I speak from experience - that in times gone by when one was battling to make a crust and rear a family I never heard of drugs other than the legally accepted drugs, alcohol and tobacco. We were all far too busy trying, as I said, to rear a family and make a living. At the end of a hard day's work we were probably all far too tired to be bored. Society has created this problem and society has to cure it. But society cannot do that in any other way because it is a people's problem not a drug problem. I think that as legislators we have a direct responsibility in this matter. This is a serious problem and anybody who is going to read this report should look at page 85. 
It contains 6 simple lines under the heading: Causes of Drug Abuse'. I shall read those 6 lines but I am going to emphasise 3 of them out. They state:  lack of awareness of the dangers of drugs- 
I am convinced that people are not aware of the dangers of drugs -  the affluent society; the stresses of modern life; the personality factor; the living environment; and advertising and the news media. 
The 3 aspects which one must look at in the future in an affluent society are (1) the stresses of modern life which I believe are a big factor as to why people try to escape; (2) boredom; and (3) the living environment. I believe they are the 3 real factors which cause drug abuse. If honourable senators look at the Committee's recommendations I think they must turn to No. 8. It is a simple, short recommendation and it states: 
The living environment. The priority being placed on growth, development and material wealth should be critically examined so that greater resources may be devoted to improving the living environment of the community. 
I do not think I can stress that recommendation enough. I have already said that I subscribe to the fact that there are not addictive drugs but there are addictive people. What makes addictive people? I have canvassed that point enough. I want to pay personal thanks to  Senator Cavanagh  who was most conscientious in his attendance at meetings. Whenever I found myself with a problem of what I shall call conscience', in respect to the inquiry, I discussed it with the  Chairman  first. I would then turn to my friend Jim Cavanagh and he would always suggest a realistic solution to the particular problem. He showed a capacity to ask himself how he would deal with the problem if he were confronted with it. I found that approach to be of great assistance and I publicly place on record that he greatly assisted me. 
I personally hope that this report will not be placed in a pigeon-hole. I do not think it will, but even if that does happen, the Committee has achieved something by making people aware of the drug problem. I spent about 4 months in the United States of America and I would not like to have reared 4 sons to live in a community such as I saw there. The Committee has justified its appointment because people have become aware of the problem. Journalists who for a long time have been writing about drug abuse may have been given a little hope from our public meetings that the Australian people will be made aware of the extent of the problem. I do not think that the problem is out of hand at present, but it could get that way if we did not take steps to remedy the situation. I believe that members of this Parliament will be very grateful to  Senator Marriott  and his Committee for the wide coverage and examination of what has become a terribly important matter in Australia. 
 Mr President  and all honourable senators who have spoken about us, I thank you. I want to express my thanks to all my colleagues throughout the chamber for the friendships I have made while I have been here. I have believed always that life is far too short for us to make all the friends that we want to make. If we believe that, we must believe also that life is far too short to waste time in making an enemy. I hope I leave here without having made an enemy. My thanks go to all the staff who have been so courteous and friendly. They have been willing to help at all times. They have infinite patience which at times must have been pretty sorely tried. All of us are only transients in this chamber - there comes a time when each one has to leave - but I believe the staff is a permanent institution, and that is a good thing. I think that the internal management of this place is in very good and capable hands. 
It has been a great privilege to work with all of you, but I want to pay a special tribute to my Leader,  Senator Sir Kenneth  Anderson. I have fought alongside him  both in war and in peace.  Sir Kenneth  has been Leader of the Government in the Senate in the most difficult times - far more difficult, I believe, than those of the 6  or  7  other leaders under whom I have served.  Sir Kenneth  has had to lead without a majority, and that is a mighty difficult thing to do. I believe he has led successfully because he possesses two virtues: The first is that he is a complete gentleman; the second is that he is completely trustworthy. The highest thing you can say about a political colleague is that he is a gentleman whom you can trust. I will miss you all very much on the political level, but I hope to see you quite often in this place as friends. To all of you whom I leave here to carry on the work of Parliament in this institution I say: Remember always that you will never go far wrong, both in legislating and in the treatment of your colleagues, if you stick to the old axiom that has stood the test of time: Do unto others as you would like them to do unto you. Thank you for what you have said. 
 I will hold the Senate for only a minute or two. I believe I owe my colleagues, the Senate and the people an explanation of why this morning I did not ask the Senate to call on the adjourned debate on General Business Order of the Day No. 23 resulting from the motion that I moved yesterday. That motion is as follows: 
That the Committee of Privileges inquire into and report upon the question as to how the 'Sunday Review' and the 'Sunday Australian' obtained and published the information upon which was based the articles which were referred to the Committee and which have been found to be a breach of privilege. 
I shall give the reasons why I did not ask the Senate to call on the adjourned debate. My first reason is that I am of the opinion that it would have been improper for the Senate to debate my motion prior to the  Deputy  President's reprimanding  Mr Walsh  and  Mr Rothwell  at 2.15 this afternoon. That was one of the main reasons. My second reason is that I am of the opinion that as a private member I should not attempt to interpose General Business while the Senate is dealing with Government Business. 
Never mind about that. We will come to that. It is a different point. I desire to make it quite clear to  Senator Cavanagh  and all other honourable senators that immediately the Senate has disposed of the remaining Bills on the notice paper I intend to seek the leave of the Senate to have my motion disposed of before the Senate adjourns for the winter recess. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
