I wish to ask a question of the Minister for Primary Industry. Will the Minister give consideration to making a recommendation for the relaxation of the eligibility criteria for the reconstruction scheme- the tree-pull schemefor export apples because of the failure of the scheme in the past? Is he also aware that growers of export apples, because of Government revaluations and the floating of the pound sterling, face a reduction in gross returns of 33 1/3 per cent or up to $2 per bushel on the main UK market this year compared with a similar period last year? 
Can the Minister representing the Minister for Housing and Construction explain how the proposed national housing insurance scheme could operate at one-quarter or one-eighth of the current rates? Does he envisage (a) the proposed scheme paying fire brigade charges, (b) the proposed scheme having the same type of cover as is currently available, or (c) that the existing home insurance companies are making exorbitant profits? Is he aware that thousands of country people today pay up to 30 per cent of their premiums in fire brigade charges for a service they can never obtain? 
My question, which is directed to the Minister for Primary Industry, concerns the threatened ban on Australian apples in European Economic Community markets from 1 April this year. Will the Minister give an undertaking to make a statement on the matter as soon as consultations with EEC countries in Brussels conclude this week? Will he also give the industry some assurance, in order to obtain efficient forward planning, that the confusing circumstances of the 1974 season will not be repeated in relation to the 1 975 crop? 

 - Mr President and fellow senators, the first words which I would like to say in the Senate are words which will show the very great sense of honour which I have at having been appointed to represent Western Australia in the Senate. I know that the reason for my presence is not the reason for the presence of any other senator. It puts me a little apart from other senators. They have been elected, whereas I have been appointed on behalf of the Government of Western Australia. Nevertheless, I see my appointment, however long the term may be, as one of discharging duties as the custodian of  Senator Edgar  Prowse 's place here.  His  service was recognised last week by many speakers from both sides. I wish to add my thoughts on  Senator Edgar  Prowse. To me, he epitomises the father figure. I give to honourable senators an assurance that it will be my task to try to emulate the very real dignity of the man and his very high principles of office. He had other qualities, including the quality of being a very fierce debater on subjects in which he believed and of a very strong stubbornness, one could call it. I do not know whether I will be able to emulate those qualities of his. To be sworn in the week before last, prior to the Queen opening the Parliament, was an enormous honour. I believe that it was only the second time that a monarch has opened the Parliament. I consider myself very privileged to be so closely associated with that occasion. 
The greatest difficulty in my maiden speech has been to decide on which matters I should speak. A number of very capable speeches have been made from both sides. I immediately wondered whether in the contribution of a new senatorone who has not had the experience of 10, 1 5 and I think, in one case, more than 30 years- I could offer anything different. Were there any thoughts which I could introduce into this chamber and which have not been debated here this week, last week, or last year? I am tremendously mindful that the contribution which I have to make in my inaugural address presents an enormous challenge. After some reflection I have decided to commence my speech by discussing the role of the Senate. Although it is naturally well know to all honourable senators, I believe that it is perhaps an opportune time for me to repeat some of the objectives of the Senate. I hope that honourable senators will bear with me. Following my appointment, the first thing I did was obtain a copy of the book 'Australian Senate Practice' which was written under the very capable hand of the  Clerk  of the Senate,  Mr Odgers.  The version which I have was printed in 1950-5 1, which is rather an old one. I checked a later edition and found that very little has changed, except some of the form of the Standing Orders. 
In his book  Mr Odgers  has outlined the functions and the role of the Senate. Briefly and in order of priority as set out by him, the No. 1 objective of the Senate is to preserve the rights of the States against Federal Government encroachment. The second objective is to preserve the individuality of the States. The third objective is to maintain equal representation from the States, irrespective of population numbers or size of the States. The fourth objective is to act as a House of review to legislation passed in another place or instigated in this place. If I may be permitted to boast a little, let me say that as a third generation Western Australian I am proud indeed to come here to fight to preserve the rights of Western Australia against Federal Government encroachment. I also am very proud to fight for the individuality of Western Australia and I am determined that all the States of this nation shall have equal representation in this House. 
Naturally I accept the role of the Senate in acting as a House of review. The role of the Senate probably has never been more under attack since Federation. I believe from my reading that it is fair to say that the Senate has always been a bone of contention to governments, irrespective of numbers or political colour, because it is cast in the role of a States House. The pressures of legislation in another place are different from those operating in a House of review or a House of the States. I think this situation will and must continue in the future. I am a firm believer in federation. I believe that the thing that can save us now is effective federalism, not a devolution of federalism. Why break it down? The system has not failed. The failure has been on the part of the individuals who have been playing the game. In Western Australia, as honourable senators will be aware, tremendous emotion has been generated in recent times. It is not new and in the past has been shared by States such as Queensland. It is born out of the frustrations experienced particularly by people in the mining industry. It is felt that the Senate and, perhaps, the Australian Government are not acting in the best interests; that there is a tendency to centralisation of power. This has manifested itself in a States' rights and secessionist movement. I cannot accept or agree with the movement. A breaking away from federation would do nothing but harm to this nation. 
In the last week honourable senators have referred to the overwhelming vote in Western Australia in the 1 930s. There is no way in which we in Western Australia can secede from the federation. There is no earthly way in which we can get the required majority of States to agree to our secession. There is only one way to effective secession, and that is by taking up arms. To argue for secession on this score is to argue on the lunatic fringe. Perhaps as a member of organisations when feeling extreme frustration I have been guilty of preaching that Western Australia should secede and go it alone. We have been neglected for so long over there and some of us have felt that the game is worth changing and we should break out. But it is not clear thinking. I liken Western Australia a little to Cinderella after the visit of the fairy godmother. For so long we have been in rags and regarded as the poor sister. Suddenly we have been visited by the fairy godmother who has transformed us into a beautiful young woman. Our biggest problem now is to ward off the advances from outside our State. I do not see that leaving mother and running away from home will solve anything. In fact it will not. 
In the past we have read a lot of comment about ripping and raping. I say quite clearly to honourable senators that we are not fearful of ripping and raping by overseas visitors. We are fearful of our eastern State cousins. Australia has been blessed with enormous natural wealth which has been discovered only recently. I am explaining this because it is the motivation of all Western Australians. It is more than skin deep. It strikes very deeply at home. In the referendum held last December Western Australians voted overwhelmingly in favour of federation, although they may not have been aware of it. In no other State were the numbers so strong. I interpret the vote as a vote of confidence in the federation, although Western Australians did not really know what they were voting for in that respect. Today we want a strengthening of the confidence and conviction of all Australians, particularly those in this chamber, that federation can, will and must work. But where today can be seen in Canberra the flames of the States? Where are the States represented here, except in this chamber? Where does one go in Canberra to feel that a great federation is working? 
A master plan was worked out 74 years ago but it has broken down because the people playing the game have not had the imagination to put forward ideas to foster its growth. The type of government we have had for 74 years is facing a real challenge. Why are not offices of the States in Canberra, working here in Parliament House to co-ordinate State legislation with that of the Federal Government? It has not been done. We have failed the system. The system has not failed us. This is the sort of thing that is felt so strongly in Western Australia. Because the system has not worked to the benefit of Western Australia as we think it might have worked, we want to break loose and go it alone. Of course, it is absolute nonsense and an argument of the lunatic fringe. To illustrate that we are in a position of our own making I point out that when we have had a choice as to which way to go we have opted for the centralistic alternative. There are always 2 ways of doing something. It can be done from the central source here in Canberra or it can be taken back to the legal authority of the States. Very capable speakers can talk, probably all day, bringing in different points so that at the end of the day the issue is still very closely debated. 
I respect the obligation not to be contentious in this speech. Tonight I am explaining my personal philosophy rather than launching an attack on the Government. I want to refer briefly to local government finance which, in my opinion, has really been the pawn in the power struggle between the States and the Commonwealth. I do not think anybody argues against regionalism. That concept is really not at issue. But in my opinion the funding of local government by bypassing the States is at issue. Why can we not set up through a central Australian government a State-Local, government budget fund? Through that fund the finance would go to the States to run their own affairs under the effective federal umbrella. I am convinced that that system would work just as well and far more harmoniously. I have said that there are always 2 alternatives. 
I want to touch briefly on some other aspects of the federalistic approach and to incorporate my own priorities which I would like to see adopted by any nation or government. My first priority is security. I have sat in this Senate and listened to good logical debate on this subject from both sides. Surely the first charge that any government has is the security of its people. Again I bring in this Western Australian feeling to say that we feel that we have been left out on a limb. It has become traditional for Western Australia to be treated this way when the chips are down. During the last war it was proposed that we pull back from Western Australia to defend the eastern States. Probably from a tactical point of view that was the only thing that could have been done in the circumstances. I am not arguing on that score now, but that is the decision that was made. 
The decision on the Cockburn Sound project has been deferred. We see a great gap in the need for bases on our north-west shelf which is so enormously rich in oil, gas and iron ore. At the same time we read about the Suez Canal situation. On the day that the peace treaty was signed between the Israelis and the Egyptians, China did a grab or takeover of the Paracels, which was followed very quickly by a move on the South Vietnamese on the Spratlys. We also read about the opening of the Suez Canal and the establishment of the American-British base on Diego Garcia. All these moves lead to a heightening of activity in the south-east Asian area. We are part of South East Asia geographically, but that is all. Ethnically we are different, climatically we are different and on a population basis we are totally different. But surely- this is my personal view- we have an obligation as a country to keep up a reasonable surveillance of our shores and at the same time to make a worthwhile contribution to the peace and security of South East Asia. I honestly and personally feel that we are not doing this, particularly from the Western Australian point of view. 
I am no expert on foreign affairs and defence, nor do I pretend to be, but I looked at the defence report and saw that the proposed expenditure for 1973-74, apart from expenditure on the FI 1 lc aircraft, was for 3 heavy landing craft and some small helicopters, and the next biggest item was for 358 5-ton trucks. I do not know whether they will be any good for roaring around the desert or the north-west Cape, but I do not think it is good enough for this country to rely on the Citizen Military Forces with their sagging morale. With all due respect to an honourable senator from Queensland, I think that the morale of the Army involves more than underpants trouble. 
The second priority which I would like to mention just briefly relates to health. If a person is  secure,  obviously he wants also to be healthy. This has been a matter of great and lengthy debate. I do not think I can add anything of any interest to what honourable senators have said already on that subject. My third priority refers to education. Again I feel that this subject has been more than adequately debated in the Senate. I would like to make just one point on a subject which has been dominating debates in this chamber since I have been a member of it. I refer to the subject of Aborigines. I believe it is an indictment on us all and on the nation that the single greatest problem facing Aborigines every day is the difficulty they have in filling in a form such as a welfare form. The greatest problem is to get them to comprehend what it is all about and to get them to sign their name.It is so far from his thinking that it is a little like offering a tribal elder a Rank-Xerox. Aborigines are well behind our technology and our way of life. We have tried to advance them too quickly and our plans have miscarried. 
As my time in this debate has almost concluded I should like to lump together as my fourth priority housing, employment and economics. I shall talk briefly on the housing issue, which I think poses one of the greatest challenges to this nation. In the next 5 years we will want one million new homes. We are now building 160,000 homes a year and this figure is falling short of the target by 40,000 a year. I have with me some figures which relate to the building societies in Western Australia. The figures were recently phoned through to me. Last year these building societies financed 11,169 homes. This year they will finance 7,300 homes. Lending on new homes in Western Australia has dropped from $160m to $ 110m. 
I want to talk also about incentives, although I have very limited time in this debate. I believe that in Australia today we are in urgent need of a new incentives policy right across the board to cover the average worker, the primary producer, the miner and also the Aborigine. We want something that will encourage a man to have his chest up and out- not his hand. We want something that will make him seek reward, not welfare. I shall go quickly through some of the figures which I have before me, but I will not have sufficient time to explain them fully to the Senate. Last year the average earnings for a male worker were $103. 1 know that these figures are open to query but we have to use some guide and we have to get an average figure from somewhere. I am quoting these figures from the 'West Australian' newspaper. As I said, the average earnings for an Australian worker last year were $103. After paying tax of $18.60 he received a net income of $84.40. This year the average male earnings amount to $119.90. Tax has risen to $24.10 and the worker now receives $95.80. Next year, on the same scale of increase- that is, 14 per cent- the average Australian worker will receive $137 less tax of $30.60, which will give him a net return of $106.40. In this 2-year period the average gross pay will have increased by $34 a week or about 33 per cent and taxation by 66 per cent, but net earnings will have increased by only 25 percent. 
There is a tremendous disparity of justice in this area. I read with great interest a report that the Treasurer  (Mr Crean)  is considering having another look at this matter. What incentive is there for a man to go into our northern mining areas which members of the Australian Country Party toured recently? The average northern Australian mine worker receives $150 a week, which is $7,800 a year. He pays $35.75 tax and receives a net pay of $115.23. In actual fact, despite the very large increase in his annual salary- something of the order of $1,600 to $l,700-he receives only an extra $19.73 net. I ask honourable senators: Is that sufficient incentive for people to leave their wives and families and the comforts of the southern States and cities to go into these areas? I do not think it is. In fact, I am sure it is not. It is not until the salary of the average Australian mineworker jumps to $12,000 a year or $230 a week that his net pay increases to $158.80 a week. But his pay then is almost double that of an average worker. This is an enormous cost problem which again is related to that industry which has to bear it. 
I have with me similar illustrations which relate to agriculture. They refer to my wool bond scheme which I proposed on 12 October 1972 and again submitted on 13 February 1973 to the Minister for Primary Industry,  Senator Wriedt.  That scheme was supported by the Western Australian Minister for Agriculture in February 1973. The basic principles of the scheme were supported by the Farmers Union of Western Australia in March of the same year. The Pastoralists and Graziers Association of Western Australia made inquiries in April as to the full details. The Australian Liberal Party asked in April for full details of the scheme. The State conference of the Liberal Party in Western Australia supported the provisions of the scheme. The Minister himself felt that it had merit as an incentive scheme to save while times were good. We were not asking for special privileges but that during those odd good times we might be able to cool the economy, to put something away for a rainy day instead of being asked to pay an exorbitantly high taxation rate. May I conclude- and I am somewhat regretful to have to conclude for I had hoped to make some other points- by saying that in all my reading I have noticed the words 'good government'. Perhaps we all have our own interpretation of those words. I believe that a good government is one that is responsive and cognisant of the wishes of the people. It should never be cast in the role of forcing its intentions and its will on an unsuspecting public irrespective of disguises used. That is my humble opinion. Thomas Jefferson, a man of far more standing, described it thus: 
The care of human life and happiness is the first and legitimate object of good government. 
There must be an understanding that government is an instrument through which society seeks to achieve its objectives, not an instrument through which the lives of the people are controlled and directed. I quote as my final note a phrase heard at the Federal Parliament Christian Fellowship service which I attended the other day: 
Australia is a land of peace, where order shall not rest on force, but on the love of all for their land, the great mother of the common life and welfare. 

 Mr President and honourable senators, if that is good government, this House has my total and undivided energies. I support the amendment moved by the Leader of the Opposition. 
Question put: 
That the words proposed to be added  (Senator Withers'  amendment) be added. 
My question is directed to the Minister for Primary Industry. Is the Minister aware that some abattoirs in Western Australia have been forced to stand down employees and close their export plants because of the slump in meat exports? Because of this, will he consider reducing the meat export levy and will he be prepared also to make recommendations to the Federal Government to float the Australian dollar in order to restore confidence and financial realism to this important export industry. 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Minerals and Energy. Has the Government's Reserve Bank requirement of a 33 1 /3 per cent noninterest bearing deposit been waived or altered in the case of the proposed $300m Alwest Alumina Project near Bunbury in the south-west of Western Australia? Is the environmental issue the last remaining obstacle to a successful signing? Does the Minister realise the importance of this project, in which the people of the south-west have placed so much trust and in anticipation of which millions of dollars have already been spent on harbour development? 
Is the Minister for Primary Industry aware that the Pastoralists and Graziers Association of Western Australia is pressing the State Government to withdraw from the national wheat stabilisation scheme because of the general dissatisfaction with the new scheme? What effect would an independent State marketing authority have on the orderly marketing of the national harvest, bearing in mind that the growers' co-operative in Western Australia is well equipped to undertake this task? 
I rise on behalf of the Australian Country Party to support the amendment moved by the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition in this chamber  (Senator Greenwood).  I will speak briefly and simply because, as I see it, the principle is very simple. At the present moment I think the principle has been badly misconstrued. When introducing this Constitution Alteration (Interchange of Powers) Bill the AttorneyGeneral  (Senator Murphy)  in his second reading speech stated: 
The Bill has been settled in consultation with the parliamentary counsel of the States as was foreshadowed at the Constitutional Convention. 
I say that this is not so. It was accepted in principle at the Constitutional Convention. Now I shall read to the Senate from a statement made by the  chairman  of a committee of the Australian Constitutional Convention which examined the proposals in detail and expressed its reservations. It states: 
The  chairman  of the committee, the honourable Leon Punch, said only recently that his Committee had commended the draft legislation and said the proposal would bring about a highly desirable and important improvement to the Constitution. 
I know that the Australian Country Party in this chamber supports that principle. But that is not the issue that is at stake.  Mr Punch  went on to say that there were some aspects which should be further considered. One point was that the draft did not guarantee a truly mutual reference of powers.  Mr Punch  said: 
The view was expressed that the Bill, as presently drafted, could be subject to the criticism that while States are for practical purposes compelled to  refer 'exclusively',  the Commonwealth Parliament could be made to appear to be retaining to itself a special privilege by virtue of its opportunity to legislate so as to supersede State legislation pursuant to the designation. 
A second point made by  Mr Punch  was:  lt was suggested that consideration be given to amending the draft so that powers designated by the Commonwealth Parliament might only be made exercisable by and available to all States, and so as not to permit a designation in favour of one or more States only, to the exclusion of others. 
To say that the Bill has been settled in consultation with the States is incorrect. To my mind the point which we are debating here is how the matter should be determined. My understanding of the role of the Senate is that its first obligationand has been so for some 74 years- is to preserve the rights of the States against Federal Government encroachment. 
Fair enough. That may be so. But I say that the role of this Senate is to refer this matter to the States first, and then, if necessary, to the people. I say that members of the Government have their priorities out of step. The first step of this chamber should be to refer the matter back to the States because there is no unanimity. I believe that I have proved this in the submissions which I have laid here before honourable senators. The issue is which way do we go. The Opposition does not say that it rejects the principle. In fact, it is in favour of the principle of the exchange of powers. What is wrong with referring this matter back to the States for consultation? What is wrong with that? Is there a fear in Government circles that the States may change their minds or that they might want to write something into the Bill to safeguard themselves? This is the question which has not been answered. Why is the Government demanding that we race straight to the people after there has been a broad agreement of principle following the Constitutional Convention? The argument does not stand up. Because of the role of this Senate its first priority is to protect the States against Federal Government encroachment. I believe that that is its first charge and first responsibility. The Attorney-General in his second reading speech said: 
However, there are several unresolved questions on the operation of the existing provision for the States to refer powers to this Parliament which have made them reluctant to do so. 
Why have the States in the past been reluctant to do so? There is a good reason. I believe that the previous speakers have covered most aspects of the issue of whether we should adopt a centralist approach in this matter or a federalistic approach. The purpose of this chamber is to adopt a federalistic approach. 
No. Honourable senators on the Government side said that we were 43 years out of date. They cannot have it both ways. By virtue of my tender age I cannot be 43 years out of date in this case. I say that never since Federation has there been a greater challenge to the type of government that we have. Surely we are approaching the crossroads of the type of government which we are to experience in the future. Are we to have a centralistic government or are we to have a federalistic government? 
There is only one thing new in this change and that is the word 'inter'. If it were just a change of power probably it would be well known to honourable senators in this chamber, but we have a new word in this Bill. It is an interchange of power. Of course the interchange of power is the carrot which is dangled before the States. Perhaps there is some value in it. To be quite honest, I have closely read the second reading speech and I cannot see any real meaty issues of benefit to the States in it. But then I am not a lawyer and I do not pretend to be. Those issues could be there. I have taken the speech to academics. They cannot find where the real benefits of transfer of power lie. 
Let us look at the track record of change of power in the past- not the interchange of power, because we have not seen an interchange of power. It has been one-way traffic. I quote from an article in the 'Sunday Independent' of 17 March. The Leader of the Opposition in Western Australia,  Sir Charles  Court, speaking of the Federal Government, said:  lt aims. Tor a start, to control schools, teachers colleges, universities, transport- including railways- local authorities, Aboriginal affairs, and the off-shore minerals. In fact, the Labor Government in Canberra would like to control almost everything. 
A very deep grass roots fear and suspicion of the erosion of authority and of the States rights versus Commonweatlh rights issue are spreading across Australia. I quote again from that article in the 'Sunday Independent'. The Premier of Western Australia said: 
Since the Whitlam Government came into power there has been a remarkable flowering of Federal interest in States' affairs . . . 
That is a remarkable statement. He said that there has been 'a remarkable flowering of Federal interest in States' affairs'. There has been nothing except erosion of the States by a centralist approach to the States. I found it somewhat enlightening to read in the 'West Australian' of 19 March, 2 days later, this article about the Labor Premier of Western Australia: 
A bitterly disappointed Premier,  Mr Tonkin,  said last night he believed that the Commonwealth decision not to waive the Reserve Bank deposit rule on imported funds would kill the project. 
He said that he had spent half an hour on the telephone with the Prime Minister,  Mr Whitlam,  arguing about the decision. 
I have given him a piece of my mind', he said. 1 am both discouraged and disappointed by the result'. 
Well he might be. The point is that  Mr Tonkin  belongs to the same political Party as the Prime Minister. It is no good crying on the shoulders of Western Australians and saying: 'I did a good job, but the Commonwealth would not let me do what I wanted'. If the Premier does not believe in the philosophy which  Mr Whitlam  espoused and to which he must have agreed, he should resign and join another party. The point in question is the change of power. I wish to quote now a statement made by the Leader of the Country Party- the National Alliance- in his policy speech. 
If honourable senators wait I will read what  Mr McPharlin  said. They will be most interested. An article in the 'West Australian ' of 1 4 March stated: 
I have little need to remind Western Australian electors that on issue after issue, particularly in the areas of taxation and mineral resources, the State Labor Government has sold this State short in its dealings with Canberra and has acquiesced in the drive for centralised power',  Mr McPharlin  said. 
At the national level we will always be prepared to discuss programs with the Commonwealth in a polite and reasoned manner. 
But we will never- I repeat, never- go to Canberra like beggars on the street when we are seeking an allocation of funds from taxation revenue which is rightfully ours. ' 
-That is all right. I am talking about an interchange of powers. I put to honourable senators that there is a responsibility on all of us, irrespective of our political following, to uphold the principles of the Senate. The first principle or objective is to preserve for the States their rights against Federal Government encroachment. 
Of course it is. 
There are always 2 ways of doing things. One can adopt either way. On behalf of the Country Party I am arguing that the role of the Senate should be adhered to by taking this issue back to the States. We do not want to see this issue marketed by the Government like soap powder, without reference to the States, because quite obviously the  chairman  of a committee of the Constitutional Convention, which was looking into this matter, does not agree and is recommending that it should be changed. Is the Government trying to pull a fast one? Why is the Government frightened of taking this measure back to the States? 
The Opposition, if I might interject on an interjection, makes the point that it is not quarrelling about presenting it to the people; it is claiming that the Government, by getting its priorities mixed, is leapfrogging a set of circumstances which, because of the Senate's role, it should be adopting. The first thing to do if there is any dispute- there is certainly disputation in this matter- is to refer it back to the States for consultation. The Minister, in his second reading speech, said that he is prepared to do that. Why the sweat? What is the fear? Take it back to the States. If they agree, present it to the people. We do not want it wrapped up in gift wrap, like soap powder, so that the real issue is lost to the public. Let us do this through the proper and normal channels. Let us refer it to the States and, if necessary, to the people. 
I wish to close by sounding a note of warning to all States. How can a State relinquish or transfer without adequate and proper safeguards, power to a centralist government which has openly advocated the devolution of the Senate and the authority of State governments? The Country Party supports the amendment. 
Debate interrupted. 
I rise briefly to support the words of  Senator Webster  in relation to the firm that he was discussing. It has a branch or so in Western Australia and it has performed a very valuable service there. It is of the highest integrity and I fully support the comments made by  Senator Webster. 
I direct my question to the Minister for Primary Industry. In reply to my question of 19 March on the wheat stabilisation scheme, did the Minister's answer imply that in the event of the Western Australian Government's supporting a State wheat marketing authority the Australian Government would deny to the industry in Western Australia the right to obtain first advance finance from the Rural Credits Section of the Reserve Bank? If so, would this restriction be applied to other States, and if not, would this not constitute a violation of section 99 of the Commonwealth Constitution? Does the Minister's reply contain a veiled threat to the wheat industry in Western Australia towards acceptance by the State's growers of the new stabilisation scheme? Is he aware also that a poll of Western Australian growers on this matter is being organised? 
I rise to place before the Senate a matter which I believe is of great concern and which needs to be aired in this House. I am somewhat regretful that I have not had an opportunity to do so before this late hour. 
The ACTING  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator McAuliffe)-  I have been informed that the usual practice is for senators to speak on the same subject before moving to another subject.  Senator Reid,  are you speaking on the subject that was introduced by  Senator Poyser? 
I am not, but I gave notice of the matter on which I wished to speak, which I think is the normally accepted precedent. 
The ACTING  DEPUTY  PRESIDENTFollowing the usual practice adopted in the Senate, as soon as the first topic is dispensed with I will call you again. I now call  Senator Wheeldon. 
I wish to place before the Senate a matter which I believe is causing tremendous disquiet throughout Western Australia, this country and the world. Its repercussons have flowed over. It concerns a very large protest meeting of country people held last Monday in Western Australia. It also concerns the visit of the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  to Western Australia accompanied by the Minister for Primary Industry  (Senator 
Wriedt) and the Minister for Services and Property  (Mr Daly).  A meeting was held at Forrest Place at the same time and on the same day. I believe that the actions of the Prime Minister in Western Australia in the last week and the decisions which he has made in the last 3 months have had a number of results. The first point is that they have resulted in the defeat of the Tonkin Labor Government in Western Australia. This point was confirmed by the  Deputy  Premier, Don Taylor, on Australian Broadcasting Commission television. I just make that comment. The second point is that the Prime Minister's behaviour has revealed also a potential danger to the general public from open-air public meetings at which the crowd has been deliberately aroused by speakers from the platform. The third point is that the Prime Minister also has denied the right of groups of people from any walk of life in Western Australia to be heard politically after the proper procedural steps have been taken. The fourth point is that the Prime Minister has failed to uphold the dignity and the respect of the highest office in Australiathe office of Prime Minister- by denigrating it to a petty schoolboy, mud-slinging, namecalling exercise in public. The fifth point is that the Prime Minister has endeavoured to make political capital out of a serious situation instead of recognising the position in a rational manner without exposing the public to a potential danger. The sixth point is that the Prime Minister has threatened the future role of Forrest Place as Australia's greatest outdoor forum. These unhappy and unnecessary events have taken place because the Prime Minister would not deign to answer an issued invitation to attend or to deputise a party colleague to attend a properly conducted meeting. 
I do not propose to delay honourable senators any longer than is necessary. I want to put on record a relation of events taken from transcript of tapes made of the address by the Prime Minister at the meeting at Forrest Place and of the interview recorded by the Australian Broadcasting Commission, which I think was held at the Perth airport, and of events at another venue. I will start by detailing the sequence of events which led up to the meeting which was held at Forrest Place. I have gone to as much trouble as I have been able in order to get details that are 100 per cent accurate. On 1 9 February the Farmers Union sent a telegram to the Prime Minister inviting him to address a public meeting. I do not have the exact date; but approximately one week later, which would have been 26 February, a second telegram was sent to the Prime Minister advising him of the date of the public meeting. 
The Farmers Union sent it. 
I ask honourable senators opposite to be patient. I am just relating fact. I am not putting in any of my comments. If Government supporters can wait, I will be quite happy to add my thoughts when I have related the facts of the matter. 
I am telling the story; I am telling the facts. I am relating a sequence of events which can be proved. On 1 1 March a letter was sent from the Farmers Union to the Prime Minister, repeating the invitation in the 2 earlier telegrams. On 21 March, some 5 weeks after the initial invitation, an article appeared in the ' Farmers ' Weekly ' stating that at least one of  Mr Whitlam  's Ministers,  Mr Grassby,  supported the Farmers Union in its stand on the superphosphate bounty.  Mr Grassby  confirmed his opposition to the removal of the bounty by telegram to the Farmers Union. 
On 22 March  Mr Whitlam  replied to the approaches of the Farmers Union along certain lines. It is understood that the Prime Minister in his letter to the Farmers Union indicated that he believed that any representations that the Farmers Union wanted to put to the Government would be put to the Minister for Primary Industry  (Senator Wriedt)  because the union was meeting the Minister for Primary Industry on 25 March. These dates are very important because 22 March was a Friday and the last working day before the meeting which was held at Forrest Place on the following Monday. At 9 a.m. on 25 March,  Senator Wriedt  met the full executive of the Farmers Union and for 90 minutes discussed Government rural policy. At 12 noon on that day the Forrest Place rally commenced. As I said earlier, my secretary contacted the television stations that made the tapes, the ones that could be comprehended, of all the appearances made by the Prime Minister in that day. Unfortunately some of the choicest bits have been cut out and sent to Melbourne. At this time I have only the less choice adjectives and descriptions used by  Mr Daly,  the Minister for Services and Property, and others on that platform at Forrest Place. I have made some public statements about my thoughts on what  Mr Daly  did and on how he incited a situation which normally would have been nothing more than a political rally such as we see from day to day at Forrest Place. 
No, I was not there. I did not say that I was there. 
If the honourable senator can contain himself I will read it to him. 
If the honourable senator does not believe that I am telling the truth he can go to the television station, Channel 7, get the tapes and play them back. 
The tapes of the interview at Forrest Place. The point is that the Minister for Services and Property,  Mr Daly,  said: 
Anybody following the Country Party should be ashamed of themselves. They represent only themselves. They don't represent anybody but themselves, and there is nobody in the Country Party that today is prepared to stand like our Prime Minister and face these people and tell them what the policy of Labor is. 
Honourable senators on the Government side should not interject because I have more plums here for them to listen to. The transcript of this tape continues: 
Right throughout Western Australia today people are - 
Then there is a blank because somebody shouted. It then continues: -for Labor Government. Take no notice of the yah-hoos who interject here today. Half of them were on the dole until Labor got in. Half of them never had a job until Labor got in. And half of them never owned a motor car until Labor got in. And they are the people when this country was attacked in 1943 were thrown out of office by their own supporters . . .This country today is run by Australia, thanks to Labor and men like Whitlam who - 
Then there is a blank. The next words are: -men and women are standing behind Whitlam because of his courage and ability and we wont be put off by the hillbillies or the hicks who represent that section of the community who . . . exist on gerrymander boundaries. 
This is what was said by the Minister for Services and Property. He went on to say: 
. hay seeds from the Country Party who represent those people . . . Every old dead letter party, the DLP. Now, I know the Prime Minister would like to address you but I feel that today I should finally say to you we ask you on behalf of the Federal Labor Government to return the Tonkin Labor Government. Take no notice of those that sit here and interject today because most of those people that follow the Country Party . . . 
This is very long,  Mr President,  but it is very necessary because this situation could have involved serious loss of life. Loss of life could have resulted. There could have been serious injury to the public. The whole blame for this rests particularly on the Federal Labor Party. The Prime Minister commenced his address - (Government senators interjecting)- 
I might mention, while Government supporters restrain themselves, that I have some photographs here. I do not know,  Mr President,  whether it is permissible for you to accept these. They were all taken on that day. Shown clearly here is a photograph of a 'Daily News' poster saying: 
Whitlam refuses to meet farmers. 
One photograph shows the early part of the demonstration as being peaceful and orderly, with women with children in pushers quietly going about their normal procedures- a normal scene at election rallies. Then there is a later picture. The frenzy started to whip up while the speakers on the platform poured out hate. As the tongue lashing poured out the crowd started to gather and you felt the emotion start to rise. The Prime Minister said: 
Ladies and Gentlemen, I can see how prosperous Western Australia has got in the last three years under the Tonkin Government. Never before have so many hundreds of young farmers been able to take a whole day off and come to town. All the rest of us who work . . . Now ladies and gentlemen, these are the people who ask you to subsidise their days off, who come to town in the middle of the week. They are asking you to put in people that sell your assets overseas, to spoil your climate, pollute the air, pollute your water supply. They are asking you . . . What fine visitors to your city. 
I am reading the Prime Minister's statement which led to a situation in which serious loss of life could have resulted. He said: 
They are spoiling Perth for the people who work here and they are asking you to subsidise them for their day off. 
The Prime Minister said: 
These blow-ins, these . . . don't want free speech because they tried to prevent the people of Western Australia and ... I will say, things have never been so prosperous as they must be today, when hundreds of young farmers can afford to take the whole day off and come into town ... in the midst of the week and asking all the other people here to subsidise you. Subsidise you $65m this year, $75m next year, to take the day off in the midst of the week and travel a few hundred miles to town. What an impression you make on the good citizens of Perth and Western Australia. Subsidised to take the day off. Bludging here. Bludgers. And they don't want you to hear the truth. 
This was something like the same situation we have here now. He continued: 
They are trying their best to see that Forrest Place is denied to the people. 
The Premier,  Mr Tonkin,  denied these statements on the radio, saying they had never been made. 
He continued:   . . to take a whole day of . . . 
I am just putting before the Senate a disgraceful situation. 
I am referring to a situation so serious that a life could have been lost. 
No wonder they went mad with the Prime Minister around. No wonder they went mad with the Minister for Services and Property around speaking like that and inciting the crowd. There is another half page of this and I am going to read it. The Prime Minister continued: 
. were to take a whole day off. 
This is the Prime Minister. On he went, goading the crowd until it swelled into a humming, hiving, seething unrest. He said: 
A few hundred fellows, down tools, down all their agricultural implements and come into town and want people to believe that things are tough. $65m subsidy this year. Things are mighty tough when you can down tools for a whole day in the middle of the week and come to town and all of you are expected to subsidise there for these fellows to take a day off. Where are the workers of this State, where are the workers of this continent'. The workers of this continent and this State are the ones who come here for their lunch times. 
Ten thousand of them? Ten thousand people in Forrest Place in their lunch hour, having their lunch with a can of cool drink in one hand and sandwiches in the other hand, with emblazed on their uniforms the emblems of the shops and establishments they came from? What farmer goes to a rally several hundred miles away and gets a can of cool drink? The Prime Minister said: 
. asking the taxpayers of Australia to subsidise them by $65m this year . . . 
The same old record goes on:   . . and $75m next year. Now there's a good Australian word for this. Bludgers the lot. 
This was the Prime Minister going over the same record again. 
I should like to conclude the Prime Minister's quotations from the tapes that are available for any honourable senator to hear who doubts the authenticity of these quotes. At a Press conference at the Perth Airport the Prime Minister said: 
. there will bc a very great number of people who will see how vicious and violent people are when something which they are no longer entitled to have is taken from them and (they) try to suppress an argument being put. 1 had all the figures to put the argument. 
That is the concluding comment of the Prime Minister. The point is that the people at that meeting in Forrest Place were not all farmers. There were 4,000 people there.  Senator Wilkinson  was at Subiaco oval. A meeting was held at the same time on the same day. A report in the 'Daily News' of Wednesday, 27 March, headed 'Opposition Blamed: Attack on PM', reads: 
The W.A. Police Minister yesterday blamed non-Labor parties for Monday's incident in Perth when the Prime Minister,  Mr Whitlam,  was jostled and pelted with rubbish. 
The Minister,  Mr Thompson,  said he did not entirely blame the farmers. 
The 300 to 400 agitators round the truck were nothing but Young Liberals who had signs on their shirts and on the girls' jumpers', he said. 
I think the point is well made that the Western Australian Minister for Police recognised the fact that three hundred to four hundred people surrounding the platform were not farmers. 
It does not matter what they were. The meeting in Forrest Place was attended by a composition of people from Western Australia. Sure, farmers were there. Perhaps 5 per cent to 1 0 per cent of the crowd were farmers. Turning to this question of subsidising the farmers and soaking taxpayers - 
Yes, $65 m. How much are we saving the taxpayers and the bread buyers under the present wheat deal? In decrying the payment of the superphosphate bounty to farmers many members of the public overlook the fact that there are 2 sides to the question of subsidies. The total cost of the bounty to the Treasury is $65 m a year. Nobody is denying that this question of the payment of the superphosphate bounty should be put to the Industries Assistance Commission and be examined on its merits. Nobody is denying that. But we question the way it was done by one man arbitrarily against the wish of his caucus, against the rules of the Labor Party and against the wish of the Green Paper Committee. This year the Australian wheat industry has agreed to subsidise Australian bread eaters to the tune of $180m by keeping the home price for wheat down to $ 1.93 a bushel while $4 a bushel and upwards can be obtained on the home markets. 
We are talking tonight about a situation in Forrest Place where a crowd was incited. I say that Western Australians were there voicing their opinions and they got caught up in the situation in the same way as a football crowd gets caught up with the game as excitement starts to mount. People from all walks of life in Western Australia have every right to protest to the Prime Minister and they were in attendance at this meeting. 
I will come to that. I have a very interesting section for  Senator Wheeldon  which I will deal with in a minute. I had in mind the oil and gas grab in Western Australia by Whitlam and the ALP Ministry; the ALP mineral policy; the Alwest disappointment; and the slur cast on the Department of Environmental Protection in Western Australia which is reputed to be the most efficient authority in that State. The Prime Minister said it was polluting the Perth water supply. There are the disastrous rural policies of the ALP; the disastrous Aboriginal affairs situation in Western Australia; the takeover of tertiary education; the takeover of local government and the devastation to the road program in Western Australia for the period 1 974 to 1979 by a massive reduction in funds. 

 Mr President, we are talking about a situation in which an invitation was issued cordially through the proper channels on behalf of a group of people to the Prime Minister to attend a meeting, and if he could not do so, to send a  deputy. Senator Wilkinson  was there. He was the only senator whom I saw. There were 6,000 people assembled at Subiaco Oval to see and hear a case put. An article in the last edition of the 'Countrymen' stated: 
 I was so stirred up I flattened him. ' 
This is the dangerous situation that we had in Forrest Place. The article continued: 
I've never hit a man in my life before. But I was so stirred up that when this stranger nit the farmer next to me I flattened him,' said one of our readers after the Forrest Place near-riot. 
Believe me, it was a near riot and a near tragedy for Australia. On whose shoulder does this rest? The article continues: 
This particular reader is a mild mannered man, a respected and responsible citizen. What made him resort to violence in a situation which he normally would have dealt with peaceably? 
We had come up from the union meeting at Subi, but we'd seen in the press that the Prime Minister had refused to come out to talk to us. He was going to speak at Forrest Place, so we decided we'd go there first. A lot of others did the same thing. 
Those who spoke immediately before  Mr Whitlam  showed complete ignorance of our case. They attacked us and said some pretty savage things about farmers and their subsidies. Words like 'scum', 'peasants' and 'criminal element' were used. Either these speakers did it deliberately or they were just plain stupid. I don't know whether it was farmers who were throwing rubbish. But I felt so angry at the time that if I had had an egg I 'd have thrown at him. 
That is a clear indication of the tremendous emotion that was generated. 
I am trying to make a very simple point and I am surprised that honourable senators opposite have not seen it. It is rather interesting that  Senator Wheeldon  is carrying on in such a fine state and putting on such a wonderful performance. A full page advertisement in the 'Western Australian' of Friday 29 March states: 'Mob Pelts Whitlam at Rowdy Meeting.' Down lower it says: 'Did you see this?' There is a picture of  Senator Murphy.  The advertisement states: 
. as people have come to realise that showing their concern by their voices and their physical presence is often the only way to bring home to a Government the immorality of a policy it is pursuing. 
Well, senator, here is a headline which states: 'Cairns Will Lead New Protest. ' The article states: 
Melbourne, Tuesday- The Labor MHR  Dr J.  F. Cairns, who threatened yesterday to quit the moratorium movement, will lead Friday's demonstration in Melbourne against the Vietnam war. 
This was a peaceful demonstration too until somebody irresponsibly provoked the crowd to such fever pitch. 
I am saying that in Western Australia there is a very deep rejection of Federal ALP policy 
I was wondering when the honourable senator would bring this up. I thought that he might do so so I had some figures prepared concerning the National Alliance in seats decided so far. I want to refer to 4 seats. In 197 1 the combined figure was 33.37 per cent. At Saturday's election it was 63.86 per cent. In the seat of Merredin- Yilgarin the vote was 24.9 per cent in 1971. On Saturday it was 39.12 per cent. In the seat of Moore the vote in 1971 was 51.67 per cent and on Saturday it was 65.44 per cent. In the electorate of Narrogin the combined vote was 33.82 per cent and on Saturday it was 50.2 per cent. There are 19 other seats. Unless I am provoked I shall give only the ones that show an improved vote. The Prime Minister, in the newspaper that was delivered into this chamber a few minutes ago, is reported as saying that the rural policies did not beat Labor. A half page advertisement appears about the Federal Government and the farmers in that same paper. Six thousand farmers do not travel hundreds of miles to a meeting unless something is dreadfully wrong. If the Prime Minister had gone, or had sent a  deputy  such as  Senator Wriedt  to that meeting at Subiaco this near violence would not have happened. The Federal Government has ignored Western Australia on nearly every imaginable score. I have here 62 telegrams and 25 letters on the Commonwealth Bureau of Roads report and the depth of the concern in Western Australia, and still the Minister refuses to go to Western Australia. What does one have to do over there to get recognition? I say that the Government stands condemned for its irresponsible action in handling the situation at Forrest Place, and for failing to send a representative to attend the Subiaco meeting. The Prime Minister and the Ministers who accompanied him should be censured. 

 - Mr President - 
asked the Minister representing the Prime Minister, upon notice: 
1 ) What are the grounds for the accusations that Alcoa mining operations in Western Australia have endangered Perth's water supply. 
Did the Prime Minister in a statement infer that the Environment Protection Authority of Western Australia had failed in its task of protecting the environment and water supplies in the Darling Range on both the Alcoa and Alwest mining leases. 
What are the 'far more meritorious cases than Alwest' to which the Prime Minister referred in his statement. 
asked the Minister for Primary Industry, upon notice: 
1 ) For what duration was the original fruitgrowing reconstruction tree-pull scheme introduced. 
) What funds were allocated to the scheme. 
How much money has been allocated to growers, or approved but not yet allocated. 
How many growers in each State (a) have qualified for assistance and ( b) have applied for assistance. 
What acreage in each State has been removed or is to be removed under the scheme. 
What is the maximum capital equity allowed a grower before he becomes ineligible under the scheme. 
What was the amount of Federal Government money paid to growers in the form of stabilisation assistance for the 1971. 1972 and 1973 seasons. 
My question which is directed to the Minister for Primary Industry refers to the Australian Wool Corporation. Will the Minister outline the Government's policy towards the increased buying by the Corporation, bearing in mind the recent quite dramatic fall in wool prices at auction, which are now substantially below the December 1972 figure? 
-Is the Attorney-General aware that the Western Australian Premier has announced his intention to inquire into all aspects of the Forrest Place demonstration? Because of the near tragedy that occurred that day and the possibility that the demonstration was influenced by other than rural groups, will the Attorney-General give whatever assistance his Department can offer to the Western Australian Government? Is he also aware that an Australiawide demonstration is being planned for midMay at the remote north-west telecommunications base? Does the Government have -any intention to address the demonstrators at the site? 
My question, regarding the Australian Wool Corporation, is directed to the Minister for Primary Industry. Does the Minister recall my question of 3 April seeking clarification of the Government's policy in regard to increased buying by the Wool Corporation? In reply the Minister stated: 
The Government does not issue any instructions as to when and in what manner it will buy. 
Is the Minister aware that section 41 (3.) of the Wool Industry Act states: 
The Minister shall, from time to time, after consultation with the Treasurer, inform the Corporation in writing of the policies and principles that the Government of the Commonwealth considers should be followed and applied by the Corporation in the operation of its reserve price scheme.  1 therefore ask again: Has the Minister, in compliance with the Act, given the Corporation a written policy instruction on the reserve price scheme? If so, what is that policy? Has not the Minister, again in accordance with the Act, received fortnightly reports on the level of reserve prices together with the amounts of wool bought and sold by the Corporation? 
My question is directed to the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs. Approximately how many Aborigines reside within a 30-mile radius of the Warburton Mission in Western Australia? Are they all receiving unemployment payments? Is it not true that the area is rich in minerals and gemstones? How many people are on the staff of the Department of Aboriginal Affairs at the Mission? What funds have been expended by the Government on staff housing over the last year? 
