 I enter this debate on the motion for the second reading of the Bill only because of the contributions that have been made by honourable senators opposite from South Australia who, with the exception of one, have failed completely to appreciate the implications behind the ratification of the agreement. They have shown also their complete lack of recognition of the true reason for the deferment of the building of the Chowilla Dam. 

 - Senator Young falls within that category perhaps to only a lesser extent than does  Senator Buttfield.  The one  speaker  in isolation who did show a recognition of the problems associated with this matter and the reason for the deferment of the building of the Chowilla Dam was  Senator Laucke.  I am pleased to see that he has just entered the chamber. I propose to elaborate on some of the arguments that were put forward by  Senator Laucke  earlier in the debate to prove conclusively that the only reason why  Senator Laucke  will vote for the ratification of the agreement and against the Labor Party's proposed amendments, especially those which will be put forward in the Committee stage, is because of a sense of party loyalty and most certainly not because of his beliefs as he expressed them in his contribution to the debate. 
No, out of party loyalty. I can appreciate that. It touches a little on the matter mentioned by  Senator Buttfield. 
In his speech the honourable senator quoted from  Mr Beaney.  Those quotations indicated quite clearly that that is a pious hope, and a pious hope only. It would have been well had  Senator Buttfield  accepted as a fact, particularly in the latter part of her contribution tonight, what  Senator Laucke  had to say. He is reported at page 797 of Hansard of 15th April 1970 in this way: 
Much has been said about yield, and yield alone when comparing the Dartmouth and Chowilla projects. But it is obvious- 
I might say that it was not obvious to the honourable senator's own colleagues -  that each dam has a somewhat different function. The one in the mountains - the Dartmouth Dam - is predominantly to produce. The other - the Chowilla Dam - by reason of its situation is to conserve and regulate the flow. It will relieve considerably the stresses on reserves in the headwater storage in dry years and enable both reserves to maintain the desired How through the river in its entirety. I am greatly  concerened  that in stress times flows will have to be reduced dangerously with only 1 dam. A shortage of water in the River Murray system finds South Australia particularly vulnerable when drought conditions occur . . . 
We all appreciate that. Before  Senator Laucke  made that contribution I had made the following note: 
There were two different concepts. Dartmouth is not an alternative to the concept behind the original agreement to build Chowilla. The intent of the Chowilla primarily was to supply South Australia in time of restrictions with some of its entitlement, and its secondary intention was to benefit Victoria and New South Wales by lessening the amount that South Australia would take from the main river stream. 
Let us take a realistic look at the true reason why the Chowilla agreement was vetoed in favour of Dartmouth. Previous debates on this matter centred on price and salinity.  Senator Buttfield  has agreed already that on the last occasion that this was the subject of debate she was wrong when she said she believed that because of salinity the Chowilla Dam was not a viable proposition. She now accepts the fact that the Chowilla Dam would not increase salinity. In the words of  Mr Beaney,  from whom I shall quote later, as did  Senator Laucke,  it would be of little significance one way or the other in ordinary years. 
But many people knew about it before. I do not think it required any computer study to illustrate that one dam was better than the other in the original concept of Chowilla. 
I am saying that I do not believe it because it was as plain as the nose on the face to anyone who made a study of it, and it certainly was as plain as the nose on the face to the people of Victoria. According to the number of people who have expressed opinions on it since Chowilla ceased, there was no doubt that the cessation of the Chowilla Dam was brought about because the secondary effect which was expected to benefit New South Wales and Victoria was proved in 1957 would not eventuate. We were told that X cusecs of water must flow through Mil.drua to keep the water at Mildura in a usable state for the irrigators in the lower areas of the system in New South Wales and Victoria. I can see readily that that is true. It need not necessarily be the 900 cusecs which was landed upon as being the amount, but once the 900 cusecs was a proposition and had to be measured against Chowilla, it was as obvious as the nose on your face that if Chowilla was built, if South Australia took its entitlement from Chowilla and if the rest of the water v/as used upstream, it probably would be burnt out, as one person expressed it to me, by the time it reached the Sunraysia area. In other words, Victoria would have had to use its own salt slugs instead of sending them to South Australia as it has done in past years. 
I do not argue for one minute that the people of Victoria; and perhaps those who represent them, did not have the right to have that aspect brought into a consideration of matters associated with the building of Chowilla Dam. To show that the statement 1 have just made also has the support of  Senator Laucke  1 refer to the speech which he made on 15th April 1970, which is reported in Hansard beginning at page 796.  Senator Laucke  quoted from an article written by  Mr H.  L. Beaney, the Director and Engineer-in-Chief of the South Australian Engineering and Water Supply Department, which suites: 
There is no doubt that the Chowilla proposal would achieve its design aims for South Australia. Hie project was also accepted by New South Wales and Victoria as conferring considerable benefits to them. It was expected to allow each of these upper river States to increase their water diversion from the River Murray. This benefit would derive from the ability of Chowilla to supply South Australia during the irrigation season leaving available to them water that would otherwise be required to meet South Australia's allotment. 

 Senator Laucke went on to make a comment of his own. He said: 
Now, to present both sides of the picture so far as  Mr Beaney  is concerned, and to quote him impartially, I must also refer to another section of his statement, in which he says- 
And this is the part which clearly demonstrates the real reason and, to my way of thinking, a valid reason for having another look at whether there should be another dam to work in conjunction with Chowilla.  Senator Laucke  quoted  Mr Beaney  as also saying: 
Apart from the high cost of Chowilla the New South Wales and Victorian authorities had seen some of the early promises of benefit from it disappear. The original assumptions as to the operation of Chowilla had not fully recognised some of the problems of river regulation under continued low flow conditions and attendant decline in water quality. Providing for these reduced the water benefit likely to be available to the upstream States and at the same time would give no added benefit to South Australia. lt was in this situation that the River Murray Commission reported that a dam built in the Mitta Mitta River in Victoria could substantially provide for satisfactory river regulation and make available an increase in yield of 860,000 acre feel per annum from the system. 
 I am quoting from the article because  Senator Laucke  used it. I have just said that the increase is in excess of the benefits that could be conferred by Chowilla.  Senator Laucke  quoted the same sentence in a sense of fairness. He referred also to the reason for the deferment of the construction of a dam at Chowilla. As I said earlier, I have no argument with the right of the people of Victoria to put it forward as a reason, and I accept it as a valid reason, but for the life of me J cannot understand why it was not put forward by anybody else from Victoria, which is crying crocodile tears over the benefit to South Australia. I will continue with  Senator Laucke's  remarks to show that he does not agree with this idea. He said: 
I quote that in order to give a round picture of the opinions of this highly qualified engineer. 
He was referring to  Mr Beaney. Senator Laucke  went on to say: 
I have given this matter- that is, the Dartmouth proposal and the Chowilla proposal - much consideration and I am fearful for the future wellbeing of my State if we do not have access to water supply beyond the benefits which we would receive from Dartmouth alone 
Such a statement could not have been better put by any of the honourable senators on this side of the chamber who are in favour of construction of 2 dams nor could it be better put by anyone engaged in the argument which is currently taking place in South Australia. This is the real reason for the opposition to the Dartmouth proposal. I shall quote further at a later stage to show that  Senator Laucke  and the Australian Labor Party are in agreement on the same considerations. I know that  Senator Laucke  has given the matter much consideration because 1 have discussed it with him outside of the chamber during the course of our travels around Australia. I indicate that the general opposition is not so much against the construction of a dam at Dartmouth as to the construction of a dam at Dartmonth to the exclusion of one at Chowilla. The River Murray Waters Agreement is so framed that until the amending agreement is ratified by the 4 parties to the original agreement the Chowilla proposal is legally binding. Once the amending agreement is ratified by the 4 States Chowilla as a proposition will revert to the state that it was in prior to the original agreement. 
 It has been postponed for years. 
Of course it will not. I am glad lo soe that  Senator Little  agrees with me. Evidently he has not listened to much of the debate to date. He has most certainly not kept himself conversant with the position in South Australia, because  Mr Hall  had this to say in an article- 
Listen to what he had to say. Premier Hail said: 
We need to accept Dartmouth now and then continue studies to determine where the next one will be. 
I hope- 
Will honourable senators let me finish.  Mr Hall  went on to say: 
I hope it will be Chowilla which will remain in the River Murray Waters Agreement. 
Some honourable senators opposite who represent South Australia have said that they are confident that Chowilla will be again included in the. agreement. 
 The original agreement is legally binding until such time as the amending agreement supplants it. 
 They have not. Why are we debating the subject tonight if agreement has already been reached? Two of the 4 parliaments have not ratified the amending agreement. One is the Parliament in which we are sitting at present. As I said earlier, the intention of the amendment which the Australian Labor Party proposes to move at the Committee stage is simply this: The Australian Labor Party accepts the fact that the amendment it proposes to move is only a reiteration of something which anyone who has spoken to anybody associated with the River Murray Commission will appreciate. I am referring to the fact that  the  Commission is acting from within an ambit of power which gives it no real control over the quality or quantity of water used from the River Murray  or  its tributaries. The amendment we are seeking to the motion for the second reading of the Bill was moved only to attempt to get acceptance of the fact that the Commonwealth should be negotiating for a different sort of River Murray basin authority which embraces the very things which have been referred to. I should have thought lhat some honourable senators opposite would have accepted the validity of this argument. 
Has there ever been anything more contradictory between the years 1963 and 1967 than the great heralding of the wonderful benefits which were to flow from the Chowilla proposal, even after consideration had been given to the Dartmouth proposal. Some people were proclaiming it as a monument to the then Premier of South Australia,  Sir Thomas  Playford. We have a situation at present where its apologists are now calling it 'Playford's Folly'. Surely the events in this 7-year period must have indicated that there was something wrong with the workings of the River Murray Commission. Do not give me the part about computer studies, because I will not swallow it. Nobody can tell me that once it was decided that 900 cusecs of water had to flow through Mildura information had to be fed into a computer before it could be determined that the Chowilla proposal was unacceptable without an upstream dam. A dam had to be built upstream to satisfy that need. Any 7-year-old child would know that if a certain amount of water is required to flow past a given point, a dam constructed there will have the effect of stopping the flow of water past that point. One does not need a computer to know that. 
 The computer, according to the then Minister in control of the Bill was put into operation to give 6 months breathing space to allow  Mr Hall  in South Australia to try to bring the people of South Australia round to his way of thinking. I do not think it kidded anybody. I do not say that one does not get some information out of the computer, but most certainly one would not get information to indicate quite clearly that we wanted X amount of water to flow through Mildura to get usable water in Mildura. One does not need a computer to tell oneself that Chowilla could not give us that. 
 I said we might get some useful information from it but we do not need a computer to show that Chowilla was damned as a dam project at the time when they realised in Victoria and New South Wales that they had to give South Australia their sludge, that they could not keep it in their own area. 
 I am supporting the fact that we must have Dartmouth but I am not supporting the fact that we had to give away Chowilla to get it. I accept the fact that we may have to build Dartmouth and have it operating before Chowilla comes into operation. 
 I do not want the Dartmouth agreement to supersede the Chowilla agreement and then depend on the pious hopes of Ihe Premier of South Australia and the confidence of honourable senators opposite that Chowilla will come into being at some time in Ihe future. How could we have any confidence in anybody who could stand in this place heralding Chowilla and even fight an election on this great issue and the great benefits to South Australia to result from the building of Chowilla and who could now 7 years later say that Chowilla is no good at all unless we have a dam upstream and that when we do we will consider the rest. 
No, I do not think so. ls it not rather remarkable that no-one from Victoria and no-one from anywhere other than South Australia has spoken in this debate? 
] mean from the opposite side.  Senator Little  spoke because the Democratic Labor Party expects to get more votes from Victoria than it will get from South Australia. 
It is true. 
lt is a political fact of life. 
The honourable senator should hope that I am right. If I am noi he can kiss his seat goodbye. But the point I was making was that honourable senators opposite who spoke on behalf of the Government come from South Australia. 
-We are getting extra water, but does the honourable senator share the fear of  Senator Laucke  of what will result if we have only one dam? Does the honourable senator accept the view that we will get more water for certain in a time of drought? 
Well. I will read from  Mr Beaneys"  statement as cited by  Senator Laucke.  He said this: 
The additional water promised out of Dartmouth is not, unfortunately, available for large scale expansion. In fact it is necessary to South Australia to maintain commitments which have already been made on the River Murray. As the last user of the river it is impossible for South Australia to exploit'' the full flow, as provision has to be sustained for Josses and for some continuing flow to remove the build-up of saline water.  it is admitted that the increase that we will get from Dartmouth will not come to South Australia in sufficient quantities for expansion, but the same inhibition does not apply to Victoria, as indicated by the Victorian Minister of Water Supply when introducing the River Murray Waters Bill in the Victorian Parliament on 4th March 1970.  Mr Borthwick  had this to say, as recorded on page 2987 of the Victorian Hansard: 
Finally - and this perhaps is the core of the matter in Victoria - it gives me much pleasure to announce that the State Rivers and Water Supply Commission has resolved that it will make additional water rights available in the vast  Goulbum-Murray  Irrigation District when this further amending River Murray agreement authorising the construction of Dartmouth dam has been ratified by the four Governments concerned. 

 Mr Borthwick does not say that he will wait until the benefit starts to accrue from Dartmouth. South Australia will get its entitlement, unless I am misinformed, only when Dartmouth becomes operative, and that will be some years in the future. 
 But, as I said by way of interjection the other night, we have been sold a pup.  Mr Borthwick  says that immediately the agreement is ratified and there is authorisation for the construction of the Dartmouth Dam the Victorian Government will make available additional water rights in the vast Goulburn-Murray Irrigation District. Now, is it not obvious that if expansion is to be carried out on that scale and South Australia is left without Chowilla this is a different concept. Dartmouth is required to supply extra water for the system as a whole. Now, Victoria for one has stated categorically that immediately the agreement is signed it will make new rights available. 
Chowilla could have been finished by now. But the point is that 900 cusecs of water is the minimum amount that the authority now accepts has to flow through Mildura. If extensions are made into new areas we will have all their sludge drifting back because at the lower end of the river we obtain not only Murray water but also the sludge that has been drawn back both from the River Murray and its tributaries in Victoria. That was proved by the expenditure at Bar Creek and at another place the name of which I forget to try to stop it. The opinion was given to me that this represents a small portion of the salt that seeps back into the river. So if this expansion is to go on who can say with any confidence that in the future to get rid of saline water in South Australia the flow through Mildura will be not 900 cusecs but 1,000 cusecs or 1,200 cusecs. So the very reason why Chowilla Dam was killed as a project by Victoria and New South Wales was the need to get water to flow through Mildura. If this is allowed Chowilla will never be built because the only water that South Australia will get in time of restriction will be the amount required to flush out the river to give water of an acceptable quality to the people in the eastern States. South Australia will not have a dam that will give it the right to dilute its saline water to bring it up to a standard approaching that which the other States demand as their right. 
I rise at this stage to answer the challenge which was issued last night by  Senator Young.  I was unable to answer him last night because unfortunately the debate was interrupted by the adjournment of the Senate.  Senator Young  made the statement yesterday that he had spoken up on this issue and that South Australia had had the opportunity through the man who was Premier of the State at that time in October 1967 to oppose the investigation of any alternative storages on the River Murray.  Senator Young  was attempting to make the point that the villain of the piece was  Mr Don  Dunstan, the former Premier of South Australia, and that by his agreeing to the re-investigation of the River Murray system he had condemned Chowilla.  Senator Young  later challenged any member of the Opposition to explain why no objection to a reinvestigation was taken at that time. 
I am sorry that  Senator Young  is not in the chamber because he proves the old adage that there is none so blind as he who will not see. The position has been explained on numerous occasions and in fact was explained by  Senator Cavanagh  in words little different from those which I shall use later. But the point is that Victoria raised an objection to Chowilla for the alleged reason that the cost of Chowilla had increased. Victoria asked the River Murray Commission to carry out further investigations to ascertain whether there was a better system which could fulfil the purpose for which Chowilla had been intended. I ask  Senator Greenwood,  who will follow me in the debate, whether he will deal with the point that the question at issue at that time was whether the development of Chowilla should be interrupted or deferred pending further investigations. It is obvious to a layman, and most certainly it would be obvious to a lawyer, that if the issue had been taken to arbitration it would have been on that point only, that is, whether or not the scheme should have been interrupted to allow further investigations to be carried out to ascertain whether there was a better scheme which would fulfil the purpose for which Chowilla was intended. 
Later  Senator Young  made the statement that  Mr Beaney,  the Engineer-in-Chief in South Australia at that time, is the person who is now advising the present Government of South Australia. The point is that at that time the Premier of South Australia had the choice of opposing the delay to allow further investigations and of using the arbitration provisions of the River Murray Commission Agreement to take the matter to arbitration on that point. But would anybody in his right mind go to an arbitrator and ask whether it was advisable to have further investigations into whether further investigations should be carried out to see whether there could be a better method of achieving the purpose foi which Chowilla was intended? 1 ask  Senator Young:  Does he accept that  Mr Beaney,  whom the honourable senator says was under the control of the former Premier of South Australia, is now under instructions from the present Premier of South Australia? 
 Mr Beaney  is in the same situation under both Premiers.  His  advice on the earlier occasion was that there was not a chance in a million that a re-investigation could possibly bring forward an alternative to Chowilla for the purpose for which Chowilla was originally intended. This was the reason why South Australia did not oppose a re-investigation. So Ihe first point is that at that stage objection could be taken only to a re-investigation. In taking that action the South Australian Government was acting on the advice of  Mr Beaney  who is so much admired by  Senator Young.  Incidentally,  Mr Beaney's  remarks were quoted by me and by  Senator Laucke,  who is now in the Chair. I accept  Mr Beaney  as an authority. The only time that I would suggest that he was speaking for someone else was when he was on a platform alongside the Premier taking part in a debate. Obviously in that situation he would give the answers that he was required to give. But his remarks which have been quoted during this debate were not made under pressure from either the previous Premier of South Australia or the present one. It is plain that  Mr Don  Dunstan, the former Premier of South Australia, did not object to a re-investigation because it would have involved going to arbitration purely and simply on the question of whether there should be a re-investigation. The advice from the expert whom the honourable senator has extolled was that there was not a chance in a million that any other dam on the River Murray system would achieve for South Australia the purpose for which Chowilla was intended. 
I repeat that there is none so blind as he who will not see. At that time South Australia could have gone to arbitration only on the question whether there should be a re-investigation. That was the point at issue at that time. The time to take the matter to arbitration is after advice has been received from the expert who says that there is no chance whatever of there being another dam on the Murray which would fulfil the purpose for which Chowilla was intended. At what stage does the honourable senator suggest that the matter should have been taken to arbitration? On the first question in respect of which South Australia could not win or on the second issue in which South Australia believed? I think that answers the point raised by  Senator Young.  The honourable senator should be able to understand now because of what I have said. He has certainly had plenty of opportunities to understand because this is about the tenth time that the matter has been clearly explained by someone more capable than I am. 

 Senator GREENWOOD (Victoria) [4.421 - I rise to express shortly opposition to the amendment. I think the amendment throws up one of the problems experienced in our federation when, by executive act, agreements are made by commissioners appointed under Acts of the various Parliaments. Of its character the agreement must be made outside the Parliament and, when an agreement has been made, such ratification as the Parliament must give to the agreement precludes any effective amendment of what has been agreed upon. I think the Opposition concedes that because, indeed, it must be conceded. But it does raise one of the problems which we have in our federation and what has been said in this debate highlights it. As I see the position there are 3 States and the Commonwealth which, in effect, have an obligation to ratify the Agreement between the Commonwealth and the States respecting the River Murray and other waters. Victoria has ratified the Agreement and New South Wales has ratified the Agreement. 
It does not matter what is said in this Parliament: the basic issue is whether the Parliament of the Commonwealth is prepared to ratify this Agreement. No amount of talk and no amount of wandering about the subject can avoid that final question being resolved. As I understand it the Senate has agreed to the second reading of this Bill. The amendment which is before us at present has several curious features about it. Firstly, it seeks to have taken out of the existing Bill the words 'is hereby ratified and approved' and other words of somewhat doubtful meaning inserted. As I see the position, all that  Senator Bishop's  amendment seeks to achieve is a delay in the ratification. It does not seek to prevent the Agreement being approved. It simply says that the Agreement shall not be approved until an event has happened. That event is this immediate computer evaluation. I think some support for that interpretation of what is being proposed by the Opposition is found in the subsequent clause 6 of the Bill which incorporates in the Act the sixth further amending agreement which is the agreement about which this debate has been taking place. Once that is incorporated in the Bill, it is certainly arguable, in my view, that that amounts to a ratification. 1 believe that it would amount to a ratification when there is a clause which simply seeks to delay approval. 
Accordingly we come to this question: ls there a case for delaying the approval of this Bill? I fail to see how anything which has been said by the Opposition in support of the amendment justifies a simple delay in the approval of the Bill. The considerations which have been urged are considerations which one would hope the River Murray Commission will take into account, and there is no reason to suppose that it will not do so. But the basic fact is that when Victoria has approved of this measure and when New South Wales has approved of this measure, is the Commonwealth Parliament to deny the benefit of an agreement to the people of South Australia? I should think that the Opposition does not want to do that, and it is seeking to escape from the political tightrope upon which it has been inelegantly walking, by having the measure delayed. There may be politics in this, but as 1 see it, the benefit available is not a benefit only to South Australia; it is a benefit to the other States as well, and I should have thought that the Commonwealth, once the benefits were accepted and acknowledged by the other States, should not do anything which would delay the coming into effect of the Agreement. 
My question, which is directed to the Leader of the Government in the Senate, refers to the question asked earlier by  Senator Lillico  and the answer given in respect of the employment of lobbyists in the United States. I ask the Minister whether he believes that the meat lobby or any other would continue to be employed if it did not pay dividends to its employers. 
My question is  directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Labour and National Service and arises from a reply he gave on Tuesday to a question asked by  Senator Fitzgerald.  The Minister stated that a persistent fallacy pervades the industrial movement that wage fixing tribunal assessments should be supported by some form of price control. He said that such a suggestion is idle because tribunals fix only minimum wage rates and these rates are weighted with millions of dollars in over-award payments. I ask the Minister whether, in view of his beliefs, he condemns any employer, including Commonwealth and State government departments and instrumentalities, who persists in regarding the minimum wage as being the maximum wage. 
I rise to contradict the statement made by  Senator Buttfield.  As recently as Sunday last, one of the specialists who was here last week called on me and asked what attitude the Australian Labor Party would take in the Senate. As recently as half an hour agoI spoke to him on the telephone. The ophthalmologists want the Senate to pass the amendment that was not passed in the other place.  Senator Buttfield  has seen one eye specialist. The specialist to whom I spoke was on the executive of their organisation. He was here as recently as a week ago and I spoke to him on the telephone as recently as half an hour ago. They want the Senate to do exactly what the Opposition has moved. 
My question is directed to the Leader of the Government in the Senate and relates to the question from  Senator Davidson  relating to the pollution of Sydney beaches by sewerage effluent. Did the Minister mean to imply in his answer that there was no pollution of Sydney beaches from sewage prior to the current industrial dispute? 
